LOKOJA – A group under the aegis of Kogi coalition for Education KCE has attributed the recent hundred percent accreditation recorded by all the five Kogi state owned Tertiary institutions, to the huge capital Investment into the education sector by Governor Yahaya Adoza Bello. This is just as he set the ball rolling on inception of his administration six years ago with a vow to making education, a key thematic sector of his Government. In a press statement signed by the president Usman Musa and secretary General, Gbenga Muyiwa and made available to Independent on Sunday. The statement noted that true to his vow and priority, the Investment begun to produce results in earnest with succesess of the institutions with the Regulatory bodies. The President averred that Education which is the bedrock of the development of any society deserves commitment of their leaders to the sector, which was demonstrated by Gov. Bello who had committed 30% budgetary allocation to it , being the first to surpass Unesco benchmark. According to him, it was in realization of this important role of education, that Governor Yahaya Bello set his priority right from the very beginning as to what he wanted to achieve for the people of Kogi state. “The climax of this well focused attention to make the State owned higher institutions to be a shinning example to other states culminated into the hundred percent accreditation of courses offered in all her higher institutions. “At a press conference to herald the sixth convocation of Prince Abubakar Audu University formerly known as Kogi state University, Ayingba, in January this year, the Vice Chancellor, Professor Marietu Tenuche said all the Forty-eight courses offered in the university have secured full accreditation from Nigeria universities commission making it the first time ever since the establishment of the institution. -Advertisement- POLL “Aside this feat of hundred percent accreditation of all courses, the Vice Chancellor also said that the institution emerged 25th out of the 170 public and private universities in Nigeria that have full accreditation for all courses offered. ” The State owned Polytechnic in Lokoja also shared from the joy of full accreditation of all courses offered at the institution. Dr Salisu Ogbo, the Rector of the institution broke the news of the achievement when he recently visited the Kogi State Commissioner of Education, Mr Wemi Jones to present the results of accreditation of all courses at the institution by NBTE. He said “I’m proud to announce that Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja achieved 100% success at the recent accreditation exercise conducted by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). He attributed the resounding success to Governor Yahaya Adoza Bello’s commitment to the development of education in the State. The statement added that another regulatory body, the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE) also found the two state owned colleges of Education, College of Education Ankpa and College of Education Technical, Kabba worthy of full accreditation of the courses offered by the institutions. The Provost of College of Education, Ankpa, Professor Muhammed Kabiru Ibrahim said the hundred percent accreditation of all courses by the school is the first ever in the history of the college. The Provost disclosed that out of 32 courses presented to the National Commission for Colleges of Education NCCE all the courses got full accreditation and that the accreditation of all the courses will be valid from 2022 to 2027. Prof. Mohammed noted that aside the accreditation of courses in the College, the NCCE looked at governance, Infrastructure in the College, thus making the College to get full accreditation in terms of institutional accreditation. He said unlike in 2012 when courses in the college were last presented for accreditation, said out of the 29 courses that were presented then, only 9 got full accreditation. The Provost said the feat achieved by the College to enjoy full accreditation for all the 32 courses presented could not have been achieved without the support of Gov. Bello, stating that the Governor gave approval for the recruitment of academic staff to fill the exiting gaps. He added further that the Governor also released money for the purchase of educational resources, in terms of books, chemicals, reagent and furniture, an action that led to the college inviting the Commission to come for the accreditation. On the accreditation status of the College of Education Technical, Kabba, , the statement has this to say ” Of the 17 courses offered at the College got full accreditation in 2017 a year into Governor Yahaya Bello’s administration. According to the Provost, Mrs Olusola Victoria Jagboro, who commended Governor Yahaya Bello for the completion of Ten buildings at the permanent site , said the donation of a bus has eased transportation challenges faced by students and staff. In the words of the President of the group , The Governor, being piqued by the gap created by the number of Kogi indigenes seeking admission yearly and the number that got admitted, he established the Confluence University of Science and Technology, (CUSTECH), Osara in year 2020 and appointed a renowned Engineer and academic per Excellence, Professor Sadiku Salawu as the Vice Chancellor “Barely, two years of existence, the university has bridged the gap for indigenes seeking admission and even admission seekers from neighbouring states. The university currently has three faculties with nineteen courses running and all duly approved by Nigeria Universities Commission. While x-raying the development, the group admitted the Governor has consistently deployed massive resources to health training institutions, the School of Health Technology, idah and College of Nursing, Obangede ” The College secured full accreditation of four out of its five programmes for the first time since its establishment 43 years ago. The Provost, Dr Nuhu Solomon Anyegwu, said the college received the letter for the full accreditation from the Registrar, Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN) on Thursday, that four of the five departments in the college had been fully accredited. He said Programmes that secured full accreditation are; Health Information Management Department (5 years), Community Health Department (4 years) and Medical Laboratory Department (5 years). The Pharmacy Technician Department has already been granted approval to admit students while initial provisional accreditation status was being awaited, he added. He added that the remaining programme, which is the School of Environmental Health, was awaiting approval by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) accreditation. The provost expressed his appreciation to the visitor, Governor Yahaya Bello, for his contributions and special attention to the college Meanwhile, state College of Nursing, Obangede , also benefited from the administration Investment in education sector.The Provost of the institution, Mrs Hannah Abraham said the institution got full accreditation in 2018, courtesy of his excellency Alhaji Yahaya Bello. According to her, the accreditation will last for five years before the regulatory agency would visit the College again. Mrs Abraham praised Governor Bello’s administration for the infrastructural transformation of the college that made it to scale the accreditation hurdles Meanwhile, the Group has applauded Gov. Bello for creating enabling environment for stability of academic calendar across her tertiary institutions. ” In Kogi , a student can tell his/her year of graduation, the very day he/she gained admission into any state owned higher institutions of learning. ” However, on assumption of office, the government inherited the incessant strike actions by academic and non academic Unions in the tertiary institutions. To make matter worst, some of such actions were sympathy strikes embarked upon by the Unions in solidarity with their national bodies over issues that have no bearing on the state owned institutions. ” To mitigate this disaster being visited on the innocent students, the Governor was left with no other option than to issue a proclamation banning all Union activities in July, 2017. “This has made higher institutions in the state the much sought after as students from even neighbouring states jostle to gain admission in the State owned institutions because they are sure of graduating in record time” The Group acknowledged.