LAGOS  – The Lagos State Commissioner for Housing, Hon. Moruf Akinderu – Fatai has called on the new home owners of the Babatunde Olushola Benson Estate Ibeshe and LagosHOMS Sangotedo Phase 1 Estate to make determined efforts to keep the two governments owned estates well preserved and properly maintained. He said this while addressing the home owners at the point of collection of home keys and other documents in his office at Alausa,Ikeja “It is important to be mindful of the need to keep the various homes and the estate as a whole in good condition in order to fully achieve the goal of making Lagos a 21st Century economy”, he said. -Advertisement- Akinderu-Fatai noted that the estates have been provided with state-of-the art infrastructures such as good roads, drainages, water and sewage treatment plants so as to make life easier and convenient for all the new residents. He further said that the facilities are to improve the quality of living of the residents as desired by the present administration led by Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “These facilities compare well with others in civilized parts of the world and are to make the dream of decent living come alive for Lagosians as pledged by the State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. ”. He, however, noted that the infrastructure can only be sustained with adequate maintenance. He further revealed that the State government has appointed qualified organizations who will serve as facility managers for the estates. POLL “It is now the responsibility of the new residents to cooperate with appointed government facility managers so as to keep the estates in workable condition and enhance the value of the residents’ investment in their new homes.” Akinderu-Fatai said that the cost of the homes have been greatly subsidized in line with the avowed commitment of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu to bring decent homes within the reach of all and sundry The Commissioner said with the delivery of Ibeshe and Sangotedo Phase 1 estates, an additional number of 4,896 Lagosians have been provided with decent homes based on the ground that each home in the two estates will accommodate at least 4 people. He then said that the State Government is not relenting in its efforts as additional 660 homes are now ready for allocation at the State Government housing scheme in Odo-Onosa/Ayandelu, while finishing work is ongoing at Ndubuisi Kanu Estate in Gbagada with Sangotedo Phase 2, LagosHoms Egan Igando, Ita marun Epe, and Ajara. Mr. Wasiu Akewusola, the Permanent Secretary of Housing, who was also present at the event, enjoined the new home owners to live harmoniously and peace with one another. He then pointed out that the State has not appointed any real estate agent or organization to act on its behalf hence Lagosians seeking new homes should be wary of fraudsters and impersonators 