…Warns Candidates, Parents Patronising Them The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has issued a stern warning to operators of fraudulent tutorial websites who specialise in luring unsuspecting candidates of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) conducted by WAEC in the guise of leaking live question papers to such candidates. In a release signed and made available education writers on Wednesday by Moyosola Adeyegbe the Head of Public Affairs of the WAEC National Office, Yaba, Lagos, the Council alerted its stakeholders and the public in general of the unwholesome activities being perpetrated by some unscrupulous elements in the course of conducting the ongoing West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for School Candidates, 2022. According to Mrs. Adeyegbe, the Council is aware of the operations of “these vile individuals, most especially the “Rogue Website Operators”, who are hell-bent on sabotaging the noble efforts and concrete arrangements put in place by the West African Examinations Council to ensure the successful conduct of the examination”. The release added that the Council is equally aware that these individuals perpetrate their dastardly acts through various social media platforms, such as Blogs, Facebook, WhatsApp, and Telegram. “These unpatriotic individuals see WASSCE and other examinations as a business venture and an avenue to make money, thereby deceiving innocent and gullible candidates and their parents. They lure candidates and their parents by proposing shortcuts to examination success. “They lie to them that “WAEC questions can be accessed earlier than the due date”. This is nothing but a lie from the pit of hell. Pleading with the public to ignore the fraudulent bait as total Adeyegbe assures all stakeholders taht the Council continues to work hard to put firm security measures in place to protect the integrity of its test items. POLL She noted that “unfortunately, some candidates have fallen prey to the ‘trash’ being served on these rogue platforms. They no longer read their books because of the promise of access to “WAEC questions!” This is a very sad and dangerous development”. Meanwhile, the Council has assured the general public that perpetrators of such sabotaging acts will not go unpunished, adding that such individuals would be brought to book and made to pay for all their crimes. The Council will stop at nothing to ensure that the fight against this societal ill is won at all costs. We are grateful to the Nigeria Police Force for the robust collaboration in this regard. “Candidates are hereby seriously warned that there are no shortcuts to examination success. Any candidate caught in this act will be appropriately sanctioned as approved by the Nigeria Examinations Committee (NEC), the Council’s highest decision-making organ on examination-related matters. It will be painful to spend six years in secondary school and not have any results to show for their learning and efforts. “WAEC will like to seize this opportunity to advise parents to encourage their children/wards to study hard and desist from patronizing these evil peddlers who are all out to destroy the destiny of their children/wards. Parents are equally advised to stop funding these illicit acts. “May we also use this medium to appeal to the various Ministries of Education to warn invigilators, supervisors, school administrators, and school owners who are fond of extorting and harassing candidates to pay for “Examination Settlement”, that such actions will not be tolerated, and any school caught will face appropriate sanctions. “Once more, the Council appeals to all concerned to disregard these rogue website operators and their various platforms and join WAEC in the fight against examination malpractice”; the release concluded. -Advertisement- 