PATIENCE OGBODO- IWUAGWU Since the inception of the current democratic dispensation in 1999, Enugu state has never elected a candidate from another party as executive governor, making it one of the very few whose Government House, popularly known as Lion Building, has remained under the firm grip of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the country, since 1999. The people of Enugu State will elect a replacement for the incumbent governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi next year, and the question already on the lips of many is “will history be repeated once more, this time around? This time around, however, the road to the coveted seat may not be an easy one for the party, as the battle promises to be fiercer, and have much more intrigues than those before. Aside Peter Mba, candidate of the ruling party in the state, other major contenders challenging the status quo and seeking to change the narrative are the All Progressive Congress (APC), the ruling party at the centre, whose candidate is Uche Nnaji; as well as Frank Nweke (Junior), a former Minister of Information and flagbearer of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). As in every election, the candidates are confident of victory. The state is also among the very few that has produced only three governors, each of which has served two four-years, beginning with the first democratically elected governor, Chimaroke Nnamani, popularly known as “Ebano,” currently a Senator representing Enugu East senatorial district, who was elected in 1999, and handed over to Sulivan Chime from the Enugu West senatorial district; while the incumbent hails from the Enugu North Senatorial district, and is billed to complete is final four-year term in May next year. Aside the trio being members of the PDP, they also represent the three different senatorial zones, in a zoning arrangement that has ensured that none is shortchanged, a situation that many say has helped to stabilize the party and ensured peaceful coexistence in Enugu State since 1999. The peace resulting from the long standing zoning arrangement was about to be shattered ahead of the last PDP primary election, as former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, from Enugu West Senatorial zone decided to join the guber race, denying the existence of any such agreement. Expectedly, the situation did not go down well with many party stakeholders, resulting into a controversy, as tension brewed, and was at the verge of become a full-blown crisis in the party. Some party stakeholders even cited instances of various meetings where the subject was debated and those who attended. -Advertisement- POLL Ebeano’s Hold Ekweremadu’s governorship ambition, however, suffered a setback after PDP leaders in the state insisted on continuing with the zoning of the governorship seat to Enugu East, a situation that led to the emergence of Peter Mba, a strong allay of former Governor Chimaroke Nnamani, founder of the “Ebeano” family as flag bearer of the party. Ebeano (which literarily translates to “we are in charge here”) Political Dynasty is a pressure group within the Enugu PDP, formed by Nnamani when he was governor from 1999 – 2007. The group is guided by the philosophy of “equality and absolute loyalty.” It has not all been rosy for the dynasty, as it suffered a setback after Sulivan Chime, who replaced Nnamani in 2007, distanced himself, insisting that the PDP made him governor and not Ebeano. Nnamani suffered subsequently suffered a terrible blow, as he lost his senatorial election twice. Frustrated, he returned to his medical practice in the USA, until he was encouraged to return by the incumbent governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, a product of the dynasty, who in 2019 facilitated the founder’s senatorial ticket. Mba’s victory was sealed after eight of the 17 aspirants who passed the PDP screening exercise stepped down for him prior to the commencement of the voting exercise, while Ekweremadu withdrew from the race, apparently to avoid an assured defeat. Analysts see Mba’s rancour-free emergence as PDP candidate as a pointer to the likely continuation of the Ebeano political dynasty which has produced all three residents of the Enugu Government House and chief executives of the state. This time around, however, the road to the coveted seat may not be an easy one for the party, as the battle promises to be fiercer, and have much more intrigues than those before Mba, who is currently the CEO of Pinnacle Oil & Gas, has in his kitty, an array of professional degrees from the Lagos Business School, MBA from IESE Business School, Barcelona, Spain, a law degree from the University of East London, and an LLM in Maritime Law, from the Lagos State University. While Other aspirants were all over the state campaigning, Mba, a former Chief of Staff and Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development in Enugu state during Chimaroke Nnamani’s administration kept his ambition cool, as his posters were nowhere across the state. He also rarely spoke about his ambition, even as there were speculations that he was being considered by prominent PDP leaders in the state, who had earlier affirmed their readiness to support whoever Governor Ugwuanyi proposed as his successor. The news of Mba’s emergence came as a surprise to many, because he was announced few days to the shadow election, when an elder statesman and former governor of old Anambra State, Chief Jim Nwobodo hinted of the decision of the Enugu PDP stakeholders. According to Nwobodo “Peter Mba is the best man that will provide good governance in the state. We brought Mba to join the governorship race, due to his experience and antecedent in the private sector, as he will deliver dividends of democacry to the people and we believe that power should rotate to all senatorial districts in the state in order to sustain the peace that our amiable Governor has established in the state already.” Mba’s membership of the Ebeano dynasty and robust relationship with former Governor Nnamani, whose political structure remains formidable, installing every governor that has emerged since 2007, are factors expected to work for and grant him smooth access to the Lion Building Government House. Mba promised to open Enugu for business, based on his 28- year experience as an entrepreneur, even as his posters and bill boards now flood the coal city, gleefully announcing that “Our Tomorow is here,“ “Tomorrow, for the Ndi Enugu, has already begun,” and “The Peter of our time is here.” According to him, “we are going to intervene in all sectors, especial the critical sector to grow Enugu state as we are going to embark on unusual projects that you have not witnessed anywhere, including our funding initiative. We have strong leadership in Enugu state political structure and we respect that very strongly and that’s what have brought about the peace we have been enjoying in Enugu state for the past 23 years of democracy government.” APC To The Rescue There are those, who, however, insist that the country is moving away from god-fatherism and Enugu should not be left behind in the quest for “a breath of fresh air,” even as there are fears among some political analysts that electing the Mba, and by extension the PDP would allow the Nnamani, who recommended, and Ugwuanyi, who nominated him continue ruling the state by proxy. The Enugu State Chairman of the APC, Barr Ugochukwu Agballa, while urging the electorate to reject the ruling party and stop the emergence of Mba as governor at next year’s election, and in the process end the reign of the Ebeano dynasty. He vowed that his party will not allow the PDP plot succeed, adding that “any attempt by anybody including my friend and Governor, Lawrence Ugwuanyi, to bring back the ignoble Ebeano political system, to superintend over the political affairs of Enugu will be resisted by the people of Enugu State.” The opposition APC is proposing Uche Nnaji, a businessman, who reportedly won the PDP Senatorial ticket for Enugu East Senatorial zone in 1999, but stepped down for Senator Jim Nwobodo thereafter, as its gubernatorial candidate who emerged by consensus, being the sole contender at the shadow election, as that “breathe of fresh air” that would deliver Enugu at this time. Nnaji believes he has all it takes to consign the ruling PDP in the state to the dustbin of history at the 2023 general election, promising that he will not fail the people of Enugu State, if elected governor. The APC gubernatorial hopeful, a defector, who regretted supporting the PDP to power apologized, “because we are the ones that brought the PDP government and they are making mistakes. I am happy that the person that brought the PDP has been elected to correct the mistakes.” A political Analyst, James Igwe, however sees the APC in Enugu as a joker, as according to him, the contest for who becomes Enugu governor in 2023 is settled. Explaining, he Igwe said: “Peter Mba is a strong ally of former Governor Chimaroke Nnamani and belongs to the Ebeano dynasty of which Chimaroke is the leader. Remember that Mba is being supported by Chief Jim Nwobodo and many other PDP stalwarts in the state, and believe me, history must repeat itself in 2023, because no party has ever governed Enugu State aside the PDP. So, if you do not belong to the PDP, which is the ruling party in the state, then you are playing with your political career. “And besides, there are no oppositions in Enugu state as all the parties eat from the same plate, a situation which has stabilized the state. So, Enugu people believes the contest is won already with Mba as the flag bearer. Frank Nweke’s APGA As Substitute Frank Nweke (junior), a former PDP member and Information Minister, who emerged gubernatorial candidate of APGA, where he recently defected a few weeks before the primary, believes he can be trusted by Enugu people to manage the state’s resources for the next four years. He came into limelight in 1999, when he was appointed Chief of Staff to Governor Nnamani, and was appointment Federal Minster in 2003, making him one of the youngest in the Olusegun Obasanjo cabinet. Analysts believe that Nweke who also hails from Enugu East senatorial district is being encouraged to run by power brokers in and outside the state, who feel disenchanted by the Ebeano hold on the polity. Nweke believes his life’s journey had prepared him to serve Enugu people, especially at this time. “It was my time at the community county council during which I visited the then 209 communities in Enugu that the seed of my passion for service was first ignited. I saw, first-hand, the primitive and agonising living conditions of our people and their deep yearning for the most basic needs of human existence. This state of affairs remains true even today, and the time to change it is now,” he stressed. There are those willing to swear that Nweke should not be taken seriously, even as he lacks the structure, or what they gleefully term the “political investment” to upset the PDP and Ebeano applecart. CV Building Exercise A PDP source in the state who craved anonymity told Daily Independent that Nweke, who contested Enugu-East senatorial seat and lost in 2015, is only using the governorship contest to enrich his CV. “Nweke does not have the strength to defeat Mba. All he is doing is to become more popular as he was also sponsored by some politicians to block the chances of some aspirants that might want to contest for governorship election under APGA,” he added. Jideofor Okafor, a businessman in the state insists that “the future of this state is in the hands of Enugu electorates, as they are the only strong forces that can stop PDP through their votes, because as it stands now Mbah can already begin to count days of becoming the governor of Enugu state.” His return, he stressed, means that Nnamani will continue ruling “Ndi Enugu again from the back door.” 