P/HARCOURT  – Movement for the survival of Ogoni people, MOSOP has decried the inability of the Federal Government to reciprocate the financial contributions of the Ogoni kingdom to the development of Nigeria over the years. MOSOP said as a people, Ogonis have basically protested against underdevelopment, political strangulation and economic denials by the Nigerian government, noting that “our position is that we have contributed over US$200 Billion to the Nigerian economy and much of these funds have been used to build Lagos, Abuja, Enugu and several other cities in Nigeria while the Ogoni remains neglected without water, electricity, schools and hospitals amongst other needed infrastructure. “We rejected and continue to reject a situation where the revenue from Ogoni is shared amongst Nigerian states and nothing comes to Ogoni because of a structural deficiency that excludes the Ogoni from participating in the revenue sharing arrangement in Nigeria”. In an open protest letter signed by MOSOP President, Fegalo Nsuke, the Ogoni said the skewed Nigerian structure did not only deny the kingdom basic infrastructure, it also denied it every capacity to build an Ogoni economy and shape the future for its children and its children’s children. It was on this note that the Ogoni people in 1990 released a document entitled the “Ogoni Bill of Rights” which chronicled the awful experiences of the Ogoni people, “justified our protests and made specific demands that should remedy the situation. “The response of the Nigerian authorities was a brutish connivance with the Shell Petroleum Development Company, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell PLC which began the persecution and repression of the Ogoni people leading to the killing of over 4,000 people by the Nigerian security forces between 1990 and 1999”. Against this backdrop, on September 27, 2020, the Central Committee of MOSOP overwhelmingly approved a proposal detailing a clear path to a resolution of the Ogoni conflicts through the operations of an Ogoni Development Authority (ODA). The goal of the ODA is to provide a succinct answer to the question of what the Ogoni people want. In a nutshell, the ODA provides a clear path to resolve the Ogoni problem in a way that is fair to all parties and will not result in the death of anyone. -Advertisement- POLL It seeks to build an economy for the Ogoni people, encouraging environmentally friendly exploration that secures a fair proportion of Ogoni resources to be set aside for Ogoni development. The ODA is designed to build and secure a future for the Ogoni youth, achieving the dreams of Ken Saro-Wiwa and Hon. T.N. Paul Birabi for a safe, free and progressive Ogoni, investing in developing an Ogoni economy today and progressively transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy. Fegalo Nsuke decried that the present nocturnal arrangements where Abuja sits and decides to share the proceeds from Ogoni oil and gas resources without considering the interests of the people is no longer tenable, saying that MOSOP expects the Nigerian government to terminate its current structure of oppressive oligarchy. “In this respect, the present alliance between the NNPC, NPDC and Sahara Energy which had no bearing towards our concerns as a people is unacceptable and completely rejected. These parties are not known to the Ogoni people nor do we trust them. “If the government is truly concerned about recovering the lost revenue which currently exceeds $178 Billion over the past 29years or so, it should accept our proposals and end the nocturnal deals it reached with Sahara and friends because the Ogoni people do not accept such an arrangement”, he said.