LAGOS  – Worried by the enormous challenges confronting the education sector of the country and the urgent need to address it, the Nigerian Academy of Engineering (NAE) has advised the Federal Government and founders of tertiary institutions to improve funding and infrastructure facilities in schools. A past President of the Academy, Prof. Rafiu Salawu made the call during a lecture he delivered at the investiture of a new president for the NAE, in Lagos. According to him, there is no future for education in the country if the sector is not properly funded. Speaking on:” Engineering education in Nigeria: Today, Yesterday and Tomorrow”, Salawu noted:”As of 2019, Nigeria has 168 Universities, government approved 10 about two months ago and we learnt that the national assembly says it has 100 still awaiting approval. We are establishing universities without funding them. His words: Government and founders of tertiary institutions must fund universities very properly and provide equipment for learning and pay teachers. Nigerians are sending their children abroad, enriching other countries at our own expenses. No one come here because we don’t have facilities and Nigeria universities have been on strike for many months.” On engineering education, he called for alternative approach to teaching and learning of the subject to ensure that students acquire knowledge and use them for national development. The new President of NAEProf. Azikiwe Onwualu said the academy was ready to collaborate with government and other stakeholders to generate advice on knowledge and get policy makers in government and industry to implement them. -Advertisement- POLL He pledged to carry on with laudable plan already set out by the Academy, provide critical knowledge inputs to public policy and chart a new path for implementing yet to be implemented plans. His words: “We must develop new ways of advocacy that can make the relevant authorities to seek for and use the knowledge generated by the academy. We need to work more with other academies globally and nationally. All members of the engineering family must close ranks and complement each other,” he said. He went on: “We need to interface more with executive arm of government both at federal and state levels to be more proactive rather than reactive. Interface with relevant committees of the national and state assemblies to provide inputs into policies and development plans. Work more on promotion of academia-industry collaboration to drive innovation in all sectors of economy using technology innovation hubs to promote industrialization of Nigeria and revitalisation of critical infrastructure.” He urged fellows of the academy to work with government and industry to save the education sector from complete collapse, revive skills, technical, vocational and entrepreneurship education to prepare future graduates of colleges and universities for the future of work and work of the future, which he said is very dynamic. “We need to use our wealth of experience to advice government on finding engineering and technology based solutions to current challenges of insecurity in Nigeria.” In his valedictory speech, the Immediate Past President, Alexander Ogedegbe said the academy under his leadership integrated the goals, principles and procedures of the academy’s five years strategic plan directly into the mainstream of its activities. This, he said resulted into restructuring process that allowed to reconstitute all the existing Council committees, refocus them on its core obligation concerning current national priorities and empower them with specific terms of reference derived from the strategic plan. He said the mission of the academy is to continue to generate and expand the coverage of new ideas and increase their appropriate applications for policy formulations by the academy and present same, as recommendations to it’s stakeholder Ogedegbe said the academy procured a Cloud based data management platform to provide digital storage, access and use of all information and data available, organised several webinars on technical and technological subject of interest to fellows and general public, among other achievements. The forum also featured presentation of life achievement awards to distinguished individuals and induction of 10 new fellows into the academy.