Leading global derivatives exchange – Bitget, the world’s leading social trading and copy trading platform, has commenced peer-to-peer (P2P) trading operations globally. Managing Director of Bitget, Gracy Chen says with merchant operations in countries like Nigeria and South Africa, Africans can now enjoy seamless digital asset exchange with the assurance of high-level security and protection of funds/assets. ‘’Bitget P2P trading is a platform where Bitget users can trade local currencies for cryptocurrencies directly on their own terms. Don’t want to use your debit card/ credit card to buy crypto? No issues, Bitget introduces a P2P service for the same! ‘’Peer-to-peer (P2P) trading is a type of cryptocurrency exchange method that allows traders to trade directly with one another without the need for another third party to facilitate the transactions,’’ Chen said. Chen explained: ‘’Peer-to-peer trading involves buying and selling crypto-currencies directly between users, without going through a third-party intermediary. Bitget P2P trading gives users more control over who they trade with, the price, the payment method, and the time of settlement. ‘’If you’re a pro-trader, sign up as a Bitget P2P Merchants and create your own Advertisements…Bitget P2P Merchants can create a deal with their preferred price to trade their crypto at and publish it on Bitget P2P marketplace. This broadcasted deal is called an “Advertisement” when a user sees this and places a buy order the payment is made, and the transaction is settled!’’ However, Chen highlighted some of the advantages of using Bitget P2P Trading to include:● Anyone with a registered Bitget account, complete KYC verification, and bind phone number, can trade on Bitget P2P Platform. Using Bitget P2P Trading platform, you now can sell and buy cryptos with your local currencies and at your preferred prices and payment method. ● Zero trading fees on Bitget P2P trading platform (Note: There might be bank/wallet charges depending on the payment method)● Global marketplace & Various payment methods: Bitget P2P offers users the freedom to easily choose the preferred payment method, including bank transfer, PayPal, WebMoney, multiple global e-wallets, and online payment systems. -Advertisement- POLL ● Secure transactions: Once the buyer places an order, the seller’s asset will be locked by the platform. The Bitget Customer Support team will intervene in case any dispute arises.● 24/7 customer support with a perfect order dispute handling process and anti-money laundering mechanism.