In this report, SAMSON NWAFOR, x-rays the chances of the three major political parties angling to produce the next governor of Ebonyi State, come 2023. As the 2023 general elections draw closer, political parties have held their primaries across the country, to elect flagbearers for various positions, in line with the Electoral Act 2022, as well as the guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Ebonyi State is not different, as all the political parties now have their candidates for the epic battle to occupy the Ebonyi Government House, which the keen watchers believes is a three-horse race involving the dominant political parties- the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which came to power following the defection of Governor David Umahi; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which has won every guber election in the state since 1999; and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). While APC must prove that the defection of Governor Umahi has afforded the party and opportunity to build a structure that can secure it victory at the poll; the PDP will be out to reclaim what it says is its stolen mandate; and APGA hopes to benefit from epic battle between the ruling and main opposition parties, relying on its Igbo heritage. Stakeholders, however, agree that the battle ahead of the 2023 general elections would not be a tea party. Already, the APC and PDP each has two candidates laying claim to the governorship tickets of their parties. While the APC is waiting to see which of Rt. Hon Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru, speaker of the state assembly and Chief Elias Mbam, immediate past Chairman of the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), will recognise as candidate; those laying claims to the PDP ticket are Chief Obinna Ogba, the incumbent Senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial zone; and Chief Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, a business Mogul. These, pundits say presents APGA as a veritable third force at the poll, with its candidate- Professor Benard Odoh, a former Secretary to the Ebonyi State Government in the first term of the Umahi administration, who voluntarily resigned. APC Ticket: Nwifuru, or Mbam? Nwifuru, a two-term Speaker of the State House of Assembly, enjoys the backing of the incumbent governor. This, followers of the recent developments in the state, believe brightens his chances of replacing Umahi. Also, unlike other candidates contesting the seat with personal resources, observers say Nwifuru’s election would be bankrolled mainly with state resources, and the various state apparatuses, thereby offering him an unfair advantage. -Advertisement- POLL His being from the Izzi clan, the second most populous clan in the state, and the Ebonyi North Senatorial zone, favoured by the zoning arrangement is expected to further sway massive support also from proponents of zoning from across the State, , for his ambition at the poll. Nwifuru is largely seen as one of a few politicians in the state who have empowered the youth population, besides other philanthropic gestures, all of which will certainly count in his favour, amongst the governorship candidates. As Speaker for over seven years, Nwifuru is already a household name across Ebonyi State, a factor that will surely lessen the burden of marketing his candidature, unlike the other candidates. That is where the good news seems to end, as the Ebonyi APC is ensnared by a protracted internal crisis, which the Governor is still struggling to bring under control, as majority of old members who he met on his defection from the PDP along with his Lieutenants in 2020, feel marginalized. These people are fighting back as best as they could, while in the process, fragmenting the party. For instance, during the recent party primaries in the state, the old APC members conducted parallel congresses, including those for governor, which produced Chief Mbam as candidate. Mbam is still seen as party’s authentic candidate by the old APC members in Ebonyi for the 2023 election. This development has drawn bad blood within the party’s fold in the State, with many not sure of the true situation of things. Political pundits expect that when the national leadership of the APC finally submits its list of governorship candidates to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), a lot of politicians would be displaced from the APC in Ebonyi State. Those affected negatively, it is believed, might either stay and work against the party, or cross-carpet to other political parties as a way of registering their grievances. Also, Analysts strongly believe that there is need for Nwifuru, the guber candidate of the Umahi faction, to embark on an aggressive reconciliation drive in his Izzi clan to appease some stakeholders who remain indisposed to supporting his gubernatorial ambition due to bottled grievances against him over the years, due to irreconcilable political differences. Unless this is done immediately, the Speaker might face political opposition from his home front. Another factor expected to play out is the aftermath of the APC presidential primaries and the treatment meted on candidates of the South East, including Umahi, the Ebonyi State Governor, who contested for the party’s presidential ticket which was eventually won by Bola Ahmed Tinubu, by the power brokers in the party. The decision of the party hierarchy not to micro zone its presidential ticket to the region, analysts argue, is enough for its support base to wane, a situation that might affect it at all levels across the South East region, ahead of the 2023 general elections. Two PDP candidates Stakeholders say the current crisis rocking the Ebonyi State PDP chapter is the worst in recent times, leaving the party, which is now in two factions, each of which with its candidate for various elective offices for the 2023 general elections, on the verge of collapse. But following a recent order of the Federal High Court sitting in Abakaliki, the capital of Ebonyi State, Chief Odii is believed to be the legally recognized governorship candidate of the party in the state. The court nullified the rescheduled PDP primaries held in the state June 4 and 5, 2022, which elected Senator Ogba as flagbearer. This followed a suit filed by Odii, asking the court to order the PDP National Working Committee not to cancel the primaries held earlier on May 28 and 29, 2022, where he emerged the governorship candidate. The Court, presided over by Justice Fatun Riman, granted Chief Odii’s prayer, and upheld the primary of May 2022, which had been cancelled by the NWC midway into the exercise, citing violation of its guidelines. But the primaries went ahead and produced Ọdịi as winner even, when most of the aspirants either boycotted, or withdrew from the race. The Court also restrained the party from refusing to receive and transmit the name of Odii who won the cancelled governorship primaries, to the INEC as the candidate of the party for Ebonyi 2023 governorship election. But before the Court order on June 7, 2022, the NWC had held the rescheduled primaries where Senator Ogba was elected. Already, both Ogba and Odii have been issued with certificates of return by the PDP NWC as governorship candidates in Ebonyi. While Ogba was first issued with his return certificate, Odii also got his, following the court ruling which declared him authentic governorship candidate of the party. The duo are already in court, and only the Supreme Court would determine the rightful of the PDP governorship ticket in Ebonyi State. But one thing appears to be certain, whether Ogba or Odii wins the legal tussle in the end, observers believe that the continued fragmentation of the PDP just months before the election would, no doubt, badly affect its electoral fortunes. Many supporters are said to have secretly left the party and pitched tenth with alternative political parties, due to the intractable crisis bedeviling it. For instance, if Ogba wins the legal battle, he would find it extremely hard to convince Odii’s faction to support his candidature, following which there is talk of the likelihood that Odii’s faction, which is about half of the entire PDP members in the State, may abandon the party and realign with another political party to defeat Ogba as a pay back. Stakeholders say the tussle has been so badly managed and has gone to the extreme, such that ego might not allow the duo reconcile anytime soon, as all efforts have so far failed. For Senator Ogba, beyond the task of reconciling the aggrieved party men and women, he would be also faced with a difficult task of convincing the people of Ebonyi North, especially Izzi clan to support his guber ambition, because of the belief in some quarters that in line with the principle of zoning, Ebonyi North zone, especially Izzi clan, ought to produce the next governor of the state. This is why many had expected the PDP stakeholders, including Ogba, to have allowed one of their own emerge candidate of the party. Worse still, the people of Ezza clan are another hard nut for Ogba to crack. He has the onerous task of convincing them to support his gubernatorial race, in place of their son, Prof Benard Odoh, the APGA candidate. The Ezza clan had, prior to the primaries of political parties, clamoured to be allowed to produce the next governor as the eldest in the State. And because neither the PDP nor APC acceded to their demand for a ticket, they are likely to queue behind their son in APGA. This is seen as disaster waiting to happen, given the large population of the Ezza clan, which political pundits say, would be a minus for the political fortune of Ogba who the hails from a minority clan within the same zone as the Ezza people. What would count for Ogba, however, is that he is not new in the Ebonyi political space, as he has friends and political allies across various clans in the State expectedly to solidly back his governorship project. On the other hand, should Odii secure a court victory against Ogba, political pundits predict that it would also be very difficult for Ogba’s faction to work with him, and help him and his faction to victory. Ogba’s faction could go mute and watch Odii and his faction to work out their salvation at the polls, or openly decamp to another political party to work against them. It would also be a difficult task for Odii to bring the party together again, perhaps, through reconciliation before the general elections, which is some months away. Again, Chief Odii hails from Ebonyi South zone, same zone with the incumbent governor of the State. Though, he is believed to have the financial muscle required to prosecute his ambition, Observers foresee that he might hit a brickwall trying to convince the people of Abakaliki bloc, especially Ebonyi North zone, believed by proponents of zoning to be the rightful place the next governor of the state should come from. Keen watchers are also of the view that the Abakaliki bloc, comprising Ebonyi Central and Ebonyi North zones may cast protest votes against Odii during the elections. Many believe this is no mere threat, since they have enough votes to stop him. That notwithstanding, Odii stands out amongst the governorship candidates because of his philanthropic gestures that have endeared him to the hearts of the people, across the three senatorial zones of the State and beyond. This, Observers expect, would counts in his favour ahead of the contest. They are also not overlooking the effects of his deep pocket, knowing the power of money in Nigeria’s politics, following which analysts are of the firm view that he might neutralize the issue of zoning by buying people over to his side. Is APGA A Third Force? Professor Odoh, a former university lecturer endeared himself to the hearts of many Ebonyi people when he was courageous enough in his letter to voluntarily resign his appointment, accusing his boss of high-handedness and maladministration. His resignation was seen by many as a mark of integrity and self-discipline, and rare in Nigeria’s political clime, where people are hungry for power and political positions. Since leaving the government, he has also remained one of the critics of the policies and programmes of the administration, which has caused the masses to have so much confidence in him, seeing him as someone they could entrust with the leadership of the state. Having contested for governorship primary in 2018, on the platform of the APC, and emerged first runner-up, Observers believe, he is not coming into the race as a neophyte, since he already has friends and political associates who would assist him to rally support from the masses. Also, among the three major political parties fielding candidates for the election, only APGA is free from internal crisis, after holding a seamless and rancour-free shadow election that produced candidates for all the elective positions across the state. And they have been conducting their affairs without skirmishes from any quarter. This, it is believed, would enhance the party’s fortune, not only at the primaries, but across the other elective positions. Again, Odoh hails from Ezza clan, the most populous clan, in Ebonyi State, of which he is the only governorship candidate, a situation expected to give him massive support from his people scattered across the three senatorial zones of the state. The APGA guber candidate is also expected to benefit from the crises that have torn the APC and PDP in the state from top to bottom, since those that would be displaced could seek refuge in APGA, being the third force. Fallout Of Presidential Primaries Sequel to the failure of the two major political parties in the country to cede their presidential or vice presidential tickets to the South East, the people of the region are already disenchanted and many have withdrawn their support for the APC and PDP. Some have already embraced APGA as their alternative political parties for the 2023 general elections, while other have switched loyalty to the Labour Party. Support From Anambra It is expected that the Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Soludo and other APGA bigwigs from the five South East states would rally support for the party with a view to at least, win one more state in the region. This expected support, which would also come by way of funding the aggressive mobilization that could cure the problem of the party’s lack of a structure with which to prosecute the electoral battle and guarantee victory. Unless such support comes quickly, there are palpable fears in some quarters that due to the money politics being played in Nigeria today, and the ugly trend of vote buying, the APGA candidate may not have the required financial muscle to withstand the candidates of the PDP and APC who are believed to have deep pockets and backing of money bags. In any case, Odoh assures that he is fully prepared financially and otherwise to face his political opponents in the election. Ahead of the epic battle, Nigerians may have to watch the state as developments unfold, as Ebonyi may be one of the most interesting political spaces to watch ahead of the 2023 governorship election.