Bayo Adelabu, a former gubernatorial aspirant under the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC has officially joined the Accord Party of Nigeria. The 2019 gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC said that there is accord for his vision in the Accord Party of Nigeria. Adelabu said he hereby moved to the party accordingly, after hinting that injustice and unfairness pushed him out of APC. -Advertisement- He made this known on Thursday in a statement personally signed by him and made available to newsmen. It reads: “A time exists in the life of a sincere aspiring man of the public when events and circumstances lesson the operation of his mind onto new decision, new desire and new determination. Such time now finds expression in my political career which necessities vital change, fundamental decision and refreshing determination. “It is therefore on this basis that I hereby declare the withdrawal of my membership from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ACCORD Party of Nigeria (ACCORD). “This is the political platform upon which my gubernatorial ambition shall be pursued to actualisation by the guidance and grace of the Almighty Allah. “It is needless to restate in details, reason for relinquishing my APC membership on the point that such reason is public knowledge. The man dies in him who keeps silent in the face of blatant injustice and the life of a lie is a matter of little time. Evil people struggle in vain in their conspiracy against their innocent fellowman because malice is a poor match for destiny. What is important above all is that my leaders, supporters and teeming people of Oyo State are hereby assured of my determination never to disappoint them in the pursuit of my gubernatorial ambition to reality by the Will of God. POLL “I wish to present my humble self for the Political Liberation Movement to rescue our pacesetting state from the bad operation of clueless and inept people in government and in the other party. “We shall together inaugurate a new era of peace and progress in our dear state in line with my 7-Point Agenda when I become the Executive Governor by God’s Grace in 2023. “There is accord for our Vision in the ACCORD PARTY of Nigeria. We hereby move to therein accordingly”, he concluded.