Joel Omajali, Chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC), Benue State Governorship Re-run Elections Committee has stated that the party is in a race against time. He disclosed this while briefing newsmen at the APC secretariat, shortly before the commencement of distribution of materials for the conduct of the re-run elections in the state on Thursday. Omajali further stressed the need for the returning officers to treat with despatch all issues of the re-run because, failure to submit their results before 5 pm, the APC stand the risk of not fielding a candidate for the 2023 governorship elections. Daily Independent gathered that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party ordered the conduct of a re-run based on the recommendations of the Princess Uzoamaka Onyeama led Governorship Appeal Panel. The Panel had noted that it recommended the re-run in view of some irregularities that may have occurred during the party’s governorship primary elections that were held a few weeks ago. The re-run would be conducted in 11 Local Government Areas (LGAs) as well as three council wards of Buruku LGA of Benue on Thursday. The affected LGAs are Kwande, Ushongo, Konshisha, Ogbadibo, Agatu, Ohimini, Ado, Oju, Okpokwu, Obi, and Apa, while the affected council wards in Buruku LGA of the state are Mbaya, Mbaapen and Binev. Omajali stressed that “We have a timeline for this exercise, We are supposed to turn in our result by 5 pm today since it is the last day for all primaries. POLL “If we do not do it now, then Benue state risk not having a candidate. So, the Returning Officers should be despatched on time”. It would be recalled that some of the governorship aspirants are former Attorney-General of the Federation Michael Kaase Aondoakaa; former Chairman of Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Barnabas Gemade and a former Commissioner for Information in the state Prof. Terhemba Shija had insisted that the primaries that produced Rev Fr. Hyacinth Alia as the winner was not free and fair.