ONITSHA – As Gov. Chukwuma Soludo led administration in Anambra State commences distribution of about three million mosquito nets to citizens across the state, a grassroots drug dispensing organization, National Association of Patent and Proprietary Medicine Dealers (NAPPMED), Onitsha branch has called on the State Government to consider partnering its organization for an efficient distribution exercise.Chairman, of NAPPMED Onitsha branch, Chief Emeka Agu made the plea yesterday while interacting with our correspondent during his birthday anniversary celebration at Omogba Phase ll, Onitsha. The patent medicine dealer who spoke on the planned exercise by the state government said that customers to their various shopping units were to benefit from the exercise if well managed. According to Chief Agu,”inclusion of NAPPMED as a grassroots health dispenser has become imperative as members of the association are closer to the people in both the urban and rural areas”. He argued that previous exercises by past administrations in the state were enmeshed in controversy as those who were meant to benefit from the exercise were left behind due to inconsistency and corruption in the system. The health facilitator said that patent medicine dealers should always be considered by government, corporate bodies and NGO’s when taking decisions that affect the health of the entire populace. “Government, corporate bodies and NGO’s should stop looking down on patent medicine dealers.Some of us are educated and experienced in the act of drug dispensing”. “We are closer to the people both in the urban and rural areas.We give first aid treatment to patients before they are referred to the hospital for diagnosis in a serious situation,so we are equally important to the society.” “Government should stop treating us as people without value to the society.What we do is to add value to the health of Nigerians and should be included in the policies and programs of the Anambra State Government. -Advertisement- POLL Among those that graced the occasion were Anambra State Chairman of NAPPMED, Chief Benson Ibeneme who had earlier commended the celebrant for his wisdom in piloting the affairs of the association in Onitsha and the President-General, Amukwu-Affa Progressive Union, Enugu State, Chief Festus Amadife.