ABUJA – The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has accused officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of benefitting from the leadership tussle in the party. At a meeting in Abuja, the APGA Presidential candidate raised the alarm that the actions of the electoral body will affect the party’s chances at the 2023 general elections. Okorie said INEC officials are “turning APGA to a cash cow,” with officials “building houses in Abuja” from proceeds accrued from the crisis in the party. His statement came on the heels of alleged refusal by the electoral body to recognise Edozie Njoku as the authentic national chairman of the party. He cited judgments by the Federal High Court affirming Chief Edozie Njoku as the lawful and authentic National Chairman of AAPGA adding that he remains the only bonafide to nominate a valid candidate to contest the 2023 general on election the platform of APGA. Stating that INEC’s action “poses a great danger to the 2023 general election,” the APGA flag bearer cited a 6 April 2022 judgment by Justice A.R. Mohammed that held as “lawful and legitimate,” the “convention of the Party at Owerri, Imo State, on which elected Chief Edozie Njoku as National Chairman and other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the 1st Respondent in this suit was duly served with a certified true copy of the ruling.” He disclosed that the party followed up this with an application to INEC to recognize the duly elected officers of the party accordingly. “It is pertinent to state that up till this time there is no Appeal on this Ruling instituted in any court anywhere in Nigeria. INEC has turned the other face on the Application of APGA for recognition,” Okorie stated. -Advertisement- POLL In the statement he read, Okorie further explained that “in the build-up to the Anambra State Governorship Election on November 6th, 2021, a certain Chief Jude Okeke rushed to Birnin Kudu in Jigawa State and filed suit no JDU/022/2021, which was obviously continued between one Alhaji Garba Aliyu and Chief Jude Okeke and 2 others. “It was claimed in this suit that the National Convention of APGA held at Owerri elected Chief Edozie Njoku as National Chairman and himself Chief Jude Okeke as Deputy National Chairman (South). “The said Chief Jude Okeke further claimed that the National Chairman, Chief Edozie Njoku was suspended and the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Party elected him as the Acting National Chairman of the Party. All this took place without the knowledge of the National Chairman Chief Edozie Njoku, who was purported to have been suspended. “Note also that Dr. Victor Oye was never mentioned anywhere in the Suit, not to talk of being referred to as National Chairman or being suspended by Chief Jude Okeke’s imaginary faction of APGA. “INEC in a jiffy swiftly complied with the judgment of the Jigawa High Court and promptly replaced the name of Professor Chukwuma Soludo with that of Hon. Chukwuma Umeoji being the Governorship Candidate nominated by the Jude Okeke faction of APGA in unprecedented speedy compliance of the judgment of a Trial Court, in Kano, the Honourable Justice of the Court, set aside the judgment of the Jigawa High Court on the grounds the court lacked territorial jurisdiction to entertain the Suit in the first place Chief Jude Okeke filed an appeal at the Supreme Court without delay. On the 14th day of October 2021 a panel of five Justices of the Supreme Court led by Honourable Justice Mary Ukaego Peter-Odili, (JSC) in a judgment which consolidated Suits nos SC/CV/687/2021 and SC/CV/686/2021, upheld the judgment of the Appeal Court in Kano that the Jigawa High Court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the Jude Okeke Suit,” the statement emphasized. It further dismissed claims that it suspended its national chairman, insisting rather that Justice Mary Odili has since corrected the error she made in her ruling. This is as it lamented that after complying “within the 48 hours of its delivery, the same INEC has turned its face away from the duly corrected judgment nearing 60 days after the correction. It called on INEC to comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court, noting that for the first time in 18 years, there is no APGA leadership dispute pending in any courts in Nigeria. Accordingly, Okorie maintained that “Victor Oye has no claim to any lawful National Convention of APGA which legitimized his emergence as the National Chairman of APGA for his second term in office since 2019.”