AKURE – Benjamin, 49, a timber merchant, and one of the survivors of the attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State by terrorists on Sunday, said on Monday that while he was trying to escape from the church he saw dead bodies lit­tered on the ground. Benjamin, who is receiving treatment at the Federal Medi­cal Centre (FMC), Owo, Ondo State, told Daily Independent on his hospital bed how he es­caped from the scene. According to him, he was in the church with his mother, wife and children, saying that the mass was about coming to an end when they started hearing gunshots outside the church. His mother was shot dead by the terrorists in the church. He said: “When we were about to close, we just heard sound of guns within the com­pound of the church. Before we knew it, they started shooting everybody and they threw dy­namite into the church. “It was when the shooting was going on that I was shot in the leg. I lost my mother in the attack, but the rest of my family are safe. My mother is over 70 years. “With blood already gush­ing out of my leg, I imme­diately summoned courage within me to move to the back of the church when there was explosion. On getting to the backyard, I saw a ladder and I escaped through the ladder. “When I was trying to es­cape, I saw many bodies on ground. The bodies were just too many.” POLL Giving details of her expe­rience during the milieu, Mrs. Gloria John, 28, who was hit in the left leg by bullet, said: “After the priest had given us the final blessings, we heard gunshots outside. The gunmen started shooting at us from outside. We started shouting and cry­ing. We also began to call on God to save us. Over 100 people died including children. Even husband and wife died on the same spot. “I went to the church alone. My husband did not follow me. I was shot in the leg. It was when they left that my hus­band rushed inside the church and brought me outside. I and other victims were rushed to FMC.” A senior nurse at the Gen­eral Hospital, Owo, Mrs. Adi­sa Margaret, lost her two legs from the knee level to the blast. She was wiggling in pains on the hospital bed, saying she could not breathe very well. The 43-year-old senior nurse was in the church when the ter­rorists launched dynamite into the church. She lost her limbs to the blast. Alex Michael, another sur­vivor, said he was in the church after the last prayer. “We heard gunshots outside the church and before we knew it they have started shooting people and everybody inside the church and many people died. -Advertisement- “I was with my kids and I tried to defend them and we have to move under the pew when the shooting was going on but the place could not con­tain us and my legs were out­side and they shot my legs but thank God nothing happened to my kids”, he said. John Nwogwu said “what happened was that we were in the church after the last bless­ing and prayer by the Father. We just heard gunshot at the entrance of the church and before we knew it, they started shooting and killing people. “Before we could know what was going on, we have been sur­rounded and we had to hide at the back of the altar. “We heard a loud explosion and the ceiling fell on us. Even at that, they were still shooting at us and at the door of the place we were hiding. I saw one of our choir masters, he was hit by bullet in his leg and was too tired. I can’t even say anything about his condition because he was so weak when we left the church. “Where I was hiding, I was able to see one of the attack­ers, he was putting on khaki that looked like that of Man o’ War. He burnt the altar. In the attacks, we lost husband, wives and children, God was the one who kept us alive.” The Chief Medical Di­rector of FMC, Dr. Ahmed Adeagbo, while addressing newsmen on Monday said: “People were in the church on Sunday and some gunmen came in and started shooting them. We even learned that they used explosives on the worshippers. “The victims were brought here, adults and children. We mobilised our staff and we worked very hard to make sure that we didn’t lose any of the people that they brought in alive. Those that required sur­gery were operated upon and they are doing well. “The directive from the Fed­eral Ministry of Health is that we should not collect money from the victims. We also have collaboration with the state government. They were able to mobilise 20 units of blood and they still promised to do more. They were able to bring some consumables and they also promised to give more. “NEMA was also here this morning and we have given them what we need, but we are still expecting them. People have also been donating volun­tarily. Many of the victims re­quires blood. “People are donating blood and those that require transfu­sion were transfused and I’m sure we will still have some in our blood bank now. Even UN­IMED contacted us in order to give us blood. “The governor was here yesterday as well as the Com­missioner for Health and he is still around. So, we are work­ing with the state government to ensure that we treat all of them. We have not referred any of them, we are manag­ing them. None of them were transferred to Intensive Care Unit. “With the situation of things in the country, it is not easy to sustain the running of the facility. To provide electrici­ty alone for 24 hours is a lot and it a social service. “Even before this happened, many people could not even af­ford their treatment and the Federal Government said peo­ple should not die because we cannot afford, so what do we do? There is a lot of problems along that line because we are owing the suppliers and we must pay them.” An eyewitness account re­vealed that the terrorists were dressed in Man ‘O’ War green khaki while they drove off in a VW Golf car. The eyewitness said his sis­ter and her husband were in the church when he saw smoke oozing out from the church. He, therefore, raced to the church refusing all entreaties not to go there because of the shootings. While running towards the church, he saw the perpetra­tors in a VW Golf zooming off the scene.