As it is often said, a bad work­man blames his tools. That seems to be the story of the Gateway State since the broom party took over the governance of the state in 2011. It is blame game galore and inaction. Our people have never had it so bad since 1976 that this state was created. It is the same story at the centre. They used propaganda to capture power only to leave the country com­pletely divided, prostrate economical­ly. Nigerians have entered one chance. They still have a whole year to endure the suffering brought about by the All Progressives Congress (APC). Propa­ganda can get you to power. But it can­not provide you with security, improve your economic situation and remove corruption in the system. As a matter of fact, propagandaonlypromotesinse­curity, economic woes and corruption, as shown by daily revelations of arrests of government officials on account of misappropriation of billions of Naira. A bad economy can be fixed with competent people at the helm of af­fairs. Even security situation can be improved if there is sincerity, commit­ment and sense of oneness, but how do help a country whose people have been divided along primordial ethnic lines? Nigerians have another opportunity to review and determine their fate during the coming elections. Coming back to our dear state, rath­er than improve the lot of Ogun State people, we have been treated to blame game for the past three years between and among functionaries of the same party, APC. It was the situation when the party came to power in 2011 except for the fact that the blame trade was between different parties. Our people deserve better. In July 2019, the newspapers were awash with the news that the new administration secured a loan of N7 billion in order to pay salaries. Ac­cording to Governor Dapo Abiodun, he inherited an empty treasury, which has since become a slogan in the state. Just recently, articles in newspapers in supportof theAbiodunadministration attacked the Amosun government of leaving behind an empty treasury. An extract from a published article in the Daily Independent in May 2020 said that the Abiodun administration “in­herited collapsed and structural deficit in governance that resulted in a huge debt profile, near empty treasury, low morale in the workforce of the state government, piles of abandoned and uncompleted projects, empty promises, marginalization, distrust, vindictive­ness, personalisation of governance like a family estate, amongst others!” “Amosun left empty treasury… I took N7bn loan to pay May salaries,” “I left N18 billion in the account – says Amosun,” were some of the brickbat headlines in the news­papers in 2019. According to TheCable, “Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun state, says he took a loan of N7 billion to pay workers’ salaries in May. Abio­dun, who disclosed this while addressing leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, said he met no money in the treasury. The governor said he cannot disclose details of the situation he met upon as­sumption of office but that he would not preoccupy himself with discussing the previous ad­ministration. He said he would rather focus on providing good leadership for the state and its people. According to him, he reached out to his friends who are managing directors of banks to seek the loan to pay salaries after the state Head of Service told him that they had ‘very little or no money’ in the treasury.” “I told the head of service, whether they (the workers) were expectant or not, it was my promise to the people that salaries would be paid as and when due. So, I picked my phone and called my friends who are MDs in dif­ferent banks. I told them I needed to pay salaries and this is the little I have; almost nothing in the state account. I requested for a credit facility to allow me to pay over N7bn which is the state wage bill. That day, my intention was that maybe one or two will oblige me, but the five banks I called obliged me,” Abiodun said. However, the former governor, Amosun, fired back, claiming that he left N18 billion in the treasury. As pub­lished in various newspapers, Amosun said the empty treasury statement was a brazen attempt to demonise his administration through an art of disinformation with a view to scoring cheap political points. According the former governor, who also belongs to APC, “Contrary to the ‘empty treasury’ slogan, the Dapo Abiodun government inherited N8.218 billion, comprising N5.735 billion from the Federation Ac­count (FAAC/JAAC) and N2.483 billion from the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). What is more, the N10.6 billion refund for Pay As You Earn (PAYE) due to Ogun State, which the Amosun government had laboured for three years to obtain, was due to be paid by May and would have formed part of the amount inherited by the Abiodun administration… Therefore, it is not out of place for the Amosun ad­ministration to claim that it effectively left N18 billion in the coffers of Ogun State Government. POLL “Abiodun government has no jus­tification for borrowing a dime from banks to pay May salaries as the amount left in the government coffers by the Amosun government and the normal tax remittances due by end of every month were more than enough to offset the monthly wage bill. The government of Dapo Abiodun would therefore need to explain to the public the raison d’etre for the N7 billion loan it obtained (with undisclosed interest rates) less than a month of being inau­gurated.” Amosun went further to say, “It is common knowledge that for such a humongous sum to be borrowed from financial institutions, the Ogun State Executive Council must debate and rat­ify it and the Ogun State House of As­sembly must approve it. None of these mandatory procedures was complied with. Therefore, the current administration should endeavor not to play politics with the state accounting process because of the negative economic implications for stakeholders, such as investors, donor agencies, international and multi-lateral finan­cial agencies. A house destroyed may be dif­ficult to rebuild. Let us focus on the germane economic fundamentals that will uplift the state. We urge the citizens of Ogun State to be on their guard, as eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.” I quoted the two APC leaders (Abiodun and Amosun) copiously so that residents of Ogun can begin to imagine a lot of things. How much debt did Amosun leave behind? How much has Abiodun borrowed since he came into office? Rather than deliver dividends of de­mocracy – build schools, build endur­ing roads, provide health care facilities, among others – its blame game for three years and still counting. Go through the three senatorial districts of Ogun and imagine the derelict state of the roads, classrooms without chairs and hospitals with moribund facilities. The case of Ogun West, a goose that lays the golden egg, is pathetic. Virtually all the roads in Sango/Ota axis are completely dilapidated. The former Amosun administra­tion owed workers cooperative de­ductions for several months and con­tributory pensions for years. Again, a few days to his exit from power, we read in the press that Amosun said he did not owe the civil servants. But the state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress, led by Emmanuel Bankole, debunked the news report at a press conference. The NLC chair said the “discomfort, pain and irreparable damage the outgo­ing (Amosun) administration has in­flicted on the public servants and their families in the state are unbearable. Some homes have been broken, lives have been lost to common ailments due to lack of money for medications and treatment; wards and children ad­mission to higher institution lost, per­sonal project abandoned, professional training and development programme abandoned and predisposition of work­ers to many embarrassing situations making many chronic debtors as a result of non-payment of salaries and other entitlements due to them.” Reading this, one would have ex­pected the Abiodun administration to govern differently. In this connection, it must be mentioned in passing that un­like Amosun who dismissed the 4,000 workers employed at the last-minute by the Daniel administration, Abio­dun retained the over 2,000 workers hurriedly employed in the twilight of the Amosun government. That stands to the credit of the Dapo Abiodun ad­ministration. However, as at May this year the current Abiodun government owes more than 20 months of workers’ cooperative deductions and three years of contributory pensions. There are abandoned projects, costing billions of naira that litter all nooks and crannies of the state under the two APC admin­istrations. As read in the media, despite the letters written to Governor Dapo Abiodun by the special assistants that served the state government in the last administration between 2015 and 2019, he has refused to acknowledge the let­ters let alone pay them. It is not exactly clear why the government finds it so easy to owe those that had served the state. Many of them resigned their jobs because of the demands of the law for political office holders. In the same vein, the Amosun ad­ministration subjected political office holders to untold financial hardship. Some of them, who are friends and relatives, confirmed that Amosun paid them half salaries throughout their tenure and denied them the most basic of their entitlements. Recently, the National Industrial Court sitting in Ibadan nullified a so-called memo that the Amosun administration used to shortchange the salaries of political office holders that served under him. The court described the action of the ex-governor as totally illegal. -Advertisement- In an article to promote the three years of his administration, the Abio­dun government accused the Amosun administration of leaving behind hu­mongous debt burden. As it stands to­day, the debt burden of Ogun State has also increased abnormally. The worst situation is that no citizen of our state actually can say with certainty the ac­tual debt inherited and the new debt incurred by the current government other than the fact it will take genera­tions to offset either the actual or stated debt figures by the two administrations. However, our people deserve to know about the finances of the state, irrespec­tive of the personality or the party in power at any time. The state residents have tasted gov­ernments under the Peoples Democrat­ic Party (PDP). They have been ruled by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The ball is now in their court to choose which government can make them happy come 2023. …Adekunle writes from Ota, Ogun State