ONITSHA  – Anambra State chapter, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has warned the present administration in Nigeria against pushing further its plans to Islamise various arms government like the judiciary and the National Assembly in order to realize its ambition of Islamising the entire country. The warning was issued by Anambra State Chairman of CAN, Venerable Joseph Nweke, in reaction to current national political issues and alleged ongoing Islamisation of the nation’s judiciary and the National Assembly. Venerable Nweke, priest in charge of lmmanuel Anglican Church, Inland-Town and Inland-Town Archdeaconry, Niger Diocese, said the Supreme Court judgement in favour of wearing of hijab in Lagos schools in a secular state like Nigeria has heightened fear that the present government in Nigeria under President Mohammadu Buhari has penetrated the nation’s judiciary with his Islamic agenda. He noted that in a country where the Chief Justice is a Northern Muslim, President of the Senate is Northern Muslim, Inspector-General of Police is a Northern Muslim, Chief of Army Staff is a Northern Muslim among others strategically planted in sensitive positions what does the country expect. Venerable Nweke stated that the recent party primaries of the two major political parties in the country spoke about the bastardization of democracy in Nigeria where corruption held sway. He explained that in a situation whereby aspirants openly gave out bribes in foreign currencies to delegates was against the electoral law of the land, adding that inducing party delegates with foreign currencies showed that politicians have no regard for the”naira” which he said was supposed to be the pride of the nation. While arguing on the need to avoid fielding a Muslim/Muslim ticket in the 2023 presidential election, Venerable Nweke maintained his worries which were heightened by President Mohammadu Buhari’s Islamic-oriented administration. He said that in 1993 presidential election, which was largely won by MKO Abiola, a Southern Muslim with Babagana Kingibe a Northern Muslim nobody was worried because Abiola meant well for Nigeria and never exhibited any threat to Christians as he even won majority votes in Christian dominated areas. -Advertisement- POLL Today, according to the CAN Chairman, “things have changed. The man at Aso Rock has divided the country more and does not possess the qualities of a good leader. This has further aroused the suspicion of his attempt to Islamise Nigeria”.