A leading presidential aspirant, under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has advised the governorship candidate of the party in Oyo State, Senator Teslim Folarin to walk all nooks and crannies of the state to pacify all the warring party members before the 2023 general elections. The former Lagos governor, who was in Ibadan, the state capital on Thursday to consult delegates said before 2023, Folarin has to work, walk and appeal to leaders in the state to help him pacify all aggrieved members so that the party can come out victorious in 2023 general elections. Some of his entourage include Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, Lagos state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, former Borno Governor, Senator Kasim Setthima, Senator Tokunbo Abiru, Bosun Oladele, Rotimi Makinde, Senator Rilwan Soji Akanbi, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Bosun Oladele and Wasiu Eshinlokun. -Advertisement- Asiwaju Tinubu urged Folarin and other party members at the venue to reconcile themselves ahead of the election, saying that he would come back on behalf of Folarin to talk to the aggrieved members on the need to sheath their sword. ￼He said he was coming back to raise the hands of Folarin and campaign for him, advising Folarin to go back to pacify the aggrieved. According to him, “You have to work, walk, even with touch light and lantern to appeal to leaders, women, youths and aggrieved members so that we can win the governorship in 2023. “After you have done that, I will come back to raise your hands up and campaign for you to emerge victorious. You will first come and meet me in Abuja and I will also invite all warring party members to appeal to them on your behalf”. Reacting, Folarin recalled how, as a 39-year old senator in 2003, Tinubu sent Musiliu Obanikoro, his then-colleague to give him an envelope containing a land allocation paper. POLL He said he would remain grateful for what Tinubu had done for him and reciprocate that during the presidential primary, saying Oyo delegates are for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Asiwaju later raised the hands of Adedapo Lam-Adesina; Idris Ajimobi and Olamiju Alao-Akala, APC candidates in Ibadan North East/South East; Ibadan Southwest 2 and Ogbomoso North/South/Oriire federal constituency, asking people to support them.