In a bid to ensure that insurance industry in Nigeria taps from the benefits of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), the industry regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), has commenced moves aimed at realising the potentials of the expanded market initiatives to the sector. The development culminated to the inauguration of a 15-man committee drawn from different arms of the sector to activate the machinery for engagements in ensuring that the insurance industry responds appropriately to developments in the larger society. With the inauguration of the committee the Nigerian Insurance Industry is now set to respond and enhance its involvement in the activities of the National Action Committee on African Continental Free Trade Area (NAC AfCFTA) -Advertisement- “To give effect to this resolution, the different arms of the Nigerian Insurance Industry were requested to nominate/provide representatives that would work/liaise with the NAC-AfCFTA “Nonetheless, implementation of the AfCFTA agreement has gained tremendous traction. In fact, the Commission has recently been requested by the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) to participate in several meetings including to receive/verify final Schedule of Specific Commitment, for onward transmission to the Senior Trade Officials. The NAC-AfCFTA has also informed the Commission of its intention to organize another stakeholders’ workshop for the Nigerian insurance sector,” said the NAICOM boss at the inauguration of the Committee in Abuja recently. Sequel to these developments, at the 11th Meeting of the Insurers’ Committee held on April 7, 2022 in Lagos, it was resolved that a standing committee should be constituted to coordinate the Nigerian insurance industry’s response as well as develop and implement strategies/measure to ensure that the Nigerian insurance industry effectively exploits the benefits of AfCFTA.” Said. Mr Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer of NAICOM Thomas added that “in order to avoid duplication of committees and save time, it was resolved that the earlier representatives/nominees of NIA, NCRIB and ILAN, that were forwarded to NAC-AfCFTA, be transformed into a Standing Committee of the Nigerian Insurance Industry that will deal with matters relating to AfCFTA. POLL The NIA, NCRIB and ILAN were thus consulted to reaffirm or update their nominees while NAICOM also designated some of its staff as members of the Committee.” The committee members are Mrs Ekeoma Esther Ezeife, chairman; Tunde Hassan-Odukale, Nigerian Insurers Association; Funmi Omo, Yetunde Ilori, shola Ajibola representing Professional Reinsurers Association (PRAN). Others are Sina Elusakin; Eric Omozejele; and Bimbo Onakomaiya of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB). Also on the list include; Bola Temowo, Ikechukwu Udobi, as well as Lebi Omoboyowa all of Institute of Loss Adjusters of Nigeria (ILAN). Usman Jankara, Taiwo Adeoye, Ahmed Metteden, of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) and Lanre Ojuola of the NIA as the Secretary. Daily Independent noted that terms of reference for the Committee on AfCFTA is to coordinate the Nigerian insurance industry’s strategic response to the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) as well as to liaise with relevant agencies of government and other bodies on the implementation of the AfCFTA Agreement in the Nigerian insurance industry. The Committee is also mandated to coordinate and articulate the Nigerian insurance industry’s response to the AfCFTA Agreement and its implementation; Develop and ensure implementation of measures to ensure that the industry effectively exploits the benefits of AfCFTA; Develop and ensure implementation of measures to protect the Nigerian insurance industry from being negatively impacted by AfCFTA as well as Engage and/or liaise with relevant bodies and agencies such as the National Action Committee on AfCFTA, Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations on implementation of the AfCFTA Agreement and any such body.