Following the declaration of Kabiru Masari, running mate of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s missing original certificate, Reno Omokri has described the ruling APC as a “wonderful party.” Daily Independent had earlier reported how Masari told the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of his missing original certificates amidst controversy around the Primary and Secondary School Certificates of Tinubu. Masari in the sworn affidavit submitted to the electoral umpire noted that he attended Masari Primary school, Katsina State between 1972-78 and obtained a Grade 2 Certificate from Katsina Teachers College in 1982 and a Higher Certificate in 1995. The APC vice presidential candidate in the affidavit claimed that while on transit within Wuse, Area FCT, Abuja he lost his Certificate of Occupancy for land located in GRA, Katsina along with his Grade 2 Certificate from Katsina Teachers College and First Leaving Primary School Certificate issued by Masari Primary School, Katsina State, (1972-78). Meanwhile, it could be recalled that the APC flag bearer and former Governor of Lagos State had earlier recounted how unknown soldiers stole his university certificates. In a sworn affidavit in support of his nomination form for the office of the president, Tinubu said he “went on self-exile from October 1994 to October 1998 (and) when I returned and discovered that my property including all the documents relating to my qualification and my certificates in respect of paragraph 3 above were looted by unknown persons.” Reacting swiftly to the development in a tweet, Omokri wondered how Tinubu and his running mate could have lost their certificates in the build-up of the 2023 presidential election. Taking to his verified Twitter page, he wrote: “Tinubu said he lost all his certificates. Now, his placeholder, Masari, has also told INEC that he has also lost all his certificates? Ah ah! APC! What a wonderful party! -Advertisement- POLL “I have an idea for an Ad for APC. Have you lost your certificates? Then come join us!”