Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has reacted to the war against drugs and other illicit substances consumed by some Nigerians, saying the battle is almost being won. The vice president, however, decried a projected 40% increase in drugs prevalence by 2030, especially for a country like Nigeria which is the most populated in Africa. As a way of admonition, he said in the last lap of taming the scourge, greater investment and focus would be required by stakeholders to put a stop to the menace. Osinbajo made the assertion at the United Nations (UN) International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Drug Trafficking, with the theme, ‘Addressing Drugs Challenges in Health and Humanitarian Crises’, which held on Monday at the Banquet Hall, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Recall that since the appointment of former Lagos State governor, Buba Marwa, as substantive Chairman and Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), several landmark arrests and seizures have been made to sanitise the system and curtail sale, distribution and use of drugs. High profile individuals in Nigeria involved in illicit drug operations have also been exposed. Osinbajo stressed that drug abuse has become a global public health and socio-economic challenge which places huge burden on all. “As all of us have heard already on our health care system, it portends grave consequences for young people and the productivity of our labour force, and it undermines the security of our communities,” he stated. Using the UNODC report to buttress his claims, he said drug use is responsible for the death of almost half a million people in 2019 and drug use disorders resulted in the loss of 18 million people yearly of healthy life. “The 2018 national drug use survey also revealed that Nigeria at the time that there were about 14.3 million drug users, of which close to 3 million suffer from drug use disorder. -Advertisement- POLL “We are winning this warand there is no question at all that the days of the scourge of drug abuse and trafficking and dependency are clearly numbered, but it will involve even greater investment in focus and determination for the long haul.” The vice president explained that the Federal Government has also taken both specific and general actions over the past seven years, and all these actions have been directed at trying to control or deal with the menace of illicit drug trafficking in Nigeria in particular. He said adopting a synergized, and multi-agency approach, the government has deployed counter-terrorism and counter narcotics initiatives led by the NDLEA which have successfully disrupted several high profile drug networks. Earlier, Chairman of NDLEA, Buba Marwa, said that the drug abuse health challenge came to the fore in 2021 as the human family was recovering from the COVID-19 blight, stating that it was the crux of the World Drug Report 2021. “Drug use killed almost half a million people in 2019, while drug use disorders resulted in 18 million years of healthy life lost, mostly due to opioids.” Serious and often lethal illnesses are more common among drug users, particularly those who inject drugs, many of whom are living with HIV and Hepatitis C,” Marwa explained. He said that the concerns raised by the World Drug Report 2021 were not farfetched because here in Nigeria, “We are beginning to see similar patterns from the findings of the National Drug Use and Health Survey 2018.”