Hon. Bosun Oladele, is a former member of the House of Representatives who represented Irepo/ Olorunsogo/Orelope Federal Constituency of Oyo state from 2015 to 2019 is the National Secretary of South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 (SWAGA), a group of former and serving lawmakers rooting for the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as President in 2023. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on preparations for weekend’s primary, statutory delegates and other issues. Excerpts: The refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the amendment to Section 84(8) of Electoral Act 2022 sent to him by the National Assembly poses a major threat to the primaries of the political parties participating in the 2023 general elections, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which has already begun. What implication does this have on the presidential primary of your party which will hold this weekend? It will definitely reduce the number of votes expected for the cross-section of aspirants across party lines. It will not prevent the aspirants that will fly the party flags in all parties from winning and emerging. If an aspirant is popular among delegates, the popularity will not be limited to a section but generality of delegates. For us in SWAGA’23 if one person per state is chosen as delegates. Asiwaju Tinubu will win the ticket by God’s grace and with the people’s support. However, I have always said that to enable an even spread of the camaraderie and sense of belonging and that feeling of popular participation in the process, the President should accent to the amended Act before the convention but since he didn’t do so, we have to proceed with the convention and make do with what we have. -Advertisement- When you formed SWAGA then, you believe it will help Asiwaju Tinubu’s cause as many of your members are statutory delegates. Don’t you think your plans have been shattered by this latest development of non-inclusion of statutory delegates? On the issue of removal of statutory delegates by the provisions of the Electoral Act, when we started SWAGA, we brought together former national assembly members. The primary aim then was that the members will be statutory delegates and they will be useful for the purpose of ensuring Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s victory at the presidential primary. However, immediately we started, we also discover that one of the raging issue then was whether there will be direct or indirect primaries. Indirect primaries would have been taken care of via the sensitisation and mobilisation of delegates. Direct primary will be taken care of by mobilisation and sensitisation of entire card-carrying membership of the party. So, thereafter, we brought in notable grassroots politicians just in case it was going to be direct primaries. I want to tell you categorically that that decision has paid off. Right now, those people we brought in have been able to sensitise majority of the ad-hoc delegates we have across Nigeria today. In some cases, these our members are themselves delegates one way or the other. So, we don’t believe that Asiwaju Tinubu’s chances will be affected because we saw the situation and luckily, we have addressed it from the onset. It was our back-up plan and it has become potent right now. Whether we do direct or indirect, which in this case is now via ad-hoc delegates, we are comfortable. We are confident Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will win the primary convincingly . Former Vice- President Atiku Abubakar has emerged as the presidential candidate of the PDP. Do you think Tinubu has what it takes to defeat him if they meet in the main election? I congratulate Alhaji Atiku on his emergence as PDP presidential candidate. As you know, No candidate has emerge in APC yet. So, I will take it in this reverse order. Asiwaju Tinubu is the most potent threat to Atiku Abubakar right now. In APC today, he is the only presidential aspirant Atiku is afraid of. APC will be digging itself into a hole if Asiwaju Tinubu does not emerge as presidential candidate. He is the only one that can face Atiku grit for grit. He is the only one that can defeat Atiku hands down in electoral contest today in the general election. POLL Look at other aspirants in APC today, do they have the network Asiwaju has? There is no gainsaying the fact that we have our path cut out for us easily. We have our decision already made for us by reason of circumstances. “The best that could happen to APC at this moment is for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to emerge as our presidential candidate. Go out and conduct opinion poll on the street. A layman will tell you that the only person in APC who can defeat Atiku today is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. There was a statement that has been paraded in the social media in the past which was credited to Atiku Abubakar. He said he is the only person that can slug it out with Asiwaju Tinubu and he is of the opinion that Tinubu will emerge in APC. He said PDP had better be wise enough to give him the ticket so that he can square it up with Asiwaju Tinubu. That is to tell you the potency of Tinubu’s candidature. So, I sincerely believe that APC will do itself a lot of good with Asiwaju as presidential candidate. People should stop scheming and making unrealistic calculations that will draw up unexpected candidates at this point in time. They should stop making extraneous moves that will only serve selfish interests. They should have the interest of the party at heart and nt most especially, the interest of the country. We can’t afford to return the country back into the hands of PDP at this point in time. For 16 years, we all know what PDP did to this country. So, it’s unthinkable for anybody to wish that for selfish reasons, they should have it and later we will struggle to reclaim it. We can’t be struggling to have back what we gave away free of charge to PDP. So, APC should do the needful and ensure we put our best foot forward for the 2023 presidential election. Our best choice for now is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu