By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba) Intro: The article centers on debunk­ing commonly misconstrued ideas about Nigeria’s economy. It reflects on the 2nd Vanguard Economic Discourse and analyzes the obser­vations of the keynote speaker. The overall theme of today’s repub­lication, is centered on Nigeria’s political history, since we became self-governing in 1960. The masses are resigned to the fact that their votes may not count when party cabals have their private agenda for self-enrichment after victory at the polls. What really can the masses do? Can we really control the change of our country by our votes with “the behind the scene agendas”? Enjoy the read. -Advertisement- (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and keep in mind its initial publication date. Power, they say, belongs to the people! This may, indeed, be true where there is respect for the rule of law, and where equity and justice underpin in the free association of people and communities. These are, inalienable characteristics, which positively impact human capacity development and social welfare, in enduring democracies. Indeed, in such progressive ambi­ence, political power becomes a tool for public service rather than the pursuit of self or partisan interest, regardless of the odious collateral of social deprivation and oppres­sion. Nigeria’s political history, since we became self-governing in 1960, has been grotesquely smeared by the usurpation of power, through electoral fraud and the barrel of the gun; consequently, the people’s voice has remained largely moot­ed, except for a brief flicker, before the result of a popularly accepted, free, fair and credible election, was brazenly annulled by the army in 1993. The net product of electoral fraud and military brigandage is mass disenfranchisement, with disastrous consequences for the rule of law, particularly, when these aberrant beneficiaries of political power also determine what is equi­table and just. This obtuse culture, unfortunately, also permits public office holders unfettered access to the public treasury; regrettably, the cancerous seed of corruption is already generously cultivated, nationally, in place of the expect­ed growth of public wealth for the common good. Nigerian billionaires (in all cur­rencies) have blossomed without any antecedent in industry, com­merce or family inheritance, while some have also been listed among the world’s richest! Nigeria’s econ­omy has, however, become blight­ed with the gradual erosion of an emerging middle class, such that more Nigerians, now reportedly, live on less than $1 a day! Further­more, our infrastructural base in all sectors has fallen into decay with merely cosmetic efforts at sus­tenance and rehabilitation. Sadly, high unemployment, armed rob­bery, insecurity and general law­lessness have also become abiding features, while the judiciary and police have been emasculated by poor remuneration and poor social infrastructure. POLL Furthermore, there is also bla­tant disregard of court orders by the governments itself, while the celebrated independence of the judiciary, as a bastion against tyr­anny, is unfortunately, now only in the letters of an imposed military constitution, than in the spirit of its application. Over time, the pub­lic psyche and social values have been turned upside down, and the Nigerian identity, now sadly, also connotes all that is negative in In­ternational social consciousness. The candidature and the cam­paign mode of the 2007 elections campaign leave little hope that political power will begin to truly flow from the electorate, so that public office holders will become accountable to the people. The un­democratic twin instruments of intimidation and ‘hot money’ have been weaponised to produce pliant electoral candidates, in virtually every political party primary. The political class has also become, arguably, estranged from an elec­torate, who have been reduced to mere rubber stamp of candidates pre-selected by a party elite, which may not favour genuine ability and desire to serve the people, as a preferred job requirement. Conse­quently, those who agree to sharing of public funds when elected, are often favoured for elective posts in party primaries. However, God help such victorious candidates, if they failed “to perform” while in office, as the big stick of impeach­ment will be quickly deployed to flatten such ‘traitor’, while a more ‘co-operative’ candidate will be quickly selected, by a rapacious party-caucus, notwithstanding the constitutional provisions for such impeachment exercise. The masses are not deceived that liberal campaign spendings are borne out of a desire to serve. They recognise that funds ‘invest­ed’ by sponsors on any election, will be recouped, from the public trea­sury, once the candidate is elected, even if deepening poverty becomes the inevitable product of such syn­dicated greed. But what can the masses do? The choice they have as electorate, is as that between the devil and the deep blue sea! They are resigned to the fact that their votes may not count when party cabals have their private agenda for self-enrichment after victory at the polls. Consequently, the street wisdom for the helpless masses is the opportunity for im­mediate self-gratification from po­litical partys’ paltry mobilization ‘fees’, which may provide a meal for the day and possibly even also, a free campaign vest and cap plus a brief distraction from their daily misery, in a jamboree or carnival atmosphere?” Furthermore, there are really no significant differences between the various political par­ties, as their manifestoes –where such exists–make the same prom­ises without any realistic prepara­tion or expectation to fulfill these promises. Sadly, despite the abysmal appar­ent failures to deliver the expected “mass dividends of democracy”, outgoing Governors, and indeed also the Presidency, have all dug deep into their pockets (some say public treasury) before the election to support their chosen candidates who will protect their interest and sustain their legacy (of profligacy and corrupt governance)! There is no way that a candi­date with good intentions, for the common good, can match Naira for Naira, the seemingly inexhaustible campaign chest of anointed oppo­nents! Similarly, the power of in­cumbency at the highest level of government, may also be abused to edge out formidable opposition. Ultimately, the masses become the real losers and their hope of a ‘better tomorrow’ will, invariably, sadly remain a mirage. The press, the fourth estate of the realm, true to their calling, con­tinues to report the News; regret­tably, however, there is little affin­ity for investigative analysis, and there is also no sustained attempt to condemn oppressive policies and conspicuous irregularities in governance. This is really not sur­prising, as most media houses may not survive, without the patronage of political money bags who have cornered all the commanding and most lucrative heights of com­merce and industry, with funds looted from the nation’s treasury. It is quite telling on media alertness, that it required, for example, a fall out between President Obasanjo and his VP to reveal the disturb­ingly sordid details of the abuse of the PTDF (Petroleum Technology Development Fund). Notably, billions of dollars have been and will continue to be laun­dered through our banks; however, it is also disturbing that, despite the critical revenue generation signif­icance of NNPC and CBN to our economy, these Government Agen­cies have, not been audited for so long. Notably amongst such para­statals are, PHCN, NITEL, NPA, Ministry of Works, and Education respectively, (the list is endless) who have received trillions of Nai­ra of public funds, in addition to their individually internally gener­ated revenue, without making any tangible social impact; sadly, it is unlikely that any media investiga­tion of these pervasive scams will ever be undertaken! The Okigbo report on the oil windfall of the 1990s, for example, has audaciously disappeared; sadly, even when Mister President also doubled as Petroleum Minister be­tween 1999-2007, despite the relat­ed constitutional limitations, the performance of this billion-dollar ministry still brought so much an­guish and economic distortion, in place of the expected blessing to the masses. Honestly, the press cannot save the masses under such cir­cumstances, as the emoluments of journalists and other media practitioners are also inadvertent victims of the subjugation of the system to corruption; arguably, most media owners, for their own survival, dare not take a firm stand on the side of the people or, indeed, knowingly cross the path of our un­touchable oppressors! Lord help us, to bring the reign of this charade of opportunism to an end. POSTSCRIPT MARCH 2019: The above article was first pub­lished in April, soon after the Gen­eral Elections in 2007. Painfully, however, nothing has changed as an International Research Group, lately concluded that six more Nigerians, will join the rank of over 100 million Nigerians who, reportedly, presently earn, below poverty wage of less than N1000/ day ($3/day). Conversely, however, more than 90 percent of Nigeria’s wealth may also now be controlled by an enduring, favoured, amor­phous cabal, made up of strategic, unrepentant rent-seekers. POSTSCRIPT MAY 2022: Fol­lowing the above narratives, as of current economic circumstance, it is evident that, it is even unrealis­tic to live on $3/day for the average Nigerian whose earning is based on ‘minimum wage’. An earning, of about $5/day would be more realistic i.e about N2,075 based on current optical rate of CBN. Note, the open parallel market rate would propose a more devalued Naira rate. SAVE THE NAIRA, SAVE NIGE­RIANS!