ITSE SAGAY (SAN) The Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) notes with dismay and disappointment the rate at which Nigerians accused of Economic and Financial Crimes refuse to honour invitations by constituted authorities to surrender themselves for interrogation for crimes they are suspected of having committed. Our judiciary and all concerned should know and note that it is illegal to restrain Anti-Corruption and law enforcement agencies from arresting such suspects, regardless of their statuses in society. These illegal restraining orders amount to hindering the agencies of government from carrying out their responsibilities. Recently, the EFCC invited some high profile individuals for interrogation and these invitations were ignored. Rather these persons obtained Court Orders restraining the Agency from arresting and putting them to trial, although, they do not come within the category of officials covered by immunity conferred by Section 308 of the Constitution. -Advertisement- Our Courts have stated at the highest levels again and again that no Court in Nigeria has the power to restrain the Police and other State Agencies like the EFCC and the ICPC from carrying out their duties. It is contrary to public policy to seek and be granted an injunction, not to be investigated, interrogated and arrested in the future, by the Police, Security and Anti-Corruption agencies. Such Court Orders constitute a Charter for criminals to engage in nationwide impunity. The admonition of the Supreme Court in Dokubo Asari v. F.R.N. [2007] 12 NWLR (Pt. 1042) 320 at 360, that fundamental rights are not absolute and that the rights of an individual must be subordinated to that of the Nation and society, must continue to reverberate in all Courts of justice. According to the Court: “The above provisions of Section 35 of the Constitution leave no one in doubt that the section is not absolute. Personal liberty of an individual within the contemplation of Section 35(1) of the Constitution is a qualified right in the context of this particular case and by virtue of subsection (1)(c) thereof which permits restriction on individual liberty in the course of the judicial inquiry or where, rightly as in this case, the appellant was arrested and put under the detention upon reasonable suspicion of having committed a felony. A person’s liberty, as in this case, can also be curtailed in order to prevent him from committing further offence(s). It is my belief as well that if every person accused of a felony can hide under the canopy of section 35 of the Constitution to escape lawful detention then an escape route to freedom is easily and richly made available to persons suspected to have committed serious crimes and that will not augur well for the peace, progress, prosperity and tranquility of the society. [Emphasis Supplied] In A-G Anambra State v. (1) Uba, (ii) Inspector-General of Police & (iii) A-G of the Federation & Anor. [2005] 15 NWLR (Pt. 947) 44, the 1st Respondent, Chris Uba, sought inter alia: “(iv) An Order of injunction restraining the appellants and the 2nd – 4th Respondents by themselves, through their agents, officers, servants, privies or any person howsoever deriving authority or power from them, from arresting, detaining or imprisoning the 1st respondent; or causing him to be restrained or inhibited in the exercise of his rights and freedom of movement, liberty, dignity, pending the determination of the substantive suit.” POLL Rejecting this claim outright, Bulkachuwa, J.C.A., speaking for the Court of Appeal, held as follows: “Of particular importance is the injunctive relief sought by the plaintiff as contained in relief IX in the statement of claim, In effect, the 1st respondent is asking the court to shield him from criminal investigation and prosecution. The contention of 1st respondent that his claims as contained in the statement of claim were a diligent exercise of the right to preserve his life and liberty as a citizen of Nigeria, cannot hold water, this is particularly so in the view of the mandatory provision of section 174(1) of the 1999 Constitution which provides: “Section 174(1) the Attorney-General of the Federation shall have power – (a) to institute and undertake criminal proceedings against any person before any court of law in Nigeria, other than a court-martial, in respect of any offence created by or under any Act of the National Assembly.” There is also a similar provision in section 211(1) in respect of the Attorney-General of a State. For a person, therefore, to go to court to be shielded against criminal investigation and prosecution is an interference of powers given by the Constitution to law officers in the control of criminal investigation. The plaintiff has no legally recognizable right to which the court can come to his aid. His claim is not one the court can take cognizance of for it has disclosed no cause of action. The plaintiff cannot expect a judicial fiat preventing a law officer in the exercise of his constitutional power.” “If there is a reasonable suspicion that a person has committed an offence, his liberty may be impaired temporarily. In the same vein, a person’s liberty may be tampered with so as to prevent him from committing an offence. In short, it is clear that no citizen’s freedom or liberty is absolute. The freedom or liberty of a citizen ends where that of the other man starts. This must be well considered and balanced by a judge when considering question of bail.” The legal effect and implication of these cases is that no Court has the power to restrain the police and the anti-corruption Agencies from exercising their powers of investigation, interrogation, arrest, detention and prosecution. The only power a Court can exercise is to pronounce a particular arrest and detention in a matter already before the Court illegal, or to restrain the police, from arresting a person in a specific circumstance, before the Court, NOT a perpetual order against future arrests or detention. Sagay is the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption