The Federal Government has been charged to deploy a more intelligent system of operation that will ensure a total clamp down on insecurity instead of focusing on their egocentric political goals. A group known as Abu Mmaduaburochukwu Foundation made the charge while reacting to the recent attack on Christians at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State. The Foundation frowned at the rate some politicians donated cash to the victims immediately after the incident, charging them to invest such donations to provide security. The Founder, Mmaduaburochukwu Attah stated this on Tuesday in his press release made available to newsmen in Awka, Anambra State. Attah, while commiserating with the family, prayed that God would give them the fortitude to bear the loss. Chief Attah noted that the trending insecurity across the country had crippled the economy of Nigeria, and brought unnecessary hardship to the poor masses. He said, “People are living in fear. Our security of life is not guaranteed, yet our politicians are busy thinking of how to win elections, instead of how to build the nation. ” An average Nigerian household spends about 56% of income on food. Food prices have been rising in Nigeria and pushing more people into poverty for a few reasons. POLL “First, the depreciation in the value of the Naira has resulted in steep increases in the prices of imported food items, such as rice, sugar, milk, beverages, and frozen food. The Naira has depreciated by about 13% during the past year. “Second, because of Nigeria’s rapid population growth, food supply in the country may be lagging demand. Nigeria’s population has been growing by about 2.6% per annum, while agriculture value-added has been growing at 2%. “Regardless of who is right, Nigeria’s poverty profile is grim and embarrassing for a country endowed with humongous human and natural resources. The Nigerian National Bureau of Statistics said in 2020 that 40% or 83 million Nigerians live in poverty. Although Nigeria’s poverty profile for 2021 has not yet been released, it is estimated that the number of poor people will increase to 90 million, or 45% of the population, in 2022.” Chief Attah also revealed that his Foundation had lifted some youth, widows and aged persons above the poverty line,  and called on other meaningful individuals to join hands in the fight against poverty and insecurity. “Our Foundation has given hope to the hopeless. Many widows have been gifted with houses and youths empowered to be productive. ” When you create empowerment opportunities for the youths, you have halfway solved insecurity,” he said.