…..Reschedules Congresses In Lagos, Imo, Benue, Katsina States …Cancels Some Senatorial Districts in Kaduna, Enugu, Cross River ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has approved the conduct of the rescheduled State House of Assembly, National Assembly and Governorship Primaries in Ebonyi State for the election of candidates for the 2023 general elections. -Advertisement- While the Primaries for the State House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senatorial Primaries will hold Saturday, June 4, 2022, the governorship primary will hold Sunday June 5, 2022. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, urged all the aspirants and party members in Ebonyi States to take note. In a related development, the party has rescheduled congresses in Lagos, Imo, Benue and Katsina states. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the party said that it has approved repeat primaries in the states after very careful deliberations on the reports of the Electoral and Appeal Panels on the Congresses. The party added that it decided to approve repeat primaries in the states for the purpose of nominating its Candidates for the 2023 general elections. POLL According to the party schedule of activities, PDP will on Sunday, June 5, 2022 conduct primaries in Ahiazu State Constituency of Imo State, Orsu State Constituency of Imo State, Musawa State Constituency of Katsina State, Dandume State Constituency of Katsina State, Zango State Constituency of Katsina State, Oru East/Orsu/Orlu Federal Constituency of Imo State and Kwande/Ushongo Federal Constituency of Benue State. The party added that on Monday, June 6, 2022, it will conduct primaries in Lagos State House of Representatives and 24 Federal Constituencies. “Furthermore, Kaduna Central Senatorial District of Kaduna State, Enugu West Senatorial Districts of Enugu State as well as Boki/Ikom Federal Constituency and Yakuur II State Constituency, both of Cross River State earlier scheduled for Saturday June 4, 2022 have been cancelled. “All Party members in the affected States should please take note,” the party said.