LAGOS  – The Kebbi Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), has handed over seized 94 jumbo sacks of donkey skins, valued at N48,130,642, seized by the Command to the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service. The Rapid Response team of the Command had intercepted the donkey skins recently, at about 0400Hrs based on credible intelligence about smuggling activities around Bahindi – Dogon Rimi Waterside in Bagudo Local Government Area. The Customs Area Controller (CAC), Comptroller Joseph Attah, during the handing over exercise, said that physical examination revealed 94 jumbo sacks, each containing 30 pieces totaling 2,820 donkey skins, adding that such a level of poaching is unacceptable. The Comptroller, while explaining how the item was found, disclosed that upon approaching the described location, the patrol team sighted a huge covered mound of loads near the river bank. According to him, officers discovered that the covered mound was sacks of donkey skins carefully arranged, awaiting a boat for onward smuggling out of the country. The items were evacuated from the location and brought to the Headquarters in Birnin Kebbi. He further explained: “This level of poaching resulting in the slaughtering of 2,820 donkeys is not acceptable. If this is allowed to continue, donkeys will go into extinction. “Nigeria is a signatory to a multi-lateral Convention on International Trade on Endangered Species (CITES) which makes a trade on donkey skins illegal. “In view of the above, the items were converted to seizure and in line with the directive of the Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd.), the 94 jumbo sacks of the donkey skins are being handed over to Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service, Kebbi State in the spirit of interagency collaboration. -Advertisement- POLL “As an agency of the government with a responsibility to facilitate trade among others, Nigeria Customs Service is also duty-bound to ensure that illegitimate trade does not thrive.” Compt. Attah noted that the Command has proved times without number that it is determined to nip smuggling in the bud as long as the general public is willing to support with useful information about smuggling activities.