BENIN – The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ambrose Alli University, (AAU), Ekpoma Chapter has described as illogical and falsehood the management’s denial of militarisation of the University campus. ASUU in a statement titled “AAU IS NOT MILITARISED! – A REJOINDER”and signed by Dr. Cyril Oziegbe Onogbosele and Dr. Odion William, the Chairperson and the Assistant Secretary stated that the union is aware of a special release in the University’s News Bulletin of 2nd June, 2022 edition with the caption, “Re-Strike in Ambrose Alli University: ASUU, Stakeholders Decry Militarisation of Campus by the Institution’s Management: AAU is not militarised!”. According to ASUU, “In the release signed by the Acting Registrar of the University, Mr. Ambrose E. Odiase, the University Administration asserted inter alia, “In the past few days, the ASUU, AAU Chapter has sustained a sensational campaign of calumny against the authorities of the University in its attempt to scuttle the resumption of academic activities announced by the University Management”. -Advertisement- “The said release by the University Administration tinted with illogicalities, blackmail and falsehood is provocative, insulting and embarrassing to the Union. “It is contradictory for the University Administration to state that “AAU is not militarised!” on one hand and admit that “the presence of security personnel in the University is to keep the peace on campus, not otherwise”. “The question is, was there any breach of peace or a threat to peace in the University before the deployment of security personnel to campus? “The Union is also aware of the orientation, training and rehearsals carried out by some of the security personnel preparatory to their deployment to campus long before 25th May, 2022. “Again, another question that the University needs to answer is “Is the use of security agents: Police, Civil Defence Corps, Vigilante, Hunters, etc. on campus at the same time the normal and refined way of maintaining peace and order in a modern university system? What has become of the University security system? POLL “To the Union, it is hypocritical for the University Administration to attribute the deployment of all shades of security agents on campus to perceived and unsubstantiated threat from the Union or individual members of the Union”. ASUU stated. ASUU also stated that the resolutions and directives of the Congress of the Union held on 25th May, 2022 were not hidden as they stated clearly or unambiguously on the Union’s position on the crisis in the University. “It is unfortunate that a high-ranking University Administrator would rely on hearsays, speculations and conjectures to draw conclusions about “threat” to the University to wilfully malign the Union and militarise the campus. “It is also disheartening and shameful that espionage and pettiness now constitute the content and shape of the administrative style of the University Administration in obtaining the decisions and resolutions of the Union on important matters affecting the University. “It is important to note that opinions or suggestions by individuals do not constitute the Union’s position on any matter. This new administrative style of the University is a threat to the Union and peace and harmony in the University. “The University Administration should not blame the Union for the militarisation of the campus, but blame its ill-conceived, insensitive and unjustifiable plans and actions designed to scuttle the ongoing strike meant for the wellbeing of the University and its deceptive reopening of the University for academic activities without due consultation. “Recent activities of the University Administration in trying to reopen the University/return students to campus since 26th May, 2022 have the hallmarks of calumny and propaganda against the Union and its leadership. “The Union is aware of several meetings/interactions of the University Administration and its agents meant to convince students that the present imbroglio in the University is caused by ASUU. “The University Administration has concealed the fact that staff of the University (including members of the Union) have not been paid seventeen (17) months emoluments (salaries, check-off dues and other deductions) for which a local strike was approved for the Branch by the national body. “It has also failed to inform the public of its orchestrated selective payment of January and February, 2022 salaries of workers. “ASUU, AAU, Ekpoma and its members are law-abiding, peaceful and non-violent. The Union believes in and uses lawful means to pursue issues. “The Union will never and has never threatened the University and its officials at any point in time. The allegation of threat to the University Administration against the Union is false and non-existent. “The University Administration should refrain from the use of force, blackmail, propaganda and falsehood in dealing with the current problems of the University. “We strongly advise the University Administration to embrace peace and dialogue in resolving the problems on ground and return the University to normalcy” the further declared.