AWKA – The Anambra State Police Command on Wednesday issued a press statement that it has intensified war against gunmen in the state, killing two members of a gang during a gun duel at Obosi Idemili-North Local Government Area. The Police Commissioner, CP Echeng Eworo Echeng, in the statement issued by the Police spokesman in the state, DSP Ikenga Tochukwu Antho­ny, urged the citizenry to desist from mob actions and jungle justice whenever criminal el­ements were caught. The statement reads, “Anambra State Police oper­atives while on patrol along Obosi Nkpor road by Obosi town hall at about 11:39pm on 26/6/2022, accosted a gang of armed men in white Toyota Hiace bus, red Toyota Corolla and a motorcycle. “The operatives engaged the armed men in a gun battle, neutralised two of the hood­lums and recovered one pump action, one locally fabricated pistol and red Toyota Corolla with Reg. Nos. AKD 303 DW. “During the gun duel with the hoodlums, the superior fire power of the operatives made the assailants fled the scene with the Toyota Hiace bus and a motorcycle. Meanwhile, Po­lice has intensified patrol in the area and improved opera­tional positioning to respond to distress calls especially aimed at arresting other fleeing gang members.” In another development, the operatives at about 11 p.m. on June26, 2022, while on patrol along Central School Road, Umusiomen Nkpor, Ogidi, re­covered a white Mercedes Benz 350 with Reg. No. RSH 836 BE suspected to have been aban­doned by criminal elements. Also, Police operatives at about 4:30 p.m. on June 28, 2022 rescued two suspects namely, one Okoye Stephen, 19, and Chukwuemeka Nwudo, 27, from mob action along Zik’s Avenue, Awka. “The suspects were caught armed with a locally made pis­tol, in attempt to dispossess a young lady of her cash, after withdrawing money from ATM. The suspects were al­ready beaten to stupor by the angry mob before police res­cued them. The operatives also recovered one locally made pis­tol and one live cartridge from the criminals,” police said.