LAGOS – Analysts have expressed fears that the 2023 polls may be marred by ballot trading if the act which was rife at the recently conclud­ed primaries of major political parties and continued at the governorship elec­tion in Ekiti State last week is not con­tained. They noted that the democratic process was being subverted by financial induce­ment of voters. Barrister Emeka Iheonu, a Lagos law­yer and member of the African Bar Asso­ciation (ABA), while speaking with Sun­day INDEPENDENT, maintained that in the 2023 general election, the vote buying would occur. According to him, the malady would be unprecedented as several bullion vans would be deployed due to the greedy and selfish ambitions of some of the candi­dates who would never bring about the much desired economic stability and se­curity of lives and property in Nigeria. He stressed: “I would advise Nigerians to vote for individuals who in their minds will not be self-centred when elected, but will genuinely bring about positive chang­es in all aspects of life in this country. “Votes should not be based on party lines or political structures. Even if they are financially induced, they should col­lect and still vote for the right candidates.” Another public affairs commentator, Rev. Dr. Francis Ujunwa Simeon, the In­ternational Secretary, Christian Associa­tion of Igbo Ministers (CAIM), who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT on the issue, maintained that the incidence of vote buy­ing was a comparatively new development in Nigeria’s electoral process in Nigeria. According to him, up till 2011, electoral malpractices manifested in the form of ballot snatching, falsification of voting figures, deliberate disenfranchisement of voters in the opponent’s stronghold, brib­ery of electoral umpires, et cetera. -Advertisement- POLL He stressed that in recent times, elec­toral candidates had devised new ways of influencing the voters, as money could be transferred to prospective voters through their bank accounts. Simeon also stated that others could be paid in cash at the polling stations on pre­sentation of evidence that they voted for a particular political party, even as this was done in the full glare of compromised security operatives. He said: “In the just-concluded political primaries of the major po­litical parties, about $10,000 were al­legedly given to each delegate as an inducement to vote for an aspirant. Both INEC and the EFCC were aware, but did nothing. “Electoral malpractice in Nigeria is almost an intractable problem. This is because politics is big business and also a do or die affair. So, politicians are desper­ate to win by hook or by crook. “Moreover, the rate of poverty in the country makes it possible for voters to sell their votes to the highest bidder. If this continues, the 2023 and subsequent elections will be fraught with danger.” The cleric, howev­er, proffered some solutions, say­ing, “First, h u m a n rights groups should embark on massive enlight­enment campaign at the grassroots on the negative implications of vote selling. If the voters refuse to sell their votes, the politicians will not be able to buy. “Secondly, close circuit television (CCTV) should be installed in every poll­ing station to detect party agents who try to buy votes from voters. Thirdly, under­cover detectives should be deployed to every polling station to be on the lockout for corrupt party agents. “Above all, the electoral law should be amended to criminalise vote buying and vote selling. Culprits should be serious­ly prosecuted to serve as a deterrent to others. “Unless these measures are put in place, the results of the various elections will not be a true reflection of the will of the people.” Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a seasoned pol­itician and chieftain of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP), stated that reports abound that money played a heavy influ­ence during the just-concluded presiden­tial primaries of the two major parties. According to him, “For one, it is only PDP and APC that conducted real prima­ries, while the rest did a Town Union kind of selection. I will not rule out the issue of persuasive lobbying anchored on mone­tary inducement in Nigerian politics. “The ruling APC has brought down corruption as a way of life and so with the impoverished population, money is key to buying their conscience. So, it will not be not be a surprise if money plays a role in the primaries of the major political parties. “Talking of the Ekiti governorship election held last weekend, it was a real show of shame and gross violation of the rights of the electorate to free­ly choose their leaders. “This is the negative legacy trailing APC and it was brought to bear with Tinubu’s presidential candidacy as he did what he knows best, getting APC splash money in the open with impunity and I must warn that this is a great danger to the democracy in Nigeria. “However, I do not think APC will go far in its bribery and corruption drive.” Also, Tony Ademiluyi, a public affairs commentator, stressed that vote buying had come to stay “as the nation’s sinister politicians created artificial poverty to perpetually keep the masses in chains. “It cannot be stopped outrightly, but it can be reduced by sensitising the hoi polloi to see governance as a social con­tract in which they also have something to offer. This way they will financially back their favourite leaders with their minis­cule funds which will give them a greater stake to hold their leaders accountable. Dr. Frank Freds Nwosu, another com­mentator, in his contribution stated that vote buying in the country had become “a free market economy.” But, he maintained that it would not mar typical ‘Nigerian’ elections, adding that the practice “is a mutually corrupt­ing practice, fully ingrained and fully ad­opted by both parties, the political stal­warts and the voters themselves. “Even security agents and media moni­toring teams are said to be engrossed and embroiled in the practice of aiding and abetting, giving and receiving monies at polling stations. “What I wonder about is: Why should the government pretend that it is illegal to engage in vote buying, when in fact, it is the generally accepted palliative to the dehumanised populace, the one sure seasonal sharing of advance ‘dividends’ of our twisted democratic culture?” On the recently held Ekiti State gov­ernorship election, Dr Nwo­su said: “Last weekend, the impoverished and grossly dehumanised electorates were all smiles and the poor tormented market women had a momen­tary sales boon as starv­ing families rushed off to the markets to shop with the tokens paid them for voting leaders they know care nothing about them. I can’t stop wondering at the charade and hypoc­risy. “My advice is for the government to lift the laws on vote selling and vote buying, and let the politicians and their fol­lowers sort themselves out, anyhow – as they are actually doing at present, and have been doing ever since. “This proposition may not go down well with the pretentious public, but, I challenge anyone who is frank enough to show me how else this rickety system rolling un­checked down the precipice can be salvaged – than to steer clear of its path and watch the sure plunge into the abyss of time. “ S a n e p r o g ­nosis sug­gests that that is where this entire system is heading. Ultimately. Sorry, if it hurts.” Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, Director General, Global Initiative for Good Gov­ernance (GIGG), in his detailed analysis, described vote buying or trading on the nation’s democracy with hard currencies to gain prudential treatment against the wish of the popular majority as one of the pressing challenges likely to pollute the 2023 general elections. According to him, it had been a gen­eral belief that “those aspiring for one political office or the other are free and permitted within the confines of decency to consult and woo delegates to enable them vote him or her. “Consultation is necessary because it gives aspirants the opportunity to express their feelings before their par­ty delegates on his promising agenda for good governance when elected into office. “It is a kind of partial in house cam­paign and it behoves on the delegates to assess those aspirants and then channel their support towards the right person during party primaries.” Kalu, himself a seasoned politician, said: “In situations where cash is be­ing displayed in packs and shared, dele­gates would be thumb printing for high­est bidders which is actually against the trademark of democracy and social justice. “In politics, we must concentrate our attention on those who are capable of providing impactful leadership for the common good of all. We have to con­sider the national development agenda and who is of the making, strength and quotients to actualize these plans. “Choosing a leader simply because he doles out cash to buy votes would not help Nigeria grow and it must be noted that any government formed on this basis in all ramifications is bound to fail and disappoint the citizens.” Citing the Oyo governorship election, Kalu maintained that there were a se­ries of complaints that votes were be­ing bought by political parties to favour their candidates. He stressed: “It was even insinuated that EFCC caught and arrested some party members. This is unfair to our maturing democracy that parties would be openly soliciting votes with money, thereby opening a window of electing a wrong person into office. “On the 2023 general elections, my advice is that INEC should not allow such impunity to take place in polling units by providing restrictive measures to eschew this bad practice. “The National Assembly is obliged to make laws strictly penalising vote buy­ing in elections. Nigerians must avoid treading the wrong path of allowing gifts of some tokens that could not even sustain family feeding for three days. “We have to focus on who is capable of transforming the bad system, devel­oping the nation, creating jobs for the youths and revitalise the falling economy. “Political parties building their cam­paign structures in a way that could make their manifestoes catch the heart of the people are what sustain democracy in­stead of relying on vote buying which is a sure platform of watering the plants of corruption in our society. “My take is that 2023 general elections are sure to hold, but failure of INEC and other relevant stakeholders to put mea­sures in place towards curbing this vices may cause wrong persons elected into various political offices. “Nigeria must move forward as all hands are put on the deck to speak up against unacceptable practices confront­ing our surviving democracy.”