ABUJA – The Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN), Amina Mohammed has hinted that UN has plans to assist Nigeria and other Africa countries in meeting its giant climate change goals. She gave this hint during her virtual remarks at the ongoing Nigeria-Africa Natural Resource and Energy Summit (NAFFNIS) 2022, themed “Towards a greener Africa,” which was organized by the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development (MMSD) and CORE International Mining and Marketing Company, as well as other stakeholders. Amina pointed out that, although Africa contributes the least to climate change, but one of the regions most affected while adding that there is the need for Africa to embrace sustainability in its growing ambitions for development. -Advertisement- She, however, stated that, today, less than 50 per cent of the population in sub-Saharan Africa has access to electricity and 900 million people lack access to clean cooking. According to her: “Africa is the world’s fastest growing continent and the youngest. Africa consumes 6.1 per cent of global energy and produces around 4 per cent of world’s Green House Gas (GHG) emissions. “The way in which Africa develops will have significant implications for the world. It shows the urgent need for African countries to receive financial and technical support now to develop rapidly and sustainably.” “The quest for emissions reduction and a speedy transition, the developmental priorities of the continent cannot be sacrificed. “African nations are demanding a just and equitable transition. I am happy to see that Nigeria is leading the charge in defining, developing, advocating and implementing a just energy transition. POLL “At COP 26, President Muhammdu Buhari announced Nigeria’s ambition to be net-zero by 2060. There is need to enable a stable transition. “Nigeria and all other African nations must be supported within the confines of our climate targets to enjoy speedy economic development and to create foundation for a just green and sustainable transition. “The United Nations will continue to support Nigeria and I believe this is the door for African solutions developed by Africa for the attainment of African priorities,” she explained.