LAGOS  – Biomedical limited, one of the leading pharmaceutical company has donated free deworming medicine to cater for hundreds of primary school pupils in Moro local government area of Kwara state. The company in an initiative which was flagged off on last week at the presidential lodge in partnership with the Kwara state government , visited a couple of schools in the local government with the medicines. One of the schools visited was LGEA Primary School, Shao where several pupils were administered the oral suspension drugs by the facilitator and the school teachers. -Advertisement- Mrs Adaara Bilkis, the headmistress of the school was full of praise for the initiative, which she said shows that the company cares about the well-being of the pupils in her school. She said, “On behalf of the management, we appreciate the Biomedical Limited who are here this morning to give our pupils free drugs. May God continue to elevate the company beyond their imaginations. This shows that they care about the well-being of our pupils.’ Adaara, however, urged other companies to emulate the Biomedical limited in contributing their quota to the betterment of the society. “I want to urge other companies to take lessons from Biomedical limited to contribute their quota to the betterment of the society, once again we’re very grateful, this will improve the health of our pupils a lot.” She said. In the same vein, the headboy of the school, Miracle Isaiah also expressed his happiness and gratitude to the gesture of the company saying that, “I want to thank the company greatly for finding our school worthy, we are so happy.” POLL Another pupil, Saadu Ramat also thank the company, saying that, “ we are so happy and we say a big thank you to the company for the drugs”. A community leader, Kolawole Alade simply said, “ we are grateful to the company, this shows that they meant well for our children, I pray Almighty God repay them back in folds, we’re really happy.” Samuel Akanbi, another community member of Shao just like others, thanked the company for the donation, noting that, “we’re so happy to receive the drugs and we say thank you to the company for the donation.” Speaking at the point of donation, the marketing manager of Biomedical limited, Pharm. Watson Olojo who led the team described the gesture as a contribution to the state which has been their host community over the years. He said, “this is a continuation of the flag off, a partnership with the Primary healthcare development agency and the state government ,this is our contribution to the state, for the fact that Kwara state is our host community ,this is our corporate social responsibility programme.”