ABAKALIKI – Governor David Umahi, frontline presidential aspirant in the APC presidential primaries said he is strongly steady in the presidential race. Hon. Barr Orji Uchenna Orji, Ebonyi State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation saidattention of the David Umahi Campaign Organisation had been drawn to a circulating fake news propagated in media platforms including Arise TV purporting that the Presidential Hopeful and Governor of Ebonyi State, His Excellency Engr Chief David Nweze had stepped down his Presidential aspiration for His Excellency, Senator Ahmad Lawan, Senate President of Nigeria’s National Assembly. He enjoined members of the public to disregard the fake news as a cheap blackmail and absolute falsehood by desperate politicians who are apprehensive of the acceptable political profile of the Governor of Ebonyi State and Presidential hopeful and whose trackrecords have endeared him to heart of the APC leadership. -Advertisement- “We are suprised that Arise TV could descend so low as to take such a dirty job of running Aspirants down for needless gratifications. “We urge Arise TV to immediately purge itself of this wanting behaviour by stating the obvious that His Excellency, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi, APC Presidential Aspirant never stepped down, but that His Excellency Ahmad Lawan only retuned a consultation visit previously accorded to him by Governor Umahi and that both of them pledged to support each other in event of any of them emerging as the Presidential Candidate of APC.” “The clip showing the full speech of His Excellency , Almed Lawan and His Excellency, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi is accompanied to this text of rejoinder for the records.” Similarly, Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Chief Francis Nweze explained thatthe Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum who is also an APC presidential aspirant, Kayode Fayemi visited Umahi in his Abuja residence on Sunday. The meeting, he said was in obedience to the directive of President Buhari for all aspirants to proceed with consultations and come up with an acceptable candidate that will fly the flag of the party for the 2023 presidential election. POLL “Governor Umahi is the only sitting Governor from South East who is vying to become the candidate of the party.Both Governors agreed on aligning with the decision of Mr. President and the party – that whosoever they finally present as the presidential candidate, the other will give his full support. “However, Governor Umahi noted that in the interest of peace, equity, fairness, and national cohesion, it will be most acceptable that Mr. President and the Party consider narrowing the search by choosing any of the aspirants from South East with an assurance that all other aspirants from the zone will support the chosen one”.