Anadach Group in partnership with the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA) has said it has rolled out Tuberculosis (TB) awards under its TB LON 3 project in Nigeria at NHEA 2022 for two lucky private organisations. A statement signed by Moses Braimah, Director, Marketing, Communication & Strategy revealed that the two private organisations would be specially recognised for supporting their TB LON 3 project in Nigeria. The two awards are titled, the Most Outstanding Private Sector Advocacy Support for TB of the Year and  Honorable TB Advocacy and Impact Organisation of the Year. -Advertisement- According to the WHO Global TB report, an estimated 440,000 people in Nigeria have tuberculosis (TB) each year. Though curable and preventable, it accounts for an estimated 1.4 million deaths globally in 2019. A major challenge in the TB response in Nigeria is low TB case detection as only one in four people with TB are diagnosed. Others are, poor coverage of TB screening, diagnostic and treatment services – less than 30 per cent of health facilities in the country provide TB services. Thus, it is critical to rapidly find and treat undiagnosed people infected with TB. Given the high out of pocket payments in the country, the probability of catastrophic health expenditure due to TB is high. Dr Bunmi Ogbodu, Project Lead Anadach Group explained, “TB negatively impacts private businesses through an increase in absenteeism, reduction in man-hours among others as businesses which do not prioritise it. “It becomes imperative to use a differentiated model approach that is inclusive of the Private Sector Strategy as part of the means to strengthen the resilient and sustainable systems for TB control,” Ogbodu added. Similarly, Moses Braimah, NHEA Director of Marketing, Communication and Strategy noted. “We are happy with this collaboration on Tuberculosis. It will in no small measure help to reduce the overall burden of TB in Nigeria through multiple stakeholder collaboration and we believe that having specific awards on TB would be helpful in addressing the TB situation in Nigeria, particularly encouraging participation and support from the Private Sector.” POLL NHEA is an initiative of Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR) in collaboration with Anadach Group USA. GHPR is one of West Africa’s leading Healthcare Management and Consultancy companies, involved in the promotion of healthcare business in West Africa. The company has amassed a wealth of experience from managing various healthcare projects from training, exhibitions, awards and surveys to the deployment of Information Technology