Ngozi Ogbuehi, the chief executive officer of Zika Crown Goodies, a firm that is into bakery, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, talks about the need for the government to provide the enabling environment for entrepreneurs to create jobs, challenges of fuel scarcity among other issues. Excerpts: Can you share some light on your business? I ventured into the baking business, which I will say started by accident because I never had a passion for baking. I was actually dealing with peanuts before I ventured into baking. I saw peanuts somewhere I liked the way it was prepared and packaged and that was the attraction. I thought that I should try my hands on it. I got someone to train me but the person didn’t give me what I wanted, so I had to go online to get the training. I browsed it and saw the way it was being prepared, I did further consultations and that was it. I have been in the business for two years now. What is the prospect for bakery business in Nigeria? -Advertisement- POLL I don’t know what to say at this point. I don’t know if there is any prospect or not considering the cost of operation. When we started it was thriving and I enjoyed what I was doing. The recent increase in the prices of things as a result of inflation is affecting our business adversary. Inflation is killing businesses in Nigeria. When I started this business a bag of flour was sold for N11,000 but now the price has gone up by over 100 percent and you don’t even know what it will be the next day. The price of vegetable oil has also tripled and so for other condiments that we use in the bakery business. The business is dull for now, things are not looking up the way it should because customers are no longer patronizing us the way it used to be. The cost of power is another thing entirely. Diesel is out of the reach of business people and right now fuel scarcity has hit Lagos. I must tell you that I don’t even know how local manufacturers survive in Nigeria. Do you operate outside Lagos State? Presently we service only Lagos customers. We have not started supplying to customers outside the state. We are still young and are trying to grow the customers in our locality and maybe in future we can consider expanding beyond Lagos State. How do you manage logistics? I do the delivery myself. I use a few staff to supply to our customers but we don’t outsource delivery because of cost. It will cost us more to use courier to deliver to those shops that are not close by and we don’t want to incur additional cost so that we won’t be tempted to increase our price. You know that we are in a competitive business. We try as much as possible to manage our costs even though it may involve extra stress on our part. Talking about managing your cost of delivery, we know that it will cost you extra to deliver to your customers because you may need to fuel your car or pay for transport to your customers’ locations. We do all of the to keep our customers even though some of these services eat into our already lean profit What do you think is the way forward? The way things are in the country at the moment if nothing is done urgently there will be serious problems. Some people say that Nigeria is heading towards a failed state but I don’t want to sound like a pessimist, but the way things are going, I am afraid that if the government fails to do something, we may indeed be heading towards a failed state The crime rate is increasing and the government seems not to be concerned. It is the lack of jobs that pushes young people into criminality. The government must as a matter of urgency attend to the needs of entrepreneurs to enable them create jobs I say this because you cannot plan under this condition that we find ourselves as business owners. If you go to the market today and you buy things by the time you return to the same market the next day the price must have increased. A business owner will suddenly discover that the capital that he or she is using to run business has reduced by over 60 percent. If you sell your product and you return to the market the next time, you will be shocked that your cost price and the profit that you made put together cannot buy another product for you. I will appeal to the government to help business owners; it can give us grants or even loans, where the interest rate will be very low. I have tried to get one but it didn’t work. I want the government to assist us if not so; a lot of businesses will go under. We are trying in this country to do most things on our own as entrepreneurs, we power our factories and do most of these things which eat deep into our capital. If the government plays its role in providing an enabling environment for us, it will go a long way in assisting our growth. I am talking about loans at very low interest rates because our capital has depleted so much as a result of the harsh business environment under which we operate. If a customer orders for products he or she will expect you to produce and deliver before payment and by that you have extended some form of credit to the customer. If you are unlucky not to have the resources to produce and be paid later the customer will easily cancel the order and book with someone who has the resources to supply now and be paid later. It is for that reason that the government must come to our aid especially for those of us that are just starting. It has not been easy for us. I know how much I started the business with as capital but the harsh business environment is daily eating deep into the capital. The unfortunate aspect of it is that your price increase cannot be commensurate with the increase in your cost of production; otherwise you will lose your customers to competitors. In what other areas would you need assistance as an entrepreneur? Inflation is too high and prices of goods are beyond the reach of people. The big problem that we have now is the issue of fuel scarcity. We don’t know what is happening in this country. In January this year we heard the government was going to increase the pump price of fuel to N360 per litre. We thank God that it didn’t happen and now we have entered another round of fuel scarcity a few months after. This present hardship is too much. Businesses are not finding it easy. A lot of people are still in business because they cannot find an alternative thing to do. I must say that with the present situation of things in this country, entrepreneurs are in a very difficult situation and I think that the government should understand and find a way to lessen this burden for us. Nigerians are very hard working people and they have been trying to cope on their own, the government should please allow us to continue to manage the way we have been doing. Entrepreneurs need an enabling environment to create jobs. If I had five staff and I cannot produce at optimal level I will be compelled to reduce my staff strength. Does the government have jobs for anybody, so why not support the private sector to create jobs? The crime rate is increasing and the government seems not to be concerned. It is the lack of jobs that pushes young people into criminality. The government must as matters of urgency attend to the needs of entrepreneurs to enable them create jobs.