Popular On-Air Personality (OAP), Ayodele Akande (alias AY Nigeria), has admonished Ekiti State Governor-elect, Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO), to leverage on the enormous potential in the youths to deliver his campaign promises to the people. AY Nigeria, in an open letter to Oyebanji, a copy of which was made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT said Ekiti is blessed with many brilliant and talented young stars who had demonstrated the capacity to impact positively on the economy of the state. Specifically, Akande urged Oyebanji to fulfil his campaign promise of inclusion by harnessing the great potential of Ekiti youths in the various fields of human endeavours. He noted that the incoming administration might not need to go the extra mile in sourcing experts in the areas of entrepreneurial development, Improved ICT, Value orientation and gender advocacy, as there was enough material on the ground in Ekiti. According to him, many Ekiti youths have gained both national and global recognition as a result of the exceptional selfless services they rendered for the sake of humanity. The letter reads: “I believe the Pen of history has been handed over to you to rewrite the narratives of Ekiti politics and governance hence the rationale behind this Open Letter. With great reference to the administration of Dr Kayode Fayemi which had laid a solid foundation for youth inclusion, we must continue to include youth in political offices, especially those who have the track records and zeal to add values, and uplift the poor masses and develop the society. “Sir, I perceive you as a breath of fresh air that your emergence as Governor-elect of Ekiti State is a great opportunity to redefine true leadership and governance through massive youth inclusion. “The main reason for writing this letter is to remind you of some of the promises you made during the campaign about involving youth in your government (Youth Development), and your closing remarks at the Channels TV Debate where you promised to harness our best brains and partner with Ekiti youths. Ekiti has enough qualified personnel that will help you achieve all your promises. -Advertisement- POLL “It is a known fact that no state can develop without the involvement of the people in the diaspora in government. However, I also urged you to look within us first, as you have earned the appellation of “homegrown ” politician,” the letter added. While encouraging Oyebanji to hit the ground running, AY Nigeria argued that Ekiti is on the threshold of history and the governor-elect has every opportunity to write his name in gold by re-enacting Ekiti politics of hard work, honesty and integrity. AY Nigeria, therefore, recommended the inclusion of some tested and iconic  Ekiti youths in the incoming administration by implementing youth-friendly policies and programmes in line with best global practices. For the purpose of emphasis, Akande recommended the following iconic Ekiti youths to the governor-elect for possible official engagements. They are Tosin Adaraniwon (ICT), Adetunji Aribasoye(Entrepreneurial Development), Asiwaju Oladimeji (Agrobusiness),Tanimola Kolade (Social Media), Michael Peculiar (Tourism Development) and Barrister Tosin Ayo (Real Estate). Other recommendations in the area of gender advocacy, as listed by AY Nigeria are: Abimbola Aladejare-Salako, Ayomide Ayotomiwa, Tinminu Akerele, Barrister Seyi Ebenezer and Deborah Olawumi to mention but a few. In closing, Akande extended the warm greetings of Ekiti youths to the incoming governor and wish him success in his future official assignments.