The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday disowned a purported leaked document claiming it budgeted N6.5 trillion for vote-buying to ensure victory in the 2023 presidential election. The document entitled “leaked APC 2023 Election Document,” claimed that the ruling party planned N6.5trn which is almost half of the entire country’s 2022 budget for vote-buying and bribing of security agents at polling units, judiciary and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Disowning the purported document, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Felix Morka in a statement issued in Abuja, described the document as fake and the handiwork of mischief-makers. The APC scribe wondered how a government operating a national budget of N17 trillion would dole out N6.5trillion to rig an election. This, according to the party betrayed the authors’ extreme ignorance of the complexity of the systems and processes for the appropriation and utilisation of state funds. The statement read, “The attention of the APC has been drawn to a document in circulation described as leaked APC 2023 Election Document. “Mischievously, the document alleged that our party has voted a whooping N6.5trillion to fund schemes aimed at swaying the Nigerian electorate to support and vote for the party and its presidential candidate in 2023. “Ridiculously, too, the document alleged that obscene amounts of money have been voted for outright vote-buying, compromising INEC staff, security operatives, judicial officers and other officials. -Advertisement- POLL “The APC wishes to place firmly on record that the document is not of the party, we neither authored nor own any such document and it certainly did not emanate from our party.” He added that the party was law-abiding and had no need to engage in fraud or electoral malpractice to win elections as suggested by the document. According to him, the APC was focused on delivering dividends of democracy to Nigerians in hope that they would reciprocate by supporting and voting for its candidates in the 2023 general elections.