With pre-season ticking ever closer, Manchester City’s transfer business is accelerating in departments. They have already secured the £51 million signing of Erling Haaland, who will add even more firepower to the Premier League’s most prolific front line. Friday was also the day numerous outlets reported a fee had been between Leeds United and City for the transfer of Kalvin Phillips – rumoured to be around £45 million. But just like every window, there are a few outgoings to facilitate. Gabriel Jesus and Raheem Sterling are the main names linked with exits and Arsenal and Chelsea respectively have been muted as possible destinations. On the youth front, numerous shifts have also happened in the last 24 hours. Luke Mbete signed a fresh three-year contract extension at the club, while CJ Egan-Riley is seemingly on the verge of joining Burnley for a fee of around £400,000. The likes of Cole Palmer and James McAtee are expected to stay around the first-team next season, with more opportunities expected to present themselves. -Advertisement- POLL However, that does not seem to be the case for the promising winger, Samuel Edozie. According to the Secret Scout, the 19-year-old is set to sign for Bundesliga club, Bayer Leverkusen on a permanent deal. Despite no concrete information on the structure of the deal, it is normally standard that City include a buy-back clause and a percentage sell-on fee in any sale of youth talent. Edozie was one of the standout performers of City’s hit-and-miss pre-season. He scored two goals in friendlies at the City Football Academy and was rewarded with a start in the annual Community Shield curtain-raiser against Leicester City. Despite losing the game late on, the winger showed plenty of promise and completed a solid 60 minutes of work. Since then, however, the youngster has been hampered by injuries and struggled with a stop-start season. In the Premier League 2, Edozie has only made 12 appearances and scored two goals – a massive disappointment considering his electric start to the season. His move is likely one that affords him a fresh start. As seen with the likes of Jadon Sancho, moving to the Bundesliga could be the move he needs to kickstart his career. (SOURCE: Sport Bible)