BAUCHI – The Executive Director of Women, Child, Youth, Health and Education Initiative, Mrs Zainab Mohammed has stressed that lack of menstrual hygiene leads to various types of infections in women and adolescent girls. The Executive Director of the Bauchi Based Non-governmental organization stated this on Wednesday during a one-day sensitisation of women and adolescent girls of Rugan Jira in Bauchi Local Government on good menstrual hygiene practice in commemoration of the International Day for Menstrual Hygiene which usually takes place on 28th of May. According to her, it became imperative for the organization to embark on a massive enlightenment programme on menstrual hygiene as most rural dwellers are ignorant of what it entails. -Advertisement- “Our organisation with the motto “Empowering Communities, Ensuring Healthy life”, have realized that lack of menstrual hygiene often leads to various types of infections in women and adolescent girls, hence, the sensitisation” “The objective of this is to create awareness to our women and adolescent girls on what menstrual hygiene is all about and how they can take care of themselves in terms of personal hygiene as well as how to take care of their undies. “Some of the parents in the rural communities do not even know when their daughters start their menstruation. The moment the girl tells her mother she is menstruating, the mother does not even know how to educate her. “However, lack of this hygiene could cause infections and that is why we say it is worthy to come here and tell them so that they can improve their personal hygiene”, she said. The Executive Director also explained that those who could not afford to buy sanitary pads were taught on how to make use of clean cloth, adding that they were also taught on how to wash and spread the cloth in the sun as the sun tends to destroy micro-organisms instead of drying it in a cool place where those organisms flourish. POLL Speaking on behalf of the participants, Amina Jubril, the Women Leader of the community, who commended the organization for the awareness of menstrual hygiene, saying that they were ignorant of the issue. She added that they are now well informed on the subject matter and promised to put all the knowledge gathered during the training into practice. The highlight of the programme was the distribution of 50 sanitary pads as well as detergents to the participants.