Four persons have been arrested by the Police in Ondo State for snatching a motorbike from a commercial motorbike (Okada) rider. Three of the suspects were arrested in Owo, Owo Local Government Area of the state, while one of the is currently at large. According to Police, the suspects snatched a Boxer motorbike with a mobile phone handset from the victim by threatening to strangulate him with a rope they have tied around his neck. -Advertisement- When the suspects were paraded at the state Police Command headquarters at Alagbaka, Akure, the leader of the gang, Bright, confessed to the crime. Claiming that the crime was their first operation, Bright revealed that they sold the motorbike with the handset for N130,000 only to a mechanic at Elegbeka in Ose Local Government Area of the state, who is still at large. Bright told newsmen during the parade that “I was arrested at Owo three weeks ago for snatching a boxer motorcycle. Last week Friday, we were transferred to SCID. “After my friends and I stole the bike from a commercial motorcyclist who is an Hausa man, we sold it to one man at Elegbeka. We also sold the phone we stole from the okada man to the same person. “I told the okada man to carry me from Ikare junction in Owo to another location in Owo. On getting to an uncompleted building, I put a rope round his neck. When he was trying to struggle with me, the three others came out from where they were hiding. We overpowered him and collected the bike but we did not kill him. POLL “The phone was tracked to the person we sold it to and that was how we were arrested. Four of us were involved in the robbery, but the fourth person has run away when we were arrested. “We sold the bike and the phone for N130,000. The four of us shared the money. We have finished spending the money. I learnt tailoring, but at times, I do engage in bricklaying job. That was my first time of engaging in robbery operation.” In another development, the Police arrested 23-year-old Mohammed Sule at Shasha area of Akure North Local Government Area, who engages in house to house robbery at night. The suspect confessed to the crime, saying he sneaked into his victims’ apartments at night with a cutlass and a plastic water pipe wrapped with a black insulating tape he used as a pistol to force his victims to surrender. Confessing to the crime Sule said: “I got to Akure last month from Kogi State. On getting to Akure, I could not locate my sister who I had planned to stay with. “When I could not get anywhere to stay, I decided to go to Ogbese. When I got there, I was sleeping there inside the mosque. I was later chased out of the mosque. “After I was chased from the mosque, I went to Shasha. When I was finding it difficult to survive, I started stealing. “The very day I was caught, I had planned to raise money for the business. I went to two houses and in one of them, I was attacked by a man in the house when he noticed that I was the only one. That was how I was arrested.” Spokesperson to the state Police Command, Funmi Odunlami, a Superintendent of Police(SP) said the suspects would be arraigned after the conclusion of investigations.