Nottingham Forest have announced the signing of Union Berlin striker Taiwo Awoniyi. The 24-year-old striker has completed his transfer to the City Ground after days of speculation about a move to Trentside. Awoniyi, a Nigerian international, underwent a medical on Thursday (June 23) before his move was announced by the club on Saturday morning. Forest have confirmed Awoniyi’s transfer as a club record fee after the forward’s £17million release clause was triggered by the Reds. Awoniyi scored 25 times for Union Berlin after signing from Liverpool in 2021 and will now lead the line for Forest next season. He has had various spells at different clubs across his career, with loan stints at Mouscron, Gent, Mainz 05 and Berlin before leaving the Merseyside club last summer on a permanent basis without a single appearance. He now enjoys a more permanent home having signed a five-year contract to stay at the City Ground until 2027. The 24-year-old becomes Steve Cooper’s first signing of the summer transfer window as they prepare for their first season back in the Premier League for the first time in 23 years in August. Announcing the deal, the Reds said in a statement: “Returning Premier League side Nottingham Forest have secured Nigerian international forward Taiwo Awoniyi for a club record fee. -Advertisement- POLL “The 24-year-old joins The Reds from Bundesliga club Union Berlin, signing a five-year-deal at The City Ground.” Awoniyi’s arrival should be the first part of an ambitious recruitment programme backed by owner Evangelos Marinakis. Goalkeeper Dean Henderson will complete his loan move from Manchester United once he returns from honeymoon. Right and left-wing backs, a central defender, a number 10/winger and at least central midfielder remain on the transfer wish list. Djed Spence, Neco Williams, Issa Kabore and Morgan Gibbs-White are primary targets. Head coach Steve Cooper is set to sign an extended contract and the club is hoping to agree a new deal with key forward Brennan Johnson, who has one year left on his contract. Marinakis spoke of creating a new history for the club following promotion to the Premier League. “We will give Steve and his team all the ammunition he needs in order to be competitive next season and will try not only to maintain our position in the Premier League, but to perform well because the sky is the limit,” he said in an open letter to fans. “In my life, whatever I have been involved with, I have always wanted to be at the top. It might seem difficult today, but it will be easier as time goes by. “Everybody here lives with memories from the past (with this history), but sometimes we don’t see the future because we always talk about the past. Now, we need to draw a line and write a new history for this club. Brian Clough did a lot for this club and had big achievements. 40 years later, Steve Cooper has done something similar, even more difficult. We respect our history, but now is the time to write a new history even brighter.”