We have it on our shores already but its presence here can be best described as emerging.  Yours sincerely saw it live and robust in New York. The New York Times has a full-fledged department for online journalism. It has Tom Torok, project editor, computer-assisted reporting, and Andrew W. Lehren, reporter, of this unit, doing it with panache. These two, explained the operations of their unit to visiting Citi-Journalistic Excellence Awards 2011 winners with delight. According to the New York Times financial report for 2010, total digital revenues increased 15 percent to $387 million in 2010 compared with 2009, and accounted for over 16 percent of overall revenue. The management team continues its focus on diversifying revenue streams and strengthening its digital businesses, using technology and product innovation to enhance the user experience across multiple platforms. For more than 15 years, the company has been at the forefront of digital newsgathering, and thrived as a dominant brand in journalism with an exceptional global reach. Perfectly positioned to capitalize on these many years of digital leadership, it launched in 2010, a string of acclaimed applications for the web, smartphones and new digital platforms, including Apple iPad apps for The New York Times, The Boston Globe and the International Herald Tribune. The growth from digital initiatives significantly contributed to its revenue mix and provided meaningful diversification during our transition to an increasingly multi-platform organization. The e-reader application business has proven to be a vibrant market where consumers are willing to pay for quality content through an immersive reading experience similar to that of the print newspaper. Today, some of the e-reader platforms that offer the New York Times’ content include the Amazon Kindle, the Barnes & Noble Nook and the Sony Reader. The Times is generally a best-selling newspaper on these devices. Christopher Harper, in an article titled ‘Journalism in a Digital Age,’ quoting Tom Phillips, who oversaw most of Starwave’s creations as senior vice president who now heads ABC and Disney’s cyberspace news and information operation as saying: “The strength of digital journalism is the ability to integrate various media… This medium does a reasonable job at everything.” Phillips, according to him, sees digital news and information taking away reading time from newspapers and viewing time from television. “We are already expanding the reach of media into the workplace in a way the media were unable to do before,” he quoted Phillips as saying. Harper also cited the Chicago Tribune as an example. “The Chicago Tribune has put together its digital publication. The Tribune is one of the few newspapers in the country that has reporters who work exclusively for the Internet edition. The reporters write stories, take pictures, operate video cameras, and create digital pages. -Advertisement- POLL “The Tribune Internet edition, which debuted in March 1996, contains most of the information from the print version – news, sports, job listings, real estate and automobile advertisements, weather, stocks, and television listings. For its readers, the Internet edition offers in-depth stories, special technology reports, games, discussion groups, and everything someone would ever want to know about the Chicago Bears and the Chicago Bulls. The Internet edition also provides audio interviews and information from the company’s radio station, and video from the Tribune’s 24-hour-a-day news service, Chicagoland Television.” And talking about advertising revenue generation, Hearst Magazines Digital Media (HDM), a unit of Hearst Magazines, May 3, 2011, announced it is the first third-party publisher to partner with Pictela, a unit of AOL, Inc. (NYSE: AOL), previously known as America Online, and a global platform for distributing high-definition brand content and advertising, to deploy the IAB Portrait ad unit. HDM will leverage this robust, multi-platform ad unit across its vast network of digital properties including cosmopolitan.com, esquire.com, goodhousekeeping.com, marieclaire.com, redbookmag.com and seventeen.com. Until now, IAB Portrait has been running exclusively on AOL websites, including Style List, Moviefone and AOL Travel. Launched in September 2010, the IAB Portrait unit has generated unprecedented results. Engagement levels on IAB Portrait ads are significantly higher than that of industry standard rich media banners: consumers spend an average of 47 seconds more with an IAB Portrait ad (236 percent) lift; they also play 24 seconds more of video (100 percent) lift. At 300X1050 pixels, IAB Portrait integrates the functionality of three applications, granting users’ access without leaving the page. “Pictela has proved to be a highly strategic partner for Hearst, starting when we worked with them last year on the IAB Pushdown units,” said Kristine Welker, chief revenue officer, Hearst Digital Media. Procter & Gamble is running the IAB Portrait ad unit across multiple Hearst brands, including goodhousekeeping.com, marieclaire.com, redbookmag.com and thedailygreen.com. Launched in March 2006, Hearst Magazines Digital Media, a unit of Hearst Magazines, is dedicated to creating and implementing the digital strategy for Hearst’s magazine brands and other sites, which serve the company’s consumer audience. Hearst Magazines has published more than 70 applications and digital editions for the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch, as well as the Droid platform. The digital communication revolution in the US is a total one because capacity building, an important aspect of the drive is being taking care of too.