ABAKALIKI – Unknown gunmen on Monday invaded the people of Ojiogu and Okpochiri Ukwagba community in Ohaukwu Local government area of Ebonyi state and reportedly killed one native and set many houses ablaze. Many natives of the community were also said to have been abducted by the attackers The development, it was gathered, has caused other natives who survived the attack to desert the community for fear of further invasion. A community source who pleaded for anonymity for obvious reasons, said the gunmen invaded the community and shot sporadically, killed one person and abducted many others. The source also confirmed that many houses were set ablaze.. Contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Ebonyi State Command, SP Chris Anyanwu said the command was yet to be briefed on the incident. Anyanwu pledged to revert as soon as he was briefed about the invasion, but he was yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Council Chairman of Ohaukwu LGA, Barrister Clement Odah, has condemned the attack in a statement he issued on Tuesday. -Advertisement- POLL The statement reads: “Ohaukwu Local Government Council has received with concern, report of the security breaches and attack against the innocent people of Ojiogu and Okpochiri Ukwagba Ngbo on Monday the 27th of June, 2022. “The Council condemn the incident in the strongest terms and reassure all that no stones will be left unturned to unravel the true circumstances that led to such unwarranted attack and loss of lives and properties. Council has liaised with appropriate security agents to immediately move into the troubled area while working assiduously with the relevant stakeholders with a view to ensure a quick return of peace and normalcy to Ukwagba. “Our heartfelt sympathies go to all the affected families and our beloved brothers from the affected villages and indeed the entire Ngboejeogu clan. Council re-affirm our commitment to promote and propagate peace in every part of Ohaukwu Local Government Area and indeed in all communities. “The government of Ebonyi State under our peace loving Governor has worked assiduously to restore peace in the entire Ebonyi State and all hands must be on deck to achieve the task of a peaceful Ebonyi State where love and unity reign supreme. Once again, our people are assured that Government will not rest until total peace is restored in every part of the Local Government and in particular Ukwagba Ngbo community.”