Sendy, a tech company that builds fulfilment infrastructure for e-commerce and consumer brands have partnered with Google in an initiative aimed at empowering Africa’s small and medium businesses. The boot camp program, dubbed Google Hustle Academy, seeks to provide MSMEs across Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa with expert training on business strategy and development, digital marketing, and financial planning. The participants will also have access to key industry leaders and master classes on business to help create opportunities, and boost business growth and job creation across the region. -Advertisement- Sendy will provide fulfilment and logistics support for the participating businesses through the program. It will also offer one-on-one mentorship so as to enable the participants to learn and build the capacity to operate successful businesses. Mesh Alloys, Founder and CEO, Sendy, said: The Google Hustle Academy is a noble idea that clearly speaks to our mission and aligns to our purpose. We recognize the significant role played by small and medium businesses in the economy. We are also aware of the vast challenges they face. We want to empower them by enabling them to trade efficiently and effectively. Through this partnership with Google, we hope to unlock their potential so that they can learn and seize existing opportunities to build sustainable businesses” The program also seeks to empower MSMEs to learn how to identify new markets, access funding opportunities and pitch for success. “We are thrilled to be collaborating with Sendy to give much-needed assistance to MSMEs. Small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) are the backbone of the global economy, accounting for the majority of businesses in almost every region. They employ over 50 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa and contribute to the region’s GDP. Through the Hustle Academy we will provide them with training to assist them in packaging their businesses and obtaining the necessary funds to take them to the next level” said Mojolaoluwa Aderemi-Makinde, Head of Brand and Reputation, Google SSA. The free weeklong online boot camp targets to support 5000 MSMEs by helping them scale and grow through positioning for investment, increasing revenue and building a sustainable business for the future.