Recent successes in attracting investments into the mining sector of the country has been attributed to the digital innovations in mineral deposits mapping according to leading ICT stakeholders in the country, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE The Mining Engineer and Director General, Nigerian Mining Cadastre Office, NMCO, Obadiah Nkom, probably never saw it coming; not where other federal agencies, either flushed with cash or were deeply and operationally connected with the field for which his agency was to be measured by NiRA as the best government agency in Digital Innovation for 2022. But, NiRA’s Dot.ng Award (written as .NG Award) in that category went to NMCO, overwhelming both Nkom and Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite, supervisory Minister, Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, MMSD. In all, six federal agencies made the final cut, including NMCO. -Advertisement- These were the Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC, Federal Road Safety Commission, FRSC, NMCO, National Pension Commission, PENCOM, and Nigeria Communications Commission, NCC. These agencies were steeped in digital transfers of data and communication, also well funded to install and run the very best infrastructure in the field. Explaining the sheer audacity that went into NMCO clinching the award ahead of five others after an initial entry of over 1, 500 others, the minister gushed, “when you are talking about NCC, FIRS, all these are very rich agencies, and I thought they would be very deep in ICT. But, it was a pleasant surprise; not because we did not deserve it, but the fact that the organizers recognised not just the fact that the system is in place, but also that it has been well managed in the last one year.” NiRA, actually, Nigeria Internet Registration Association, is a stakeholders’ led organization founded on the 23, March, 2005 is charged with the management of Nigeria’s country code Top Level Domain, ccTLD, known simply as .ng. POLL The transfer of the appropriate management of this important national resource was coordinated by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Therefore, the .ng is the critical national resource of Nigeria. It is Nigeria’s unique identity on the World Wide Web (www). NiRA also is the registry for the .ng internet domain names, maintains database of names registered in the .ng country ccTLD name space in the public interest of the country. For the award, the association sought to recognize and acknowledge those who are contributing to the growth of the .ng domain name registration and promotion of the domain name Industry. Using the .ng Awards, NIRA celebrates the achievements and innovation of Nigerian Internet initiatives and innovators. The 2022 .ng Awards served to commend and promote the excellent achievements of members, stakeholders and the general public, who contribute towards building a sustainable economy using technology, uplifting the image of .ng locally and internationally and stimulating the development of local content on the World Wide Web. The NMCO fits well into as an organization that would use the country’s .ng domain name well, projecting the country into global space. NMCO is Nigeria’s principal mapping agency for all its mineral deposits. Its data are highly sought after by investors and it is on the basis of its mappings that mineral deposits blocs are parceled out and giving out to concessionaires. Especially with Federal Government’s avowed determination to wean the country’s economy from oil, the cadastre office has good reasons to be well invested in digital innovations. Only recently, the office was deeply involved in the concession of bitumen deposits. Working with Price Water Cooper, PwC, NMCO carried out an inventory of internal existing infrastructure; compiled available geological information; re-established contact with previous interested companies and developed a framework for transparent allocation of the Bitumen resources. An important part of the Committee’s recommendations was to finalise the process of engaging PwC as a Transaction Advisor to ensure the concession process is open, transparent and in accordance with global best practices as enshrined in the Nigerian Mineral and Mining Act, 2007. As a result of the work done, MMSD, on November 11, 2021, appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers, PwC, to act as its Transaction Advisor and Program Manager for the concessioning of bitumen blocks to potential investors. NiRA, in giving the award, noted that NMCO is the most innovative organization in Federal Government, using Internet Technology. “This Award winning is indicative of the contributions of MCO so far towards repositioning the mining sector,” explained NiRA in its explanatory notes on the .NG Award. As part of its achievements, NMCO received 2,221 applications for various Mineral Titles, granted 1,464 and issued 1,136; its revenue was also top notch in the year under review, increasing its revenue profile to the tune of N1.93b. compared to its previous year earning, it comes it is an increase of 21.2 percent, despite three shutdowns due to data cleaning exercise, restrictions on submission of applications in NIMEP protected areas, zero activities in Zamfara State and the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, upgrade and Migration to an online system (eMC+) – To provide a strong foundation for Mineral Sector Development. NiRA also noted that computerization and establishment of online processes of Mineral Title Administration (eMC+) increased the level of Investor-confidence which brought about notable increase in applications received particularly from foreign investors within the period. It also stated that the process brought about promotion of professionalism, enhanced job creation and employment particularly for young graduates in the sector. MCO encouraged and ensured job creation for the teaming unemployed Nigerian youths by ensuring that the Small Scale Mining Lease is open to Indigenous companies or Individuals that meet the requirements and also ensure that a particular Technical Competent person is employed per Company/Title It also established and deployed staff to the six zonal offices to provide effective management and coordination of the Mandate of the Office. Purchase of six operational vehicles for the Zonal offices. The list could go on. But, Nkom, DG, NMCO, wouldn’t arrogate any praise to himself. Rather, he expressed gratitude to the Minister for his support. “He gave us an open cheque as it were,” Nkom said. He hinted that the MCO had migrated its operations online and will launch it for the public, adding that applications are already being received and processed online. Explaining the funding part more, the Minister said that it was in line with federal government’s policy to invest in the mining sector as means of diversifying the economy. “And I refer to this because the sector for the first time in history is enjoying some funding that it would not have had. The ministry had this extra budgetary funding which was given to us out of the natural resources fund. N30 billion was granted sometime in 2017. We also have the World Bank facilitated project, MINDIVER (Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification Project), in the ministry as well. “So with a combination of these two funding, which essentially is from the Federal Government of President Muhammadu Buhari, it gave uplift to the sector to where we are today, where we can celebrate the achievement of MCO,” the minister said. The Minister who traced the evolution of the MCO’s activities to the analogue era of using polygonal geometry for delineating areas of mining, said what the office now use which makes it a lot easier is the Block Cadastre System that the whole world has now embraced. “They’ve come a long way from the days of the analog record keeping, analog way of approaching the agency for whatever business you want to do. “So the fact that today you can transact business with MCO online in real time is a giant leap for the sector. And this has also manifested because MCO is revenue baby. We’ve had quantum leap from the revenue generated by MCO, from the years that I’ve been in charge to the last year 2021 that was reported last. We’ve had Quantum Leap, at times, doubling the revenue of the previous year in the next year,” Adegbite affirmed. He, however, used the opportunity to appeal to the federal government for more funding for the sector, adding, “This is a sector that is that needs a lot of funds for it to develop. And there is no doubt that mines and steel is the way to go to diversify the economy from the oil and gas dependency. We are at the point now where we’re beginning to get attention internationally for this sector”. According to the Minister, some of the investments made in the sector in recent years have already started yielding results and there is more to come. But for the Permanent Secretary, MMSD, Dr Mrs Olawatoyin Akinlade, the feat achieved by the MCO is part of the ministry’s drive to operate with the highest level of transparency. “This is part of the drive to improve transparency. We have decided to really key into this area of utilisation and it is a very big project in the ministry and you can see that innovation and ICT expertise will highly improve the transparency in the processes of the MCO. Very soon we will have all our processes automated,” she said. She enjoin other agencies and directors of the ministry to key into the service improvement agenda of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, particularly in the area of digitalisation and innovation, by developing new ideas that can be used in addressing emerging challenges.