LAGOS  – Wema Bank Plc has endeared itself to investors and analysts in the Nigerian financial sector with its breathtaking efficiency, excellent customer service, impressive result, and innovativeness in the Nigerian banking sector, earning it a place in the top five banks in Nigeria in the first quarter of 2022. The banking industry generally recorded impressive growth in the first quarter of the year, recording a 23.24 per cent year-on-year increase in real GDP, evidenced by the performance of the twelve commercial banks listed on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX). Wema Bank proved its mettle in the key metrics of total assets growth, customer deposit growth, profit after tax growth, loan book growth, return on average equity and cost to income ratio. According to a special report on the financial performance of quoted Nigerian banks in the first quarter of 2022 by Nairalytics – the research arm of Nairametrics, some banks dominated the efficiency, deposit, and profitability metrics, especially newly re-engineered banks like Wema Bank and Unity Bank, among others. Indeed, Wema Bank’s excellent showing across all the performance metrics earned it the second best bank in the first quarter of 2022 after Zenith. “Taking the average of the performance of the banks across the six metrics under our radar, we see Zenith Bank on top of the rank, followed by Wema Bank, Stanbic IBTC, First Bank, and Fidelity Bank based on their Q1 2022 numbers”, the report said. For the analysis, the Q1 2022 results of 12 banks were tracked, namely: Access Holdings, FBN Holdings, FCMB, Fidelity Bank, Wema Bank, GT Holding, Stanbic IBTC, Sterling Bank, Union Bank, UBA, Unity Bank, and Zenith Bank. Wema Bank led the others in profit after tax growth in the first quarter of 2022 with 119 percent compared with what it made in the previous quarter. Other banks with strong showing in this category are FBN (108%); Sterling Bank (47.9%); and FCMB 44.6%). POLL The twelve banks tracked by the analysts posted an aggregate profit after tax of N275.27 billion in Q1 2022, which is 14.7 per cent higher than the N239.95 billion recorded in the previous year (Q1 2021) The twelve banks reviewed posted an aggregate profit after tax of N275.27 billion in Q1 2022, representing a 14.7 per cent increase compared to N239.95 billion posted in the corresponding period of 2021. The banks were able to record an improved bottom line despite the CBN monetary policy leaning towards a dovish direction that is keeping interest rates low. However, the apex bank in its latest MPC meeting has raised the benchmark interest rate from 11.5 per cent to 13 per cent, and banks could be seeing a rise in their interest earnings going forward. According to the report, in terms of net profit, Zenith Bank recorded the highest profit after tax of N58.19 billion but In terms of growth, Wema Bank topped the list with a 119 per cent growth in its bottom line. Wema Bank also came third in terms of cost to income ratio which shows a company’s cost as a proportion of its income. First Bank came first in this category, followed by FCMB This gives investors a clear view of how efficiently a bank is being run.