AKURE – The New Nigeria People’s Party’s candidate for Ondo Central Senatorial in the forthcoming general elections, ‘Seun Majasan has bitterly condemned the Sunday massacre at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. He described the wanton killings of the innocent worshippers as worrisome while commenting on the incident on Monday in Akure, the state capital. The NNPP’s candidate said: “I condemned in totality the massacre and carnage in Owo. This is one attack too many and in my opinion, it is done to test the resilience and patience of the ever peaceful Ondo State People. -Advertisement- “The question is why the attack on Church of God during a Sunday mass? These assailants have challenged God in his house and surely the God of vengeance will rise and fight this battle. “It’s rather unfortunate that when Chief Sunday Igboho noticed the invasion of Fulani herdsmen into the South West, he stood up in defence of the Yoruba race, but this President Muhammadu Buhari-led government went after him violently using State and Federal power instead of going after those terrorists destroying our country. “We witnessed the result right here in Owo yesterday. It’s very obvious that this regime is complicit in the ongoing ethnic cleansing and we will not keep quiet and allow this nonsense to continue.” Majasan, therefore, charged Christians to prevent the recurrence of this incident by protecting themselves. He said: “Now, Churches should brace up themselves and stop this believes that we cannot fight back because our Lord Jesus Christ is meek and lowly, let’s stop being too religious and take back our dear country from Fulani terrorists, it’s not long ago Deborah, an innocent student, was murdered and set ablaze in the presence of security operatives, a few days ago a vigilante 3-year-old man was also murdered and set ablaze because of so-called “blasphemy”. POLL “We Nigerians need to stand up against this nonsensical Buhari-led government. We need to tighten up our own personal security for our own safety. Heaven helps those who help themselves. “I hereby commiserate with the entire Owo Community and call on God to return absolute peace to Owo, take over the battle of the arrest of these cowards and accept the soul of those that lost their lives in the incident. “I also call on Governor Akeredolu to be strong as this is when the best of Leadership is expected from him.”