LAGOS  – The Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas has highlighted benefits of the portal recently commissioned by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) saying challenges of interface with the regulator by operators would now be a thing of the past. According to him, the initiative was pursued to deepen insurance market and increase penetration to the level that is consistent with the nation’s economy where resources would be properly deployed for more demanding jabs than pursuing approvals. He noted that NAICOM’s portal has brought about solution to these challenges as insurance operators only need to upload whatever documents on the portal and get regulator’s responses real time devoid of stress, time wastage, money spent whilst achieving speed, efficiency and effectiveness of processes. The Chief Executive Officer at NAICOM, further said that the e-regulation was meant to transform its operational procedures and the conduct of regulatory responsibilities. “As some of us may be aware, the Commission in July 2009, embarked on a comprehensive computerization effort tagged project e-regulation that was meant to transform its operational procedures and the conduct of its regulatory responsibilities by providing a robust, world class ICT Infrastructure to help implement an automated business processes internally and for industry wide supervision via an integrated platform. Prior to this development, the processing of applications required that applicants physically drop off their applications at the Commission with the attendant challenges of delays in processing times, wasted manpower hours due to back-and-forth in application processing as well as ineffective application tracking system. Honorable Minister, permit me to state that with the completion of the portal there will be process efficiency and faster processing time as applications and supporting documents are submitted online, applicant’s account is updated with the status of the application as it progresses and there is effective Real-time communication between NAICOM and the applicant,” said Sunday Thomas, Commissioner for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer at NAICOM. According to him, “The Portal also provides a Platform for interconnectivity by all industry stakeholders to support real-time aggregation of data on policies at the time of underwriting and policy issuance. Each policy will be issued with a unique policy ID that will be associated with the policy for the life time of the policy.” POLL Explaining the features of the Portal, Thomas said it is presently made up of four systems: The Policy System; Licensing System; Complaints Management System and the Complaints Management System. The Policy System, he said, “It captures all insurance policies issued in Nigeria online real time via Application Programming Interface (APIs). It generates a unique policy identification number for all issued policies necessary to ensure fidelity and validity of all policies in the country and manages information on all insurance policies and premiums. It enables insurance customers and third-party entities such as Law Enforcement Agencies to query and validate insurance policies. The Licensing System automates the core business processes of Registration/Renewal of Licenses, New Products, AIP no objection and attestation approvals at NAICOM. All of these application processes will proceed digitally from the application stage where all supporting documents are provided, to the review stage, the approval stage and license generation where applicable. The Complaints Management System, he added, is designed to help the Commission manage complaints and handle issues seamlessly as well as ensure that insurance companies are performing highly and clients are serviced adequately.