P/HARCOURT  – Nigeria’s entertainment industry particularly the tourism sector will receive a big boost as the Dubai’s Department of Economy and Tourism (Dubai Tourism) and its 33 partners storm three major cities in the country for a roadshow. The annual entertainment event would be joined by 33 partners cut across hospitality, medical, entertainment sectors to interact with key trade partners in Nigeria. The show is geared towards increasing DET’s promotional efforts in showcasing Dubai’s ever-evolving tourism proposition to African tourists. Experiencing strong growth in tourism numbers from Africa, Dubai Tourism is looking to sustain its momentum by strengthening relationships with all industry stakeholders in the region. In a statement released in Port Harcourt, Rivers state on Sunday morning and made available to Daily Independent, Dubai Tourism will begin the 2022 road show in Abuja on June 7th, followed by Port Harcourt on June 9th and round off in Lagos on June 14th. “The roadshow will highlight Dubai’s affordable experiences and the diversity of the city’s offerings to key travel partners in Nigeria. Things to be showcased at the road show, according to the statement, span across travel, accommodation, entertainment and citywide events, with a focus on family travel and medical tourism. “Key elements of the event will include breakout network sessions, partner presentations, one-on-one meetings, and Medical facilities updates”, the statement says. Speaking on the growing relationship between Dubai and Nigeria, Tareq Binbrek, Assistant Manager, International Relations (Africa) for Dubai Tourism said, “Nigeria is of significant importance to Dubai and we will continue strengthening our relationships and developing strategic activities in this fast growing market”. POLL Binbrek explained that “the upcoming road show gives us the opportunity to reach out to all of our partners, to align on future trade opportunities and ensure that Dubai continues to remain front of mind for Nigerian travelers. “We will continue to be present throughout the year and aim to steadily increase the number of partners we bring with us each year to this landmark roadshow”, he said. He recalled that in 2019, “Nigeria was one of our top performing source markets with a year-on-year increase of 33% in visitor numbers, supported by the increase in seat capacity from Emirates Airline between Dubai and Nigeria in the summer” Dubai Tourism will be joined by the following partners: Al Khoory Hotel, Atlantis The Palm Hotel & Resort, Copthorne Hotel, Emaar Hospitality (Address hotels, Vida, Rove, Armani), Ghaya Grand Hotel, Golden Sands Hotel Apartments, Hilton Garden Inn, Kempinski Hotel Mall of the Emirates, La Ville Hotel & Suites, Jumeirah Group, Mandarin Oriental, Millennium Airport Hotel, Palazzo Versace, SLS Hotel and Residences, Sheraton Mall of the Emirates. Other partners in the area of healthcare include, Dubai Healthcare Authority, American Hospital, Canadian Specialist Hospital, Kings College Hospital, Neuro Spine Hospital, and Thumbay Hospital.