Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology (OFAB) in Africa, Nigeria Chapter, has organized a workshop to sensitize traditional rulers, religious leaders, farmers, and extension agents on the benefits of adopting agricultural biotechnology to produce food to attain food and nutritional security in the country. Speaking at the one-day sensitisation workshop in Abuja, Director General of the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha, said the workshop was organized for leaders, especially the traditional and religious leaders to adopt the technology as well as sensitise their followers to do same to grow wealth and fight hunger and defeat poverty in the country. Mustapha represented by Dr Rose Gidado, Country Co-ordinator, OFAB in Africa, Nigeria Chapter, explained that an average Nigerian is finding it more difficult to provide food for himself and his dependants, adding, “We have continued to plant on the same size of land that is depleted every year due to urbanisation, desertification and other vulnerabilities associated with climate change.” To feed the burgeoning populace, he stressed the need for Nigeria to embrace biotechnology, which he described, as an innovation that would provide affordable, safe, and nutrient-rich food for the populace. He said: “Biotechnology and its tools have proven to provide spot-on solutions to most of the challenges facing agricultural productivity. “With agricultural biotechnology, we can undertake precision agriculture that brings about increased yields, safe and clean harvest. “The Federal Government has deemed it fit to improve food security and agricultural productivity by establishing the National Biotechnology Development Agency to ensure that Nigeria and Nigerians benefit from this technology. “Already, our farmers have started celebrating as we have successfully released some varieties of improved crops to ensure they maximally benefit from this technology that other countries have been using for over 25 years.” -Advertisement- POLL In his goodwill message, Arc. Kabir Ibrahim, National President of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), underscored the need for farmers in Nigeria to fully embrace agricultural biotechnology “as a game-changer to take them out of poverty, to take them to prosperity and enable them to bring about the much-desired food security to Nigeria as well as attract Foreign Direct Investments and general prosperity by earning foreign exchange from our neighbours and all of Africa and the entire globe.” Ibrahim explained that the Pod Borer Resistant Cowpea, one of the products of agricultural biotechnology recently commercialised, has the potential of helping Nigeria to close the deficit of nearly 500,000 metric tonnes. He said: “The farmers will spend less on insecticides and labour and thereby mitigate losses due to insect infestation especially the dreaded od borer which is known to wipe out about 75% to sometimes 100% of cowpea plantation. “I can testify to the efficacy of the PBR cowpea because I have planted it and sprayed insecticide only twice instead of 8-10 times. The yield is also quite remarkable.” He dismissed the fear being expressed in some quarters that genetically modified products or foods cause cancer and other diseases. According to him, “The ear of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) as expressed the anti-GMO activists is not supported by good science as I have personally attended international meetings and held several discussions all over the world to conclude that GM crops do not cause any disease especially as they are certified by the Biosafety Agency of Nigeria before being released. “They undergo many tests and regulations by the National Biosafety Management Agency before being certified safe or planting even before consumption. “I implore our farmers, monarchs, Islamic clerics and extension workers to champion the advocacy to embrace biotechnology which ennobles the commercialisation of GM crops as this will be the game-changer in our quest for the attainment of food sufficiency and exit from poverty as a nation. “Our farmers will exit subsistence farming through planting PBR cowpea and Biotechnology (Bt)cotton and several other crops that will be released shortly.” In his submission, the Director-General of the National Agricultural Seeds Council (NASC), Dr Olusegun Philip Ojo, said the seed industry has benefited immensely from the commercial release of PBR cowpea. Ojo called for proactive sensitisation of farmers and other critical stakeholders in the agricultural sector across the country so that they would key into the cutting-edge technology for massive food production. He further commended OFAB, in collaboration with the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF) and others for organising the sensitisation workshop.