Abuja – The House of Representatives has invited the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Accountant General of the Federation, Director General of the National Pension Commission and the Executive Secretary of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) to appear before the committees on Pension and Public Service Matters to provide explanations for the non-payment of pensions and gratuities to retired federal civil servants for nine months. The resolution of the House was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion brought by Hon. Sergius Ose Ogun on the need to investigate the non-payment of pension arrears of retired federal civil servants by the PTAD. The House also cited Section 88 (1) and (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) which “empowers the National Assembly to conduct investigations into the activities of any authority executing or administering laws made by the National Assembly. “Section 14(2) (b) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) provides that the security and welfare of the people of Nigeria shall be the primary purpose of government. “Section 32(b) of the Pension Reform Act Cap P4 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 saddles the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) with the responsibility of carrying out functions aimed at ensuring the welfare of pensioners. “Pensioners under the defined benefits scheme of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) are reportedly owed monthly pensions and gratuities for a cumulative period of nine (9) months. “The claim that the failure of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) to pay pensioners under the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS) for the said period of nine (9) months is as a result of technological glitches. “The failure of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) to pay pensioners’ monthly pensions and gratuities based on technological glitches amounts to gross incompetence and ineffectiveness on the part of PTAD. -Advertisement- POLL “The claim by PTAD that the technological glitches which caused it to be in arrears of pension and gratuities is in the domain of the Accountant General of the Federation and Government Integrated Financial Management System (GIFMIS) is unacceptable,” the motion which was passed unanimously said.