LAGOS – Many small businesses in the country have collapsed following the steep increases in the costs of fuels, especially premium motor spirit popularly called petrol in Nigeria. A failing national electricity grid that has collapsed on many occasions in the past weeks has worsened the situation. Many businesses have temporarily shut down, while others have reduced hours to cope with the energy shortage. Comrade Saviour, the national president of the Association of Micro-Entrepreneurs of Nigeria (AMEN), while speaking on the issue, said the national economy would collapse if nothing were done to reverse what he described as a tipping point for the Nigerian economy. He condemned the increases in the cost fuels in the country, adding that they are killing small businesses and subjecting Nigerians to suffering and worsening the poverty level in the country. He said other countries raise the cost of fuel gradually in small percentages. “In Nigeria the situation is different; they do not raise prices by two or four, five percent. They raise the prices of fuels by 50, 60 or 80 percent. In 2015, a litre of diesel was sold between N180 and N200, today a litre of diesels sells for close to N900. How do you expect small businesses to survive with that kind of price regime?” he asked. He also flayed the instability in cost of the product, “If you go to a filling station today, they say it is N830 per litre and the next day they will say it is N850 and the following day they will sell at N870 per litre. -Advertisement- POLL The situation is killing businesses, especially small ones; many have closed shop and those that are operating are just managing to survive. “As the president of a Business Management Organisation, I get daily reports from my members and the reports are terrible. Many members of the association have closed shop and most of the ones that are in business have reduced their work hours. The result is worsening employment figures and social vices in the country because the people who were asked to go home must eat,” he said. Iche stated that the situation is worsened by the near absence of electricity from the national grid. “Ikeja Electric has not been giving us adequate electricity over time and they bring exorbitant bills and ask us to pay and if you refuse to pay they will threaten you with disconnection,” he added The national president of AMEN posited that the worst part of the situation is the inaction of the government, adding that the silence of the authorities is making the people to believe that there is no government in the country. He called on the Federal Government to take a decisive action to end the crisis in the country’s energy sector, arguing that if the situation is allowed to fester, it will lead to a collapse of the nation’s economy and social infrastructure.