A gender-based organisation,  Men Against Rape Foundation (MARF) has threatened to file a lawsuit against the Speaker House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila over the delay in the commencement of an investigative public hearing into the alleged rape and death of a 14-year-old Keren-Happuch Aondodoo Akphagher allegedly at Premiere Academy, Lugbe. The foundation said the failure of the House of Representatives to enforce its own resolution to commence a public hearing six months after resolving to do so is disturbing and suspicious. In a  pre-action notice signed by the lawyer to the foundation, Barrister Johnbull Adagheand addressed to the Speaker made available to journalists on Sunday in Abuja said it wouldfile an action to seek an order of mandamus to compel the lawmakers to conduct an investigative public hearing into the circumstances surrounding the death of the student. -Advertisement- The foundation pointed out that the National Assembly owe the Nigerian people the constitutional duty to unravel and probe the case in the interest of justice. The notice read ” Our client is a foundation charged with the duty of advocacy against rape and other sexual abuses in our society. In the discharge of its said responsibility, it led a protest to the National Assembly on the 1st day of December 2021 to call for an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of Keren-Happuch Aondodoo Akphaghar (Miss). “Keren was a 14 years old student of the Premiere Academy, Lugbe, Abuja. She was alleged to have been raped and sodomised while at school. She eventually died of sepsis occasioned by an abandoned condom in her virginal. She died on the 22nd of June 2021. And since then, the investigation into the circumstances of her death by the police has been stunted, utterly vanquished and shrouded in secrecy. “Dissatisfied with the manner investigation of the death is being conducted by the police, and with a view to getting justice for Keren and put an end to further cases of wanton sexual abuses, a protest march was led by our client in conjunction with members of other Civil Societies to press for justice for the deceased. POLL “Our client is certain, that its call did invoke, as usual, the humanity in you, that on the 7th day of December 2021, you led the house to pass a widely applauded resolution to commence an investigative public hearing into the circumstances leading to the death of Keren-Happuch Aondodoo Akphaghar (Miss) and other allegations of sexual harassment and abuses in schools. “Our client is aghast and startled that since the 7th day of December, 2021, when that reassuring and hope lifting resolution was passed, no step has been taken by the house to put machinery in motion. We are worried that except the House takes a drastic step to intervene in this case by timeously holding the public hearing, as a way of putting the paedophile at bay, one cannot be certain whose daughter, sister or sibling might be the next victim of rape and other sexual abuses. “In the light of the above, we are to urge you to cause the investigative public hearing to commence its work with a view to unravelling the circumstances surrounding the death of Miss Keren as well as the commission of cases of sexual harassment and abuses in schools. Our client is of the firm view that the intervention of an investigative public hearing is a sure means of addressing the rising anti-social trend in our schools and society. “Consequently, we, therefore, urge that you use your good office to cause the Resolution of the House of the 7th day of December, 2021 to commence an investigative public hearing into the circumstances surrounding the death of Miss Keren and other sexual abuses going on in our schools to be implemented within a reasonable time of two weeks from the date of this letter.“Having seen and felt the humanity in you, and your desire to do for justice all; we have no doubt in our mind that you shall accord the plea conveyed in this letter the urgent attention it deserves.”