LAGOS  – Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), has implored indigenous manufacturers to adopt Industrial Energy Efficiency (IEE), in their processes in order to reduce wastages, proper energy usage and cleaner production processes. Dr. Segun Ajayi –Kadir, MAN Director General, gave the suggestion at a one -day capacity building workshop on reporting techniques for Commerce and Industry, Energy and Environment Correspondents, on ” Industrial Energy Efficiency (IEE),Energy Management System (EnMS), Energy System Optimization ( ESO) and Resource Efficiency and Cleaner Production (RECP) Methodologies in Nigeria The training was organised in partnership with United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria ( SON) He lamented that Nigeria currently generates about 4,000 megawatt of electricity which is grossly inadequate for its huge population. Kadiri, who was represented by the organisation’s Director Corporate Services Mr Ambrose Oruche, said the body is desirous that all his members embrace IEE and RECP in their production processes. Lauding UNIDO and other partners for the lofty project, he implored journalists who were trained on the programme to educate the manufacturers and the public’s correctly to enable the project to succeed. The National Project Coordinator Oladipo Jacob, explained the project was sponsored by UNIDO and International Energy Technology to enable the local manufacturers to utilise energy more efficiently and reduce their wastages. He added that energy consumed a large chunk of the production costs, adding that the journalists assemble for training are expected to use their various medium to pass out correct messages to the manufacturing firms on energy cost measure, cost saving measures and cleaner and safer production processes to protect the people, environment they operate and the future. -Advertisement- POLL According to him, the federal ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Ministry of Environment, ECOWAS center for renewable energy, Bank of Industry ( BoI), National University Commission ( NUC), Nigeria Investment Promotion Council (NIPC)and other stakeholders are working together to see to the success of the project. He said five sub sectors in the manufacturing of food and beverage, iron and metal , textiles and garments, petrochemical and one other sub sector are in this first phase. Speaking, UNIDO representative, Mr Oluyomi Banjo, the training for the media practitioners is borne out of the fact that media is key to the success or otherwise of any project.