Special Assistant to Ebonyi State government on Infrastructure Development for Concession and Road Maintenance, Engr. Frank Ngwu said Governor David Umahi would transform Nigeria the way he is doing in Ebonyi State if elected President of Nigeria in 2023. According to Ngwu, Umahi has used the lean resources available to develop Ebonyi State to an enviable height and will perform wonder if he becomes President of Nigeria. He called on Nigerians to support Umahi’s 2023 presidential ambition so that Nigeria would receive the desired transformation. -Advertisement- Ngwu who is the supervising Engineer at the ongoing Muhammadu Buhari Airport project at Onueke, in Ebonyi State, stated this in Abakaliki after he was honoured as an Astute Engineer by the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Correspondents’ Chapel, Ebonyi State to mark her 2022 Press Week. He explained that Umahi had not only reduced the cost of project implementation in the State from what it used to be but had introduced a quality project policy in the state. Ngwu said: “you can see the transformation of the state since the beginning of this government, there are projects scattered everywhere. There is the highest standard of projects and the only place you can get in Nigeria is in Ebonyi State. “The biggest project that is handled by the government is in Ebonyi. People ask where the governor gets these resources and the funds. “The answer is simple: it is prudent management of resources because what kills the project of the government, the budget process of government and the budget implementation of government from federal to so many other states, is because of overburdening of government expenditures in contract awarding. POLL “But governor Umahi having the fear of God, being also a Project Engineer, being also a Structural Engineer, has also known what it means as cost of production and he brought it bare in Ebonyi State, not minding that he is into politics. “He, therefore, decided to reduce the cost of implementation of the project from where it used to be to the barest minimum and that is the result that all of us are witnessing in Ebonyi State. So, I want to use this opportunity to ask the members of the press to tell Nigerians, to tell the world, that we have Umahi and he has the magic wand and he has what it takes to transmit what he is doing in Ebonyi State to entire Nigeria and the opportunity has availed itself. “Now Umahi is contesting the President of Nigeria, it is an opportunity to export what he has done in Ebonyi State to the entire federation of the country. Umahi has done extremely well in Ebonyi State and other states should also benefit from what he meant by Good governance, what he meant by prudent management of public resources, and what he meant by doing the projects of government as if they are personal projects. That way, every section of this country will develop and the entire nation will develop