ABUJA – Chief Don Etiebet, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has cautioned the leadership of the party against fielding an invalid presidential candidate in the 2023 general election. Addressing journalists on Wednesday in Abuja Chief Etiebet noted that the Governorship primary election purportedly held recently in the state was not conducted by validly elected delegates, warning that the Party runs the risk of fielding invalid candidates in the 2023 general elections unless definite steps are taken by the APC National leadership to redress the issues. Citing anomalies perpetrated by the committee sent by the party to conduct the governorship in Akwa Ibom State, the party Chief lamented that Stakeholders of the party were “foisted with persons who did not win any election, at any congress monitored by INEC, as State Executives in Akwa Ibom State”. -Advertisement- According to him, “the fact that our Party has been constrained to seemingly conduct primaries that are not consistent with the provision of Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act which states: “A political Party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions which shallbe monitored by the Commission” “In line with this provision the Commission shall, in monitoring primaries, only recognize delegates thatemerge from Congresses duly monitored by the Commission.” Accordingly Chief Etiebet said the failure of the party to conduct valid primary in the state in accord with extant provisions puts its Governorship aspiration in the state at risk. Flanked by Senator John James Akpanudedehe, immediate past Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Chief Etiebet explained that on arrival via a private jet to state the committee, after much delay at the office of the Department of State Services ,told the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner that the poll would hold the following day. POLL He pointed out that instead of keeping to his promises, the committee surreptitiously retired to hotel in the state capital where it produce without the elected delegates. “The consequence of such conduct of primaries remains clear that our Party in Akwa Ibom State may not be in the position to present any validly nominated candidate in Akwa Ibom State except the issues are redressed immediately. “We hasten to warn, that the Akwa Ibom State challenge of using delegates that were not voted for, in line with the extant Electoral Laws if not addressed, the same delegates maybe used for the Presidential primaries. “Surely if that happens then the Presidential primaries run a risk of not producing a validly nominated candidate in line with the Electoral Laws. This should not happen.We fail to see what anyone stands to gain should this fate befall our great Party in Akwa Ibom State.