ISEGHE AJAYI The current economic situation is not favourable and as such taking financial decisions need to be done with caution to avoid regrets. It is very vital to prudently plan your financial life by setting realistic achievable financial goals which could be either short or long-term. Having a financial sense or focus is very crucial for one that really desires to survive in a harsh economy like ours. Failure to have a good financial plan will perpetually put one in financial bondage. That is why it is expedient to try as much as possible to get a good financial Advisor especially if you do not know how to grow your money or you are confused about the type of investment plan to undertake. Agreed that we are really in dire hard times owing to the unpleasant state of the economy, the persistent rise in the cost of commodities due to increased inflation has become a colossal challenge to many. And a wise financial decision will certainly help you to surmount the unfavourable situation. But, wrong financial planning or decision about your future well-being and family particularly after retirement may lead to financial heartache. It is very important you ensure to maintain frugal lifestyle regardless of your earnings to meet your set financial goals. -Advertisement- POLL This can only be feasible when you have a good spending plan, track your expenses and make wise financial decisions that will enhance your future financial life. Experiencing financial freedom may be difficult if there is no proper financial plan, prudence, determination and positive mindset. Do you know that wrong financial decisions can influence your retirement life negatively as well as your family especially if you dabble into bad investments? It is critical to ponder carefully before venturing in any form of investment particularly the ones, you are not sure of to avoid big financial drawback. The under-listed financial decisions can ruin your financial life if you are not careful: Easily Concede To Defeat When you refuse to have a positive change of mindset concerning money, particularly in the area of joining the multitude to say ‘money can’t buy you everything, it means you are conceding defeat, you will always be broke because you are not ready to beat them. Avoid listening to phrases that will not make you move forward financially. Likewise, your attitude towards solving your financial problem will determine whether you want to come out of your state of constant borrowing because you are broke. If you are serious about changing your financial status from a broke state, you need to start appreciating, the fact that money can make you happier in some ways, even though it cannot give you everything. Failure To Believe In Yourself If you do not believe in your ability to make it at the top, your dreams to overcome financial hassles will never come true. In fact, for your dreams to actualise, you must be optimistic and believe in your ability. Regardless, of whatever you may have gone through in life, a superior belief in yourself than in anything else is critical to your overall success. Again, if you want to stop being broke and positively shape up your finances, begin to see yourself where you want to be, and put in your best to get there. Prefer To Pay Items In Installments When one who has the financial ability to buy a certain item decides to pay in installments over a long period of time, he has made a big financial mistake which may put him or her in a financial mess. Mortgage-like payments are silent financial killers as they remind you constantly every month that you are not the real owner of what you are paying for. This does not just put your finances in a fix but also makes it hard for you to have some savings or investments, especially when your monthly income is low. Knowing that you could take just a little sum of your money to make monthly payments, makes a mortgage seem stress-free, but by the third month and comparing the number of your other financial obligations, you realise you are having nothing left to yourself. However, if you are serious about owing a property, car, or whatever you wish, buy outright if you can. But if you cannot, plan a long term acquisition model that would work better for you, than mortgaging your way through it. Financial Ignorance When you lack proper financial planning especially in the area of additional income earned or received, you are bound to be always broke and not having anything to fall back on when financial challenges arise. More so, some people, with every income rise, their standard of living also rise steeply, to the extent that they flaunt it, forgetting that the rainy day would surely come. When your income rises, the logical step to take is to use your extra income to increase your asset base, while you maintain your current lifestyle, or make it a little bit more modest. If your standard of living keeps rising exponentially with every salary raise or higher income earned, you could be back to square one after many years of financial ignorance. Deceptive Lifestyle Do not spend most of your savings on lavish lifestyle to impress people or because your friends or neighbours are living extravagant life. Trying to impress people financially, will drown you someday if you are not careful as the same people you are trying to impress, will not be there for you. The fact that your friends are looking lavish and having all the expensive fun should not make you tow that same line. Never follow the crowd; you can cheer them on their luxury cruises, while you create the experience the crowd pays for. Someday, their hard-earned money would be going instead into your own pockets, and you can live your life the way you choose without fear of a financial breakdown. Profits Not Reinvested When you spend the earnings your business generates before reinvesting it to multiply itself severally, the financial illiteracy displayed would not just make you broke, but would ensure you don’t own a business in the end. Profits are meant to be reinvested over and over again. Where you gain from your investments at the beginning stages should only be from monthly allocated salaries. If you spend your future today before they have a chance to mature and prove their worth, you would never make it. No Spending Plan Budgeting is one of the most disciplined techniques to ensure you never exceed your expenditure mark. However, in spite of its importance, most people do not stick or keep to a budget. By thinking you do not need a budget and envisaging that all your expenses can be controlled without one, your financial status would not eventually experience a meltdown, but would be combined with some form of financial hardship. Sticking to a properly planned budget will help you to know where your money problems are coming from, and how you can improve to positively affect your finances. No Emergency Fund An emergency fund can be termed as a sum amassed over a period of time through part-savings, only to be used on the rainy days. When you need urgent cash to solve emergency problems and understand you have none or don’t have enough, it simply implies you have no emergency fund in place. It is expedient to set aside certain amount of money every month to keep you from financial disaster. Besides, it will enable you to sustain your financial future and status. If you cannot make good financial decisions like developing the habit of setting up an emergency fund for your unplanned events, you may never break out of financial crisis.