Chelsea have been in contact with Gabriel Jesus’ entourage over a potential move this summer. The Manchester City striker could be available for around €50million (£42.7m) in the coming months, according to Spanish news outlet Sport. The 25-year-old has just over 12 months remaining on his contract with the newly-crowned Premier League champions and could be sold in order to protect his value. Chelsea are the latest English club to have reportedly shown an interest, with Arsenal and Tottenham both also keeping a close eye on Jesus’ situation at the Etihad Stadium. As it turns out, Jesus has been speaking about his future over the past few days and has hinted that a decision could be made at some point this week. “I’m looking to see what is best for me and, above all, my career,” Jesus said, as relayed by Metro. “From Tuesday, we’ll see what is the best.” The report from Sport adds that Chelsea ‘are aware that time is against them’ in their pursuit to sign Jesus. Arsenal have been credited with an interest in the Brazil international for weeks now and seems to be much more advanced in negotiations for his signature. Chelsea are in the market for a new attacker ahead of the summer transfer window, with Ousmane Dembele once again attracting plenty of interest. football.london understands there is a confidence from Dembele’s camp that he could end up playing his football at Stamford Bridge next season. However, in the past few days, it’s emerged that Romelu Lukaku could indeed leave the club this summer despite just one season back at the Bridge. If the Belgian does leave, then the Blues will be forced into the market for another central striker, as well as a winger. That number nine could well be Jesus. The Brazilian has shown during his five years at Manchester City that he can lead the line for a top Premier League side. Jesus has scored 58 times in 159 Premier League matches for City.” When speaking in April after Jesus grabbed four goals against Watford, City boss Pep Guardiola said he “doesn’t care” whether the striker stays or leaves the Etihad. Guardiola said: “I want to tell you something, Gabriel is our player. I don’t know what is going to happen, but he is a Manchester City player. POLL “But Gabriel doesn’t need to do a performance like today to score four goals to know exactly what he can do. Against Liverpool in the FA Cup, he had two clear chances man to man, and he missed them, but always he is there, and Gabriel has this incredible ability because he is always thinking what is the best for the team.” When asked if he wanted Jesus to stay, Guardiola responded: “What we have done this season, we have done with Gabriel. Gabriel is one of the best. But every player is happy here when they play all the time for 90 minutes every game. “Maybe at the end of the season, he says, ‘No, I don’t want to sign the contract’, [or] we convince him to stay, maybe he decides, ‘I want more minutes, I want to leave’. Nobody knows. “Now, I don’t care. I want to focus, we have seven games left, potentially eight games, we have less than one month. That’s all.”