MAKURDI – Youths of Ochetoha K’Idoma and Igede Youths Council under the aegis of Benue South Youth Coalition (BYSC) have endorsed Peter Adejoh for the position of Deputy Governor. The youths who are of Idoma and Igede extractions, from Benue South, insisted that the position of the Deputy Governor of the state should be handed to youths in the South senatorial zone. They further argued that because of the track record of youths who have held various positions of responsibility in the past, youths deserve the position of Deputy Governor across all political parties, particularly the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). -Advertisement- They made their demands in a speech delivered at a press conference and jointly signed by the Chairman, Ochetoha K’Idoma Youth Wing, Comrade Obande Gideon and Secretary, Igede Youth Council, Comrade Anderson Egbodo in Makurdi, weekend. While the groups patted youths in the zone for their conduct during the primary elections in the state, they urged other youths in the senatorial district to back the candidature of Adejoh for deputy governor, adding that it has become imperative to support youth to serve as a means of compensating youths that have the largest number of the voting population. They further argued that their decision was an affirmation of the readiness of youths and their commitment to the involvement of the youth constituency in vying for political office and clinching political offices. Accordingly to the groups, “The role of the ruling generation in the emergence of the flag bearers for the office of Governor across political lines cannot be over emphasized, especially the two major parties, PDP and the APC. “In view of the fact that young people between the ages of 18 and 45 dominate the country’s voting population, there is no contention as to the reality that the nation’s youth population is critical to the emergence of who man’s the number one office of our dear state Benue and the country Nigeria in 2023. POLL “It is therefore sacrosanct to give the young population a place on the joint ticket of the Governor and Deputy as it will go a long way to influence the choice of young people. “There is no gain in saying that a lot of young people in Benue South have shown the capacity to lead at any level. Dr Peter Adejoh, Hon Sam Odeh and others too numerous to mention have at different times in their various fields demonstrated competence and readiness to transform the state if given the opportunity to serve. “Someone like Dr Peter Adejoh, a seasoned technocrat, has large followership of young people across party lines through his empowerment schemes and the job opportunities he has created for the youth across the country. “In view of the aforementioned, we call on all political parties in the state to ensure the inclusion of the young generation of the 30’s, 40’s and early 50’s on the joint ticket of “Governor and Deputy Governor” in their political parties as this will surely have a way of closing the leadership gulf (existing) between the ruling political class and the succession question,” they stated.