Mr. John Onyeoguzoro is Chief Executive Officer of SMARTMARK Limited, one of the leading retailer of fashion and lifestyle brands in Nigeria and West Africa. The company launched a Charles Tyrwhitt Store at Ikeja City Mall last weekend. He speaks with IKECHI NZEAKO at the launch. Excerpts: Describe the business of your company? Our business is about fashion and life style; we try to make people comfortable and happy. We try to engage them in the kind of life style they would want; their fashion sense. We like to provide what resonates with them as far fashion and life style is concerned. What we do as a business is to represent the international brands in Nigeria; to get to know them and partner with them and to enhance the local feel of the people in Nigeria. What was the objective when you established the company? It is about sophistication; Nigerians at the last count are the biggest travellers. We do a lot of traveling because we want to see what is happening globally. The best way to learn is go out and learn, come back and see what you can replicate what you have learnt. Before you start building capacity in the textile industry, maybe tailoring industry, you need to learn and understand what is happening in other countries. Instead of just learning locally in the textile industry, tailoring, let us go and see what is happening in the global market so that we can drive it down here in Nigeria. -Advertisement- POLL Hopefully, what we are achieving is to project quality. So you can see texture, and it helps us to be at par with our friends globally. You wear something that people can associate with’ that is the gap we are trying to fill at the moment. What is your assessment of the Nigerian fashion industry? To be frank with you, it is growing; it is becoming more mature and more sophisticated. Back in the day, there were some brands you could not find here; Charles Tyrwhitt was not here five, ten years ago. What does that tell you? It shows that the awareness is growing on a daily basis; it also presents an opportunity to see what we can do differently to further grow the economy and encourage people to do the right thing and add value to their sophistication. Why did Smartmark launch Charles Tyrwhitt to Ikeja City Mall? Ikeja, for us is cosmopolitan; it presents the whole essence of our business. Ikeja is the capital of Lagos State and the commercial hub of the state. It makes a lot of sense to the area and showcases the brand. More importantly is the relationship that we have with the mall. This is one of the best malls we do business with and it gives us all the opportunity to showcase our brand. I am more than happy to reciprocate that confidence they have given us over the years, and partner with them to grow more space. How has the business fared over the years? The business has good and not too good times because of the Covid-19 crisis, and then we have the foreign exchange crisis and changes in policy. We are all here and we understand the situation but we cannot run away; this is our country and we have to work around the situation and fix it ourselves. That is what we have done as a business over the years; to add value to the economy. It has been very challenging but we are here and doing all we can to move forward. What is your advice to young people? I will tell them to be resilient, and to be clear with his or her objectives and to do their best to add value to the people and the economy. If you are selfish and want make all the money in a short time, you would not go far. We have passed through a lot and we are doing all we can to take the business to the next level. What are challenges you face in the running of the company? The major thing that is lacking in the country is infrastructure; we do not have adequate power supply and the cost of diesel has hit N850 per liter. Most of the roads are inaccessible. These are the challenges everybody is facing but at the end of the day these issues have a ripple effect on businesses. We are optimistic that things will get better and we want to be part of the process to make the country a better place for all.