LAGOS – No fewer than 1,000 children will benefit from the Nestlé for Healthier Kids (N4HK) programme in six primary schools in Ogun State and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to imbibe a sustainability mind-set at an early age. In collaboration with the International Climate Change Development Initiative (ICCDI), Nestlé Nigeria is training the primary five learners on a more sustainable approach to managing and recycling waste to enable them become better stewards of the planet. The company said this is one of the initiatives to support its ambition of ensuring that none of its packaging, including plastics, ends up in landfills, or in waterways, rivers or oceans as litter. In a statement, the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager of Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Victoria Uwadoka, said: “Nestlé Nigeria is committed to driving more sustainability awareness to help protect the planet for future generations as embedded within our purpose at Nestlé. We are, therefore, delighted with the collaboration of stakeholders, including the Ogun State Ministry of Environment,  its Education, Science and Technology counterpart, the state Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and the Special Adviser to Governor on Education on this shared objective. “As multiple researches have proven, habits imbibed early in life are more likely to remain with us into the future. Therefore, training children on the importance of protecting our environment is a strong contribution towards ensuring more responsible management of post- consumption waste as they grow, taking us closer to achieving a waste free future.” On the objectives of the training, which has taken off at Methodist Primary School 2, Ago-Oko, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Mr. Olumide Idowu, founder of the International Climate Change Development Initiative, said: “The sustainability training is designed to equip the children with the requisite knowledge and support, enabling them take responsibility in school and at home. Everyone, including children, needs to be involved in this huge task of protecting the environment.” The Chairman, SUBEB, Dr Femi Majekodunmi, represented by its Secretary, Mr. Olalekan Kuye, praised Nestlé for the initiative. He stated that training learners on waste management and recycling would contribute to a safe and hygienic environment. POLL Also, the Special Adviser to the Ogun State Governor on Primary and Secondary Education, Mrs Ronke Soyombo, appreciated Nestlé’s contributions and investment in education in the state. She said the expected outcomes of the training are behavioural change to enhance environmental sustainability and the opportunity for learners to be upskilled on the conversion of waste to useful items.