***Pledges Full Support, Loyalty The people of Kishi Community in Irepo Local Government Area of Oyo State have appreciated Governor ‘Seyi Makinde for choosing a former Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General in Oyo State, Barr. Bayo Lawal, as his running mate in the 2023 governorship election. In a press statement signed and made available to newsmen on Thursday, the National President of the Kishi Progressive Union, who is also the Agbaakin of Kishi, Chief Bayo Adesope JP, indicated that the appreciation was made on behalf of the Iba of Kishi, Oba (Dr.) Masoud Oyekola Aweda Lawal JP, the Kabiyesi, the Iba-in-Council and the community, over Lawal’s nomination as his running mate. He added that the community is pledging its further loyalty and stronger support to the government of Oyo State, adding that the choice of Barr. Lawal, who he described as a popular and responsible leader throughout the state, is highly laudable. “We send our sincere and deep appreciation to the Executive Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency, ‘Seyi Abiodun Makinde, FNSE, for the nomination of Barr. Bayo Lawal to the post of Deputy Governor in the 2023 gubernatorial election in the state.” “We make the goodwill appreciation on behalf of the Iba of Kishi, Oba Masoud Oyekola Aweda Lawal JP. Kabiyesi is full of praise for the Governor on behalf of himself, his family and the Iba-in-Council.” “Furthermore, the monarch showered his royal blessings and poured encomiums on the governor, for this kind and considerate nomination. “Once more, on behalf of all the good people and electorates of Kishi at home and in the diaspora, the community pledges further loyalty and stronger support to the government of Oyo State under the able, competent and indefatigable leadership of Governor ‘Seyi Makinde. POLL “The choice of Barr. Bayo Lawal, the Aare Bamofin of Kishi is highly lauded. He is a man of the people not only in Irepo Local Government but a very popular and responsible leader in the whole Oke-Ogun, Oyo, Ogbomoso and other geopolitical zones, especially in Ibadan land. “A former Attorney-General under the administration of Governor Lam Adesina, who is still capable of standing by Governor ‘Seyi Makinde, we pledge on his behalf, the unflinching loyalty and support of the community for the administration”, the statement added.