LAGOS  – All is now set for the maiden “FAAN National Aviation Conference” being organised by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria. The conference, with the theme: ‘Advancing the Frontiers of Possibilities for Safe, Secure and Profitable Air Transport,’ which was initially billed to hold from April 1 through 4 April, 2020. Mrs. Faithful Hope-Ivbaze, Ag. General Manager, Corporate Affairs, FAAN, in a statement stated that the earlier date was stalled due to the global movement restrictions occasioned by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. -Advertisement- Hope-Ivbaze hinted that the conference is aimed at providing a veritable platform for brainstorming and sharing knowledge and ideas on the progress and challenges in the aviation Industry in Nigeria. FAAN said that the new date is scheduled for June 14 through 17, 2022 at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. She stated that FAAN would bring together captains of industries, top government functionaries, seasoned aviation experts and key stakeholders like Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, State Governors and Chief Executives of all aviation industry. She added that a select number of dignitaries would also speak on critical issues faced by the industry. The statement added: ‘’The conference will also feature an investment forum, which will focus on attracting local and international investors in order to apprise them with the investment opportunities in the Nigerian aviation industry. POLL ‘’Some of the topics that will be treated by seasoned aviation experts at the conference include; Implementing Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM): Prospects and Challenges; Collaborative Service Delivery in Nigeria Air Transport Industry: The way forward; Aviation and National Security: Emerging Trends; Addressing Nigeria’s Unviable Airport Syndrome; Nigerian Airports: Gateway to Developing and Managing Tourist Destinations in Nigeria;Ease of Doing Business as a panacea for boosting investments in Nigerian airports among others.’’