The organisers of the ongoing Bayelsa Governor’s Football Tournament 2022, also known as ‘Prosperity Cup’, have said that no fewer than 20 players have been spotted by local and foreign scouts who stormed Yenagoa to monitor the sensational grassroots footballers. According to the management of the competition, the scouts visited the Bayelsa State capital to watch the matches with a view to identifying potential professional footballers for possible trials within and outside Nigeria. The Director-General of the Prosperity Cup, Mr Ono Akpe, who disclosed this in a statement on Thursday signed by the tournament’s media officer, Patrick Ndubuisi, said the scouts had returned to their base and would very soon reveal the names of the players that impressed them. -Advertisement- He quoted the scouts as having emphasised that 10 out of the 20 players with great potential will soon be invited officially and will jet out of the country for trials. Akpe, who expressed delight over the scouts’ discoveries, said his joy would be complete when the players are successful in their trials and sign professional contracts with football clubs abroad. He said, “This has been our vision, that from this tournament, which has come to stay, to give potential footballers the opportunity to showcase their skills so that they can be spotted and move on to play professional football in both local and foreign clubs. “We are already working on inviting the scouts for a second time, and that will be towards the end of the competition, and I believe that more players will be discovered because we intend to present more selected players, than what we brought in this phase.” Akpe thanked the state Governor, Douye Diri, for fully supporting the football competition, describing this year’s edition as “the most successful so far because of what we are achieving.” POLL He also commended the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Daniel Igali, and other stakeholders for their various contributions to the success of the games. The Prosperity Cup manager said he was optimistic that the tournament would get even much better in the future. Meanwhile, the tournament is one game away from reaching the round-of-16 stage with Opolo FC, Amarata FC and EGM FC joining the list of clubs that had progressed from the last set of games.