Arsenal want to sign Gabriel Jesus this summer ‘at all costs’, but face competition from four other clubs, according to transfer expert Fabrizio Romano. It’s thought Pep Guardiola is willing to let the Brazilian striker leave City this summer having secured the signing of Erling Haaland to bolster his forward options.Jesus – who notched 13 goals and 12 assists for City last term – has one year left to run on his current deal at the Etihad, and City are thought to want around £45m for his services. Arsenal have been linked for some time with Mikel Arteta keen on reuniting with Jesus having worked with him as assistant coach at City, while Real Madrid have been added to the mix in recent days. And a report on Tuesday claimed Chelsea are showing ‘strong interest’, with new owner Todd Boehly ‘preparing a formal proposal’ for the 25-year-old. Romano, in his column for CaughtOffside, claims five clubs have been in touch with Jesus’ agent, insisting the Brazilian will leave City this summer. He wrote: ‘There are five clubs that have contacted Gabriel Jesus’ agents, not just Arsenal. Chelsea have had contacts in recent weeks, as have Real Madrid, but the Spanish club have not advanced in contacts. ‘Gabriel will leave Manchester City – 100%, and Arsenal want him at all costs as priority striker, Manchester City are asking about €50-55m for the Brazilian: in the coming days the situation will be clearer.’ Romano says Jesus is being lined up by Chelsea as a replacement for Romelu Lukaku, who looks set to return to Inter Milan on loan. POLL Though if they miss out given the bidding war that is likely to ensue, they could instead move for £59m-rated forward Christopher Nkunku, who notched 35 goals and 19 assists in all competitions for RB Leipzig in 2021-22. Romano added: ‘I’ve written before about Romelu Lukaku looking for clarity over his future, and Jesus could be a top replacement up front, though Christopher Nkunku is another player appreciated by the Blues in case this deal doesn’t work out.