…Our Pleas Fell On Deaf Ears ABUJA – Honourable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, former Minister of State, Education has asked his supporters not to weep over his failed presidential bid. Nwajiuba said he entered the race buoyed with a new vision to transform the country and change the narrative in the way politics is played while expecting reciprocal gestures from associates who assured South-East would produce a Consensus Candidate For APC in 2023 on the basis of justice equity and fairness. He said: “I would urge that no one should be despondent or disappointed. My approach to the Nigeria presidency is hinged on being able to present a progressive vision of an inclusive, united and focused brand of energy to transform Nigeria into a wholesome economic powerhouse, whose citizens will be better secured to live more fulfillingly. “I choose to take the tedious path of following the law, meeting requirements and staying disciplined, in other to sell a paradigm of the same. “I and almost all other aspirants agreed to a consensus approach to the selection of our candidate, to effectively maintain the outlook of a progressive family, away from an all for money by highest bidder image, which had already been assigned to another political party. “I and other aspirants now of the South-East, wrote the leadership of our party to appreciate the commitment to move the presidential ticket to the South and requested a further deepening to the southeast to reflect our primary reason for seeking the office, which remains. “to build a more united and inclusive secured and prosperous nation.” This much has been captured in the communique south east aspirants issued on 22nd May, the speeches of Mr President at his meetings with APC Governors, that of aspirants and of stakeholders” POLL He noted that all pleas and entreaties to secure the buy in of other parts of the country on the imperative for South-East to produce APC Consensus Candidate For President fell on deaf ears. Accordingly, “following the failure of all these entreaties, it became clear that the convention was headed away from these lofty ideals I subscribe to and will still pursue. I, therefore, declined to attend. “These ideals reflected in what some of the South-East aspirants who choose to attend referred to in their pleas for Justice or need to constitutionally require it, in the face of the absence of conscience. “Even their elderly wailing on national television could not move a vote, if I had shouted the same in a more youthful voice, it may have become inciteful in face of our current security difficulties in the southeast and may thus spite our efforts. Better to stay out” He declared his commitment to pursuing the ideals of a more united, inclusively secured prosperous nation for us all, lending to our dear country, its citizens and those who may be positioned to use it, the experiences acquired, lessons learnt and the various matrix that I may bring to bear. “I am grateful for the opportunity to engage all strata of our society, all cadres of leadership both in our party and our country. I appreciate the luxury of your various audience, in sharing this message”.