SAMUEL OGIDAN, JOY ANIGBOGU ABUJA/LAGOS – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has approved the con­duct of the rescheduled State House of Assembly, National Assembly and Governorship Primaries in Ebonyi State for the election of candidates for the 2023 general elections. While the primaries for the State House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senatorial Primaries was ex­pected to hold Saturday, June 4, 2022 (yesterday), the gover­norship primary would hold Sunday June 5, 2022. -Advertisement- The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, urged all the as­pirants and party members in Ebonyi States to take note. In a related development, the party also rescheduled con­gresses in Lagos, Imo, Benue and Katsina states. The National Working Com­mittee (NWC) of the party said that it had approved repeat pri­maries in the states after very careful deliberations on the re­ports of the Electoral and Ap­peal Panels on the congresses. The party added that it de­cided to approve repeat prima­ries in the states for the purpose of nominating its candidates for the 2023 general elections. According to the party’s schedule of activities, PDP would on Sunday, June 5, 2022 conduct primaries in Ahiazu State Constituency of Imo State, Orsu State Constituen­cy of Imo State, Musawa State Constituency of Katsina State, Dandume State Constituency of Katsina State, Zango State Constituency of Katsina State, Oru East/Orsu/Orlu Federal Constituency of Imo State and Kwande/Ushongo Federal Con­stituency of Benue State. POLL The party added that on Monday, June 6, 2022, it would conduct primaries in Lagos State House of Representatives and 24 Federal Constituencies. “Furthermore, Kaduna Central Senatorial District of Kaduna State, Enugu West Senatorial Districts of Enugu State as well as Boki/Ikom Fed­eral Constituency and Yakuur II State Constituency, both of Cross River State earlier sched­uled for Saturday June 4, 2022 have been cancelled. “All Party members in the affected States should please take note,” the party said.