LAGOS – Former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, who is known to some of his associates as ‘Peter, the Rock’, has been trending online as the answer to the failed leadership of the two mainstream parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He emerged the presidential candidate of the Labour Party at its national convention and presidential primary on Monday, May 30, in Asaba, the capital of Delta State, after other aspirants stepped down for him. Those who stepped down were former presidential adviser and academic, Pat Utomi; Faduri Joseph, and Olubusola Em­manuel-Tella. -Advertisement- They all stepped down for the former gov­ernor at the venue to make the former Anam­bra governor a lone aspirant. As one of the 15 presidential aspirants cleared by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Obi, on the eve of the convention, ditched the main opposition party over “recent develop­ments” which he found unacceptable. In a tweet on Friday, two days after his de­fection from the PDP, he said: “Since I resigned from the PDP because of issues that are at vari­ance with my persona and principles, I have consulted widely with various parties and personalities to ensure we do not complicate the route to our desired destination. “For me, the process of achieving our goal is as fundamental as what one will do there­after.” Days before joining his new party, the LP had received a boost as the Utomi-led National Consultative Front (NCFront), an umbrella body of the Third Force, in collaboration with Ayuba Wabba-led Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Quadri Olaleye-led Trade Union Congress (TUC) adopted the party for the 2023 presidential election. POLL At the Monday event, the three aspirants pledged their support to Obi after 185 dele­gates had been accredited to elect the LP flag bearer. Since his emergence as LP presidential candidate, Obi has been trending online, especially among the youths and pro-South agitators who consider him the answer to the rejection of southern candidates by other ma­jor parties. The Labour Party, it would be recalled, had started a transformation through the deci­sion of several Leftist activists cum political groups to join forces with the nation’s Labour Movement to rescue the party from the ruling elite to provide an alternative for the Nigerian workers and the masses. So, the question in the lips of analysts and stakeholders is: What are the chances of Dr. Peter Obi, a technocrat and former governor of Anambra State, leading the Labour Party to victory in the presidential election? According to Chief Martins Onovo, the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), the chances of Peter Obi emerging the nation’s president under Labour Party (LP) seemed great. Onovo, an activist and engineer, and cur­rently, currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC), described Peter Obi as very clearly the best governor in this Fourth Republic. According to him, Obi made dramatic improvements in education, health and in­frastructural development in Anambra State as governor and also gave a quantum leap to the economy of the state, with huge savings, no loans and large industries. Onovo stressed: “He is quite humble and has an excellent track record of performance in public office. He is a true democrat. This can easily be seen from his legitimate victo­ries in the two governorship elections and his resort to the courts when he was rigged out and when he was unlawfully impeached. “He has shown himself to be a true be­liever in the ‘Integrity of the ballot’ and the ‘Rule of Law’ which are the principal pillars of democracy. “Peter Obi is from the South East and giv­en the Nigerian ‘Federal Character’, zoning and ‘Power Rotation’ principles, the South East should produce the next president. “Therefore, considering his track re­cord of performance in public office, power rotation, his age, his health and his democratic credentials, he is a very good can­didate. “The Labour Party has shown sensitivity to the aspirations of the overwhelming majority of Nigeri­ans.” On Peter Obi’s chanc­es of winning the elec­tion under LP, Onovo said: “The PDP is finished. The APC will implode. An­other party will win the pres­idential e l e c ­tions. “Slavery was defeated. Colonialism was defeated. Apartheid was defeated. APC will be defeated. This is the best time to defeat them.” According to Onovo, minimum political or­ganisation would be required to dislodge those he termed as unpatriotic parties, the PDP and APC, adding that the two parties had been the two sides of the same fake coin of corruption. Onovo stated: “One of our objectives in the Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC) for the 2023 elections is to ensure that another political party wins the presidential election. “Fortunately, many Nigerians agree with us on this. Vote buying and electoral fraud will be challenged effectively. “In 2023, Nigerian citizens will enthrone a democracy to replace this criminocracy. An overwhelming majority of Nigerians are now tired of this criminocracy.” On his own, Mallam Shakirudeen Olofin, the Leader and former State Chairman of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Lagos State chapter, described the emergence of Peter Obi as the Labour Party’s presidential candidate as a welcome idea and very good for Nigerian democracy. He stated: “Labour Party is one of the oldest parties in Nigeria that can boast of some brilliant political strategist in the nation. “This party won governorship seat in Ondo State some years back when it threw up Dr Olusegun Mimiko, evidence that the party has a great re­cord. “The former governor of Edo State, Mr. Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole once ran on the platform of the party. Labour Party has the polit­ical spread, Nigerians should watch out for it.” Olofin, however, noted that an electoral victory largely would depend on the capacity and capability of the p a r t y and its candi­dates a s win­ning an election would require a lot of politi­cal calculations and planning, which he said was not new to Peter Obi. “I am hopeful that he would give a good showing at the polls due to his antecedent, but the victor at next year’s presidential poll is no other person than HE Engr. Dr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of NNPP,” Olofin under­standably concluded. However, Comrade Moses Odeh, the Na­tional Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), stated that Peter Obi’s emergence as the Labour Party’s presidential candidate was a good omen and had reshaped the na­tion’s democracy such that Nigerians now have choice to make aside APC and PDP. Odeh said: “I never see his leaving PDP as a defection, but a reunion with his party members he started his political journey with when the main opposition party, PDP, was rul­ing and fought hard against it to reclaim his mandate through the courts. “Mind you, he is an active person in the politics of Nigeria who ran for office for three consecutive times as a two-term governor of Anambra State and one-time running mate to Atiku Abubakar in the PDP. “He has a broad view of Nigerian poli­tics and knows when to move. His chances of victory are very bright because a general election is not the decision of few delegates, but by the Nigerians masses. “If he understands the pattern of the 2023 election to be the same as 2003 and 2011 and work with it religiously, he will coast to vic­tory, especially with this 2022 Electoral Act, where election results will be transmitted electronically. “You don’t undermine anyone in the race, if he or she works hard and plays his card well. “Obi has track record on managing pub­lic funds and cost control, which made him a sellable product if his campaign organisation and supporters know.” However, Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP) leader in Imo State, opined that the Labour Party in Nigeria had not made any impact in mobilising the masses to actualise victory for its candidates and that the emergence of Mr Peter Obi as Labour Party presidential candidate would not make any difference. Adikwuru said: “First is that there will be a somewhat crisis from internal and exter­nal sources, which will not put the party in a peaceful mood for campaigns and eventual victory. “Secondly, the party will not be able to raise enough finances to prosecute the electioneer­ing project and that will be a great setback. “Elections all over the world and the pres­idential stuff is not won on emotions of righ­teousness and Nigeria is not in isolation. “In the end, I will say that Peter Obi’s decision to quit PDP and go for the presidential candidacy of another party is ill advised. “He would have rather have remained in PDP despite its inability to meet up with his expecta­tions.” At this point, it is now a matter of conjectures whether his candidacy will, indeed, gather momentum in time, and whether ‘Peter, the Rock’ will truly rock or suck in the 2023 pres­idential election.