ASABA – The management of the National Directorate of Employment on Tuesday began a five-day recruitment and training programme for 50 unemployed youths selected across Delta State as part of the small stock (goat) production training scheme organized by its Rural Employment Promotion Department. In a keynote address at the flag-off and orientation ceremony in Asaba, the state capital, Director-General of the NDE, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, said the scheme aims to train a total of 900 unemployed youths in goat production technology along its value chain using the revolving model of empowerment in 18 selected states of the federation at three states per geo-political Zone. According to Fikpo, who was represented by Mrs. Enebeli Roseline, Acting Zonal Director, South-South Zone, the training is part of the directorate’s contribution to checking the rapid growth of unemployment in the country, describing the programme as a lifetime opportunity for which the participants should consider themselves privileged to have been selected. The Rural Employment Promotion (REP) programme, he continued, “is aimed at revamping agriculture to boost the production of food and fibres as well as provide job opportunities for graduates of agriculture and school leavers trained in agricultural production. The training under this programme covers crop production, processing, and livestock management.” Specifically, apart from job opportunities for the unemployed youths, he listed objectives of Small Stock (Goat) Production training as wealth creation and improved livelihood for rural dwellers, poverty reduction, reduced rural-urban migration, and provision of raw material for leather manufacturing industries. According to him, “in Nigeria, goat production is an economically viable business venture because its value chain for commercial production has great employment potential. It enjoys a very wide market share with all products in high demand. “Goat is a source of meat, milk, hide, skin and fertilizers from droppings. The skin is used by the tanning industries for the manufacture of leather for local and foreign exchange earnings,” he added. In summary, he said engaging unemployed youths in the value chain, “plays an important role in the socio-economic, environment and religious life of the farming communities in terms of income and supply of food for local population and the country at large. The great potential inherent in goat production business include production of meat, milk, hide and skin manure.” -Advertisement- POLL He, therefore, urged beneficiaries to make the best use of the opportunity to transform their “lives from job seekers to employers of labour. In his welcome address at the event, Mr. Onyeogo Sylvanus, described the training programme as yet another significant milestone in the directorate’s fight against unemployment, in line with its mandate of “jobs for all.” He appreciated the DG for approving Delta State as one of those selected for the training programme in the South-South geographical zone for training of unemployed youths and women who have shown interest in goat production. The training, he said, is split into the theoretical and practical demonstration in the experiential Small Stock (Goat) production farm, assuring that “the theoretical curriculum is well-structured to equip the participants with the competence and experience they needed to go into goat production business in Delta State.” The practical demonstration, he continued, “is designed to expose the trainees or participants to the practical management of goat fattening and breeding, using the revolving model of empowerment in goat production.” Urging participants to pay attention so as to reap the immense benefit of the training, Onyeogo assured that “goat production is a viable business due to its value chain potential which could be harnessed to provide employment opportunities for the teeming unemployed youths in Delta State, in particular and the nation at large. “Goat meat is a good delicacy that is in high demand across the country and is not forbidden by any religious group. Apart from goat meat, the hide and skin of goat is a raw material for tanning industries for the production of leather for local and foreign exchange earnings,” he stressed.