Gareth Bale provided a cheeky response as he was asked about his future following his exit from Real Madrid. The Welshman announced his departure from the Spanish giants earlier in the week with his contract expiring following their Champions League victory over Liverpool which was the fifth time Bale had been named European champion at the club after a trophy-laden nine years at the Bernabeu. It remains to be seen what is next for Bale, with claims he could give up club football altogether and focus on international football with Wales, who are one game away from going to the World Cup at the end of the year. -Advertisement- And Bale lightheartedly claimed he has “loads of offers” to consider as he was speaking ahead of Wales’ World Cup play-off final against Ukraine Asked if he has any offers on the table, Bale said while grinning: “I’ve got loads!” Bale insists his future won’t hinge on whether Wales qualifies for Qatar 2022. He added: “Not necessarily no. Like I’ve said before, I’m not concentrating on what lies ahead in the future. We have a massive game tomorrow. I really don’t need to think or worry about anything else. Bale penned an emotional open letter to announce his exit from Madrid. The 32-year-old said: “I write this message to say thank you to all my teammates, past and present, my managers, the back room staff and to the fans that supported me. I arrived here 9 years ago as a young man who wanted to realise my dream of playing for Real Madrid. “To wear the pristine white kit, to wear the crest on my chest, to play at the Santiago Bernabeu, to win titles and to be part of what it’s so famous for, to win the Champions League. I can now look back, reflect and say with honesty that this dream became a reality and much, much more. “To be a part of this club’s history and to achieve what we achieved while I was a Real Madrid player, has been an incredible experience and one I will never forget. I also want to thank President Florentino Perez, Jose Angel Sanchez, and the board for giving me the opportunity to play for this club. POLL “Together we were able to create some moments that will live forever in the history of this club and football. It has been an honour. Thank you! HALA MADRID!”