… Says Nigeria Records 2000 deaths from malaria in 2020 The Manager, Media and Communications at Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (a subsidiary of ExxonMobil), Mr Ogechukwu Udeagha has hinted that the foundation has committed N15bn in the last 20 years to fighting malaria in Nigeria. He said that this is only for Nigeria while adding that they spend a lot more across the globe. He gave this hint, on Thursday at the Launch Basketball clinic mentoring sessions ofBoys and girls team scrimmages, tagged: Power Forward 2022 Season held at Government Secondary School, Tundun Wada, in collaboration with NBA Africa and PanAfricare. He, however, noted that they are using basketball as a convening power to reach the students who will in turn take the message to their parents at home. According to him:” Nigeria recorded more than 2000 deaths from malaria in 2020, even COVID-19 has not killed up to that number since its inception and nobody seems to be interested in the fight against malaria. ” It is a lot of work to get people to understand that malaria is a killer disease, you hear people say, I just have malaria, you don’t just have malaria, you have a major disease and we will take all precautionary measures to stop the dreaded disease and ensure that people are aware of the dangers of malaria. This is the message we are hoping that the young ones will take home, telling their parents on the need to have mosquito nets, and clean our environments. POLL ” The foundation has been working in the area of advocacy and research. We have about 15 local scholars who are attending several universities across the world. Malaria vaccine, I will not announce it here but there is a lot of input that our scholars who are on scholarship made into the research. We are not just talking about advocacy, we are talking about research, how do we end this, and how do we get the vaccination to stop malaria? We are also talking about treatment, we have distributed a lot of nets, diagnostic kits and a lot of treatments. It’s a whole value change for us from prevention to treatment, advocacy to research all of that is what we are focused on.” Also speaking at the event, NBA Africa Vice President & Country Head, Gbemisola Abudu said the objective of the programme is to keep young boys and girls the opportunity to learn about the fundamental of basketball while also equipping them with life skills that can transform their lives. She said, they have reached about 150 thousand students in the last nine years in Abuja, and we want to make sure that the project cuts across Nigeria. She added that” we use this programme for talent hunts and youth empowerment”. Similarly, PanAfricare Country Director, Dr. Patrick Adah said basketball has been identified as a veritable tool for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are using the game of basketball ball to attract the youths in order to inculcate and get them to support public health issues. You find malaria champions among them, those who are very knowledgeable about malaria, HIV and public health interventions. Meanwhile, the Director/Secretary, FCT Secondary Education Board, Mrs Nanre Emeje said Power Forward started this project in five secondary schools and now they are in 21 schools. If there was no positive impact, we wouldn’t have given them approval for more schools. -Advertisement- According to her:” The students that are prefects today were part of this programme, I am glad to let you know that the boys’ team of basketball in one of our schools are champion. Right now, they won the league in Lagos under the Maltina championship and they will be representing FCT in Lagos at the end of the month. They are students that have been groomed through the power forward project. “We are not afraid to grant them more approval if they want to go into all our schools we are ready”, she said.