The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) through its Abuja Metropolitan Management Agency (AMMC) has given park operators the last warning to either pay up their ground debt or risk revocation. This is as they bemoaned the level of debt owed by the FCT administration by pack operators, saying, some have not paid since 2007 after the property was allocated to them. While adding that, any operators who refuse to take advantage of the administration’s humane gesture and continue to default on their payments may have their Parks withdrawn, licenses revoked and their facilities transferred to compliant operators. Speaking on behalf of the administration during a press conference on the verification and update of Park Data on Wednesday in Abuja, the AMMC Coordinator, Tlp Usmar Shuaibu said the enforcement is on the sideline of the implementation of FCT park policy that prohibits unwholesome activities. According to him: “The recovery of outstanding revenues will be carried out with a human face as the government in its magnanimity has granted indebted operators discounts and the option of paying in instalments in order to cushion the financially devastating effect of block payment on the activities of operators. “Operators may obtain details of this discount arrangement as well as information on instalment remittances from the Parks and Recreation Department of the FCTA “Park Update Forms should also be collected, filled by Operators and duly returned to the department in order to facilitate the update and verification of all park records. We need to make it clear that operators who refuse to take advantage of the Administration’s humane gesture and continue to default on their payments may have their Parks withdrawn, licenses revoked and their facilities transferred to compliant operators. “We wish to state that the 2019 FCT Park Policy has categorized Parks into Neighbourhood, District, City and Regional Parks all with their various designations. The Policy is now fully operational. -Advertisement- POLL “In line with all Park operators, Shaibu warned that the Park Policy regulations for their activities stipulate that their daily operation must end at 7.00 pm. As the rights of the neighbours for protection against excessive noise must be sacrosanct”, he said. In her contributions, the Director of FCT Parks and Recreation, Hajiya Riskatu Abdulazeez said: “The 2019 FCT park policy is now fully operational, we are calling on the operators to pay their outstanding bills, before the policy came into existence there, was the suspension of the revenue collection but now is on. “We have discussed with the operators, we asked them to come up and pay but they have not started. So, for those who are yet to come and pay their outstanding, to pay in bulk won’t be easy for them but let them pay in instalments, because of COVID-19 we have the waived year 2020 even in 2021, only 50% is expected” she said.