Ahead of the 2023 governorship election in Delta State, a lot of prominent sons and daughters of the State have already declared their interests to succeed the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa come May 29, 2023. One of the people who have already thrown their hearts into the ring for the Delta State gubernatorial contest is the Founder/Executive Director of Hope for Niger Delta Campaigns (HNDC), Comrade Sunny Ofehe, a Nigeria-born, Dutch environmental rights activist whose activities focus on environmental degradation in the oil-rich Niger Delta region of Nigeria. Like the 35th President of the United States, John F. Kennedy said in his inaugural address on January 20, 1961, said “Ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country,” Sunny Ofehe believes strongly in what he can do for his community, state and country, and not what they can do for him and that is why he has remained committed to serving people, especially the people of Delta State and Niger Deltans in different areas for over two decades. He has distinguished himself in fighting for the common interest of the people of Niger Delta and he has taken the advocacy and demand for a better life for Niger-Deltans globally. Comrade Ofehe is one of the young Nigerians who fought tirelessly against the military junta during the annulment of the June 12, 1993, presidential election and the aborted Third Republic. As a student of the University of Benin, he joined forces with other progressives, rights activists and civil society groups led by the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) for the enthronement of democracy in Nigeria on May 29, 1999. -Advertisement- Since the return of Nigeria to the democratic path on May 29, 1999, to herald the present Fourth Republic, Comrade Ofehe, has been one of the reference points in the Niger-Delta struggle and there is no way a book would be written on Niger-Deltans advocates and champions without mentioning Comrade Sunny Ofehe for the roles he played in ensuring a better life for the people at the creeks. While many people were fighting locally, Ofehe took the campaign to the international level by using his organisation, Hope for Niger Delta Campaigns to attract the international community to the plight of the Niger Delta people. Comrade Ofehe’s intervention without any iota of doubt has attracted some development to the Niger-Delta region through support from the international community, individuals and organisations at home and in the Diaspora. He has also used his international connections to empower thousands of youths in several communities through his philanthropic gesture. Ofehe was born on February 1, 1972, in Lagos to Chief Bernard Aghogho and Theresa Ofehe of Iyede, Isoko North Council area of Delta State. He completed his primary education in 1983 and completed secondary education at Unity School Agbarho in 1988. He gained admission into the University of Benin in 1991 to study Industrial Chemistry and graduated in 1995. Ofehe became an activist while in university during the June 12, 1993, annulled election of the late presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Chief Moshood Abiola. And because of his conviction for a better Nigeria, Ofehe mobilised his fellow students to demonstrate against the annulment of the presidential election by the then-military Head of State, Ibrahim Babangida. He fled Nigeria for the Netherlands on November 28, 1995, where he sought political asylum to escape the hunt by the Abacha-led military government. While abroad, Comrade Ofehe because of his love and passion for Delta State and the Niger Delta region, founded a non-governmental organisation, Hope for the Niger Delta Campaigns headquartered in Rotterdam, Netherlands, in 2005. HNDC focused on bringing the plight of the people of the Niger Delta to international awareness and it facilitated a dialogue with the militants in the creeks of the Niger Delta in 2005 in the midst of the face-off between the militants and the State security outfits. POLL Ofehe’s campaign and advocacy through HNDC led to the release of some Dutch kidnapped oil workers. He was also instrumental in litigation involving four Niger Delta farmers brought against Royal Dutch Shell in The Hague with a ruling in January 2013 in favour of one of the farmers. Ofehe also embarked on the publication of a monthly Niger Delta Diaspora magazine called “Inside Niger Delta Magazine”, as part of his commitment to expose the plight of the people in the Niger Delta region. Due to his activities to foster peace in the Niger Delta region, former President Goodluck Jonathan extended an invitation to Ofehe. He addressed a joint committee of the Nigeria House of Representatives and eventually invited 15 federal lawmakers to the Netherlands and the European Union in Brussels in 2009. On February 25 and 26, 2010, Ofehe hosted stakeholders in the Niger Delta Peace Process at an international conference in the Hague, Netherlands, that was instrumental in finding a solution to the problems of youth restiveness in the Niger Delta region. He also invited an aide to the then President on Niger Delta and Head of the Nigerian Amnesty Committee, Kingsley Kuku, to engage senior European politicians in Paris and Brussels. This led to a Dutch Member of Parliament Sharon Gesthuizen and Dutch Embassy officials in Nigeria visiting the slums and devastated areas of the Niger Delta. And the outcome of the visit led to a Dutch Parliamentary hearing about Shell in January 2011 at the Dutch Parliament in The Hague with Ofehe alongside speakers from Amnesty International, Friends of the Earth, Cordaid with Shell present at the hearing. Since 2011 on a yearly basis, Ofehe has addressed the plenary session in the United Nations Forum on Minority Issues in Geneva, Switzerland where he has always advocated for the rights of the minority people of the oil-rich Niger Delta region of Nigeria. He has also participated in events organised by the Unrepresented Nations Peoples Organisation (UNPO) in Geneva, Switzerland and the Italian Senate in Rome, Italy. He has also been involved in several discussions and engagements at the European Parliament, European Council and the European Commission in Brussels, Belgium. At the International World Water Day celebration in March, Ofehe has been a major guest speaker at the Inter Eco Forum Conference in Marbella, Spain. In 2021, Ofehe alongside former Dutch MP Harry van Bommel invited the Members of the Nigerian Senate Committee on Public Complains, Ethics and Privileges to Leiden, The Netherlands for training. The delegation was led by the Committee Chairman Senator Ayo Akinyelure and other members, which included Senators Mathew Urhoghide and Uche Ekwunife. Having impacted lives positively through his organisation, Hope for Niger Delta Campaigns, Comrade Ofehe believes he can do more if given the opportunity to serve in public office and his passion for a better Delta State and Nigeria at large made him throw his hat into the ring to contest for Delta State governorship during the 2019 general elections. In 2017, Ofehe declared his interest to contest for the governorship of Delta State on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). He said he was in the gubernatorial race because he wanted to be Governor to put an end to the sufferings of his people and bring about diversified sources of revenue to Delta State and reduce the dependency on oil and Federal allocations. Ofehe who has travelled globally with so much experience and credibility within his network considers himself the best candidate for the governorship race in Delta State. But he was prevailed upon to withdraw from the race for Great Ogboru. Ofehe stepped down because he believed in Ogboru’s ideology but Ogboru lost the election to the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). But despite not contesting in the last election, Ofehe never lost touch with his people. For over two decades Comrade Ofehe has proved beyond reasonable doubt that he is someone who can be trusted with the public office having shown accountability, transparency, passion and zeal to fight for the common people and the downtrodden in his quest for a better Delta State. He did all these with private resources, using his local and international connections to put smiles on the faces of Deltans. In the last few months, there have been several clarion calls and demands that Comrade Sunny Ofehe should contest for Delta State governorship in 2023 because many believe he can use his magic touch to change the story of the state positively. Therefore in response to several calls and demands, Ofehe believes it is high time for him to yield to the clarion calls and take over the baton of leadership from the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa come May 29, 2023. Ofehe will be contesting for Delta State 2023 governorship on the platform of the Young Progressives Party (YPP). YPP is a party with youth ideology and it has proved its worth in Nigeria’s politics. YPP is one of the viable opposition parties in Nigeria and it has a sitting senator in the person of Senator Ifeanyi Ubah representing Anambra South in the Senate. The party has provided platform for many young Nigerians to aspire for public offices in line with the “Not Too Young To Run” bill signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2018. Ahead of the 2023 general elections, many young people are contesting for elections at the state and federal levels on the platform of the Young Progressives Party.