In order to ensure improved access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH), Ikeja Dynamic Lions Club, District 404B2 Nigeria has installed three portable boreholes with 5,000-litre storage tanks each for Agidingbi Community in Ikeja Local Government Area of Lagos State. Lion Olamide Owoyomi, Club’s President, stated that the club sunk the boreholes to address community concerns about water scarcity and a lack of access to safe drinking water. According to Lion Owoyomi, Agidingbi Grammar School, Agidingbi Town Hall, and 18 Abiodun Sobajo Street all have boreholes that were dug by the club. Lion Owoyomi said, “We did a need assessment within the community because this is where our club is located, and we discovered that they lack access to safe water. To help them avoid the stress of purchasing water, we chose to drill these boreholes for them. The Principal of Agidingbi Senior Grammar School, Mrs. Faronbi Adenike expressed her gratitude to the Ikeja Dynamic Lions Club. Adenike said, “I must commend the Lions Club International, they came to Agidingbi to start the project, and I give God all the Glory that the project is completed and it been delivered for the use of the children in the school. “On behalf of the children, I appreciate the Lions Club, because water is life and they have given life to the children. I say a very big thank you to the Ikeja Dynamic Lions Club,” she added. Speaking to the District Governor, Lion Oshnuga Kayode Isiaq, he said, “My advice to everybody is to join hands and other services organisations to make our communities better than we are today, in all areas of human existence, be it in death, in safety, in well-being, in all sense of livelihood, including fighting hunger and various diseases. -Advertisement- POLL “Government cannot meet all the needs of the people, so we hold it a responsibility not only to ourselves but to our various communities. You don’t need to be super-rich to be able to touch lives and give back to your community.”