ABUJA – Nasir Isa Kwarra, Executive Chairman of the National Population Commission (NPC), has tasked newly recruited enumerators to ensure accuracy in data gathering during the trial census. Kwarra stated this in two training centres for enumerators located in Gwagwalada, Federal Capital Territory,Abuja and Ado Karu in Nasarawa State. Kwarra underscored the need for enumerators to be thorough, painstaking and accurate in the data gathering, adding that accurate data would foster quality planning for national development. He said the conduct of the forthcoming census will be digital, as a result, it is imperative for the enumerators to learn the nitty gritty of the process to guarantee accurate data. He said: “We want to have accurate data. Please, give maximum attention to facilitators as they train you. “Get acquianted with these hand-held devices.Without accurate data, we cannot plan adequately in this country. “If we don’t get data accurately, we will mislead planners. That is why it is important that we get it right.” Kwarra further appealed to Nigerians to cooperate with enumerators by giving them truthful and right information to guarantee quality data -Advertisement- POLL In her remarks, Mrs. Patience Mbagwu, Acting Director General of NPC, reiterated need for quality and accurate data, urging the enumerators to carry out the national assignment conscientiously. Mbagwu charged them to utilise the 12day training period to get acquainted with the entire process, urging them to commit themselves to the success of the trial census. She restated that digital, paperless census would be conducted, just like their recruitment was done electronically to ensure transparency and promote merit. Speaking in the same vein, Mr. CollinsOpiyo, Census Technical Adviser to Nigeria, said there was the need to conduct credible census after 16 years of waiting. According to Opiyo, “Census is a priority national development programme. It is not activity. “No country can develop or manage the welfare of its people, without census data. “Without census data, anything a country is doing, is just to make up. This is why every country, including Nigeria, is trying to do whatever they can to make sure that the census process is efficient, because the outcome of that process is going to sustain the country for years to come. “It is this census Nigeria has been waiting for. This census is a game-changer for Nigeria. It is the first fully digital census in Nigeria.” He pointed out that the exercise is a big responsibility, urging them to own the exercise and show unwavering commitment to its success. It would be recalled that during the recent media briefing, Chairman of NPC, had announced that 14,461 enumerators and facilitators would be engaged during the trial census. The number comprises 13,461 hired enumerators and 1,000 facilitators. Kwarra explained that the trial census, which is also known as the “census dress rehearsal”, is another key preparatory activity for the main census scheduled to take place in April 2023.