The month of May once again defied the manta among traders “sell in May and come back in October” for the third time over the past five years on the Nigerian Exchange, as it closed higher. This was despite pulling back from last week’s rally as the market failed to carry over the gains, owing to two trading sessions of profit taking on Monday and Tuesday. The index, thereby, extended the previous month’s gain, as the benchmark NGX All-Share index rallied to a 15-year high on a ‘buy’ sentiment, amidst selloffs and price corrections. There were panic selloffs among traders after the Central Bank of Nigeria hiked the benchmark Monetary Policy Rate to 13% from 11.5%, despite the better-than-expected Q1 corporate earnings in the midst of weak economic data, rising inflation and insecurity across the nation, which has forced farmers to abandon their farmlands. The high traded volume and positive sentiment during the month reflected the buying interest and activities of institutional investors as they sought to hedge against inflation before the jump in fixed income rates and yields, which is currently diverting funds from the equity market. -Advertisement- Given the outcome of the Monetary Policy Committee meeting in May, the prevailing economic data and corporate earnings now looking up, we envisage a reversal in trend with March year-end accounts already hitting the market with mixed numbers. There are also half-year interim dividend and earnings season underway, besides the fact that crude oil is trading around $116 per barrel, after touching high of $123.8 in the last two months. Investdata Research projects that the Nigerian equity market’s benchmark ASI would close the year 2022 on a positive note, despite the uncertainties related to the ongoing electioneering activities ahead of the 2023 polls, and the ongoing war in Ukraine that is threating global economy as commodity prices are skyrocketing. The rallying oil prices now hovering above $100pb should support the nation economic recovery, if the government ensures unfettered production activities. The positive performance in the month is an opportunity for discerning investors and traders to cash out and reposition in the new month after the pullbacks ahead of the half-year earnings season in July. Since investment or trade is against expectations, let your investment objectives guild your entry and exit decisions, just, as the market continues its mixed trend and performance into the last month of Q2 and ahead of Q2 numbers. We are still seeing big trends setting up over the next few weeks and months after the ongoing party primary elections. The way certain stocks and sectors are reacting right now may lead many investors to believe that a breakdown trend is setting up, which could be the case but reversal is underway after correction. The month of June has recorded mixed trends over the past five years, closing southward in three years and north in the other two. But, behind the scenes, sectors are starting to show signs of a broader recovery patterns that may surprise those who are not paying enough attention. Do not allow profit-taking and market oscillation to push you out of good position but take advantage of any pullback. POLL The candlestick pattern that represents the month’s trading activities shows that buyers are still in control, while technically forming a bullish candle that supports uptrend and reversal depending on market forces in the new month of June. This is therefore signaling the beginning of a short bear-run in the new month, depending on sentiment in the market. The NGX recorded 20 trading sessions during the month under review with 11 trading days of up market, and nine of down market during the period, closing on a positive note with the composite NGXASI oscillating. The benchmark NGXASI gained 3,351.34 basis points during the month to close at 52,990.28bps after breaking out the strong support levels of 50,000bps and 54,085.30bps, from its 49,638.94bp opening level, representing 6.75% growth in the period. The buying and selling volume of total transactions for the month were 86% and 14% respectively, extending the previous months’ up market, as volume index for the period stood at 1.17, while market capitalisation recorded N1.81tr gain, closing at N28.57tr, from an opening value of N26.76tr, representing 6.76% appreciation in value. The market had a buying sentiments for high cap stocks and others on Q1 scorecards and economic data released, as investors and analysts continue to interpret the numbers. The month’s traded volume was up by 32.84% at 8.05bn shares, from 6.06bn units in the previous month. The NGX index’s year-to-date gain position stood at 24.57%, just as market capitalisation adjusted down to N6.02tr representing 28.49% gain YTD from the opening value. Market breathe in the month of May was slightly positive as gainers outpaced losers in the ratio of 69:62 to extend the bull run in the month of April, reflecting the buy interest in high cap stocks and profit booking in medium and low priced equities. Also there was portfolio repositioning among players, on the strength of Q1 earnings reports which were impressive and higher than market expectations, especially from sectors as Agro-Business, Industrial goods, Telecommunication, Energy, Consumer goods few from Banking and Insurance. This is an indication that the current divergence in company earnings and share prices will not last. Performance indexes across the sectors were mixed as shown in the chart below, NGX Main Board, NGX Oil, Consumer, Industrial and Premium stocks pushed the market up in the period under review, after gaining 12.09%, 5.29%, 5.44%, and 3.99% respectively to impact positively on the benchmark NGX All Share Index. These was attributed to price appreciation and adjustment for dividend during the period, selloffs in two sectors as profit taking some of the blue chip stocks. Despite the impressive numbers emanating from different companies and sectors to inspired discerning investors to rethink and position early ahead of year end, amidst the relatively low Price-To-Earnings attraction in the market. Other indexes that closed red during the month were: NGX Insurance and Banking.