Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, a social activist, is the Co-Convener, Coalition for Revolution (CORE) as well as the General Secretary, Federation of Informal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON). In this encounter with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on crucial issues on the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: What is your reaction to the amount the two major political parties, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) sold their Intent and Nomination forms to aspirants? A lot has been said about the humongous amounts of money political candidates are being obliged to pay to pick nomination forms in the dominant parties, as much as M100 million was paid by APC presidential aspirants. Not that it ended there. The so called party ‘delegates’ are being induced with thousands of dollars by each of the leading aspirants in PDP, for instance. Some ‘delegates’ allegedly harvested as much as $100,000 as their individual windfalls during primary elections. Now, extend this to the bazaars that elections proper have become. Millions of starved people are induced to vote with monies, food and clothing for their votes. Thugs are recruited and armed with weapons and drugs by politicians to scare away decent people from coming out to vote. No wonder increasing number of Nigerians is refusing to come out to vote. Remember the last election in Anambra State witnessed only about 10 percent voter turnout. This scenario raises fundamental questions about the nature of Nigerian democracy. Indeed, it is valid to insist that this is no democracy at all. It sounds more like plutocracy: government of the super-rich for the super-rich and nothing for the people. -Advertisement- The African Action Congress (AAC), unlike other parties declared that its forms would be free for all aspirants. How do you see the action? The AAC’s insistence that nothing would be collected from aspirants that wish to run on its ticket is the ideal way to ensure uncorrupted political recruitment process. It ensures that highly public spirited and ideologically driven individuals would be encouraged to run for public offices, a situation that offers a chance for quality public service. Without sale of Intent and Nomination forms, how do you think the AAC would get funds to prosecute the 2023 general elections? All those monies collected from aspirants by the dominant political parties are not necessarily spent for campaigns. The money bag candidates largely fund their own campaigns as well as buy votes even. So, the assumption that monies are collected to run electoral campaigns is simply not true. For the AAC, it means ordinary rank and file members have a chance to contribute their little amounts of money for the party to run elections. That way, party candidates’ loyalty is to the party and its ideals, not to individual money bags or to recoup funds spent on elections. Supposing politics was run in the Second Republic (1979- 1983) the way it is run now, with late Alhaji Lateef Jakande having to buy nomination forms and votes like they do now, would he have had any chance? Of course, not. He was only a modest journalist. Tell me that journalist anywhere in Nigeria that can run for governorship election today in this country on the platform of APC, PDP? What is your take on the ongoing move by Labour and some Leftist groups to unite under Labour Party? POLL Unfortunately, the move to revitalise Labour Party by the trade union centres, especially the TUC, is coming a bit late. It is not allowing enough time for rank and file workers to be enrolled en masse into the party and then take ownership of the party for themselves. The timing is leaving the space open for those I call ‘left over money bags’ who cannot find immediate accommodation in the dominant parties, to take over the party as the leading aspirants. This is leaving workers confused right now. If however the union centres can be honest and can really mobilise workers to join the party while at the same time, ensuring that the workers are thoroughly conscientised on the rudiments of social democracy, in the long haul, the LP could evolve as a genuine platform of social democracy and as an alternative to the disaster politics of the two dominant parties right now. I also see the possibility of fusion with a party like the AAC, which is a youth dominated, progressive platform too. But, that looks like a long haul. Nigerians have been clamouring for a Third Force that would be powerful enough to take power from the APC and PDP. Do you see this dream coming true in this 2023 elections? If so, under which platform would it be possible? I think I have tried to address that in the last question. There is a possibility of a radical fusion of the progressive youth movement as politically organised in AAC and LP with genuinely mobilised working class content. This is the only authentic, ideologically driven Third Force I can see. Why do you think it has always been difficult for North and South to agree on issues of power sharing? The North and South had no problem fighting together against the British in the national liberation movement. Nobody cares that Michael Imoudu was from a minority ethnic group, but he gave principled leadership to the trade union and national liberation struggles. Mokugwo Okoye, Raji Abdallah, Hajia Gambo Sawaba, Funmilayo Ramsome Kuti, etc, gave their all without letting the sentiment of ethnicity and religion befuddle their objective of national liberation. The bourgeois politicians always seek for power on the basis of primordial polarisation. Bereft of ideas, and lacking any commitment to national development, they always seek to rule by division. Diversity can be a blessing. Plurality is not necessarily a curse. The problem lies in the class nature of our politics. What is your take on the recent actions of Islamic extremists by the killing of people they consider to have committed blasphemy without going through proper judicial process? The Northern elites, like other dominant elites all over the country, seek to divide the people in order to manipulate them to rule and dominate. They cannot win power any other way. You must have observed that all leading politicians from all over Nigeria refused to condemn the horrible immolation of young Deborah Samuel. Some even sought to justify the killing in the name of ‘respect for culture’. But, the truth also is that extra-judicial killings have become a feature of everyday life now everywhere in the country. We have bandit killings in the North West, Boko Haram killings in the North East, ‘Unknown Gunmen’ ravaging the South East and herdsmen, ritual killings in the South West. Nowhere is exempted from the horrible spectre of wanton bloodshed and extra-judicial killings. It has become a major character of the neo liberal disaster capitalism to which our ruling elites are wedded. The mass youth unemployment, under investment in infrastructures and production, even while humongous resources are stolen by politicians, unmitigated climate change, proliferation of small arms and direct arming of jobless youth for political ends are the real factors fuelling insecurity, religious and social intolerance as well as widespread judicial killings. Do you see the 2023 general elections being prosecuted successfully across the nation considering the level of insecurity in the land? How many people have died in the PDP and APC ‘primaries’ so far? The heat and desperation is only going to get more intense as we inch closer to 2023. What is your take on the reported attempt by the CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele to contest the 2023 presidential election? Do you think it is right for President Muhammadu Buhari to continue retaining him in that office? That Emefiele is still the CBN governor after declaring his intention to participate in partisan politics shows how our ruling elites have thrown the most basic measure of decency overboard. They simply do not care because people have also grown very thick skin to their unrelenting perfidy. But, we will not continue like this! Would you say that the Nigerian youths are ready to take their political destiny in their hands? I think the Nigerian youths, as demonstrated during the #EndSARS protests, are very vehement about the need for change. And rightly so. They are the worst victims of the crisis. Most basic social facilities critical to youth development have been destroyed. Education, the most powerful tool of readying the youth for today’s knowledge driven economy, has been destroyed at all levels. University lecturers are on strike as we speak. No jobs. And for those trying to survive in the informal sector, there is no electricity. Potable water, sanitation and healthcare services are nonexistent, while the politicians have corrupted large numbers of the youth population with their clientele, prebendal politics, into violent cults, drugs, and degeneracy. But most of the young people still remain decent and eager for change. What is your take on the ongoing protracted Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike? What does it say of government’s attitude towards education in the country? The ASUU strike has brought into sharp focus, once again, the problem of gross under funding of Nigerian educational system. And it is not surprising. Nigerian elites spend billions every year to educate their own children abroad and so have nothing left for the vast majority who cannot afford a similar form of education for their own children. They are simply indifferent. Nothing, even with approaching elections. Just shows how banal and arrogant our ruling elites are. It is clear that something just got to give!