Liverpool are interested in signing Serge Gnabry this summer, and are hoping that their relationship with Bayern Munich will help formalise a deal. The news from The Mirror arrives as Liverpool commence their hunt for a potential Mo Salah replacement. Salah could leave Liverpool this summer with the Egyptian refusing to reduce his contract demands. As such, the Merseyside outfit have reportedly been eyeing up the likes of Marco Asensio, Rodrygo, Timo Werner, and Ousmane Dembele. None of these pursuits are likely to materialise into anything serious unless Liverpool do decide to cash in on Salah this summer. Liverpool’s transfer team are of course familiar with Bayern’s having recently negotiated Sadio Mané’s switch from England to the German giants. Gnabry is a player who would certainly help to fill the goals void Mané has already left behind at Anfield. The need for a proven goalscorer would increase if Salah were to leave. Since joining Bayern in 2018, Gnabry has hit double figures every season in the Bundesliga. His 2019/20 campaign was the most memorable, bagging 12 league goals and 10 assists. He is the type of player Jürgen Klopp loves to recruit. A player with bags of talent bubbling underneath the surface. -Advertisement- POLL Remember, Mo Salah’s best goal scoring term prior to joining Liverpool was his 2016/17 season, in which he scored 15 league goals. Klopp would hope to elevate Gnabry’s game if he were to join the Reds. Arsenal reportedly held an interest in the German international before they chose to pursue a deal for Leeds United’s Raphinha. Speaking to Sky Sports Germany, Bayern Sporting Director Hasan Salihamidžić revealed the Bundesliga champions “really want to keep” Gnabry. However, if an agreement can’t be reached, Salihamidžić will try to “find a solution that makes everyone happy.” That solution could be a move back to England for Gnabry. He has rejected the opportunity to extend his contract with Bayern, and with his current deal expiring in 2023, a parting of ways could be best for both parties.