ABUJA – A frontline supporter of the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s 2023 presidential aspiration, Babachir Lawal, has lambasted the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant over his anti-Buhari outburst, saying the sentiment has made his supporters up North appear like traitors before their people. The former Secretary to the Government of the Federation in a statement said Tinubu’s brag that he made Buhari president was uncalled for as he was not the only one across the country that made the difference in APC ascendency to power in 2015. He said the timing of the Tinubu’s outburst was equally unhelpful, coming just three days before a special Convention in which the Yoruba are not the only voters, cautioning that the South-West should resist the urge to join the President Buhari bashing. -Advertisement- Expressing angst over the outburst Mr Lawal likened the development to the late Abiola saga played over again. According to him, Abiola won the June 12 election with an overwhelming northern vote, noting that the region, unfortunately, bore the brunt of the protests that followed the cancellation of the result. The statement reads: “Sometimes it is very difficult to support a Yoruba person in national politics if you are not one. “They have a way of making you regret your support because they eventually make you seem like a traitor to your own people. “Now all these comments about Bola’s Yoruba presidency and his support of Buhari without which Buhari would not have been president is bullshit. POLL “He wasn’t the only one whose support made a difference. There were many others from all around the country and they are not bragging about it. “You may wish to know that all of us Buhari supporters are shocked and pissed off by Bola’s speech on this occasion. It is unlike him. “And this speech is massively trending in the North and being given a negative connotation as you can well imagine. “I first read it this morning on an Adamawa group platform and the anger is palpable and all round. “Will Tinubu win Monday’s APC primaries without Northern support? “You would think Yorubas will resist the temptation of joining in the northerners-bashing game at this very critical time – the primary election is only three days away. It is unfortunate that Bola himself chose to join in this bashing game – choosing to speak in the Yoruba language and in Yoruba land in a manner that seems to denigrate Buhari. I could vividly imagine the discomfort of all the northerners sitting beside him on that podium. “This appears to be the Abiola saga being replayed. Abiola won the election with majority of Northern votes but they took the brunt of the post-election protests that followed. “Just survey all the people that are doing more meaningful practical things to enthroned Bola as president and you will find that almost all are northerners while his kinsmen engage themselves social media activism and Northern bashing. “When Yorubas vilify the North like this, our sense of fear and insecurity under a Yoruba presidency gets heightened and in the end, pushes us to rethink our support for not only Bola but any Yoruba as president for that matter. “Please, do not join our opponents to destroy our chances of clinching Monday’s primary elections.”