BAUCHI – The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has emerged the gubernatorial candidate of the People Democratic Party PDP in the Saturday’s primary election in Bauchi State. Recall that the Governor lost his presidential bid during the PDP presidential primaries where he polled 20 votes forcing him to come back to seek for the gubernatorial ticket held in trust for him by Barr Ibrahim Kashim Mohammed. The Governor was returned as the elected gubernatorial candidate after a fresh party primaries conducted at the Zaranda Hotel, Bauchi following the withdrawal of the winner of the first primary, Barr Ibrahim Kashim Mohammed. -Advertisement- Declaring the results, The PDP primary Returning Officer, Murtala Damagun stated that Bala Mohammed polled a total of votes 646 cast by the delegates out of the 656 accredited delegates for the primaries from the 20 LGAs in the state, adding that 650 actually participated in the election. “Having certified the process of elections in line with the constitution of the PDP, I hereby declare Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir as the gubernatorial candidate of the PDP for the 2023 General elections in Bauchi state”, the Returning Officer said. Speaking after he was declared winner of the gubernatorial primary, Governor Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir thanked the delegates for their commitment to the party assuring that their struggle will not be in vain. “I want to assure you that I am ready to work for the PDP, because in my own dictionary, there is no laziness. I am aware other parties have conducted their primaries, election not about war, but it is a competition. Politics is not about policies and Programmes, it is the ability to work for the interest of the people” “I want to thank my SSG who stepped down for me, he has done a great sacrifice for me and I will not disappoint him. I will continue to do things that will move the state forward because the purpose of governance is development and management of people”, the governor said. POLL He assured that the PDP will win the 2023 General elections because so far the party has not let the people down as it has performed beyond the expectations of the people of the state.