ABAKAIKI  – Ohanaeze Ndigbo has appealed to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and leader of the ruling party, President Muhammadu Buhari, to choose peace, unity and harmony above all other primordial considerations in determining who to support during the convention. The group said the choice of an Igbo from South-East or Ikwerre in Rivers State remains the best vaccine to heal and unify Nigeria, as the imposition of another northern Presidency in 2023 can heighten the disunity in Nigeria. In a press statement issued in Abakaliki on Thursday, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, secretary general, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, said President Buhari’s consideration of a Southern aspirant of Igbo stock as APC Presidential candidate will reset Nigeria’s potential. -Advertisement- He explained that all statesmen and patriots must seek to forge cohesion and brotherliness above actions that will put Nigeria on dangerous routes. He said: “A nation suffering acute hypertension and insecurity must prioritize tension-dousing options such as Igbo Presidency. The retention of power to the North in 2023 will be a recipe for political maladies, including migraines and perhaps epilepsy. It’s patently disingenuous, even foolhardy to abandon the principle of rotation of power in a Nigeria that has not outgrown the Quota System and Federal Character. “Ndigbo stands against the rising influence of money in our party politics. Money politics breeds corruption and wastefulness and undermines answerability and support President Buhari’s choice of a consensus. Our nation needs peaceful and credible elections to yield a genuine leadership anchored on bonafide representation, transparency, and accountability. At the helm, the country needs a young, energetic, experienced leader who can engender hope, promote national unity, enforce security and create widespread prosperity. The unity of Nigeria can no longer be taken for granted. It must be nurtured with fairness, equity, and social grievances. “President Muhammad Buhari has an opportunity to engender national unity. We implored the President to rise above primitive calculations of the PDP and support Igbo either from the South-East or Ikwerre in Rivers State to heal the wounds of the injustice of marginalization and unify the country. The Igbo nation will forever remain indebted to President Muhammad Buhari, the builder of the Second Niger Bridge, if he endorses a southerner from Igbo stock to douse the rising secessionist campaign of Biafra as nothing is more important than unifying the country with an Igbo as Buhari’s successor”.