The recent rumpus emanating from the Supreme Court of Nigeria in which the rest of the Justices joint­ly wrote a scathing memorandum to the Chief Justice alleging, amongst other things, improper diversion of funds meant for the welfare and general maintenance of the apex court might just be the tip of the iceberg of the monumental rot under­mining the court’s integrity. It is no longer secret that the Supreme Court of Nigeria no longer enjoys the aura of jurisprudential respectability and operational integrity as it used to be in the past due to a combina­tion of many factors of which the defective recruitment, self-serving advancement and the perverted disciplinary processes entrenched within the Judiciary are the principal culprits. I have written a series of essays outlining what I observed as the challenges of a fail­ing Judiciary but like most other preventive alarms, no one cared until the recent act of judicial infamy which pitted the CJN against his fellow colleagues, a development which by itself sadly signposted a new low in the long-running crises bedeviling the nation’s judicial establishment. We have had cause to write in the past that “There is no denying the embarrassing fact that the Nigerian Judiciary is currently on trial in the court of public opinion be­cause of the controversies that have trailed some of the incongruous and logically rep­rehensible decisions that the apex court and courts below it have delivered in recent times. All decent societies hold their judg­es in the highest possible esteem, almost as if they are demigods. The corollary of that extremely high societal regard is that they are expected to be incorruptible, beyond reproach and decently comported capped with intellectual acuity. That certainly ex­plains the usual deep sense of shock and disappointment by members of the society whenever a judge is found wanting either by manifesting awful jurisprudential incompe­tence or indulging in disgraceful miscon­ducts such as bribery and corruption. Perhaps the greatest damage to society is when the almighty Supreme Court goes rogue in the issuance of abusive judicial reviews knowing that they are conscious­ly undermining the faith which the public has reposed on them by pronouncing judge­ments that are clearly violative of the spir­it of due process and good conscience just because they have the inherent ‘power’ to do so. Our system of constitutional government is predicated on the principles of Separa­tion of Powers; the three branches of gov­ernment, i.e., the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary are all partially endowed with the sovereign attribute of immunity or protection from legal consequences for performing their constitutionally mandat­ed functions as long as they comply with the duly prescribed procedures and remain on their respective constitutional lanes. When however, any of the institutions proceeds to abuse such constitutional prerogative, anarchy takes over the nation. A recently circulated online document containing a list of individuals being pro­posed for appointment to the Court of Ap­peal and the Supreme Court is a serious cause for worry as it fails to respond to the yearnings of Nigerians that the apex court deserves to be empaneled only by people who have distinguished themselves in the legal profession as assessed from diverse perspectives. It seems to me to be a deliberate but dangerous ploy to foster judicial inbreeding such that would prac­tically perpetuate incompetence as well as erect a ludicrously low intellectual ceiling on Nigeria’s adjudicatory jurisprudence. Recruitments of justices of the Supreme Court have been turned into an incestuous turn-by-turn insidious process instead of “appointment” as specifically required by the Constitution. It has become the norm that one can only ascend to the Supreme Court from the Court of Appeal. That is a great disservice to the nation because once a nonentity finds his way into the judiciary, there is the unfortunate likelihood that he would one day end up at the Supreme Court as long as he remains in the good books of his godfathers! The Constitution does not say “promo­tion” to the Supreme Court. It repeatedly states “Appointment” to the court and these appointments are under the Constitution reserved for legal practitioners of verifiable integrity but with no restrictions whatsoev­er as to their areas of legal practice but is the self-serving and nepotistic empire-build­ing instincts of those charged with the sa­cred responsibility of nominating justices into the Supreme Court that have incestu­ously cornered it in favour of those already holding judicial appointments as if it were a vocational cult or a secret society. That in­stitutionalised aberration has unwittingly denied the nation the services of some of her best legal minds while at the same time promoting a myopic and mediocre judicial outlook. A credible and good faith headhunt should naturally be extended to the Bar, the Academia and wherever juristic talents are to be found. Some may argue that the need for prior experience on the Bench may have influenced that cultist approach. The prob­lem with that line of thinking is that experi­ence does not cure in competence. It is also important to acknowledge the obvious fact that fresh ideas are always needed at the Supreme Court for the sake of its vibrancy and institutional capacity that it requires to judiciously respond to the ever-changing world. -Advertisement- POLL It is therefore questionable that in the en­tire history of the Nigerian Judiciary, only Justices Elias and Nnamani that have been appointed to the apex court from outside the cult-like judicial establishment. The duo set adjudicatory standards that are sorely missing today. Any wonder why the court’s jurisprudence has seemingly been stunted at a pitiable antediluvian level of technical­ities as against the conscious deployment of laws as instruments for social engineer­ing? Supreme Court does not only resolve legal questions, it also occasionally resolves fundamental questions of politics, consti­tutionalism and the philosophical basis of governance. It is already obvious that the Supreme Court of Nigeria has not been able to creatively acquit itself creditably in this regard due to insufficient capacity. The US Supreme Court has a lot to teach us both in terms of legal reasoning, jurid­ical stature and institutional aura. For the records, the current 9-man panel of the court has five (5) professors: retiring Jus­tice Stephen G. Breyer was a law professor, Justice Alena Kagan, Justice Neil M. Gor­such, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy were all university scholars. Finally, Justice Amy Coney Barret, the latest appointee to the Court was, until recently, teaching law at the University of Indiana.” The present crisis of confidence under­mining the nation’s Judiciary will only get worse unless we change the system of recruitment which is presently more like scooping for the bottom. From the look of things, the various quality control mecha­nism that are constitutionally put in place are not working because it has been quite easy for well-placed individuals within the system to manipulate the recruitment process with the result that the NJC is me­chanically recommending judges that were improperly sourced and processed and the whole thing easily turns into a deep-rooted racket cleverly packaged as “processes and procedures”. The looming danger for Nigeria is that it those who corruptly brought incompe­tent individuals into the judicial system are also responsible for their elevation or “promotions” to the higher benches, there­by entrenching incompetence across the hierarchy which would eventually negative­ly impact the nation through bad judicial service delivery because persons who were not qualified to join the High Court in the first place could easily found their way up to the Supreme Court! That could not have been what the Constitution and the nation expect. But the sad realities confronting us today is that Supreme Court Justices have found themselves writing protest memos like high school students battling a bad class prefect because it is garbage in, garbage out.