ABUJA – Former National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, has expressed his gratitude to Credo Advisory for providing the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 with risk and strategic communications technical assistance. He gave the commendation in a goodwill message to the communications consultancy firm on its fifth anniversary being marked on June 5, 2022. The Abuja- based firm has been in collaboration with governments, international organizations, donors, and private sector to design and implement communication interventions to raise awareness on national and developmental issues. -Advertisement- According to Dr. Aliyu, “Credo Advisory has been a critical partner in Nigeria’s COVID-19 response. Their commitment to the response and professionalism was exceptional. We are grateful for their support during what was clearly a difficult period for all of us”. Headed by Mrs. Awele Okigbo, as the Chief Executive Officer/Founder, the consultancy also strives to build trust with diverse target groups, and to effect change in the national polity. Credo Advisory specializes in providing services in public relations, digital communications, marketing, media relations, development communications, etc. In celebrating this milestone, Mrs. Okigbo says that the firm’s success has been fuelled by working with passionate, dynamic people who share the same vision. She explained that “starting Credo was my way of creating a vehicle to support clients in achieving communication excellence. Apart from attaining significant impact with our client work, the rewarding part has been seeing the firm scale its services across various sectors and in Africa.” POLL Over the last five years, the firm has been providing best practice communications services to the World Bank, United States Agency for International Development (USAID), United Kingdom Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, among others, in addition to private sector partners. Credo is a strategic member of the Global Communications Alliance (GCA) – a network of independent communication and public affairs agencies across North America, Europe, South America, Africa, Australia, and Asia. GCA members are known for their award-winning campaigns and successful engagement strategies.