LAGOS – Seventy-two hours after the Lagos State Government commenced clampdown on motorcyclists on some major roads in the state, the government has crushed about 2,000 motorcycles. The government in a statement by Dr Frederic Oladeinde, Commissioner for Transportation, Lagos State said that the crushing of the bikes was in line with the ban on okada operations in the six Local Governments and nine Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in the state. Reiterating the Government’s commitment to the safety and security of lives and property, the Commissioner for Information & Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso while briefing the Press at the crushing of the impounded bikes in Ikeja stated that the exercise shows that government was not rescinding his decision. -Advertisement- The statement stated that the commissioner lauded Lagosians for the high level of compliance observed in all six local governments and mentioned that so far, 21 people have been charged to court for flouting the directive, while over 2,000 bikes have been confiscated. He stated that provision has been made for motorcycle riders affected by the ban interested in operating the First and Last Mile buses to be integrated into the scheme. According to him, the affected riders may consider enrolling at any of the 18 vocational centres across the state or access the Lagos State Employment Trust Funds to explore other fields of work, added that Okada was not a safe means of commercial transportation and did not fit into the transport policy of the State. Oladeinde averred that the Okada bikes being crushed were apprehended by the enforcement agencies from the six local governments and nine LCDA’s, reiterating that the State Government would not relent in its effort to ensure Okadas stay banned in the aforementioned areas. He further urged Lagosians to remain calm and patient with the government on the ban and assured that the ongoing implementation of the multi-modal transportation system would cater to the commuting needs of the citizenry. POLL He affirmed that more buses, taxis and boats have been deployed to ensure that commuters have decent alternatives to get to their destinations. He stressed that Lagosians should adhere to the ban instituted and obey all the state traffic laws by extension. Chairman Lagos State Taskforce, CSP Shola Jejeloye also declared that enforcement would be intensified in the coming week, sounding a note of warning to recalcitrant riders that any rider waiting for the enforcement team to weaken their resolve on the ban was wasting their time.