LAGOS – After almost seven years of delay, Nige­ria Air, the proposed national carrier on Monday in Abuja, received the Air Transport Licence (ATL) from the Nigerian Civil Avia­tion Authority (NCAA). The ATL certificate was handed over to Capt. Dapo Olumide, the Interim Manag­ing Director, Nigerian Air, by Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Direc­tor-General of NCAA. The ATL is a prerequisite for the airline to acquire Air Operator Certificate (AOC), which would enable it to com­mence operation as a sched­uled carrier. Nuhu explained that NCAA works and supports all opera­tors currently existing and aspiring in the industry to get necessary documents after meeting all the requirements. He insisted that the ATL had gone through all the necessary processes and hopes that the airline would be able to fulfill the AOC process so that the regulatory agency could even­tually issue the airline AOC certificate. He added: “As the regulator, we work with operators. That is a goal to promote the growth of the industry. It is import­ant to have strong airlines in Nigeria in view of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM). “Also, in view of African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which can make significant contribution to the growth of Nigerian economy.” Nuhu said Nigeria stood to get the best from the African Union Agenda 2063 Air Pro­gramme being one of the larg­est markets on the continent. POLL He said participating in SAATM as a nation would in­crease Gross Domestic Prod­ucts (GDPs). In his comment, Olumide lauded NCAA for the good job executed leading to present ATL to the airline. Olumide assured that the team would double its efforts in order to fulfill all necessary processes to receive the AOC certificate from NCAA to com­mence flying. “We already have aircraft identified because, that is one of the requirements for the NCAA. We are waiting for the terms of agreement with Pro­vider of Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM). “What we need now is to go through stages to get AOC certificate from NCAA. No magic in the process. It is not something that can be issued because they like your face. “When you have an AOC and ATL, you can commence commercial scheduled oper­ations. The date to start oper­ation is largely based on the process one is following to get the AOC certificate”, he said. The commencement date for the impending carrier had suffered numerous postpone­ments since 2018. -Advertisement- Just in 2021, Sen. Hadi Siri­ka, the Minister of Aviation, assured that the new national airline would officially com­mence operations in April 2022. He did say that the Nigerian government would hold a five percent stake in the proposed national carrier, while the Ni­gerian entrepreneurs would hold 46 percent. Sirika said the remaining 49 percent would be reserved for yet to be assigned strategic equity partners, including for­eign investors. But, in March, Sirika once again said the airline would commence operations in July 2022, an announcement, which created disappointment in most stakeholders in the industry. RecallthatSirikahadshortly after coming into office in 2015, launched an aviation develop­ment roadmap that included a new national carrier and other interventions in the country’s aviation sector as priorities. The project, a public-private partnership (PPP) is to replace the defunct Nigeria Airways whichceasedoperationsin2003. In 2018, the national carrier and its christening in London set the minister on a collision course with the Nigerian pub­lic after it was reported that the design of the Nigeria Air logo gulped about N80 million. However, Sirika denied the reports. He said only about N10 mil­lion was spent on the design of the logo.