LAGOS  – The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Lagos State Branch has called for the amendment of the 40-year-old University Teaching Hospital Act, linking the deplorable state of Nigeria’s health system to the obsolete Act. Making the call was Pharm. Gbolagade Iyiola, the Lagos State PSN Chapter Chairman picked holes in the University Teaching Hospital Act which was enacted in 1985, saying that it is outdated. Pharm. Iyiola spoke while delivering an address at the 2022 annual luncheon at the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja in Lagos, weekend. The seasoned pharmacist further linked what he described as the manipulation of physicians to the Act enacted by the military four decades ago, being part of the reasons to effect an amendment to the Act. -Advertisement- According to Lagos PSN boss, “The existing University Teaching Hospital Act was a military creation which was invented as decree 10 of 1985. This piece of obnoxious legislation has been the albatross on the neck of our health system for 37 destructive years. “It remains the foundation for the dangerous manipulation of physicians in Nigeria who with the tacit support of government at all levels interpreted ‘medially qualified’ as a phraseology that implies bagging of MBBS or MBChB or its equivalent in whatever form. “This clause has been employed in truncating normative civility in our collapsed health sector where physician emperors are foisted overall structures of healthcare at federal, state, and local government levels. Prior to 1985, it was health administrators or managers who steer the ship of our various health workers to stick and excel in their areas of due competencies.” The renowned pharmacist, while appraising the role of Nigeria’s founding fathers in berthing what he called a virile health system, regretted that the Nigerian health system collapsed following what he also said was a forced physician takeover, lamenting the negative health indices in the aftermath of the development as reasons to amend this Act. “To the eternal glory of the founding fathers of our nation, we had a virile health system which produced strong health institutions like University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan which was rated at a crucial juncture as one of the top five Health Facilities in the commonwealth under the watch of an administrator designated as Hospital Governor. POLL “Our Health System was cruising with fruitfulness and resourcefulness such that even the famed Saudi Royal Family accessed healthcare at UCH, Ibadan. “A few decades down the line when a physician takeover was compelled, the success stories changed into lamentations and negative health indices including staggering infant mortality rates; poor under-five mortality rate; high maternal mortality; worsening morbidity and mortality index in the health system, and collapsed infrastructures in hospitals. “Others are fake drug syndrome (as a result of the inexperience administration and management of the Federal Ministry of Health); incessant health workers’ strikes and diminished productivity, as well as stagnation of wages, allowances, and benefits of non-physician health workers. “The list is indeed unlimited and these factors, as well as countless others, have catalyzed the health sector into a permanent template,” he said. He regretted the obvious mismanagement of the Nigerian health system presently, lamenting that persons of questionable experience had almost turned the Federal Ministry of Health into the annex of the Nigeria Medical Association, thus undermining the growth and promotions of health professionals. “In contemporary times, especially in the last three successive dispensations where Prof. Onyebuchi Chukwu, Prof. Isaac Adewole, and the incumbent, Dr. Osagie Ehanire have presided in that order since 2011, a seeming death knell has been dangling on our Health System because these inexperienced physicians literally turned the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) into an official annex of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) secretariat,” he said, listing what he said remained the consequences of their time as Nigerian health administrators. “Some of the landmark ineptitude of this three past and incumbent ministers include determined bid to frustrate the specialist programmes of all non-physician health workers especially those that clamoured for consultant status. Prof. Chukwu was quoted in 2014 as declaring that the consultant status was meant for only members of his physician tribe at a meeting presided over by the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, His Excellency, Anyim Pius Anyim, to the chagrin of stakeholders present at that meeting.” “Also, for almost 30 years prior to the January 6, 2014 strike of the health workers, no non-physician health worker in the federal health institutions was allowed to get to the peak of his career as a director on the equivalent of GL 17 because the chief medical directors and the physicians’ caucus in the federal health institutions deliberately twisted the provisions of the University Teaching Hospital Act to imply that it provided for only two directors which were in the Administrative and Clinical Services Directorate of the hospitals. Presently, some of the chief medical directors have glaringly refused to implement existing federal ministry of health circulars. “There is also the deliberate frustration of every attempt to implement appropriate wages for health workers despite CBAs MOLLs, agreement, etc by the Federal Ministry of Health. A striking one remains the determined efforts of the Federal Ministry of Health to frustrate the adjustment of CONHESS as was done with CONMESS since 2014. Eight and a half years after Prof. Chukwu truncated this agenda, his successor, Prof. Isaac Adewole, pushed health workers to an avoidable strike in April and May 2018 after manipulating the system to favour the NMA machinery. “April and May 2018 salaries of all non-physician workers were withheld with open threats by Adewole and a despised Director of Hospital Services in that era threatening it would be paid over their dead bodies. As fate will have it, JOHESU pressure has recently received presidential approval for the withheld salaries to be paid four years after.” He continued, “It is notable, however, that the adjustment of CONHESS which led to the 2018 strike is still lingering because Dr. Enahire who took the baton of the leadership from Adewole is doing everything possible to negate the report of a Technical Committee of government and JOHESU which has been signed since December 2021 on the way forward on the adjustment of CONHESS. This continues to be the experience under physician-led and dominated health sector in Nigeria with little or no hope of restoring sanity. “The trio of Chukwu, Adewole, and incumbent Ehanire, all discountenanced various court judgments which recognized Medical Laboratory Science as an autonomous profession that must be regulated and controlled by the Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN). The status quo in most hospitals today is that pathologists have forced themselves as the Head of Medical Laboratories in Nigerian hospitals contrary to law. “In 2021 after 10 years of excruciating struggle to institute a consultant cadre in hospital pharmacy practice, the Head of Service of the Federation and the immediate past permanent secretary of the Federal Ministry of Health issued enabling circulars to legitimize consultant cadre in hospital pharmacy practice in Nigeria. “The due process toward this goal was again tested in January 2022 at the National Council of Establishment with another approval verdict given for the consultant cadre status of pharmacists in the public sector. Apart from UCH Ibadan and a few other federal health institutions where the chief medical directors have been very honourable, dutiful, and diligent to comply with this government circulars, over 50 (out of 55) of the chief medical directors of the other federal health institutions have refused to comply with government circulars because Dr. Osagie Ehanire was fingered as verbally instructing the chief medical directors not to comply with assurances that there will be no consequences/ sanctions.” He said the Lagos State Branch of PSN had continually and critically looked into the whole development, thus calling on the National Assembly to revisit the Act establishing university teaching hospitals with a view to amending same. “We at the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (Lagos State Branch) have continued to critically evaluate this scenario and we call on the National Assembly to a public hearing on the need to amend the appropriate sections of the University Teaching Hospital Act to pave the way for robust and dynamic health service in tandem with global best practices. “Specifically, the National Assembly must approve of a new condition precedent that opens the closed and restricted frontiers of the leadership of the Federal Health Institutions to include seasoned Administrators and Managers of cognate experience in the ultimate public and professional interest. Similarly, the Lagos State Branch of PSN has called for the establishment of the Faculty of Pharmacy at the state-owned university, Lagos State University. Pharm. Iyiola, in the same address he presented, recalled that members of the PSN in the state had called for the establishment of the faculty when Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu visited them during the 2015 gubernatorial campaign. “In 2019 when His Excellency, Babajide Sanwo-Olu visited and solicited the support of members of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (Lagos State Branch) in the build-up to the governorship election in the state, members canvassed the need for an autonomous and approvable Faculty of Pharmacy in the Centre of Excellence. “Today, we observed that lesser endowed states continue to establish pharmacy schools which are genuinely needed to stem the tide of a whooping deficiency in health manpower needs. At today’s rate of one pharmacist to over 5,000 patients, Nigeria seriously falls short of the current World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendation. “We at the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria believe albeit strongly that an improvement in pharmaceutical manpower manufactured drugs and phytomedicines, community pharmacists who can amplify services in the rural areas which continue to be neglected. “Our profession continues to strategise in 2022 through retreats put together by the Nigeria Academy of Pharmacy and National Colloquium slated for later this year by the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria. “Interestingly, these power-packed reform programmes will hold in Lagos and logically we continue to imagine that the good people of Lagos must be the first and prime beneficiaries of goodies that were baked and brewed right here in their domain.”