YENAGOA – The European Union (EU) has expressed its desire to partner the Bayelsa State government in critical sectors to foster socio-economic and infrastructural development of the state. Thomas Kieller, the Political Adviser to the EU Ambassador to Nigeria, stated this when he led a delegation to pay a courtesy call on the state Governor, Douye Diri, at the Government House in Yenagoa on Thursday. He said the EU delegation was in Bayelsa on a fact-finding mission to identify key areas of collaboration with the state government such as infrastructural development, human capacity building and security as well as key into already existing programmes of the administration. -Advertisement- Kieller, who said the EU team would stay in the state for a couple of days meeting with various groups, explained that their visit was also to prepare the ground for the EU ambassador’s planned visit to the state in no distant time. He restated EU’s readiness to work closely with government towards improving the well-being of the people. Kieller also applauded the present administration’s development efforts in the state, particularly the critical infrastructural projects under construction in parts of the state. In his remarks, Diri gave a pass mark to the EU for the success witnessed in all the EU-assisted projects in the state, especially the State Employment and Expenditure for Results (SEEFOR) Programme. He said his administration had taken steps to embark on more rural projects using the SEEFOR model through its Ministry of Local Government and Community Development. POLL The governor, who spoke through his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, said the state government was prepared to partner the EU to achieve sustainable development in the areas of environmental protection, security and manpower development through engagement of youths. He lamented that a greater percentage of the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) processed and exported from the Bonny Export Terminal in Rivers State is actually hauled from gas fields in Bayelsa, but that no revenue was being paid to Bayelsa as derivation for gas production. Diri urged the EU delegation to, as part of their fact-finding mission, carry out proper research on the environmental challenges facing Bayelsa as a result of oil and gas exploration activities in the state. He added, “As a way of narrowing down the issues to areas where we want you to collaborate with us, we like to work closely with you in the areas of security, community development, environmental protection and manpower development.” The Bayelsa governor assured the EU delegation of his readiness to host the EU ambassador to Nigeria, Ms Samuela Isopi, whenever she officially notifies the state of her intended visit.