ISEGHE AJAYI You do not need a Soothsayer or financial Advisor to tell you the significance of retirement plan especially when you have been working for several years. Every sensible employee must prepare for it as retirement may come early or later in life but the fact remains that every individual will certainly retire from active service regardless of the status hence, the need to set achievable financial retirement goals to avoid being a burden to your family and community. -Advertisement- And one way to attain your set goals is by proper financial planning and prudence. It is unarguably true that the present unfavourable state of the economy has made it almost impossible to have a saving goal due to high inflationary trend coupled with the depreciating value of Naira. But, every focus minded person is expected to have a purpose while still in active service because a day will surely come when you have to make money through what you have inside of you particularly if retirement comes prematurely and your dream job seems not to be feasible. What if your retirement is delayed and yet, you have nothing to show for it or fall back on due to lack of financial planning? That is why failure to plan for retirement would definitely smash your self-worth especially when confronted with financial emergencies and the wherewithal to settle the bills is not there. Do you know that some individuals prefer early retirement so that they can without fear delve in to viable business(s) that will give them much money especially if their monthly take-home cannot give them their desired lifestyle? Although, there is nothing bad in desiring to retire happily at a certain age, but actualising your goals may turn out to be impracticable as fear factor may perhaps set in. That is why, it is imperative while planning for retirement, you set goals for yourself which entails settling your debt, saving a certain amount of money and possibly investing to avoid financial regrets. POLL The following tips will help you to make your retirement goal a reality: Comprehend Your Goal Achieving your retirement dream entails understanding what your dream is all about coupled with the fact that you have to give a serious thought on the following: What do you want to do during retirement? What is your dream? You need to answer these questions objectively if you really desire a fruitful retirement life. Define Your Goal Define what you will need for retirement even if it is a long-term goal. A rough estimate will help you. Also, you can evaluate what you currently have, in terms of income sources and investments. Then, analyse the amount you need to set aside monthly or save yearly to meet your retirement goal. Again, your written monetary policy does not have to be excessively complex; it can be as simple as a one-page plan for easy implementation. Be Positive /Vision Minded Several people fantasise about their retirement and how to actualise it. However, it is good to think and plan for retirement as you cannot run away from it. To achieve your dream, you must be vision and focus minded, such that you must have positive mindset towards retirement as some people talking about it never change their financial behaviours, attitude and discipline. They only have an aspiration but fulfilling it becomes a struggle or problem. It is important to take a personal obligation of your retirement by having a vision and a plan to accomplish it. Implement Your Plan Putting your plan into implementation is the most vital step as postponement would only serve as a barrier on your route to financial independence. However, if you notice that your current pay cheque and savings will not allow you to reach your retirement goal, you may take further action by ascertaining ways to save more, cut your expenditure, jettison debt, or adjust your original plans. However, if you are almost reaching your retirement age without having a second thought or plan for it, it is not and never too late to start planning and setting a goal for it. Review Your Financial Progress Evaluating your financial performance yearly is a good one as it would keep you on track to meet your retirement set goals. Mind you, your plan is exciting, not stagnant and as such there is need to review your progress constantly or at least once a year to know how you are faring financially. It is imperative to also think about the effect that life happenings such as a marriage, promotion, lay-off, birth of a child and funding an education would have on your retirement plan. Still, if possible, make alterations to your plan as your situation changes. Manage Your Debt/Loan If you have a mortgage, ponder on ways to lessen the principal. This could include shrinking the repayment period by increasing monthly payments or the rate of payments. Besides, your payment will increase, but you will be able to save a substantial amount of money on interest. Or, you can take the benefit of advance payment/quicker payment options. Some organisations will allow you to pay a reasonable amount say 15 percent or more of the principal once or twice a year. Be Prudent The decisions you make can ruin or make your retirement dreams a reality. Many people rejoice over a pay rise but fail to effect the raise in their retirement plan by increasing their savings or investments. Rather, they accumulate more debts for themselves by spending recklessly, not minding what they actually need. Enhance Your Earning If you are troubled about not having enough income to put towards savings owing to your earnings, think of other ways to increase your income by working overtime, getting a part-time job or starting a business. Extra income obtained can be used to reduce debt and also, increase your savings. Have Spending Plan A personal spending plan is a principal step to retirement attainment. Living below your earnings paves way for savings so that you can invest it in a retirement vehicle for the future. Also, you need to go beyond simply tracking where your money has gone in the past and where to go before the month begins. Outline your monthly expenses and try to cut it by doing away with items that are not really needed or expedient.