LAGOS – Youth Alive Foundation (YAF), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Women’s Right And Health Project (WRAHP) and other NGOs have met during a town hall in the Alimosho area of Lagos on Wednesday to sensitize the community on ways to curb violence and exploitation of women and girls. The programme which was sponsored by CommonWealth Foundation was aimed at sensitizing women and girls on the laws of Lagos State that protect victims and survivors of rape and domestic violence, and where to seek help in case of violation, had the Baale of Orinsumbare, High Chief Akeeb Raufu, chairman Greenland Community Development Area (CDA), Pastor Kehinde Ogundimu, students, as participants. Bose Ironsi, Executive Director, WRAHP said that the programme was convened by a cluster of NGOs to carry out the sensitization of the community on sexual exploitations that happen around their homes, on the streets and what they should do. She said, “We don’t have to wait until abuse happens, we need to be alert to know when it is about to happen. “We have huge responses. We have had cases of sexual abuse and psychological abuse. So many people have actually come to report and you can see that there are younger participants in this meeting. We did that to sensitize them on the red alert, for them to know when the abuse is about to happen,” she said.On ways of ensuring that traditional rulers and other leaders respond to their calls for participation in meetings like the one they just had, Ironsi said, “We will keep pushing. We are here to bring about behavioural change so that we can reduce the number of sexually abused victims drastically. We want to ensure that families are together. “If our sensitization can bring the Baales to come, attend our programmes, it means that we are making progress. We want to have the gatekeepers, the custodians and representatives of the various CDAs. They are the ones who are with the communities because we are not everywhere,” she said. “We carry out a lot of mediation, we work with the police and government agencies to make sure that there are some elements of respect for the rights, integrity and dignity of people,” she added. Feyikemi Idowu-Fabiyi, programme officer, Youth Alive Foundation, said that they engage the community people in a town hall meeting to educate them on ways to safeguard against exploitation and violence against girls and women in Lagos State in particular. “We have our cluster members on ground working together and the programme is fully sponsored by the Commonwealth Foundation. We are trying to enlighten more members of the community on what Lagos State Domestic Violence Agency is all about. “There are a lot of things put in place to curb all forms of violence and exploitation of women and girls. “There is the child pornography, protection of survival, frustrating or willingly making false statements, the frustration of investigation, sexual favour in exchange for grades, concealment of sexual offence and a host of other offences which attract various degrees of imprisonment, fine of both. “The agency was established in September 2021 and it has spread with the opening of branches in all the Local Government Areas and Local Development Areas (LCDAs) across the state.The essence is for the community to easily reports to the Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT) in the various LCDAs and LGAs. “We have been able to sensitize the community representatives on what the Lagos State laws say and we expect them to pass the message to the community people. -Advertisement- POLL “In this town hall meeting, we tried to raise girls and women ambassadors that will continue to advocate for safe projects in the schools and communities. Ekaite Mbotor, the member of the International Federation of Female Lawyers (FIDA), Ikorodu branch, noted that their job is to sensitize the public on why women shouldn’t be raped or abused. “If you look at the society today you will discover that women are vulnerable, and some people feel that a woman must be violated before she gets anything. “We talk to the men and educate them on the negative impact of some of their actions and we sensitize the women on the need to speak up. “Sometimes some women are afraid of speaking up for fear of being stigmatized and sometimes for fear that if they speak up they may not get married. “Other times they keep quiet because of religion or culture, and there are times that the offender is a titled holder or an influential person in the community or in the church, so they are afraid to speak up. She added, “We also have cases where the victims don’t even know who to talk to because they don’t know if they will get into more trouble speaking to somebody. “We have handled a case where a father refused to feed her daughter unless he had carnal knowledge of her. The father has had carnal knowledge of her and even when she was forced to go out to beg for food on the street, the offender also had carnal knowledge of her. She was in a situation where she didn’t have anybody to talk to, until she finally did. These are the kind of cases that we handle in FIDA,” she said. High Chief Akeeb Adebowale Raufu, the Baale of Orinsumbare commended the organisers of the programme. “Coming for this town hall meeting has increased my knowledge. I have learnt about three new things today and if I should come across issues related to that in my domain it will help me to handle them, and again if it is not something that I can handle, I know what to do because I gained so much from this programme. “I had an issue here in my domain recently and when I called WRAHP, they responded promptly and today the matter is in court. “WRAHP has done so well in the area of combating sexual and gender-based violence and we have benefited so much from the relationship,” he said. On the advice to give to other Baales to take advantage of the sensitization programmes of NGOs, he said, “Orientation matters most. If the Baales are invited to this kind of meeting, and sensitized, in local languages, like Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa, they will listen and know what to do. If I had sat at home, I wouldn’t get the information that I got today. He said, “The government has been doing it but some Baales and chiefs often ignore it, which is not the best. If the government calls for seminars and they refuse to attend how would they get knowledge? I have attended over three seminars of this nature, organized by the state government in this month alone,” he said. Pastor Kehinde Ogundimu, chairman Greenland CDA commended the programme, pointing out that it is good because it has to do with educating the community against abuse, molestation and violence. “It is good because if there is no violence and abuse the state will be peaceful and the nation will be peaceful. It is a programme that should be done regularly. On to disseminate the information, he said that it will be done through their monthly meetings, where they will educate their members and urge them to replicate the same in their various homes. “We run programmes like this regularly in the church where it is also an avenue for me to disseminate the information. We also educate the teenagers. The moment the teenagers know about this early enough it will help ti=o curb the menace,” he said.