 LAGOS – Pat Utomi has asked Ni­gerians to Vote for situ­ational leaders, leaders that are knowledgeable and with deep profound sense of service. The founder of Centre For Values in Leadership and a one-time presidential candidate, stat­edclearlythatcome2023, Nigeri­ans should elect a ‘doing’ leader and not just a ‘talking” leader. Utomi stated this in Lagos during the second anniversa­ry and award presentations of Double Diamond Platform Global. In his keynote address, with the theme, ‘A nation in search of true leadership’, he said that the present situation of Nigeria called for situational leaders. Leaders that knew the way and also willing to carry the people along. In his words, “Leadership is not a generic thing, leader­ship is essentially situational. Certain kinds of leadership are required for certain kinds situation. This is not original of mine. “Many years ago there was a research on leadership which resulted in the book written by two Americans called Paul Hersey and Ken Blanchard on situational leadership model. “The circumstances of Nige­ria are that Nigeria is a country in great decline. Nigeria needs a transformational leader, vi­sionary leader who is a doing person. There are talking peo­ple and there are doing people. Doing leaders has to begin from knowledge. You can’t give what you don’t have.” -Advertisement- POLL On Muslim-Muslim, Christain-Christain ticket, the Professor of Political Econo­my and Management said he would root for competence first and a leader that is compassion­ate and committed. Also, Dr. Prince Obed Ezeo­nye, Convener, Double Dia­mond Platform Global, while explaining who a true leader is, said: “A true leader is one that knows the way and willing to carry the people through that same way. “The problem of this country is religion and ethnic sentiments, but in a situation where people put those things aside and look at the quality of the person that will take this country out of the woes then we will be tolling in the paths of progress.”