ABUJA – Applicants, including many Nigerian Consortiums on having stormed the John wood Hotel, Wuse, Abuja, the venue of the Energy Catalyst Briefing, Launch and Brokerage Event organized to provide a proper briefing on how best to compete for the InnovateUK KTN, round nine of a £20 million(about N10.1 billion) grant for energy innovations under its Energy Catalyst scheme. The InnovateUK KTN, the UK’s largest innovation network responsible for the implementation of the Global Alliance Africa project, had launched round nine for applicants to get a £20 million (about N10.1 billion) grant for energy innovations under its Energy Catalyst scheme. Sophie West, the Regional Lead of the Global Alliance Africa, said the Energy Catalyst platform is a key energy access-focused grant funding initiative, having invested more than £60m in over 360 projects in eight rounds. West explained that the Energy Catalyst, which is a programme aimed at accelerating the innovations needed to end energy poverty on the continent, is one of the UK’s biggest energy access-focused grant funding initiatives, having invested more than £60 million in over 360 projects in eight different rounds. Also, Ahmad Salihijo, the Managing Director, of Rural Electrification Agency, said the three key drivers for energy access are having the technical expertise, having funding and then the need for an investor-friendly environment. “So this particular brokerage event by Innovate UK, is timely as it is designed to connect players to opportunities both locally and globally,” he noted. Salihijo noted that Nigeria’s energy challenge was peculiar to the country given its huge population.The REA boss stated that in tackling the challenge, the government has rolled several initiatives to close the energy gap across the country. While commending private developers for their in the mini-grid space, he said more collaborations were needed for the country to achieve its target of providing electricity to all Nigerians. -Advertisement- POLL The Knowledge Transfer Manager of UK Innovate, Joshua Adedeji, said the pitch which closes by 10th August would require potential Nigerian innovators to partner with a UK innovator to submit pitches. The firm said around 9 focuses on countries in sub-Saharan Africa, and Southern Asia clean with themes on energy, transforming energy access and gender equality and social inclusion. The CEO of PyroGenesys Ltd, Simon Ighofose who won a pitch in round 6, said, Nigeria’s mini-grid market is worth $9bn or N3.2 trillion being the largest mini-grid market in the world. Citing a survey by the African Development Bank (AfDB), Ighofose said, “51 per cent of the Nigerian population live in rural areas far from the national grid. This means there are over 80m people in Nigeria rural areas without access to power. “Development of off-grid alternatives to complement the grid creates a $9bn (N3.2tr) yearly market opportunity for mini-grids.”He also noted that Nigeria produced 25 tons of cassava, rice and maize wastes yearly which can generate 18 terawatts hour of renewable energy equivalent to 2000 megawatts daily. The PyroGenesys CEO, noted that Nigeria has an abundance of underutilized agricultural and agri-processor wastes.According to him, Nigeria produces over 25 million tonnes of cassava, rice and maize residues which has the potential to produce two gigawatts of power 24 hours daily. “98 percent of Nigerian off-grid communities could meet their entire energy demand using the crop wastes available within a 10KM radius. Many communities have access to over 20 times more waste than they need to generate their entire electricity demand”, he added. Dave Nwosu, whose Nevadic Limited got £1m in the eight-round, said the group was developing a sodium-ion battery system for a portable solar energy system which is cheaper than the lithium-ion battery. “Very soon, Nigeria will become the testing ground for this innovation. With our partnership, we are making the manufacturing of batteries a reality in Nigeria.”