ABUJA  – The Vice President of all Developers in Nigeria Central Zone under the Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria (REDAN) and Chairman/CEO of ALBEN Group of Companies , Mr. Andy Elerewe has called for criminalisation of developers found wanting in the discharge of their duties amidst collapse building. He made this call while fielding questions from newsmen in Abuja on the incessant building collapse in Lagos killing and maiming lives. According to him: “If there is a tragedy that happen in real estate sector, it should be consider as a criminal offence, possibly, a murder case. If you are a developer and you intentionally does what is wrong that led to loss of lives, such a person should be treated as a murderer, because if you look at what happened in Ikoyi, a lot of people lost their lives, such a developer should be charge for murder and be made to face the wrath of the law “The Government have more to do because, it has to do with regulations and enforcement. If someone is building out of approve design, then there is someone who is supposed to enforce the law by correcting the culprit of people involve, for example like the case of building collapse in Ikoyi, he had the approval to build 12 story building, but he went ahead to build 21 story, so who do you blame? It is the authority that allowed that. “It is the role of enforcement agent that should redirect developers to ensure that the right thing is done”, he added. He, however, bemoaned lack of an enabling Act to check quackery in the real estate industry. He said: “There are quack everywhere, REDAN does not have an Act or law backing it. We already have a bill in the National Assembly and we are hoping that it would be pass and then we will become an institution backed by law. If that happens, it means we have the instrument of government to enforce and correct any anybody who is not abiding by law. We will now have the powers to close sites and enforce the rules. ”Developers are employers of labour, we employ architect, Surveyors etc. We have always told Architects to do what is right, if regulators approved 10 story building, don’t go and do 15 stories. Let the right thing be done. If we do that we would lessen quacks and building collapse. The onus now lies on the professionals to stop building collapse”, he said. POLL Responding to a question on flooding in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Elerewe said: “There are so many factors that leads to flooding, however, there is no doubt that construction is one of them, but there is no doubt that it is a lot more than that. If you don’t have a healthy environment, if you don’t clear the water ways and if people build without regulations it would led to flooding. There are other natural factors that could lead to flooding. Flooding is not only peculiar to Nigeria, or is a global challenge. “We have told our members to be diligent in building their infrastructure so that they can have proper drainage and discharge. And when that happens, u can mitigate against such disaster. “Last year in Abuja we had a terrible situation of flooding, and this year, we were told to expect more flooding, but they government is cleaning water ways now and the developers are also trying g their best, so, this year may be better than last year. “As the city expands, there is need to expand water ways. However, I know there are measures that those who have houses around water ways don’t lose, I know some we’re given alternative,” explained. Elerewe urged government should ensure water ways are clear, people don’t build on water ways, which is very key and also ensure regulations to their work by ensuring that people build according to building approvals. He added that, it is necessary that before the rains comes heavily, water ways are clean to address blockage so that we can have free flow of water. Speaking on the challenge of REDAN, he said is the bill. As it stands now, if you are not backed by law, you cannot enforce the rules, and you are not a member, we can’t extend the rules to you. But if the bill is approved and we are backed by law, then we can do a lot.