The National Assembly on Saturday reacted to the verdict of the Supreme Court on the suit filed by President Mohammadu Buhari and the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami seeking to void the provision of Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Amendment Act 2022. The spokesperson for the Senate, Senator Ajibola Bashir said that the verdict of the court had vindicated their position that the President lacks the powers to direct the legislature to amend the Act after it had been passed into law. Speaking further, Bashir said, Buhari’s insistence that the Act should be amended showed that he was wrongly advised by the AGF, Malami. He said, “The judgment has been given by the court. The outcome shows that our position at the National Assembly is correct. It also shows that the President is not getting the proper legal advice from the Attorney General.” Correspondingly, the spokesperson for the House of Representatives, Benjamin Kalu, commended the Supreme Court’s decision, saying that the lawmakers were glad the Supreme Court did the right thing, although they did not expect anything less from the apex court Justices. “Although many thought that it was either self-serving or targeted at some individual, the law is made to advance our democracy, especially to increase the competitive elements in our democracy for credible election. “What this means is that the confidence level of Nigerians, every day, is increasing with regards to our participatory democracy, and their belief that the judiciary remains a place to find justice for all. Also, a legal luminary, Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN, described the Supreme Court’s decision as timely, saying it came at a time when the judiciary needed to uphold its integrity. -Advertisement- POLL Speaking with the Punch, he said that the Body of Benchers was setting up a regulatory body to check the dysfunction in the judicial system, said, “We don’t want to present the Judiciary as an institution where anybody can go as a result of unnecessary anger against the adversary.”