EMMANUEL OBETA Email Marketing Campaign According to Computing History UK, Email came into being in 1971 and was first sent by Ray Tomlinson a computer engineer who also introduced the usage of the “@” symbol in email addresses. Gary Thuerk a marketing manager with Digital Equipment Corp in 1978 was the first person to use this direct communication method in sending out a commercial email to 400 people informing them about a new product which resulted in about $13 million sales (Gina Smith, 2007) According to Sirohi (2021) the average ROI for email marketing is $42 for every $1 spent no wonder email should form a very important component of your marketing strategy. Email marketing according to Mailchimp is the use of email within your marketing efforts to promote a business’s products and services, as well as incentivize customer loyalty. It can also be used to make the customers on your email list aware of new products, discounts, and other services as well as a means of educating your audience on the value of your brand and to keep them engaged between purchases. The success of email marketing is however dependent largely on your competence and skill and how well you craft your email campaigns. Email marketing campaign is a combination of two main things; the email as a delivery platform or channel and the contents you are able to deliver through them as well as how well you are able to utilize the channel peculiarities to your advantage. Email marketing is also a form of direct marketing as well as digital marketing. Email marketing campaigns can therefore be looked at as a series of emails a business uses to communicate with current and potential customers. This planned content is distributed via email with the goal of accomplishing a specific goal for the organization such as nurturing leads or encouraging engagement. POLL Premised on the knowledge that not everyone is ready to buy from you at this exact moment the email campaign is therefore a very useful tool that enables the marketer meet or make contact with the buyers at whatever stage of the journey they are in and to stay at the top-of-their mind by providing regular communication to their personal inbox that meets their expectations at that point in time pending the time they are willing or convinced to make the purchase. At the end of the day Email marketing can help you build relationship with your audience through the content you disseminate to them while also driving traffic to your blog, social media or anywhere else you will point their attention to or want them to visit. Emails can also be segmented such that you can send targeted emails to selected or targeted audience based on different parameters that appeals to you. The critical thing to note is that this system of delivering content to your prospects or existing customers can be achieved through software automation which relieves you the headache of having to manually reach these contacts with your contents at the desired frequency. It is also important to point out the need for the receivers of the mail to opt in or consent to be on the mailing list and consequently to receive content from the sender so as to avoid disaffection and also meet the regulatory requirement for email marketing campaigns. Hubspot suggested a series of steps or guide that can assist in planning for an email marketing campaign • Usage of an email template. This is important because of the huge number of emails that could be sent as part of the campaign any manual means of managing the campaign will not be ideal or work effectively. The template will schedule the emails for you, the timing especially the regularity of such mails, the recipient of each kind of mail as well as the groups for each kind of mail also. • The goal for your email campaign will not only determine the kinds of mails you send out but also the group of people you are sending it to, how you will deploy the mails in terms of timing and regularity as well as your recruitment strategy as well as the contents of the mail. Not every email list or grouping is ideal for every kind of campaign. • Understand who you are emailing to. Every individual or groups of individuals are different and cannot be reached by the same content, style or approach. Some people will require a more persuasive or rational approach in your engagement whereas others might be more responsive to some other kinds of appeal. Understanding them effectively will enable you segment them appropriately and reach them with the right kind of content and in the right way they would want to be reached. Understanding your recipients will also help you come up with the most suitable strategy that will offer them the highest value in line with what their needs are. -Advertisement- • Build a targeted list that is geared towards specific goals, stages as well as need of the recipients. • The duration of your campaign is also important as some campaigns are seasonal and may not require more than one or two emails whereas others are long lasting and will require a steady and gradual cultivation of the audience so as to achieve the desired objectives. According to HubSpot you should tailor the length of your email sequence to the length of the buying cycle and stage the personae is at in the buyer’s journey. • Based on the target audience and your desired goals you should be able to plan the sequence of the emails as well as the follow up actions required. For instance, to be able to achieve your desired objective you might need to break your communication into different segments with one following the other so as to support or clarify the earlier message and consequently build up expectation and knowledge to the required point of action. Different emails will also elicit different kinds of reactions which will subsequently be addressed in subsequent emails. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com