IBADAN – A few days to the presidential primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has said Nigeria will experience uncommon transformation if elected president of the country. Akpabio, who is the immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, stated this in Ibadan on Friday, while seeking the support of APC delegates from Oyo State, ahead of the party’s presidential primary scheduled for June 6 and 7. The former Senate Minority Leader said he is running for president because he has the ability and capacity and experience, based on his track record of performance, to take Nigeria from her present level to the next level. -Advertisement- The former governor said he is coming to Nigeria with a hand of love and a track record of performance that is unparallel, adding that he has seen it all as an executive at the state and federal level and as a legislator. According to him, “I came as part of the consultations to let the good people of Nigeria know that I am vying for president under the All Progressives Congress. I’m here to seek the support of Oyo state delegates to become the flagbearer of the party at next week’s convention. “I have the experience and I want to make sure I bring the experience of uncommon transformation to bear on Nigeria. “And I will also ensure that there is continuity in most of the laudable achievements of President Muhammdu Buhari. “The roads I constructed 14 years ago as governor, they are still standing till today and  there is no porthole on them. I believe in quality infrastructure. POLL “You can’t do good things for your people if you don’t love them, I happen to love Nigeria.  As governor, I opened the Government House to all Nigerians, gave free education to all Nigerians, paid for pilgrimage for all Nigerians irrespective of state of origin and language, and  I made sure that the same way I educated my children in Akwa Ibom was the same way I did for other children. “I gave them free and qualitative education, scholarships and even send some of them abroad because if you educate your children and you don’t educate your neighbour’s children, you are preparing armed robbers to attack your graduate children. “Everything I did in my state was world class standard and most importantly, I took my people to God. We broke the Guinness Book of the world record by assembling the largest choir to sing to the glory of God. “I’m totally a detrabalised Nigerian and I don’t believe in religious bigotry. So you need an experienced hand that loves human beings and  Nigeria, and somebody who has an agenda of Nigeria in his heart and practice,” Akpabio said. Akpabio was accompanied by former FCT Minister, Aliyu Modibbo and received by Oyo APC chairman, Mr Isaac Omodewu.