 IBADAN – The Ladoke Akintola University chapter of the Academ­ic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) on Wednesday stated that any branch that breaks the strike would lose out from the benefits of the struggle, including infrastructure development. ASUU said that her mem­bers have resolved to forge ahead with the strike and pur­sue it to a logical conclusion, which “is imminent”. The union, in a release jointly signed by the Chair­man and Secretary, Profes­sors Biodun Olaniran and Toyin Abegunrin, after their congress reacted to the threat by Governor Seyi Makinde’s threat to stop payment of subvention until lecturers returned to classroom. The union said the govern­ment should not see itself or students as targets of the strike but as beneficiaries of ASUU strike as the inter­vention of most state govern­ments in terms of subvention has been used as part-pay­ment of salaries. According to the release, the union was shocked to hear from the Commission­er of Education during his appearance on a radio that the state has been paying LAUTECH 100 percent sub­vention when the university administration revealed to the union that only 55 per­cent subvention comes from government and the balance of 45 percent is sought by the university through Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). The ASUU leaders stat­ed that the Commissioner’s claim on subvention has created further distrust be­tween the management and the union as to who is telling the truth and who is not. According to LAUTECH ASUU, the responsibility of capital projects has been total­ly abdicated and surrendered to TETFUND. POLL They further noted that lecturers were very sensitive to the plight of the students but said that the Government should thank the union for the struggle, which has helped in training its members in hu­man capacity development through TETFUND grants. “The congress of ASUU, LAUTECH branch was held on Tuesday, 07/06/2022. The congress deliberated exten­sively on the press interview granted to the Honourable Commissioner of Education, Science and Technology by Fresh FM on Saturday 28th of May, 2022 and His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde by BCOS on Saturday, 4th June, 2022, respectively. In the inter­view, the Honourable Com­missioner stated that LAUT­ECH has been receiving full subvention.