Gombe State Deputy Governor, Dr Manasseh Daniel Jatau has been inaugurated to head the State’s APC reconciliation committee after fallouts of its congresses and primaries. The State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, while inaugurating the 21-man Reconciliation Committee charged members to resolve all grievances that arose from the just concluded congresses and primaries of the ruling party in the state. According to the Governor, the committee is specifically inaugurated with the sole responsibility of harmonizing and uniting members of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. He explained that the setting up of the committee became necessary in view of the seeming differences that ensued during the just concluded party primaries in the State. He said, “in a contest such as the just concluded APC primaries, it is practically impossible for all the yearnings and aspirations of every contestant to be met without some form of misgivings, reservations or grievances arising from the process”. He observed that political contests are often followed by grievances which makes it imperative for any progressive leadership to come up with a system that will holistically address the concerns of all members for the purpose of maintaining a balance in the system. The Governor also noted that the constitution of the Reconciliation Committee is not peculiar to Gombe State alone as other states across the country and at the national level have equally established the same to bring back all aggrieved members of the party to the negotiation table. “The President had even sat with some aggrieved members of the National Assembly in an attempt to arrive at a middle ground in the interest of the party”, Governor Inuwa stressed. -Advertisement- POLL He also maintained that the APC in Gombe State is rock solid considering its numerical strength as well as the infrastructural development it was able to provide for the people of the State in the last three years. Responding, the Chairman of the committee and State Deputy Governor, Dr Manassah Daniel Jatau, commended the Governor for deeming it necessary to constitute the committee which he described as a step towards re-uniting and repositioning the party ahead of the 2023 general election. “There is no gain saying the fact that in every contest a winner must emerge, and in the process of the contest sometimes feelings of dissatisfaction by some members come about. “However being members of the same APC political family, the compelling need to come together, discuss and comprehend the situation of the entire family must be done and that is why this committee has become necessary”, the Deputy Governor maintained. Earlier, the Gombe State APC Chairman, Hon. Nitte Amangal reeled out the committee’s terms of reference to include: identifying aggrieved members of the APC following the outcome of the last Primary elections and discussing with such members towards reconciliation; Suggest possible realignment of such aggrieved members and compensation where necessary and suggest the avoidance of such occurrence in the future. The Committee has two weeks within which to submit its report to the leadership of the party.