The All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate for Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency and Ex-Deputy Speaker of Plateau Assembly, Hon. Baba Hassan has warned against spilling the blood of innocent citizens as campaigns for the 2023 elections gets underway. Hassan in an interview with newsmen on Friday in Jos noted that he kicks against a situation whereby innocent Nigerians’ blood will be spilt simply because of his ambition to contest elective positions in the forthcoming general elections. According to him, it is only God that gives power to whoever he wishes, no matter his support base,  arguing that “If there will be bloodshed and I will be the cause, God should not give me victory.” The former Deputy Speaker and currently the member representing Jos North-North State Constituency in the Plateau State house of assembly advised that campaigns should be based on issues, the political parties and not on religion or ethnicity. He pointed out that if elected, the good people of his constituency should expect good legislation that will have a direct bearing on their lives as he has been in the business of legislation for the past 16 years. Hassan further said that as a former deputy speaker, he has the required experience to serve his people in a higher capacity and to consolidate on the gains of democracy by the governor Lalong administration on the plateau. Speaking on the Muslim-Muslim ticket for APC presidential candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate as being canvassed in some quarters, Hassan said the Muslim-Christian ticket will be best for this country at this moment. He added that there is an urgent need to carry every segment of the society along in governance so that everybody will have a sense of belonging and contribute his/her quota to the growth and development of Nigeria. -Advertisement- POLL The lawmaker also called on the APC presidential candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the party leadership to consider Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State as running mate to Tinubu in view of his track records. He added that Governor Lalong being the Chairman of the Northern Governors’ Forum and a Christian from the North If chosen as Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s running mate is like putting a right square peg in a right square hole, he said.