The people of Iseyin, in Iseyin Local Government, the hometown of the next Chief Justice of Nigeria, Olukayode Ariwoola have been jubilating over the elevation of the new CJN. This is coming on the heels of the resignation of the former Chief Justice, Tanko Muhammed on the grounds of ill-health on Monday morning. The Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Dr. Abdul-Ganiy Salawudeen Adekunle Oloogunebi Ajinese 1, while speaking with reporters at Ibadan, congratulated the new CJN, attributing the elevation to years of toil, dedication and brilliant legal sojourn by Justice Ariwoola. The monarch said the achievement would go into the history of the ancient town and that one of its sons has made a remarkable accomplishment in the legal and judiciary system during his reign as the Aseyin of Iseyin. “Today, I am so happy about this development of the elevation of Justice Olukayode Ariwoola to the esteemed, apex position in the judiciary, which is the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), he has made history as the first son of Oyo State, Oke-Ogun and Iseyin to attain this feat. “I wish every youth of today will take after this achievement which is a product of years of legal toil, dedication to the legal career and a brilliant legal sojourn by the new CJN. now I can say that during my own time, Iseyin has been again put in the mouths of people around the world.” The Iseyin Development Union (I.D.U) in a statement, signed by its National President, Alhaji Bayo Raji on Monday afternoon, said the body, which represented the interest and aspirations of the people of the community was proud and happy about the new CJN’s achievement as it would serve as a veritable point of reference to guide future leaders. Raji prayed that God will guide the new Chief Justice of the Federation to deliver justice with the fear of God with the maintenance of the Rule of Law, equity and good conscience in his new judicial endeavours. -Advertisement- POLL “On behalf of Kabiyesi, the Aseyin of Iseyin, His Royal Highness, Oba AbdulGaniy Adekunle Salaudeen, Ajinese I and all sons and daughters of Iseyin, both at home and in the diaspora, we hereby congratulate our father, elder and a great son of Iseyin and indeed Nigeria, Justice Kayode Ariwoola, the new Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on his elevation to the exalted position. “This is marvellous in our eyes, it is a well-deserved and long-awaited elevation and we are very happy about it, we pray to the Almighty Allah to always guide him in delivering Justice with the fear of God while maintaining the Rule of Law, Equity and Good Conscience, the whole town and indeed Oke-Ogun and Oyo State, in general, are proud of you Sir,” the statement read.