IBADAN – Presidential candidates without demonstrable plans or provisions for food and nutrition security in their manifesto may not be acting in the best interest of Nigerians ahead of the 2023 polls, an agribusiness expert, Mr Jinmi Ajayi, has warned. Noting that such could amount to a lack of deep understanding of the enormity of issues surrounding food security, Ajayi, who is the Founder of FeedUp Africa, harped on the various challenges cutting down the gains of farmers across the country. He urged prospective public office holders to come up with enduring and sustainable policies that enhance the resilience of the nation’s food systems, adding that same must be well-informed, broad-based plans not soiled nor sailed by any craving for political mileage. According to the business development strategist and entrepreneur, the journey to achieve the feat might be long and tedious but would require a lot of creativity to come up with myriads of social safety nets for the most vulnerable. Ajayi said, “As the 2023 general elections approach, political candidates at all levels (federal, state, and local government) who have no demonstrable plans or provisions for food and nutrition security in their manifesto may not be acting in the best interests of the people, or may not fully comprehend the size of the issue. “It is clear that the food crisis was worsening even before the war in Ukraine and prior to the Covid-19 pandemic for some. In Nigeria, insecurity made farmers close down or pay unbudgeted premium fees for extra security, while ills like bad roads increased production costs. “Their livelihood is affected by further reductions in the income of their households and communities coupled with the psychosocial effects of selling properties or borrowing to feed. “The world today is struggling and it is unfortunate that the global south lacks systems to withstand these shocks. With 9.9% of global population hungry and over 190 million people acutely food insecure with rising inflation, the war in Ukraine, and pockets of conflicts and insecurity, we must brace ourselves as things may get worse before they get better. -Advertisement- POLL “The famine in Madagascar, conflict in Ethiopia, Congo, Northeastern Nigeria and others are current cases. We must not forget those in peri-urban and urban areas whose incomes have been eroded due to rising food cost. “Public office holders have their work cut out for them. It will be a long and tedious road. They will require a lot of creativity to come up with myriads of social safety nets for the most vulnerable. At the regional level, it is impressive that the AFDB comes up with series of funds per issue while President Macky Sall of Senegal and the African Union recently met with President Vladimir Putin to negotiate the release of cereals to the continent. We already have a shortfall that will take time to cover up. “The learning points for our leaders is simple; come up with enduring and sustainable policies that enhance resilience for our food systems. And these must be well-informed, broad-based plans that are not soiled nor sailed by any crave for political mileage. “We require deliberate and dedicated sensitisation platforms at all three levels, from national to the local governments. People should not only wake up to rising prices but understand the remote causes and see what efforts government is taking to palliate it. “This will show intentional leadership, push back the ignorance and exemplify the need to coalesce our ideas and constructively channel them for growth. “Quoting Pope Benedict XVI ‘Food security is an authentically human requirement. Guaranteeing it for present and future generations also means safeguarding ourselves against the uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources”.