Catholic Communicators in Nigeria, operating under the aegis of SIGNIS, have strongly denounced the ongoing murder of priests and other innocent Nigerians at the hands of robbers, terrorists, and kidnappers. They warned that the current spike in attacks on Catholic Churches, which have claimed numerous lives, including priests, could turn into a violent orgy with serious repercussions for the stability of the nation. The apparent inaction of the Buhari administration and the Federal Government in the face of these attacks has alarmed the Catholic communicators even more. This seeming silence, they quipped, does not in any way reassure Nigerians that the government is on top of the situation. This was contained in a statement signed by the president of the association, Very Rev. Fr. Patrick Alumuku, and the General Secretary, Mr. Tony Agbugba. They stated that the group noted that the time has come for all Nigerians irrespective of their religious inclination to be more security conscious. They particularly implored all Churches and Mosques to put in place stringent security measures that would enable them to defend the clergy, the worshippers, and the facilities henceforth. Reacting to the recent killing of two Catholic priests, Rev Frs. Christopher Odia of Auchi Dioceses and Bitrus Borigo of Kaduna Archdiocese, including the mauling of over 40 worshippers at Owo, Ondo State, the group wondered why the bandits have suddenly picked interest in harassing, and killing harmless clergy and innocent worshippers who pose no danger or obstacle to anyone, rather than their desire to draw nearer their Creator. -Advertisement- POLL They implored the security agencies at the federal and state levels and across all formations to intensify efforts to bring the killers to book, while also intensifying efforts to safeguard the lives of the citizens. SIGNIS Nigeria equally challenged the legislative arm of government across all levels to explore the possibility of enacting a law that would enable Nigerians to own arms to defend themselves and their families against arbitrary attacks by gunmen as is now being championed by the Zamfara State government.