LAGOS – Pharmaceutical practitioners, associations and stakeholders have collaborated to improve the distribution chain of pharmaceutical products, and check the distribution of fake and adulterated drugs in the country. Pharmaceutical Wholesalers and Distributors Association of Nigeria (PWDAN), organisers of the event, during its first annual conference in Lagos on Wednesday, with the theme, “Pharmaceutical Supply Chain In Nigeria – QUO VADIS ( Latin word for “where are you going”),  brought together players in the industry with the purpose of looking beyond profit-making through collaborative efforts, improve the distribution chain and check the distribution of fake drugs.  In his welcome address, Ernest Okafor, chairman of PWDAN, noted that they brought together stakeholders in the Pharmaceutical supply chain in Nigeria, the regulators, the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), manufacturers, importers etcetera, to ventilate on solutions to challenges that plague the pharmaceutical sub-sector of the economy. The chairman of the occasion, Prof. Lere Baale, Chief Executive Officer, Business School Netherlands, in his speech said that it is not enough to have a good product but the distribution chain is very key even as he commended the organisers of the event for bringing the various stakeholders together to rob minds on the important issue.  The keynote address was delivered by Solomon Aigbavboa, Managing Director/Chief Research Officer Sonedis Nigeria, who enumerated the challenges in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chains (PSC) over the years, stressing that the challenges have impacted negatively the performance of the chains. According to him, the challenges include but are not limited to stock-outs and product shortages; fake and counterfeit products; product expiration, corruption, political will etcetera. He said that the pharmaceutical supply chains in both private and public sectors still face several challenges, as a result, they have remained weak and ineffective, threatening the overall success, efficiency and effectiveness of the various chemotherapies and outcomes of the healthcare delivery systems. “Ultimately, the overall health system fails in its ability to adequately cater for the healthcare essentials of the population,” he said.  “Comparatively, even though the supply chains of the private sector are perceived to be more efficient and effective and are characterized by higher levels of availability of medicines, several daunting challenges still hinder this sector in the distribution of medicines. “According to a study, the challenges include poor availability in rural areas, high prices, poor quality and sub-optimal assortment, shortage of manpower and the menace of unlicensed medicine sellers,” he said.  Aigbavboa noted that to surmount the challenges, political will for local manufacturing will be the starting point and perhaps the most crucial factor in growing local pharma manufacturing is political will and commitment of the governments, maintaining that the investment and the driving of industry remain private sector-led and based, but that the governments have key roles to play through right policies, and incentives. “The main force that drove the growth of local industries in countries that dominate the pharma space today is political will and commitment. “Our governments at both federal and state levels need to demonstrate political will and commitment to prioritize the local pharma industry, create an enabling environment for the industry and give it the necessary support it deserves.  Other priority areas to consider in improving the pharma supply chain according to the keynote speaker are, pharma supply chain education and manpower, regulatory harmonization and cohesion, and access to funding among others.  He said that accessing affordable finance has always been a challenge and key issue for an infant industry such as local pharma in the country and that the medicine distribution channels in Nigeria have been described with many negative adjectives from informal, to chaotic, pointing out that while this may have been the case two decades ago a lot of improvements have been recorded now.  He noted that the various supply chains for the manufacture, importation, sales and distribution of pharmaceutical products in Nigeria are not adequate, effective, efficient and resilient enough to withstand disruptions to the supply chains, no matter the source of disruption. “Functional healthcare in the country will still be a mirage as long as our PSCs are systemically weak, vulnerable and not resilient. The implementation and enforcement of the various drug laws, policies and guidelines are deficient. “Even though a lot of laudable initiatives have been embarked upon by both public and private sectors in the Pharma industry, effective implementation of these initiatives is still lacking  “There is an urgent need for our governments to show a strong commitment and political will towards securing our pharma industry and accelerate all the initiatives designed to close the gaps that covid-19 exposed in our PSCs. “Given the inherent weaknesses we have as a country on account of significant deficits in infrastructure and resources, improved intra-sector (private – private) and inter-sector (public-private) collaboration is now, more than ever and enough of in-fighting,” he said. Distinguished guests at the event include Pro. Moji Adeyeye, Director General of NAFDAC, who was represented by Dr.Monica Eimunjeze, Director Registration and Regulatory Affairs, Elijah Mohammed, the Registrar of Pharmacists Cpoun Council of Nigeria (PCN) who was represented by the newly elected Registrar of the organization, Ibrahim Babashehu Ahmed and other stakeholders in the industry.