After a long drawn out saga, Barcelona and Ousmane Dembele could be headed for a separation of ways in the summer transfer window. The 25-year-old is in the final few weeks of his contract, which expires on 30 June and has shown little indication that he will sign an extension. Barcelona had completely ended negotiations with the Frenchman’s camp at the turn of the year after he had rejected the contract proposal tabled. But talks reopened in late March after the winger started to prove his worth and started performing well under Xavi Hernandez. -Advertisement- The manager himself was intent on keeping Dembele, forcing Barça to re-enter talks with Dembele’s agent, Moussa Sissoko. But despite multiple meetings held in Morocco and Barcelona, there has been little progress achieved. And, as per Mundo Deportivo, the Blaugrana are fed up with the former Borussia Dortmund winger and are now resigned to losing him for nothing at the end of the month. After a long drawn out saga, Barcelona and Ousmane Dembele could be headed for a separation of ways in the summer transfer window. The 25-year-old is in the final few weeks of his contract, which expires on 30 June and has shown little indication that he will sign an extension. Barcelona had completely ended negotiations with the Frenchman’s camp at the turn of the year after he had rejected the contract proposal tabled. But talks reopened in late March after the winger started to prove his worth and started performing well under Xavi Hernandez. POLL The manager himself was intent on keeping Dembele, forcing Barça to re-enter talks with Dembele’s agent, Moussa Sissoko. But despite multiple meetings held in Morocco and Barcelona, there has been little progress achieved. And, as per Mundo Deportivo, the Blaugrana are fed up with the former Borussia Dortmund winger and are now resigned to losing him for nothing at the end of the month. Xavi and players first impression on the new kit 2022/23The report states that Barça have run out of patience with Dembele, who is yet to respond to the club’s latest contract offer. And with speculations in the media linking him with a move to Chelsea gaining weight, the Blaugrana suspect that the winger has decided not to continue in Catalonia. It is further claimed that Barcelona do not wish to increase their current offer, which is pretty much a ‘take it or leave it’ deal for Dembele. And the Catalans have decided not to hold any meetings with the forward’s camp in the coming weeks. While the club have not set a deadline for the French international to respond to their offer, they are not going to wait around for him anymore and are starting plans for the next season without considering the 25-year-old Dembele. Furthermore, replacements are also being identified for the former Rennes wonderkid, with Leeds United’s Raphinha and former Real Madrid superstar Angel Di Maria being linked.