For three times in three years, he has been putting smiles on the faces of his employers and his young players as a coach, Fatai Akande a graduate of Electrical  Electronics Engineering who is also a coaching instructor with the football coaches association of African Nation (FCAAN) will be promoting three different clubs. Coach Fatai Akande who first promoted a Lagos-based side AS RACING from NLO division 3 to division 2 described the general experience as tough but was quick to commend (FCAAN)coaching methodology in-built in periodization as well as working on the player’s mental strength. Coach Akande, a one time player for crown FC, 3SC, sunshine stars,  played also in countries like Singapore, Russia and Malaysia. for the second time repeated the feat by promoting young and little known Ijebu United from NLO 1 to the second tier of Nigeria league, NNL. -Advertisement- His coaching Savvy was again demonstrated by rendering the popular cliche that “lightning does not strike on the same spot twice useless as he again repeated the unimaginable by taking young and budding talents better described as schoolboys to another battle for the NLO 2 campaign. The boys sponsored by the proprietor of Dannaz football club Danny Nazzal enjoyed a good atmosphere to thrive and were already familiar with promotion as they have been promoted from state League to NLO 3 and gained promotion again to NLO 2. The recent promotion to NLO 1 could however be described as the most difficult one for the team as they have had to play as many as 6 games within seven days. Coach Akande who also had the opportunity to represent Nigeria at the World University Games in Sicily in 1997 was thankful to Dannaz owner for the massive support this period and also said the science of periodization in coaching helped him a great deal. The teams, however, had to dig deep during the playoffs as they found themselves trailing behind but at some point in the game they mustered courage with pep talks from coach Akande and levelled up the match to take it into a penalty shoot-out. They eventually won the game 4-2 on penalties to pick the ticket to play in Division One. POLL While some will wonder what is so special in promoting a team, if you consider the cumbersome nature of the fixtures and the terrain of play among other logistics then you will agree with me that the efforts of this coach Fatai Akande to promote three different teams within three years are worth celebrating. Coach Akande is indeed a genius in promoting teams even when the odds are not friendly. Congratulations to Dannaz FC, and congratulations to coach Fatai Akande and all other members of his coaching crew.