P/HARCOURT  – The political air in Rivers state is incredibly toxic. This has nothing to do with foul air, far from it. It is neither the deadly black soot particles which has since simmered down and residents are better for it now. The toxic nature at this point is the effect of the emergence of the two major governorship candidates from equally the two major political parties in the state. The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, has since produced the former Accountant General of the state in Governor Nyesom Wike government, Siminialaye Fubara, from Opobo in Opobo/Nkoro local government area of the state. Recall that the same local government had threw up the former Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA and the governorship candidate of the APC in 2015, Dr. Dakuku Adol Peterside. Dakuku was the choice of the former Transportation Minister, Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi who insisted that the next Governor of the state after Wike must come from the riverine region of the state. Just a day after Fubara emerged the flag bearer of the ruling PDP, the delegates from the opposition APC settled for Architect Tonye Patrick Cole. The Billionaire businessman was again the choice of Amaechi who is also the leader of the party in Rivers state. Cole was the candidate of the APC in 2019 up until litigations marred his chances. Architect Cole is from Abonnema in Akuku Toru local government area of the state. It is also a riverine. Cole is an astute business man and an alleged business partner of the former Governor Amaechi. His father, Dr. Patrick Dele Cole was Nigeria’s Ambassador to Argentina and a presidential candidate of the social democratic party, SDP, years ago. So, it is only right to say that Tonye Cole has sufficient political background to raise his shoulders high anywhere and at any time too. Both men from the two major parties are undoubtedly accomplished technocrats in their own right. Both of them can also answer the question of upland and riverine dichotomy in the political equation of Rivers state. POLL They are equally the products of two political arch-rivals who, by May 29, 2023 must have ruled the state for sixteen years, eight apiece and they are from the same Ikwerre, a major ethnic nationality in Rivers state. Wike and Amaechi have come a long way in their political journey. While the former was a 2-term chairman of Obio/Akpo, the later was a Speaker of the state House of Assembly for eight years. Amaechi later became Governor by providence while Wike served as his chief of staff for four years and was the brain box of that government. In an attempt to breathe a fresh air of “freedom”, Amaechi released Wike to then President Goodluck Jonathan government to fill the state’s ministerial slot. Wike later became a minister of state for Education. This was a springboard upon which he hit his political stardom. To the shock of many, Wike fought his way to the Brick House (Rivers state Government) by a dint of hard work, courage and boldness in 2015. The profile of the two political prodigies of Ikwerre ethnic nationality keeps growing and no one dares to cross each other’s path. Over the years, they have only been acting as a loaded barometer checkmating the excesses of the other. At the moment, they have upped the ante of their competiveness to the national level by contesting the presidential primaries on the platforms of their political parties to become Nigeria’s next President. It is this unwarranted atmosphere of competition that has propelled them to want to “install” their choice candidates to rule Rivers state, hence, the emergence of these two technocrats: Tonye Cole and Sim Fubara. -Advertisement- From inception, no governor has ever succeeded in installing his choice as a successor in Rivers state. Former Governor, Dr. Peter Odili could not get it right. Amaechi tried twice and twice he failed to fix it. So, the penchant of establishing a political dynasty has always been illusive in the state right from the beginning. It is yet to be seen whether Governor Wike can break that decades’ long jinx or will it be yet another stillbirth? The stocking of the political atmosphere in the state is borne out of the fact that supporters of both PDP and the APC are musing different opinions. Both PDP and APC supporters are talking loud and tough and the toxicity is becoming obvious. The debate in all quarters is that since the APC seems to have cleared itself from every known crisis and litigations, the coast is now crystal clear for the party to take over governance in 2023. As wishful as this narrative may be, facts remain that the major crux that instigated the crises in 2015 and 2019 elections have not been settled by the leadership of the party, yet. Indeed, there is no known sign that these signs would be settled any time soon. The danger facing the APC in the state still has so much to do with the Senator Magnus Abe factor. It will be recalled that as a bonafide member of the party, Abe consciously pulled out of the last governorship primary held at the Adokie Amiesemeka stadium citing incongruous process adopted by the leader of the party, Rotimi Amaechi and his “cronies”, for his decision. Abe made it clear that he would not accept the outcome of an electoral exercise that was not transparent and fair to everyone. Days before the primary, some members of APC loyal to the former Senator had stormed the state headquarters of the party at 118 Worji road, Port Harcourt to protest the non-issuance of forms to them even after paying for such forms. The violent protest that later erupted almost marred the screening exercise on the day in question. Several gunshots by armed police men at the scene of the event culminated into a stampede got many people wounded and personal belongings lost in the process of scampering for their lives. “I have not said that Senator Magnus Abe must be the candidate of the APC in Rivers State. I have always said and will repeat, if we have a fair, free, equitable contest and somebody emerges from that process, I, Magnus Ngei Abe will support whoever emerges from such a process and the person will win”, Abe promised. He quickly added that, “if you go and cook up a process, you are cooking up to exclude me, it is not me that you are excluding, they are excluding all of you. If they exclude all of you, will they win? They will not win. So, it is not rocket science. We don’t need a riverine or upland candidate that is known to Ameachi. What we need is a Rivers candidate that is known by Rivers people with the capacity and integrity to deliver”. Moreover, it is not very certain that the APC as a party will still enjoy that much of the federal support as it were the wont in 2015 and 2019 when the ruling government brought its weight to bear in those elections to take over the state by brute force. Yet, it failed. Now that Amaechi is no more a minister, access to the federal power particularly to President Muhammadu Buhari is expectedly limited. This will not in any way add positively to the fortune of the party in the coming elections in Rivers state. Another landmine carefully stocked up for the APC on its booby path to victory in 2023 is the N96billion litigation against Amaechi which also linked up with the party’s flagbearer in the state, Architect Tonye Cole. An investigative panel set up by the Rivers state government and headed by Justice George Omereji had alleged that Amaechi sold out valued state assets including Omoku, Afam, Trans-Amadi, Eleme Gas Turbines, Olympia Hotel and suspicious award of the white elephant mono rail project to cronies. The Commission said some of these assets were sold to Amaechi’s business partner, Sahara Energy allegedly owned by Tonye Cole. The state Governor, Wike had at a point alleged that Cole also received the sum of $50million from the Rivers state government under Amaechi. He wants to know what such huge amount of money was meant for and what contract was awarded to the business man. On his part, Fubara also has issues relating to finance with the economic and financial crimes commission, EFCC, to the tune of N117billion. He is allegedly wanted by the anti-graft agency to offer explanations to suspicious withdrawals under his watch. More than anything else, Rivers people want to see how power will rotate to the riverine and who between these two major contenders will eventually occupy the Brick House in 2023. As aforementioned, both Tonye Cole and Sim Fubara give a ready answer to the question of riverine and upland dichotomy. Anyone who wins the next election, will automatically put an end to that agitation. The chronology of civil rule in the old Rivers state indicates that late Chief Melford Okilo of the NPN (1979-1983) and Chief Rufus Ada-George of the NRC (1992-1993) from the riverine had taken their chances of governing the state. From the upland were Dr. Peter Odili (1999-2007) of the PDP. He was succeeded by Celestine Omehia of PDP who ruled for just six months and was succeeded by Rotimi Amaechi of PDP from 2007 to 2015. Nyesom Wike became the next governor on the platform of the PDP from 2015 and is still running. Political observers believe that Wike has done more than expected of him to lead his anointed successor to victory next year. First, the governor’s resolve to appoint a woman, Dr. Ipalibo Banigo as his deputy for eight years running is a political feat nobody has achieved since the state was created.