With 10.5 million out-of-school children in Nigeria out of which 40 percent of them between six and 11, especially girls, do not attend any primary school, experts have raised concerns over education inequalities in the country. Similarly, education inequalities and malnutrition among Nigerian children were one of the major issues raised by MAMA Centre in a statement the rights group released to honour the 2022 International Children’s Day with the theme “A Better Future for Every Child.” The statement signed by Chioma Kanu, Executive Director, Mothers, and Marginalised Advocacy (MAMA) Centre, identified two critical issues jeopardizing as violations of children’s rights to appropriate nutrition and education. -Advertisement- A recent report by UNICEF estimated that 40 percent of Nigerian children in the North aged between six and 11, especially girls, do not attend any primary school; and the overall 10.5 million out-of-school children in Nigeria. In Nigeria, an estimated two million children suffer from severe acute malnutrition (SAM), but only two out of every ten of these children receive treatment. Acute malnutrition affects seven percent of pregnant women and seven percent of women of reproductive age. Only 17 percent of babies are exclusively breastfed during their first six months of life, which has not improved significantly over the last decade. Only 18 percent of children aged six to 23 months are fed the bare minimum. Despite global warnings that malnutrition is a crucial developmental issue that threatens a country’s future and GDP, the nutrition budget continues to be underfunded and delayed at all levels. The deliberate set of legal or policy conditions in numerous states across Nigeria have hampered the adoption and full implementation of the Child Right Act. Reacting, the right group plainly demands higher emphasis and serious measures to minimize the unresolved or persisting difficulties harming Nigerian children’s cognitive and physical development, as well as their productive future. As stated in the Child Right Act, this includes their rights to appropriate nutrition and education. Equally sad are the negative consequences of these indices for youngsters, mainly the girl-child who will be denied marketable skills, desirable work, and meaningful contributions to the country’s progress. According to UNICEF, just as the education crisis in Nigeria affects children across the country, some children are increasingly affected: girls, children with disabilities, children from the poorest households, children on the streets, children affected by displacement or emergencies, and children in geographically distant areas are all disproportionately affected by the education crisis. POLL “It is a shame that millions of Nigerian children have never set foot in a classroom. Perhaps even more terrible is the enormous percentage of children who enter a classroom but never go from primary to secondary school, therefore ending their hopes of a secure future. According to estimates, 35 percent of Nigerian children who complete primary school do not continue to secondary school.” Peter Hawkins, the UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, said this in a statement honoring the International Day of Education. Hawkins added that it is worth emphasising that girls have access to education in order for them to obtain an education that addresses issues of gender inequality. “All females have a lot to give in terms of solving Nigeria’s problems – and we need to promote their creativity and inventiveness,” he continued. “We also need to make sure that children are safe at school — no child should be terrified to enter a classroom because they are afraid their school will be assaulted or they will be kidnapped.” Furthermore, no parent should be afraid to send their children to school. Mama Centre called for increased access to education, and the elimination of inequities in education enrolment and attainment for every Nigerian child. It further decried prevailing policy laxity in Nigeria in addressing malnutrition and severe acute malnutrition among children under the age of five, which manifests in stunting, wasting, underweight, overweight, and low productivity. MAMA Centre says, it recognises and applauds life-changing policy actions and well-intentioned advocacy efforts at all levels devoted to advancing children’s growth and development, and pledged its unalloyed support for a secure and prosperous future for Nigerian children through dedicated programmes and activities, as well as a strategic focus. It demanded that existing nutrition policies, such as the National Policy on Food and Nutrition, be strengthened legislatively to promote holistic intervention in the prevention and treatment of Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM), as well as adequate budgetary allocation, cash-backing, and timely release of nutrition funds to ensure sustained intervention. Experts say that significant legislative monitoring on nutrition budgetary allocation, use of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund, and agricultural budgetary allocation is urgently needed to improve food accessibility, availability, and accessibility at all levels. Experts are imploring all states to adopt and fully implement the Child Right Act, which mandates that every child receive a free, compulsory, and universal basic education, as well as that every parent/guardian ensure that his or her child or ward attends and completes primary and junior secondary school. The Mama Centre emphasised the need for increased access to education, the elimination of inequities in educational enrolment and attainment, proper individual orientation, and public understanding and sensitization of the Child Right Act’s requirements.