The Founder/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of DAKA Foundation, Dr. Kazeem Adesina Abidikugu has expressed the optimism that the new Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Olukayode Ariwoola will bring to the apex judicial position, the competence and integrity that hallmarked his career. Dr Abidikugu, a United Kingdom (UK) based Medical Consultant and an Alumni of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife expressed his optimism while congratulating the new Acting CJN, who is also an Alumni of the prestigious OAU in a statement on Wednesday. According to him, “I congratulate Justice Olukayode Ariwoola on his elevation to the topmost judicial position with his appointment as Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. “It gladdens my heart that a Yoruba man, from Oyo state, Iseyin in Iseyin local government area of Oke-Ogun geopolitical of the state, also an Alumni of my alma mater attained the topmost judicial position. “His over four decades judicial career has been hallmarked by competence, integrity and deep understanding and interpretation of the law effectively and efficiently. “I am confident, judging by the brilliant professional records of Justice Ariwoola, he is going to contribute appreciatively towards the development of the judicial system and the country as a whole. “On behalf of myself and the entire team of DAKA Foundation, we congratulate Justice Olukayode Ariwoola and pray that God will increase his knowledge and prowess in discharging his new responsibility as the country’s head of Judiciary. Justice Olukayode Ariwoola was born on August 22, 1954, and hails from Iseyin, in the Oke Ogun area of Oyo state. -Advertisement- POLL He obtained a degree in Law (LL.B) from the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University). Prior to becoming a Justice of the Supreme Court, Ariwoola was appointed a judge of the Oyo State High Court in 1992 and later made a Justice of the Court of Appeal in November 2005. On November 22, 2011, he was appointed to the bench of the Supreme Court of Nigeria as Justice and he is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association, the International Bar Association, and the Nigerian Body of Benchers.