ABUJA  – Casa Cubana Homes and New Dawn Lifestyle City, two real estate firms, say that they have concluded plans to construct a smart city with 600 classic housing units and premium golf resort in Abuja. Aside the aesthetics, the firms added that its latest venture is meant to bridge the deficit in housing in the nation’s capital, Abuja. The project located in Jabi district, is designed to accommodate residential and commercial properties, a presidential villa and green areas to give the best experience of luxury living to prospective subscribers. The project consists of four, five, six-bedroom detached duplexes, four-bedroom semi- detached duplexes, four bedroom terrace duplexes and others. Speaking at ground breaking, Mr. Obinna Iyiegbu of Casa Cubana Homes said the scheme was a fulfillment of the vision to build a safe, secure and all-inclusive architectural masterpiece that will not only redefine comfortable living but also serve as epitome of a fast-changing lifestyle. He said: “We hope that the projects will open the doors to more partnership with individuals and organisations from all over the world that desire to see how a dream can be birthed through numerous investment opportunities.” He said there was the need to constantly innovate, adding that this brought to fore the deal with NewDawn Nigeria Limited to embark on the development of the property. Also speaking, Achema Akpa of Zoe New Dawn Nigeria Limited, said the firm is committed to providing customers value for their investment. He also assured that the best architectural designs would be deployed for the project. -Advertisement- POLL He said: “The evolution of work and lifestyle require a major overhaul in the type of houses we live in and the spaces we utilise. We envisage a community of vibrant investors who are enthusiastic about quality living and technology. Our proposed golf course and resort embodies this vision. We know how important rest and recreation is to the people on a daily basis and how convenient it is to enjoy a haven within reach.” He further said the firm is determined to bridge the gap in the industry by helping citizens rediscover the dream of luxury homeownership.