The Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ebonyi State chapter, Mr Nwoba Chika Nwoba on Saturday caused a stir on social media for using a cake prepared with Biafra insignia for his wedding ceremony. Nwoba’s wedding took place on Saturday at St. Joseph Anglican church, Ekpelu, and the reception was held at community primary school Ekpelu, his country home, in Ikwo local government area of Ebonyi State. Nwoba and his wife cut the cake before their guests at the wedding reception. The cake was designed in black, red and green colours. The three colours are widely known in Nigeria to represent the defunct Biafra Republic. Also, the cake has the Coat of Arms and the flag of the defunct Biafra Republic. It also has the insignia of a rising sun. Recall that since the proscription of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), which is one of the foremost Igbo groups agitating for a breakaway from the Nigerian State, by the Federal government, anyone found with an item bearing Biafra insignia is usually arrested by Nigeria security agents. -Advertisement- POLL In a telephone chat with Mr Nwoba, on Sunday, he said he did his wedding cake with Biafra insignias as a show of solidarity with Biafra agitation. According to him, every Igbo man no matter his political affiliation ought to embrace the struggle for the creation of Biafra. He, however, said he was not in support of violent Biafra agitation. “I actually did it to passage a message, that no matter our political inclinations, we still have the interest of the Igbo nation at heart. It is to show my love and my commitment to ensuring that the gospel for the creation of a country of Igbo extraction, comes to fruition. “So, I’m a fan of Biafra agitation. That’s why I said, okay, in order to contribute to the Biafra struggle, I have to do my cake, giving it Biafra colours. I’m not against Biafra agitation, but I’m against going about it violently. I did it just to show my concern,” he said. On whether he has been invited by any security agency for promoting Biafra agitation, during his wedding, Nwoba said, nobody had invited him, noting that security agents were on the ground during his wedding and they saw the cake.