The optimism of the possi­bility of a new economic, or even socio-political, order activated by the emergence of Peter Obi as pres­idential candidate of the Labour Party, which also gave rise to the enthusiasm of eligible voters to procure voter cards, has – in the main – remained at its speculative level. The optimism itself was fired by the promotion of Obi’s personality as a frugal, incorrupt­ible, and visionary leader when he was governor of Anambra State, especially as recounted by him at different fora organized by church­es or non-religious groups. Social media promoters have since seized upon and fanned it. Specific cases of church leaders exhorting their congregations to go for the PVC and be prepared to vote the presi­dential candidate that will protect their interests and give back Ni­geria to the youth of the country have gone viral. The responses to these developments largely betray a popular desire by the majority of Nigerians, mainly the youth, for reforms. Perhaps, the greatest dream of the Nigerian youth today is to witness a phenomenon that will reorder the status quo such that the boundaries which have kept the majority of the people in grinding penury and the mi­nority in perplexing affluence will collapse, and prosperity will then become the prize of those who truly deserve it – those with grit, ideas, and creativity. This is possible in a world where all are equal before the law and the doc­trine of might is right has no place; where the people are driven by a collective vision and their leaders are accountable to them. You can call this a pipe dream if you like. One thing I am convinced about is that it is already a reality in some places. But of course you have to understand my idea of prosperity as one in which the society does not owe any man a living but owes ev­ery man the opportunity to earn a living, a world in which you can travel freely in the day or in the night in the street and on the high­ways, a place where you are not constantly reminded of the part of the country where you come from, a universe in which little comforts such as electricity and roads are in good order, where education can truly be educating and inspiring, where you can practice whatever creed you believe in without mo­lestation as long as you don’t create problems for your neighbours, and where people who are suspected of running afoul of the law are taking to judicial authorities and not con­demned by unauthorised agents, and where indeed you can walk the street with peace and live in your humble abode in peace. Is this not possible? This is the humble desire of many Nigerians, but they have never had it. They have never had it because for years they have lived under the whims and caprices of rent collec­tors and barbarians who have ar­rogated to themselves more than they deserve. And while the la­bourers suffer the ulceric agony of deprivations, they constipate and fart from the splurge of avarice. And for long they have gradually sunk into the irredeemable delu­sion of grandeur – permit me to use that overburdened expression – so deeply they now believe they can have everyone under their feet every time. But, alas, every season must pass, and this season shall not tarry for much too long – except I have misinterpreted the writing on the wall to mean the same thing as MENE MENE TEKEL UP­HARSIN. In which case, I should be forgiven – I am not Daniel. In any case, just as the Peter Obi momentum has been building up, voices of ‘reason’ have also been contesting for our attention, voic­es which question the basis of the hope already being nursed by the youth and the Christian popula­tion. Former governor of Niger State, Aliyu Babangida, thinks the hope can best be realized in 2027 or after that but not in 2023, and Delta State billionaire, Ned Nwoko, has expressed a similar sentiment. These darts of cynicism may not puncture the dream but they are sharp reminders of potential dangers against the dream. They point at possibilities that could be ignored in the present fervor of political discovery. The cynics may have their points after all. Politics is a whole world of complexities that should be engaged with cal­culations and plans and not with infantile assumptions. One of the arguments easily made by those who doubt Obi’s chances is that he has no political structure. In a WhatsApp video sent to me by a friend, a female church leader, while responding to that point, asks the congregation to ‘stand up, let them see structure’. I understood what she meant: the population of supporters is the structure Obi needs to win the presidency. I agree with her but not completely. The fulcrum of political activi­ties is the political party. Peter Obi left the PDP, for obvious reasons, and went to the Labour Party where he could find a place to stand on and make his pitch for the pres­idency but how solid, in terms of preparation, is that platform? He needs the platform to activate his strategies. His supporters cannot be an unorganised motley crowd, they must have a rallying point in order to attract the brigades of undecided or stray voters and ensure they key into the vision up to the point of casting their votes. One need not stress the fact that the other candidates are not unaware of developments in the polity. They have ears and eyes, and they would respond appropriately at every point of new developments. Of course, many commentators have not failed to remind the pro- Obi camps that elections are not won on social media. They should ignore that message at their own peril. And for those banking on the #EndSARS phenomenon, they should understand that de­spite the popularity of that wave of protests, those who participated in it would constitute a negligible fraction in political terms. The voting population is a multiplici­ty of segments cutting across age, status, ethnicity, region, religion, educational background and polit­ical persuasions. To make inroads into these segments, there must be a viable and visible machinery or structure to coordinate actions. This is where the party and its sup­port bases play a key role. Let us not think that because everyone has complained about the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Pro­gressives Congress they would all ambulate to the Labour Party be­cause of Peter Obi. Who is he to them? How many of these people are under the social media spell, and even if they are, is the Peter Obi virtue the only one on sale on the internet? For all practical purposes, if they are indeed sincere about their support, the Nigeria Labour Con­gress and Trade Union Congress, which constitute the core of the Labour Party, should move fast and get their steering committees into action to rally workers into the field work that is required to rev up significant support for the workers’ takeover which they have promised, bearing in mind that in­dividuals, among the workforce, have their own sympathies and antipathies. The Labour Party itself has to get cracking – source for funds, open offices in different parts of the country, recruit coordinators and activators, and strategise on wide-scale publicity. Election­eering is a serious business. The party is at a disadvantage because – unlike the PDP or APC – it has never really been on the ground. So, it has to move ahead of the commencement of campaigns in September. At the moment, every­thing is just rolling on the wheels of social media messages and minor youthful rallies. More con­sequential actions are required to concretise what is at present a nebulous movement. -Advertisement- POLL I am convinced that we are at a momentous point in the history of our beleaguered nation. Take it or leave it, 2023 is going to be like no other year we have seen before. There are many conver­gences and divergences. We have political forces that are made up of such elements that can split tradi­tional affinities and loyalties, and are equally festooned with all the trappings of desperate politicking, including hot-headed followership and massive monetization. All of which have the potential to exac­erbate our prodigious disharmo­nies. We have already seen some of this even at the stage of mere voter registration. We need all the political maturity we can summon to navigate these promising but treacherous times. And as for our dream of a new Nigeria, it’s all still our choice to make. My sympathies are with the apostles of change, not like we have seen since 2015. We need a complete paradigm shift. We need a different political culture with new codes and new sets of play­ers, at least since we have almost generally agreed that we have been living in self-denial while propping up egoists and jingoists in our blind attempts to hold on to fossilized nonsense. So, for all true patriots and progressives, for all who have in critical moments asks themselves ‘why-why?’ it’s another opportunity – the march to freedom begins today. If we lose it now, we may never get it again. This message is intended to crack the complacencies of Obi’s supporters and stir them into historic action. Let them be wary of illusion and cheap optimism. Those who bring about change are those who take action not those who dream about it. They must organize now.