***Order His Salaries Be Paid From March, 2019 GOMBE – The National Industrial Court of Nigeria has nullified the dismissal of Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Adamu Abare by the Nigeria Police Force. The Nigeria Police Force had in 2019 dismissed Abare from the Force over alleged misconduct but the Industrial Court ruled that the termination of Abare’s appointment was done illegally. Our correspondent who covered the court sitting virtually, reports that the presiding Judge, Justice Rakiya Haastrup of NICN Sokoto Division, ordered the police authorities to reinstate the claimant, Abare, with his entitlements. In the suit No NICN/SK/08/2019 Between CSP Adamu Damji Abare -VS- Police Service Commission & ORS, Justice Rakiya Haastrup revealed that Abare was not given due hearing before the termination of his appointment with the force. Haastrup stressed that aside been an infringement on the fundamental rights of Abare, his dismissal was devoid of civil service established rules. Parts of the judgement reads: “The jurisdiction in the allegations is vested in the court and it can’t be usurped by any administrative tribunal. “The reason is simple, where there are allegations of fraud and forgery the matter is beyond the power of an administrative panel, it has been pronounced by the court of law and it requires judicial processes. -Advertisement- POLL “In this case, the respondent was accused of misconduct amounting to criminal offence, the circumstance the trial court and courts of appeal rightly found the respondent should not have been tried by the ordinary court before his dismissal from employment. “There is nothing before me to show defendant resorted to the court of law to determine criminal allegations before the claimant before reaching the decision to dismiss the claimant,” she said. She added that, “The claimant was entitled to a fair hearing but was not given one. On this ground alone, I must declare his dismissal null and void, I so move. “The claimant will be entitled to reinstatement. The claimant, a Chief Superintendent of Police, is entitled to remain so, following the order of this court restating the claimant, this is without prejudice to the claimants promotion. “The claimant is entitled to his emoluments, entitlements and other privileges as applicable to his rank in the service of the Nigeria Police Force until his appointment is lawfully terminated. “It is the judgement of this court that the defendant, their agents shall pay the claimant all accrued salaries, emoluments, benefit from March 27 2019 when claimant was removed from office”, the court ruled. Abare, a Chief Superintendent of Police prior to the termination of his appointment was on grade level 12, step eight with net pay salary of N170, 000.