LAGOS – Business mogul and philanthropist, Chief Emeka Agba, the Odagbulu Ihe Dagbulu Ihe Dagbulu Enyi 1 of Igboland, has explained why he is building a sports academy in Anambra State where he hails from. Speaking with Daily Independent in an interview at the weekend, he said that he wants to develop the sport’s potential of young people in the state. He stated that many young people have potential, which is not developed because they did have the facilities and conducive environment to do so. He also disclosed that he wants to build a sports academy in order to take young people off the streets. He argued that most of the security issues that are threatening the country are being perpetuated by the youths and stressed the need to engage them in a productive venture like sports. “There are too many young people on the streets and many of them are into unwholesome activities. As the saying goes, ‘an idle hand is the devil’s workshop’. I want to give young people the opportunity to learn a sport, excel at it and contribute to the development of the nation,” he stated. Agba, who is the chief executive officer of Agba Gold Nigeria Limited and president of Emeka Agba Foundation, argued that sports are veritable tools of development, and stressed the need for the government and people of goodwill to invest in young people through sports.According to him, sports are a lucrative business where sportsmen and women have become famous and wealthy through their exploits in different sports. He cited LeBron James, Michael Jordan, Mike Tyson, the William sisters as good examples of people who have made it through sports, adding that he wants to replicate the same in Nigeria. Agba disclosed that he drew his inspiration from his father, who he described as a very strong man that was nicknamed “Napo the Killer”, adding that his father did not have the facilities to train and horn his skills. He said that he is building the sports academy to prevent what happened to his father from happening to young Nigerians. -Advertisement- POLL He revealed that he would make it a national project, adding that he is already receiving support from some Nigerians and other people overseas.Agba called on young Nigerians to eschew violence and do something productive with their lives.