One of the foremost Yoruba diaspora organizations, Yoruba One Voice (YOV) has said that the only solution to the myriads of problems bedevilling Nigeria is to embrace regionalism as the best option to accommodate the yearnings of other ethnic nationalities or review the country’s existence through renegotiation. Rising from its annual conference held virtually on Tuesday, YOV in a communique issued after the meeting maintained that the present situation in the country depends on the will of the people to put their destiny in their own hands. The apex Yoruba diaspora group, while insisting that it will not fall for the bumpy traps of detractors in its determination to seek liberation of the Yoruba race, condoled with the government of Ondo State and the people of the state on the Sunday’s gruesome killing of scores of worshippers of St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo. YOV also blamed the Federal Government for failing to secure the country, saying the attack on the Catholic church where about 75 people were killed; the killing of Deborah Samuel in Sokoto, and that of a Catholic Church priest in Abuja, are nothing but signs of imminent war in Yoruba land. It, however, urged all Yoruba sons and daughters, both home and in the Diaspora to get themselves prepared for imminent war. Meanwhile, in his address at the meeting, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, who is also the global Convener of the group, stated that the multifaceted problems affecting Nigeria can only be solved through regionalism. Adams, while explaining the rationale behind YOV’s quest for regionalism as a solution to the problem of the country, reaffirmed the group’s commitment to the emancipation of the Yoruba race, saying the Yoruba diaspora group will continue to use all possible means to seek the blessing of the international community. “YOV has done creditably well in putting up this kind of conference annually to raise our hope that there is light at the end of the tunnel. POLL “So, as the country is going now, there is no doubt that Nigeria is heading to an inglorious descent. As far as I am concerned, it is either regionalism or we renegotiate the totality of Nigeria’s existence,” he said.