According to Sky Italia, Inter Milan have been handed a major boost in their pursuit of Romelu Lukaku, as Chelsea have now given the green light to the loan of Romelu Lukaku. They are prepared to listen to offers from the Serie A giants, who may need to pay a hefty premium for the loan. Chelsea’s green light could mean a lot for Inter, especially considering how this transaction seemed almost impossible a few weeks ago. Although the situation is far from ideal from the Italian club’s perspective, there is certainly a possibility for them to have their former talisman back at Giuseppe Meazza ahead of the new season. Lukaku had racked up 64 goals and 16 assists during his short two-year spell at Inter. He was able to successfully re-establish his career following a dodgy spell at Manchester United and helped the Nerazzurri seal the Serie A title in 2021 The Belgian’s performances earned him a big-money move to Chelsea last summer. But the forward has endured a miserable return to his former club, scoring just eight league goals this past season and struggling to impose himself in Thomas Tuchel’s setup. His dysfunctional relationship with the German tactician has seen Lukaku fall behind Kai Havertz and Timo Werner in the pecking order. And with Chelsea recently undergoing a major takeover, Lukaku’s days at Stamford Bridge are numbered, especially with the Blues prepared to move on by targeting Gabriel Jesus. Lukaku himself is desperate to leave Stamford Bridge this summer. The struggling Chelsea forward has his heart set on a return to Inter Milan, as he attempts to win back the hearts of the Serie A club’s faithful following a rather difficult departure from Giuseppe Meazza last summer. However, Inter Milan still have a long way to go before they can secure the services of the Belgian frontman. As mentioned earlier, the Nerazzurri must present a lucrative offer to Chelsea, paying a hefty loan premium. The Blues are likely to demand the majority of the money they had spent on the player last summer by adding an option to buy clause in the contract. It won’t be surprising to see the deal fall through if Inter strictly follow their conservative financial policy. But with the prospect of Lautaro Martinez’s sale looming large, it will be interesting to see how things transpire over the course of the coming weeks.