Scarcity of potable water in Jesse (Idjerhe) communities of Ethiope West Local Government Area, Delta State, was recently nipped in the bud through the intervention of the Delta State Government and the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP). To this end, units of solar-powered reticulated boreholes and an off-grid solar system were commissioned in Boboroku, Onyobru-Inland, Onyobru-Waterside, Edeje, Odokpor Quarters and Atiwor communities of Idjerhe Kingdom as part of a World Bank-assisted climate change adaptation project. The reticulated solar-powered boreholes and the solar system were jointly commissioned by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Dr. (Mrs.) Minnie Oseji; the NEWMAP State Project Coordinator, Mr. Isaac Ufiofio and the Paramount Ruler of Idjerhe Kingdom, HRM King Obukohwo Monday Whiskey. Addressing newsmen after unveiling the projects for public use, the Permanent Secretary who was represented by the Director, Sanitation and Waste Management, Mr. Lucky Adah, stressed on the need for the benefitting communities to take ownership of the projects. “It is not just the environment that we are concerned with, we are also concerned with the welfare of the inhabitants of the environment. Therefore, in a bid to take care of potable water scarcity, these solar-powered reticulated boreholes have been constructed in several communities (places) within Idjerhe Kingdom. “We must appreciate Jesse people for allowing the state government and the World Bank to operate in this community. We urge the benefitting communities to possess these projects; they should not let them to be vandalized. They must protect so that they can serve their purpose and endure the test of time”, she said. Corroborating the Permanent Secretary, the NEWMAP State Project Coordinator, Mr. Ufiofio, reiterated the commitment of the state government through NEWMAP and the World Bank to improve the welfare of Deltans, especially at the grassroots. In his words, ‘’the projects are owned by the benefitting communities and not the government. Therefore, the government has handed them over to them and they should be able to protect it. It is a build-and-take model and so they must protect their property because they are the ones to use it’’.