Alhaji Waziri Yakub Gobir has emerged as the governorship candidate of the Young Progressives Party, YPP, by party affirmation and has since vowed to occupy the Kwara State government house by 2023 as governor, just like its current occupant, Governor AbdulRahaman AbdulRazak, did in 2018 at the same venue of YPP party primary in Ilorin. Gobir made the declaration at the Gobir House, GRA, which also serves as the YPP state secretariat where it transformed into after being the former All Progressives Congress, APC, state chapter branch, and from where the current governor made a similar pledge in 2018. “I consider today a milestone knowing how we all started in 2018. -Advertisement- “We donated this same premises to APC from where the party won the governorship. “That shows that we were instrumental to their being in power today. “From here, the governor promised to be in the Government House in 2018. “I am also pledging to be in government house by God’s grace in 2023,” Gobir said. Gobir is a former financier of the ruling APC both at the state and national level but has since parted ways with the party over differences. POLL He also said that YPP already has a formidable structure across all 193 wards in the state with which to win the governorship election next year. “We have over 50, 000 registered members which translates to a guaranteed same amount of votes even before the full campaign begins. Commenting on the choice of Gobir as the party’s standard-bearer, Chief Dele Ogunbayo, state chairman of YPP, said the party is lucky to have a man like Him to run on the party platform. “Praise be to God that the party is lucky to have golden fish who is no other person, than Alh. Waziri Yakub Gobir. “He is loved by all and sundry and we unanimously agreed that he should be YPP gubernatorial flag-bearer. “This is the Voice and choice of all members of Young Progressives Party and we strongly have faith in God, it is our belief that come 2023, Alh. Waziri will be governor of Kwara state. Addressing the delegates who affirmed Gobir as the governorship candidates of the party from across the state, Mohammed Tusariki, YPP Zonal National Chairman, North Central, commended the state branch of the party for the primaries, stating that the party delegates made a good choice in Gobir. Also commending the processes of the primaries, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, representative, Abdulkadir Shehu Ahmed, a Head of the Department in the Commission, said that the process was rancour-free.