TONY EZIMAKOR , TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, EJIKE OMENAZU ABUJA / LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari is about now having what may be a valedictory dinner with all the 23 APC presidential as­pirants that went through the party’s screening process. Senator Abdullahi Adamu, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), dropped the hint while address­ing journalists Saturday night at the party’s National Secre­tariat. -Advertisement- Already speculations have heightened that the president will use the occasion to disclose his preferred APC candidate for the presidential election and ask all others to step down ahead of the party’s Special Convention on Monday. Senator Adamu also dis­closed that, contrary to reports, none of the 23 aspirants was disqualified during the screen­ing exercise, hence all will be there at the Presidential Villa for dinner. He said the party will be looking at prescribing some punitive action for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu over his recent outburst in Abeokuta which, he said, was laced with lots of mischief. While noting that there has been some lame attempts at re­tracting what had already gone out, the party was still watching for further development. The APC National Chair­man decried what Tinubu said about the president, saying they were insulting and unbecom­ing of a person of his status. POLL He said: “Within the last three days, the country, and the world of the social media have been inundated with the report of one of our leaders, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State, when he went for his campaign in Ogun – Abeokuta. “In the course of his address, he went as far as to mention what happened between him and President Muhammadu Buhari. “He went as far as to tell his audience how Buhari went to him, even prostrating in tears, begging him to endorse him for the presidency. “He claimed Buhari went to him. The words in Youruba… the interpretation was very very insulting, very very un­becoming of a person of that standing, to do what he did to a sitting president produced by the votes of the APC. “It is amazing for a fellow APC person to make that kind of comment about the pres­ident. We take exception to this and this doesn’t show any appreciable level of respect for the office of Mr. President and the person of Mr. President. “Therefore, we want to make it public that we are saddened about the audio and video in that reportage and we condemn it in the strongest terms. “Between yesterday and this morning, it was retracted but that effort is not adequate, it doesn’t wipe out the impression that event has left on our minds. “This is our position. I, as chairman of the ruling party, have the duty to come out and stand by our government, to stand by our president.” On possible sanction against Asiwaju Tinubu, Senator Ada­mu said the seriousness of the disrespectful audio and video credited to the frontline pres­idential aspirant needs to be separated from issues around the screening. “I don’t want to take this together because they are mischief-laden. I don’t want to take the primary screening to answer this question because doing so is finding the way to justify, give some reasons that may have caused what he did. “For one thing, I know at the time this event took place the screening committee had not made the report to us at all. “The question of punitive measure, yes and no. This morning we saw some traces of withdrawal statements. “You see, these are state­ments that can emerge not with the intention of the actual actions. So, yes, we can’t say we don’t see in the papers what was reported. It happened. “What is out is out. It is not an apology, it is trying to retract. We will be on the watch – for us to penalise any member of the party not just Bola Tinubu, anybody. We will watch events as they unfold,” he said. Clarifying the lingering Confusion over statutory dele­gates, the APC National Chair­man said the party had served notice of Appeal even as he explained that “as far as we are concerned, this convention is concerned, statutory delegates are excluded”. He also maintained that no aspirant has been disqualified. “I want to say very clearly that no aspirant has been dis­qualified. Interestingly, Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari has invited them to the villa for dinner today. He will be inter­acting with all of them today,” he added. Regardless, Sunday INDE­PENDENT spoke to several stakeholders on recent devel­opments in the party in respect of its presidential ticket, and they seem to agree that Buhari should allow the delegates a free hand to elect a candidate, more­so as Nigerians are in dire need of a leader who will deliver the citizens from the current suf­fering and squalour under his administration. Comrade Femi Adeyeye, the African Action Congress (AAC) National Publicity Secretary, in his reaction, maintained that imposition has been a culture in the APC. He said: “From Lagos to Zamfara, to everywhere. So much for progressivism, if you ask me. What Buhari has re­quested of the APC governors is not new in the party. “You will notice that he used the word ‘reciprocity’ in that paragraph of his speech where he talked about choosing his successor, which means he wants what has been happen­ing at the ward level, local gov­ernment and states by these governors to be extended to him at the federal level. “The implication is that the cracks in the party will be wid­ened. On the general outlook, democracy continues to be threatened in our country.” Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), maintained that Bu­hari’s action was expected. According to him, Buhari did the same thing when he picked Senator Abdullahi Adamu Adamu as the party’s chairman and the delegated went ahead to fill the other par­ty positions by consensus. Bishop Awe, Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, stressed that Buhari got his way then, but choosing the APC’s presidential candidate may be a different ball game entirely. Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, a social activist and General Secretary, Federation of Infor­mal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON), stated that the idea of a sitting president choosing his successor was not really new. Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, President/Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empower­ment Advocacy Initiative (CRE­MA Initiative), stated: “As a po­litically informed citizen who does his bit by voting, until it becomes needful to participate and be an active player, I am very much aware of the presi­dent’s request to his party’s gov­ernor on choosing a successor. In the same vein, Rev. Dr. Francis Ujunwa Simeon, In­ternational Secretary, Christian Association of Igbo Ministers Worldwide (CAIM), stated: “The body language of Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari has always suggested that he is interested in who succeeds him in office. Now he has finally voiced it out.” Meanwhile, ahead of the convention three aspirants are considered to be favourites to clinch the ticket of the party, going by Sunday Independent findings. Credible sources in the par­ty informed our correspondent that the three aspirants are the Vice- President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; Asiwaju Bola Tinu­bu; Governor Abubakar Bada­ru of Jigawa, and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. There has been a sharp di­vision among the governors of the party over the aspirant to field as a consensus candidate even though the Oyegun-led committee said only one of the aspirants is opposed to the con­sensus option. According to our source, most of the governors are aligned with Osinbajo who is said to be the president’s pre­ferred aspirant while some of them are rooting for Tinubu because they believe he is the only one with the capacity to defeat Atiku. “Most of the governors have aligned with the Vice-President as the consensus candidate. Those who are not with him are governors of Kebbi, Jiga­wa, Plateau, Kano, Lagos and Osun. But we are waiting for the president’s meeting with them tonight when he is back from Ghana. “Based on the latest de­velopments, the contest will be a straight fight between Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Abubakar Bada­ru of Jigawa State.” Those canvassing for Yaha­ya Bello are of the opinion that he enjoys wide acceptability among Nigerian youths and Nigerians will prefer him to an older element like Atiku. They also argued that unlike others who joined the race this year, Bello started his efforts very early, almost two years ago, even when the agitation for power to go to the South was thick in the air and no northern contender dared to mull the idea. According to a party source, “He championed the narrative that zoning was not in the rul­ing party’s constitution and was almost like a lone voice in that struggle. Even key governors from the North were vocal in their call for power to shift to the South based on what they termed a gentleman agree­ment. “However, not a few Nige­rians from the South were in­different to zoning, which gave his ambition a big boost. “When it dawned on north­ern stakeholders that a few weeks to the beginning of the real race, Yahaya Bello was the only aspirant standing in the North, the race to puncture that began with some rush­ing to pay for the Presidential nomination forms even after allegedly buying Senate forms. This is a strength for the Kogi governor.” He added: “Yahaya Bello’s campaign has also taken the whole political and media space by surprise and his me­dia outing has been adjudged the best in the current season. “An independent manifesto review of key aspirants across parties by Channels TV also rated his manifesto the best amongst others. He tied with Vice President Yemi Osinba­jo.” So many youth groups have been clamouring for a youthful President and have teamed up behind the Kogi governor who had been harnessing the key demographics for long.