For effective running and good management of the club, the governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari, has ap­proved the reconstitution and re-organisation of the manage­ment of the Nigeria Profession­al Football League (NPFL) club Katsina United. The letter for the appoint­ment of new officers to the club was presented to the appointees by the state director of Sports, Umar Aliyu on behalf of the permanent secretary of Sports development. Those appointed as the Man­agement Executive Committee members are Prince Abdul­samad Badamasi as (Chair­man), Muhammadu Daga Umar Faruq VC 1, Nalado Iro Kankia VC 2, Babawo Shantali Team Manager, Kabir Sambo (Secretary) Abdulkadir Bature Welfare Secretary, Sani Tunau General Coordinator, Saleh Yu­suf Director Football & Devt, Nasir Gide as Media Officer. -Advertisement- While those appointed to serve as Assistants to Manage­ment Executive Committee Members are as follows Abbas Tukur Assistant Team Manager, Abubakar Idris Umar Assistant Welfare Secretary, Muhammad Musa Saulawa Assistant Secretary, Abdullahi Shuaibu Referee Coordinator and, Ibrahim Ar­maya’u as TMS Manager. Shortly after the presen­tation of the appointment letters, the State Sports Di­rector Umar Aliyu charged the appointees to justify the confidence repose in them by making the team continue to Excell in the Nigeria Profes­sional Football League. Meanwhile, Katsina United are presently on the 13th spot on the log with 29 points from 31 rounds of games. With only three points separating them from the drop zone, the state government has charged the appointees to make sure that they work in synergy to save the club from the drop. This weekend, the Ikon Al­lah Boys will be away to Kwara Inited in a match they must avoid defeat but the game will be very testy for them given that their hosts were on the road in their last match and lost 1-3 to Lobi Stars. POLL Kwara United, on their part, are sixth on the log with 46 points from the same 31 games played. The Har­mony Warriors have been impressive this season and was at a point negotiating a continental ticket which is though not out of their reach presently.