EJIKEME OMENAZU Recently, top members of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry presented a book to celebrate their General Superintendent, Pastor William Folorunsho Kumuyi. The event, held in Victoria Island, Lagos, was the presentation of a book, ‘Kumuyi: Defender of the Faith,’ was used to galvanise people to make the book available to Nigerians. The event, which was held on Sunday June 19, 2022, at the luxury Victoria Crown Plaza, Victoria Island, Lagos, was solemn, with musical renditions by the choir, which indeed elated souls as they showed all the trapping of the Old Time Religion, which Deeper Christian Life Ministry is well known for. During the event which attracted several clerics, many of who are members of the Deeper Life Ministry and some friends of the church, Pastor William F. Kumuyi, was commended for remaining apolitical and neutral in the current political developments in the country, unlike several men of God. Speakers after speaker extolled the uniqueness of Pastor Kumuyi as a humble man of God who is concerned with the affairs of the nation, although he has continued to remain impartial and apolitical. Speaking at the presentation of the book, a biography of Pastor Kumuyi, the chairman of the occasion, Pastor Olubusola Olubanwo, maintained that at this time of social instability and intense political activities in the country, Pastor Kumuyi had not become one of doomsday prophets or taken a stand against the administration. He said unlike what had become the other of the day, Pastor Kumuyi had continued to maintain respectable neutrality and had remained a dignified of hope and verity. -Advertisement- POLL Pastor Olubanwo, stressed that the Deeper Life Christian General Superintendent “in his carriage, character, convictions and contributions to the national discourse, we are told that he is not unaware of the politics of the day. He speaks even obtusely on political upheavals. He has intervened boldly on the decline in moral ethics in the society.” He maintained that Pastor Kumuyi had remained rigidly apolitical although he had not been indifferent to the politics around him, but had remained very careful to be unspotted by it.” Olubanwu maintained that the book was put together to celebrate a God’s General when he was still alive, although it was also meant for global promotion of world evangelism. He urged Christians all over the country to embrace the book to ensure that the word of God was spread to the nooks and crannies of the nation and indeed the world in the way Pastor Kumuyi had been teaching, as it was meant to lead to human transformation and rebirth. He stressed: “The stance of Pastor Kumuyi must be commended to all Christians, especially ministers of God, to speak only if their comments on politics is to please God and raise a citizenry hat will be godly and God-fearing, responsible members of the society, living fruitfully on earth and with assurance of a place in heaven after life. “Chrisstian leaders must learn from Pastor Kumuyi that a man that is charged by God to care for the temporal and eternal wellbeing of people, must shun partisan politics, keep to the bounds of his calling, so he can remain at his duty post as an arbiter, using the word of God to spread hope to all men.” In his speech, the special guest of honour at the occasion and Special Adviser to the President on Media, Femi Adesina, recalled Pastor Kumuyi’s visit for a programme at the Aso Rock Chapel during which he was invited to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari, noting that the president was aware of the cleric’s messages and the fact that he had remained untainted. He commended Pastor Kumuyi for not joining the fray of clerics who had been involved in partisan politics and had not shown any prejudice in the practice of his calling. Adesina stressed that whatever Kumuyi had said or preached had always been the mind of God, stressing that although the country had been facing a lot of challenges, the country would overcome them. According to him, “it is good to have one who stands on the path of moderation”, adding that the book on Kumuyi would be edifying and good for posterity, even as he recommended it to all Christians to read and act upon and present it as gifts to others. In his remark, Pastor Isaac Olusegun Babatope, the Editorial Board Chairman of the church which produced the book, maintained that people should not only exist on the earth, but should make impact. He cited examples from Apostle Paul and Luke in the bible, whose impacts are being felt in Christendom till date from their works and writings. Babatope enjoined everyone to be part of ensuring that the purpose of writing the book on Pastor Kumuyi was realised by making copies available to Nigerians and across the world, noting that by so doing, the message of the gospel, which Pastor Kumuyi had stood for over the years, would get to every part of the world. He said: “Nigeria is well endowed with spiritual people to do the work of God. God will never forget everyone who works for Him.” He also stressed the need for people to be born again to be able to fulfil their purpose on earth, adding, “The book is being circulated across the nations. It is a book that will make a lot of change in the nation’s landscape. Efforts will be made to ensure that it gets to the nooks and crannies of the world.”