LAGOS  – One of Nigeria’s premier perception management firm, CMC Connect Limited at the weekend kicked off activities for the celebration of its 30th anniversary at its corporate headquarters in Lagos. The foremost strategic communication and public affairs firm gathered clients, media, former and present board members as well as well-wishers to its GRA Ikeja office to relive its 30 years of sustainable progress. The event was flagged off with a media conference that had cross section of the Nigerian media. -Advertisement- Others in attendance were its pioneer board members, investors, management and staff of the company. Mr Yomi Badejo – Okusanya, the founder and Group Managing Director of the company, while addressing the media, took the guest through the historic trajectory and the many phases and hurdles the firm have had to cross the past three decades. Themed ‘We are still flying’, Badejo-Okusanya expressed gratitude to God, his wife, staff and to those that have supported his dream from inception. He identified some iconic personalities whom he described as his mentors and who invested in his dreams right from 1997. These individuals include: Sir Steve Bamidele Omojafor; Chairman of STB McCain; Mr Biodun Shobanjo, Chairman of Troyka Groups; Mr Billy Lawson, founder LTC Advertising. Badejo-Okusanya, who has been two term President, African Public Relations Association (APRA), giving the historical background of CMC Connect, noted that the dream was birth in a 3-bedroom flat around Toyin Street, Ikeja, Lagos in the early 1990s. “It all started with a dream in a 3-bedroom flat off Toyin Street, Ikeja in the in 1992”. POLL His dream was to build a public relations practice that will offer incisive solutions-driven services to a growing clientele in the then-emerging Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) sector. “And barely five years into our existence, had Capital Marketing Communication (CMC) to make a hard-strategic decisions when the opportunity came to be a part of the Lawson Thomas and Colleagues (LTC) Group which held the J. Walter Thompson affiliation in Nigeria at the time.” According to Badejo-Okusanya, who is popularly known across Africa as YBO, while many advised against this move, he saw a great opportunity to be mentored by one of the firsts in Nigeria’s fast growing marketing communication industry. Not just that, LTC had such an enviable global partnership with JWT. “It was indeed a great period of mentoring, management, development, accountability and corporate governance.”