Flushed with funds and with the recruitment of experts, basic education, the very foundation of any knowledge-based economy, finds new lease of life in Kwara, NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE writes. Only a man who can’t settle for second place speaks in the manner Prof Shehu Ibrahim Adaramaja, did that afternoon, at his office at GRA, Ilorin. “Winning is not new to us,” he said, confidently, casually, much like predicting the inevitability of daybreak. A casual search on Google, the global search engine, introduces Prof Adaramaja as an academic; specializing in Primary Health Care, Community Health and Wellness Education. -Advertisement- But by reputation and proven capacity, the description may well be way too modest for the man currently whipping Kwara’s Basic Education subsector into shape, way ahead of all other 19 Northern states, if records are anything to go by. Adaramaja is the Executive Chairman, Kwara State Universal Basic Education, KWSUBEB and is directly supervising preparation of Team Nigeria for the World Debate Championship, WDC, coming up in Netherlands, August, later this year. In more ways than in words, his confidence might well be a testament to the growing successes of basic education in Kwara state since he was appointed at the beginning of Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak’s administration in 2019. To emerge as Team Nigeria for the WDC, Kwara State team, made up principally of students from state owned public schools had to see off other states with better educational pedigree at the Presidential Schools Debate, last year. Schools from states like Oyo, Anambra, Edo and Katsina were defeated by Kwara for it to emerge as national champion, and by default, Team Nigeria for WDC. The academic feat wasn’t a fluke at all. In the last three years, Kwara had managed some remarkable exploits. It emerged sixth in the country in a mathematical competition put together by the Nigerian Mathematical Center, NMC. That feat earned it the first position in the North Central. To understand how far the state has come in the learning business, there may be need to review how things were before 2019. POLL “You see, SUBEB in Kwara was rotten,” Adaramaja said by way of explanation. In the early days of Governor Abdulrazak back in 2019, the local media fizzed for several days on account of what observers described as the discovery of a motherload of malfeasances in the books of the basic education agency. In summary, it was allegedly discovered that the former occupant of the office connived with some people in the account section of KWSUBEB, Nigerian Union of Teachers and some micro finance banks and cooperative societies to divert statutory funds of the agency. “It is on record, for instance, that the UBEC’s matching grant for 2013 was diverted by previous administration,” corroborated Adaramaja. UBEC, Universal Basic Education Commission, is the superordinate federal agency that manages basic education in the country. Its funding derives from the country’s consolidated revenue fund, CRF, and on first line charge, same as where money for the judiciary, Legislature of the country is drawn. Every year, each states’ SUBEB draws statutory allocations that it can only access when it matches it with its own counterpart funding, on 50/50 basis. Over the years, many states have learnt to spoof UBEC into releasing money into their accounts only for them to divert the money into other purposes and not into basic education. In Kwara, over N1billion was allegedly diverted. What happened was that the state, under a previous administration, went to a bank, borrowed money and put it in the UBEC/KWSUBEB account. When the federal allocation came as match up grant, the state, under the previous administration diverted the money into other uses. As a result, the state was blacklisted by UBEC, never to receive funding unless what was taken was returned. “It was in the process of ironing out the issue that we discovered that the state arrears in matching grants for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019; six years arrears were waiting. The money all accumulated to N7.1 billion. “For us to access that money, we had to match it up with our own N7.1 billion,” Adaramaja explained. It severely impacted on schools negatively. “Teachers were unwilling to go to work; our classrooms were dilapidated; there were no furniture. You enter some classrooms and all you see are pupils sitting down. Enrolment in public schools had gone down badly. “This gave opportunities to private schools to thrive in the state,” the KWSUBEB chairman said. More than any other reports, the findings made by a team comprising state education officers and an offshore firm in charge of the running of Kwara LEARN, a data and IT driven learning outcomes initiative, underscored the damage to education system in Kwara. The team had previously worked in Edo and Lagos states after their illustrious work at Bridge Schools, Lagos. By the middle of May, this year, the state had begun implementation of corrective measures to some of the problem. But before the program started, a study was undertaken by the state to ascertain the state of learning Kwara. As learnt, two forms of samplings were done to get a clearer picture of things. The first, the state’s education planners had to determine what the problem was and fashion out what to do. To this end, there was purposive random sampling which took two rural and two urban areas for study. And then there was random sampling which involved picking schools from the rural, and another from the urban while being mindful of the political fallouts that may come out of it. So from Kwara North, Baruten was taken, from Kwara South it was Offa. From Kwara Central, they picked Ilorin East and Ilorin West. The team also did a formative evaluation which established the conditions of learning before the program started. This form of evaluation is done so that when summative evaluation is arrived at, the value added to the system is easily ascertained. “In doing this, we dug down in all 365 pilot schools, evaluating what their situations were. What we met on ground was sad,” Adaramaja said. “In Baruten, we found that in some schools, you can’t find more than two or three teachers. In some locations, because of the terrain, once rain falls, the schools would be closed. The teacher will not go to school and so the pupils. In some locations where there are big markets, there will be no school for pupils. We also found out that some schools had to augment teaching staff through efforts of the community, PTA teachers,” the KWSUBEB boss explained. For Governor Abdurazak, the situation can’t be acceptable by any stretch. For starters, it would greatly hamper his primary focus in transforming Kwara to a major learning hub, first in the North Central, if not in the entire Northern region. From his laid out policy statements, the Governor Abdulrazak’s believes that easiest way to prosperity lies with investing in education, particularly at the formative level. The thinking has studies backing it up. For instance in 2003, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, OECD, an international organization that focuses on building better policies, improving opportunities and quality of life, and the UNESCO revealed findings of a 43 year study on ‘Financing and Education- Investments and Returns’. It focused on 16 emerging economies at the time: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Malaysia, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Thailand, Tunisia, Uruguay and Zimbabwe. According to the finding, investments in human capital (Education) over the past two decades somehow translated to about half a percentage point in the annual growth rates of these countries. Between then and now, unilateral bodies have managed to distill into monetary units dividends from every dollar spent on education and its commensurate dividend to the country, its populace and individuals. For instance, research shows that for every dollar invested in high-quality early childhood education, the society gains up to $7.30 in economic returns over the long-term. This is because, economic development starts with early childhood development—and the best investments ensure all children, particularly those from low-income families, have access to high-quality early childhood education. Also the OECD and UNESCO study finds that access to secondary and tertiary education is central to building a skilled and knowledge-based workforce. Apart from increased national wealth, the report also confirms, without surprise, that education also benefits individuals. Better educated people, it states, fare much better in the labour market. This was why the governor saw the UBEC/KWSUBEB situation as one to be quickly remedied. Governor Abdulrazak cleared the deficit and UBEC opened another record for the state. At the end of the reconciliation the state had a total N14.2billion to play with for its basic education funding. But with such humongous budget, KWASUBEB required a man who could put the money to judicious use. On this, maybe Governor Abdulrazak didn’t just pick Prof Adaramaja on the basis of what Google says about him. While at the Institute of Education, University of Ilorin, Adaramaja had a legend. The professor of Education is best remembered among his former peers as the one who led the split in the traditional discipline of Physical Health Education, PHE, making Unilorin the tertiary institution that separated the course into two different field of studies. Instead of the traditional PHE, it is now studied either as Human Kinetics Education and Health Promotion or Environmental Health Education. The prospect for both basic and senior secondary education is huge, by academic projection. Only a man with such pedigree can take the KWASUBEB by the scruff of the neck, shake it well enough to have it deliver on Abdulrazak’s mandate.