Hussein Kehinde Ejibunu, a Deputy Comptroller of Customs (DC) is the Acting Controller of the Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone ‘A’ of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). He fielded questions from journalists in Lagos during a press briefing on the achievement of his unit for the Month of May, 2022. He also spoke on the synergy the unit has put in place with the various marine units of the government to enhance effective onslaught on smugglers who are tilting towards water ways in their nefarious bid to beat Customs operatives. ANDREW UTULU was there for DAILY INDEPENDENT. EXCERPTS: Your unit’s intelligence seems to be showing positive results based on your achievements in the month of May, 2023 in anti-smuggling, however, in the past few months, it was discovered you lost some officers to smugglers. What is the picture currently? The new strategy is paying off because you can see what we are getting now in terms of seizures. Obviously, the number one thing that smugglers keep smuggling is rice. You can see we seized over 9,000 bags in a month. That speaks volume and to tell you that we have seen all the areas where we did not cover in the past. That is especially the water ways. This has added new success to our activities. To what extent are you looking towards arresting the illegal importation of drugs and other unwholesome goods coming in through the waterways? Obviously, the end result of where they are heading to is the land. The water is just means of carriage or conveyance, but, they will still come to the land. It is a double –phased operation. Both on the land and the water. Like the seizure we made, we kept some men on the land and some went on water. So, if they are being pursued and they decided to anchor on land, we will arrest them. It is not going to be a one-way traffic. It will be double-edged sword that we have to fire using double cylinder either on the water or on the land and simultaneously. Do you see these smugglers relenting? We kept saying that smugglers are unrelenting. There are so many ways people look at smuggling at the border lines. That is why we said it is important we sensitise the public. We sensitise them to go away from the old days and ways that encouraged criminal smuggling, where they believe it had been bequeathed to them by their forefathers. POLL Smuggling is not a job. What we have successfully done is that when the borders were re-opened, I visited Idiroko border with the Comptroller-in-charge of Idiroko Command. We called for stakeholders’ meeting. We met with stakeholders, traditional rulers and traders in that axis. We made it clear to them that reopening of the border is not to increase smuggling, but to bring in legitimate business for legitimate traders to thrive. If you are a genuine business man and you want the business to thrive, you need to go around, meet the Customs, gets our import prohibition list so that you will know what you can bring in and what you cannot bring in. We did explain all that to them and finally, we told them that the rate of attacks on our officers was what we can no longer tolerate, that we are not prepared to lose any body again. I asked them if they don’t have children in Customs, they said they do. I asked again, what if your son in Katsina who is working with Customs went to work and they shot and killed him, brings his corpse home, what will be your reaction? They said they will not be happy. I then said all those people you are killing have families, are bread winners and sons to people. We made it clear to them, and they appreciated our visit. That is what accounted for why we went to Oja-Odan, which has never happened. Oja-Odan was where last month, our officers who intercepted trackers of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and the people opened fire on the officers to the extent that they (officers) returned with punctured tyres. Funny enough, we were there few days ago, nobody even raised a dust. We neither fired a shot nor did we hear any shot from them. What is the update on some of your officers who were attacked by smugglers in Ogun State sometimes ago, have you made any arrests? The first one, that is the officer that was hacked to death, like I said, we have some suspects in our cell and we are still arresting in connection with the crime. The matter is already in court. So, we are grossly incompetent to speak on matter that is in the court. The second that happened in Sango, the officer is hale and hearty now. He has been treated and discharged. But, as par identifying the actual culprits, investigation is still ongoing. The incident happened around 2p.m and we cordoned the entire area, in less than three hours, we were able to recover the same vehicle that was initially taken from him. But, the particular culprits, we are still looking for them. We have a tip, but I am not making it public. The information reaching us is that the suspects ran to Cotonou in Benin Republic. So we are still waiting. How do the Customs compensate its officers who discharge their duties creditably well? -Advertisement- When I assumed officer here in September 2021, we took a list of the seizure profile of all our seasoned officers in FOU Zone ‘A’. In January, one officer was crowned as the officer of the year. We gave him plaque; we submitted his name to the headquarters in Abuja for recognition. At our local level here, we recognise performance. Even, at each of our meetings, any one that has spectacular seizures, we announce and appreciate such officers at our level.