LAGOS  – The Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA) recently reported that under four months it has sealed 14 health facilities across Lagos State for various infractions, while seeking public’s support to fish out unregistered clinics to achieve zero-quackery level. The quarterly report of the agency revealed that 14 health facilities were sealed across the state between January and April 2022 for various infractions, in line with the agency’s statutory functions. Specifically, Abiola Idowu, Executive Secretary, HEFAMAA, told Daily Independent that the facilities were sealed in line with its statutory duties between January and April 2022 for committing infractions ranging from quackery to operating beyond schedule. -Advertisement- Other violations were the absence of qualified medical personnel as well as non-registration of facilities and lack of basic medical equipment, Abiola said lamenting resistance by some professional medical associations to the constructive initiatives of the Agency to minimise quackery in the state. HEFAMAA was established in March 2006 by the Health Sector Reform Law (HSRL) 2006 and is responsible for licensing, accreditation, and monitoring of all health facilities be it public or private in Lagos State. The Agency has a mandate to regulate and improve the quality of health care delivery in Lagos State through the performance of certain functions which include setting minimum standards for operations of private and public health facilities, accrediting, inspecting, licensing, and registering health facilities. Others are to evaluate health facility performance through monitoring visits and coordinating the collection and dissemination of data on performance indicators. The HEFAMAA Executive Secretary, on the other hand, said that some professional medical organisations are opposed to the Agency’s positive efforts to decrease quackery in the state via franchising-out sourcing quality assurance monitoring activities for effective coverage. POLL The Agency is empowered by the Health Sector Reform (HSR) Law 2006 to franchise some of its activities. Section 49 (5) of the Law granted the Agency the power to select franchise companies, to monitor, inspect and ensure compliance within the law by all health facilities in the State. The Agency was able to visit 1,534 health facilities in the year 2019. In the year 2020, the Agency visited 1,566 health facilities at least once out of a total of 3,670 registered health facilities as a result of the inadequacy of staff and other constraints. Thus, it has been a herculean task for the Agency to effectively monitor all health facilities in the State. She, therefore, reasoned, “The franchise of monitoring activities is a means to improve monitoring effectiveness in the healthcare system of Lagos State. More effective monitoring of health facilities in the State will help to eliminate quackery which will, in turn, improve the delivery of qualitative health services to the residents of the state and also allow qualified health care practitioners to have valuable returns from their investments.” Interestingly, she further noted that the franchise companies help to address the Agency’s challenges including, inadequate core staff. “At present, the Agency has four doctors and five nurses. The others are non-core health workers. Inadequate functional vehicles especially four-wheel drive jeeps for adequate monitoring of the hard-to-reach areas of the State,” Abiola explained. Unfortunately, the HEFAMAA boss said, “Resistance of some professional medical associations to the constructive initiatives of the Agency to minimize quackery in the state (example, franchising-out sourcing the quality assurance monitoring activities for effective coverage). They see it as an attempt by the Government to increase the financial burden on them.” She however said that the government is on top of the matter, noting, “The Agency and the Ministry of Health have been engaging with them to address their concerns.” The HEFAMAA Chief Scribe further said that the socio-economic factors where the people protect and patronise quacks because they can access unsafe, poor quality healthcare cheaply and also of their cultural beliefs is also a big challenge. Despite reaching 80 percent registration of the health facilities operating in the State, Abiola stressed the role of the public to fish out unregistered health facilities in the state to achieve a zero-quackery level. Her words, “Before the Agency came on board, complaints and petitions about quackery leading to avoidable morbidities and mortalities, especially in the private health sector were being received by the Ministry of Health almost on a daily basis leading to poor health indices. This was because as of then, only about 30-40 percent of the health facilities operating in the state were registered with the Private Hospital Registration Authority (PHRA) from which the Agency emerged. The decline in the quality of healthcare delivery necessitated a reform in the Lagos State health sector and the Agency was established in 2006 (by the Health Sector Reform Law (HSRL), with a mandate to improve the quality of healthcare delivery in the state. “Since the inception of the Agency in 2006, majority of health facilities sealed (70/113) for not operating in compliance to the set standards were as a result of quackery practices, but this has reduced gradually over the years through regular quality assurance monitoring of health facilities in the state. “Last 2021 statistics showed that 23 health facilities (the majority were unregistered) were sealed for quackery practices out of a total of 96 sealed health facilities. “Also, at present, the rate at which complaints/ petitions against healthcare providers are being received by the Agency have reduced to about two or three in a month as compared to higher rates in the previous years. “This can be attributed to the regular monitoring visits to health facilities by the staff of HEFAMAA which has encouraged a lot of the health facilities operating in the state to register with the Agency. “Fourteen health facilities that are not meeting up with standards have been sealed since the beginning of the year during our monitoring visits, this is a proactive measure to prevent unwholesome practices in such facilities.” Today, she said, “3,805 facilities have been registered as compared to 1074 in 2006, this is about 80 percent of the health facilities estimated to be operating in the state. However, the Agency is seeking the support of the general public in the identification of unregistered health facilities in the state where quackery practices could still be existing. “As part of the Agency’s effort to protect the health of the people in Lagos State, it has developed draft standards for over twenty categories of health facilities in the State. The draft standards are an improvement over the standards stipulated in the Health Sector Reform Law of 2006 which is presently under review. Fourteen of the standards have so far been reviewed and validated with the relevant stakeholders while the review meetings for the remaining eight standards will soon be organised by the Agency.” Abiola believes that the elimination of quackery in the health sector is very achievable in the next few years. According to her, the State Government and the Ministry of Health have been very supportive of realising this goal and highlighted the need for public support. “The Agency solicits for the continuous support of the people of Lagos State and also importantly, the other regulatory bodies in the health space such as the Traditional Medicine Board and the Task Force on Pharmacy,” she insisted. Elaborating on the franchise companies, she said, there are eight franchise companies that have been shortlisted. They are Realms Healthcare, Interswitch-eclat, Insight Health Consulting, IFS Healthcare, Vhelar Consulting, McOlivia Consulting Limited, SPC Patterns, and AOI Consulting Limited. The HEFAMAA’s Executive Secretary also said that due process was followed in the engagement of the franchise companies even as she highlighted the procedure. According to her, this includes, “approval of Mr. Governor was obtained, Letter of No Objection to the advertisement of the franchise program was obtained from the State Public Procurement Agency (PPA) and Advertisement to request for Expression of Interest (EOI). Others are Meetings that were held with stakeholders such as the Office of Public-Private Partnerships and the Ministry of Justice to decide the next steps. Also, she said, “21 organizations submitted EOI documents were evaluated by the Evaluation Committee out of which 13 qualified for the next stage. Request for Proposal (RFP) document was forwarded to the 13 companies.” The rest are, “Technical evaluation of the RFP documents that were submitted was done and eight companies met the cut-off mark. The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the six months pilot phase has been prepared by the Ministry of Justice and their endorsements by the relevant authorities will soon take place,” she added. She, therefore, urged all the health facilities operating in Lagos State to take advantage of the Agency’s electronic portal to ensure that they are properly registered with HEFAMAA. The facilities that are registered should also ensure that they are up-to-date in regard to the yearly renewal of their registration, Abiola said. “The newly-registered facilities should display their Certificate of Registration in their reception while the existing ones should display their current Renewal Certificates. The registered facilities should also mount the Agency’s Identification Logo on their premises. “The Agency appreciates the collaboration so far received from the regulatory bodies, professional associations, and the public in its quest to ensure qualitative healthcare is delivered to Lagos residents. However, the Agency will plead for improved collaboration especially from professional associations and other relevant bodies so as to take the Lagos State health sector to the next level,” she added.