According to Fichajes, Arsenal may still be considering a move for Alexander Isak, valued at €70 million by Real Sociedad. The Swedish striker was heavily linked with a move to the Emirates in January, but the Gunners baulked at his €90 million valuation. Arsenal continue to be linked with several strikers in the market, as Mikel Arteta remains keen to strengthen his frontline. Alexander Isak’s name has surfaced as the Spanish media continues linking the Swedish frontman to the north London club. The striker’s market has been tricky this summer, with the main names coming at a premium price. Keeping aside Erling Haaland, who had a release clause, Darwin Nunez has cost about €100 million as Liverpool nicked the Uruguayan international from Benfica. There are a few strikers in the same profile as the duo, all of which are set to cost huge fees. Gianluca Scamacca is one of the cheapest options compared to the rest, and then there is Isak, who continues to be linked with multiple clubs, including Arsenal. In March, Real Sociedad continued to value him at €90 million, but the latest report claims he could be available for around €70 million. Surprisingly, they have mentioned Arsenal as a potential suitor, but the Gunners may have long backed out of the race. Arsenal have reportedly reached an agreement to sign Gabriel Jesus from Manchester City. Additionally, Eddie Nketiah has signed a new deal, which seems to fill the void left by the departures of Alexandre Lacazette and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Between Lacazette’s departure and Jesus’s signing, Arsenal were credibly linked with Victor Osimhen, who falls in that €100 million price range. However, the Gunners have been linked with a move for Isak again, although the report will likely be brushed aside by the north Londoners. Isak had a productive season in La Liga, but his returns may not validate Real Sociedad’s asking price. The Basque giants are seeking €70 million, which is somewhat lower than their January tag of €90 million and below his release clause. -Advertisement- POLL Arsenal are unlikely to pay the price, although Isak’s profile could be tempting for the club. They have been credibly linked with a tall forward who could give them a presence in the box. Despite the requirement, Arteta has pressed ahead with signing Jesus and is also eyeing a move for Leeds United talisman Raphinha. Isak is also linked with Newcastle United, who may ponder making an approach to La Liga club Real Sociedad later in the window. The Magpies are set to embark on an ambitious journey this summer and could look to sign a new striker this summer. As for Arsenal, the north Londoners are unlikely to pursue the Swede anymore and may focus their efforts and funds on other targets.