Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC has released guidelines for the conduct of the election. The electoral body on released revised rules and regulations that must be adhered to by citizens and aspirants for a smooth exercise, Naija News reports. INEC said in the guidelines that irregularities and acts of hooliganism would not be tolerated during the exercise, as security operatives have been tasked to monitor the process. -Advertisement- Among other things, security agents that would be available at polling units and collation centres, have been tasked to tightly ensure that the Polling Units, counting of ballots, collation and declaration of results are conducted without any disturbance. The security operatives are expected to also take necessary measures to prevent violence or any activity that can threaten to disrupt the elections. They have been charged also in the guidebook to comply with any lawful directive (s) issued by or under the authority of INEC.Inclusive in their duties is to ensure the safety and security of all election personnel and materials by escorting and guarding the materials at all levels as appropriate. The security agents have also been ordered to arrest erring electorates as instructed by the Presiding Officer or other INEC officials. INEC said Collation or Returning Officer have been empowered to request security officials to remove any person from the Collation Centre who, in his/her determination, is acting in a disruptive manner. “Such a person may be readmitted, with the approval of the Collation or Returning Officer upon an assurance of good behaviour,” INEC noted. POLL The electoral body said it was not ignorant of the presence of the COVID-19 disease, hence during the conduct of elections, the subsisting protocols by health authorities at any given time shall apply. It stated further that wearing of face mask would be mandatory at all election locations. However, an improvised face mask using a handkerchief, scarf or other such materials would be acceptable. “Any person who does not wear a face mask at a polling unit, collation centre or other venues where electoral activities are conducted shall be politely turned away, provided that no person shall wear a face mask branded with the insignia or unique identification of a political party/candidate or indicating the person’s voting preference. “Face masks and alcohol-based hand sanitisers shall be provided for the use of election officials by the Commission. Infrared thermometers shall be supplied and used at the Registration Area Collation Centres, the Local Government Area Collation Centres, the State Collation Centres and the National Collation Centre,” INEC noted.