The organisers of AKWAABA African Travel Market (ATM), the travel and tourism expo in West Africa has said that the 18th edition of its 2022 event would focus attention on medical tourism and others major sectors. Mr. Ikechi Uko, the organiser of the annual event, in a statemenmt, said that the conference would hold in Lagos, Nigeria, from October 31 through November 1, 2022. The African Travel Market has grown over the years to become the most important platform for marketing travel and tourism in West Africa and is among the top five tourism events in Africa, drawing attendance of over 20 countries within and outside Africa. Ikechi stated that the organisers have decided to give a lot of attention to medical tourism and health insurance at the 2022 edition of the event because of the increasing importance of the issues on the continent. “The world is thinking about wellness and Health as in integral part of tourism. Recently, United Nations World Tourism Organization UNWTO had a joint programme with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to streamline their strategies,” he said. This 18th Akwaaba, Ikechi hinted would host the 5th edition of the African travel and tourism conference and the 2nd edition of Africa Travel 100 Women Awards. In 2017 AKWAABA African Travel Market hosted the Top 100 Travel and Tourism Women in Africa and this brought together for the first-time Women travel professionals from all over Africa with over 250 people in attendance. In 2018, it hosted the Top 100 Tour Operators in Africa and hosted the African Diaspora Global Awards in 2019. The 2022 edition would bring back the Top 100 of the leading Female Airline Pilots, the Ministers, the Hotel Managers and Leading Operators in Africa. -Advertisement- POLL Leisure and corporate travel had been the leading source of travel business out of and into Nigeria and West Africa. The growth of medical tourism in the last few years demanded more focus on that sector of tourism. There will be a B2B session on medical tourism and health insurance on November 1 along with a panel discussion with experts from both receiving countries and departing destinations. Akwaaba has hosted Former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, Dawda Jawara of The Gambia, former Secretary General of the Commonwealth Sir Emeka Anyaoku, former Vice President of Nigeria, Sir Alex Ekwueme, Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Sen. Remi Tinubu and many Ministers of Tourism from different African countries and some State Governors, among others. Africa Travel 100 Awards The Africa Travel 100 Awards now in her 18th year has recognised over the years industry practitioners, leaders, and governments who have promoted tourism and demystified travel using unique platforms and new information. Some of our past projects include; Africa Travel 100 – Top 100 Travel Companies in West Africa- 2016, Africa Travel 100 – Top 100 Women in Travel and Tourism -2017, Africa Travel 100 – Top 100 Tour Operators in Africa -2018 and Africa Travel 100- Top Global Personalities -2019.