LAGOS – Senator Ebenezer Ikeyina, national leader of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has urged the Federal Government to rise up to its responsibility and tackle the rising insecurity in the country. Ikeyina in a press statement on Tuesday said that the spate of insecurity in the country is becoming alarming, pointing out that the ambiguity of the Federal Government and the failure of the security agencies to decisively deal with the situation may have given rise to the call by Zamfara State Governor, who suggested that natives should be given arms to protect themselves, even though it is not the proper thing to do. “If the citizens should resort to carrying arms to protect themselves that will amount to the abdication of the government’s primary and constitutional responsibility of protecting the lives and properties of its citizens,” Ikeyina said. The government must find a solution to this cankerworm before it consumes us. We have heard stories of people paying ransom to be allowed to stay in their communities and many of them have abandoned their farms and that is another source of worry because the state of insecurity in the country is worsening by the day, with devastating impacts on the welfare and livelihood of the ordinary Nigerians. “The federal government must take urgent steps to check the tide and assure Nigerians that it has the capacity to protect them,” Ikeyins added. “It is disturbing the attack on spiritual leaders. The kidnap and killing of reverend fathers is becoming worrisome. We have thought that efforts should have been intensified at checking insecurity in the North, now the menace has got to almost all parts of the country, even to the Southern part of Nigeria, which used to be peaceful. The attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State on a Sunday when worshippers had gone to fellowship their God, and the killing of about 40 people and leaving many people injured has left indelible marks in the hearts of many Nigerians. “The government should deplore enough security men, acquire Close Circuit Television (CCTV) and other high tech security gadgets to curb this menace before it consumes us,” he said.