LAGOS – Following the emergence of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu as the presidential flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in a landslide victory at the special convention, on Wednesday in Abuja, a political pressure group, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group (AATSG), has said the former governor of Lagos State, will become next president of Nigeria come next year. The National Chairman of AATSG, Otunba Yomi Odunomo, in a statement made available to Daily Independent, stated that the group, with members across the federation, was formed principally to ensure the mobilization of 50 million voters across the 52,763 polling units in the country. Otunba Odunowo stated this is strategic in ensuring the success of the national leader of the APC in the next 2023 presidential election. “We congratulate the presidential flag bearer of our great party, the APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and his team for this much-deserved victory and urge the national leadership of the party to ensure all members support his candidacy as the nation inches towards 2023. The group submitted that since the primaries are now over, the real politicking has begun and emphasised that alliances must be strengthened across the country to deliver the presidency next year. The statement further highlighted the achievements of Tinubu over the past five decades cutting across both public and private sectors. The Group, however, called on members and indeed all Nigerians to rally round Tinubu for the nation to benefit from his wealth of experience as not only a bridge builder but an astute manager of resources and human capital. The statement reads in part,” We first and foremost want to congratulate Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu on his emergence as the presidential candidate of the APC at the next year’s general election. It is a job well done given the amount of effort that went into the campaign. POLL “We believe the APC has acted in the best interest of the nation by electing Asiwaju Tinubu as the presidential candidate. It’s not going to be easy but given Tinubu’s leadership track record, the job will be done. ” Asiwanu Tinubu need no introduction. He was an integral part of the democratic forces that fought the military to abandon their misadventure into governance. At great risk to his safety, he was a NADECO chieftain. Nobody among the candidates today has such aluta credentials. “As Lagos State governor, he fashioned an infrastructure blueprint that’s still being implemented by successive governors. “He has raised an army of followers because he is gifted in identifying talents and nurturing them. Tinubu”s presidency will be a blessing to all because he is not a nepotist. He has allies all over the country as the primaries just proved. He will be the next president. “We use this opportunity to call on all Nigerians irrespective of party affiliation to see the qualities of Tinubu and support him en masse and elect him as the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The party leadership should do everything within its power to ensure all hands are on deck to make it happen next year so that we can have President Tinubu leading the charge to our economic development,” AATSG added.