***As 2023 DTHA, Aniocha North Constituency PDP Aspirant Joins Deltans, Nigerians To Give Heroic Welcome To Ifeanyi Okowa ***Ebenezer Chukwugozim Nsaka Restates Commitment to PDP, Pledges Support To Governor Okowa’s Choice As Atiku’s Running Mate ASABA – 2023 Delta State House of Assembly Aspirant For Aniocha North Constituency Seat under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ebenezer Chukwugozim Nsaka has congratulated Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on his emergence as PDP’s Vice Presidential Candidate, Atiku’s running mate for the forthcoming 2023 general elections in Nigeria. Ebenezer Chukwugozim Nsaka disclosed this in a press release made available to some group of Journalists today being on Sunday, 26th day of June, 2022 in Asaba, Delta State capital as group commends Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on his emergence as PDP Vice Presidential Candidate as he pledges support to Governor Okowa’s choice as running mate to Atiku. Recall that the leadership of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) choice of running mate was recently narrowed down to Delta State Governor, Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, where he eventually emerged as the Vice Presidential Running Mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the PDP Presidential Flag-bearer for the 2023 general elections in Nigeria recently. Ebenezer has on 23rd of June, 2022 joined the mammoth crowd of Deltans, Nigerians to give heroic welcome and Celebrate the home coming of His Excellency, Sen. Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa as he congratulated him on his emergence as the party’s choice of running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. He restates commitment in supporting the PDP Gubernatorial Flag-bearer in Delta State, Rt. Hon, Chief Sheriff Francis Oborevwori in the forthcoming 2023 general elections in Delta State. Ebenezer, agraduate of Mathematics & Statistics, who was the youngest 2023 PDP House of Assembly Aspirant in Aniocha North Constituency Seat in the just concluded political parties’ States primary elections, Commended PDP National Caucus, thanked Deltans for coming out enmass to celebrate Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. He then stated that, Deltans and Nigerian will see the need to work with the party having considered one of their sons worthy for Presidential running mate position. He also, urged Aniocha North people Deltans, Nigerians to give their support to the leadership of PDP as a party at all levels to ensure that PDP clinches victory in the next year’s elections in the country. He commended Governor Okowa’s achievements in Delta State in the area of Education, Health, Youths development, human capital development, most importantly on infrastructural development such as the Construction’ of good Roads Network, drainages and bridges to ease movement of persons, goods and services and other feats. -Advertisement- POLL In the words of the 2023 PDP House of Assembly Aspirant, Aniocha North Constituency Seat, Ebenezer Chukwugozim Nsaka: “We congratulate our hardworking Governor, His Excellency, Senator (Dr.)Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa on his emergence as the running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, PDP Presidential Candidate for the 2023 general elections in Nigeria”. “Our party PDP has made very good choice by nominating Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the Vice Presidential Running Mate position. We Deltans, Southerners are very glad with this development. Sen. Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa, Our amiable Governor, our father, and political leader per excellence, a competentadministrator, intelligent, articulate and a prudent manager of resources. Governor Okowa’s unity will bring Unity in the country”. “Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s choice will make PDP emerge victorious in the forthcoming 2023 Presidential elections by God’s grace. Our amiable Governor Ifeanyi Okowa is a very focus, humble, Youth-friendly, and accessible and hardworking and loyal party man”.