LAGOS – The National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) and the National Council for Women Society (NCWS) have partnered to empower vulnerable Nigerian women and create a platform that would enable them contribute their quota to national development. A statement by NCAC stated that the agreement was reached when the newly elected executive of the NCWS led by Hajia Lami Adamu paid a courtesy visit to its headquarters in Abuja. Hajia Adamu said she was at the council headquarters to introduce the newly inaugurated executive of the women society to Otunba Runsewe, the Director General of NCAC. According to her, Runsewe had been a pillar of support to the women society in areas of skills acquisition, capacity building and empowerment and also sought areas of further collaborations. She stated that the newly inaugurated executive of the society was proud to identify with Runsewe who she said had positively projected the image of Nigeria home and abroad within the culture and tourism sector, stressing that the NCAC boss was also working hard to transform Nigeria’s rich and diverse cultural heritage into a viable economy. Hajia Adamu stated that the new leadership of the NCWS had commenced the development of a strategic plan as a roadmap for achieving the vision of the council for the next five years, which include promoting women in leadership and governance, promoting economic empowerment of women, child protection and girl child education and building an effective and efficient NCWS as a valued partner for promoting the gender agenda. The NCWS President, therefore, solicited for a strong collaboration with the NCAC to enable the women society achieve its lofty programmes and take vulnerable women off the streets. In his response, Runsewe while congratulating Hajia Adamu on her successful inauguration as the 15th President of the NCWS, also lauded other executive members for their victories. -Advertisement- POLL Runsewe expressed delight over the visit, which according to him would open new vistas for collaborations for the two organisations to empower the Nigerian women and fortify the future of the girl child. The Director-General decried the fast eroding cultural values in the society, which he said had led to juvenile delinquencies and borrowed Western cultures. He said: “As Women, the onus is on you to begin a campaign to rescue our youths and the girl child from the claws of westernization and alien cultures and inculcate in them good moral principles and the true Nigerian culture.” Runsewe further urged the women society to make a bold statement and redouble their efforts in sensitising mothers to be mindful of the schools they send their children to, explaining that a high percentage of immorality, rape cases and gender based crimes originate from the school environment. Besides, he reiterated the urgent need for the new leadership to hit the ground running given the onerous task ahead of them and promised to keep his doors open for collaborations and necessary support to make the NCWS achieve its desired objective.