ENUGU – Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and former Gov. Okwesilieze Nwodo of old Enugu State have been penciled down to launch a 395-page book on hospitality and tourism management meant to boost country’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). Others expected in the launch included: Chief Emeka Odo, Chairman, Enugu State Board of Internal Revenue; Prof. Austin Nweze, Rector, Institute of Management and Technology, Enugu and Dr Peter Mbah, PDP Governorship Candidate for Enugu State. Speaking to News men in Enugu on Monday, the author of the book, Chief Steve Odo, said that when principles of the book are applied it would lead to IGR increase for individuals, businesses and governments. -Advertisement- Odo said that the book, which is titled: “The Principles and Practice of Hospitality and Tourism Management”, would lead to effective hospitality and tourism management to harness the abundant potentials in the two sub-sectors. “It has been my life-long ambition to write the book and open up the endless opportunity and potentials for wealth creation and up-scaling IGR for both individuals, groups, businesses and governments in the country. “Tourism and hospitality is a rare sector that authors hardly write about due to little knowledge or even few reference materials and lack of data. “Nigeria, especially Enugu, is booming in hospitality and tourism even as there are great potentials to increase the gains from hospitality and tourism if well harnessed,” Odo, who is also the General Manager of Enugu State Tourism Board, said. The tourism board boss said that the book would serve as a legacy he would be leaving behind for stakeholders, students, practitioners and administrators of the two correlated sub-sectors. POLL He said that the challenges he encountered in writing the book included few reference materials and lack of data on tourism and hospitality. Odo said that the book, whose launch would hold on Thursday, June 9, at Enugu Sports Club, GRA, Enugu, had chapters that deal with effective management of hotels, restaurants and other tourism entities including rules, regulations and procedures. “The book also contains how to apply management functions of Planning, Organising, Staff Leading, Controlling and Co-coordinating in the management of hotels and other related entities. “It contains how to prepare 100 different types of African and Continental dishes as well as how to plan and manage events of all kinds. “The role of hospitality and tourism in Nigeria’s National Security and the need for collaboration with governments at all levels. “The appendix provides lists of some good hotels in the 36 states of Nigeria and Abuja as well as most registered hotels and tourist sites within Enugu State among others,” he added. According to him, Chief Nick Omeye, Federal Commissioner, Public Complaints Commission; state’s Commissioner for Justice, Chief Milletus Eze and the book reviewer, Dr Ferdinand Anikwe, former Director-General of Centre for Black African Arts and Civilisation among others will grace the occasion.