LAGOS – As the July 16, 2022 Osun State governorship election approaches, the African Action Congress (AAC) has admonished the people of the state to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) at their respective Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) centres and come out massively to decide the next governor of the dear state. The AAC, in a statement issued by Akinlade Semiu Babatunde, the party’s state Publicity Secretary, stated that while the party appreciated the progressive participation of youths in the affairs of the state and Nigerian society as a whole, cautioned them against being used as a political mercenaries corrupt politicians. These politicians, according to the party, belonged to the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) and the main opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). It accused the two parties of political insincerity which it said they exhibit through snatching of ballot boxes, vote-buying, among others. It said: “Youth are known to be nation-builders and architects of good society and not mere four-yearly based political tools in the hands of businessmen and profiteers who call themselves politicians. “We therefore urge workers, artisans, farmers and all individuals either participating in the upcoming guber election or not to remain law-abiding and peaceful in the processes. Law enforcement agents are also tasked to take responsibility. “As for us in AAC, we believe that the legitimacy of re-election and genuine victory at the poll can only be achieved by a ruling party via its achievements and performances recorded so far while in office and also on people’s acceptance and not by buying votes from electorates using stolen public funds and unleashing terror at the polling units to disrupt the peaceful process as in the case of the just concluded Ekiti State govenorship election. “However, the genuine victory of an opposition party at the poll is measured by how much the party has struggled for and with the mass of the people affected by policies in time past and present as the current Oyetola led government is known for giving fake promises and convincing lies to woo electorates to its side. -Advertisement- POLL “It is therefore, the constitutional responsibility of the Osun people to vote for the candidate of their choice after many years of PDP and APC drama.” It stressed that AAC as an ideological based political party remained committed to fielding corrupt-free candidates now and in the future elections, adding, “it is now important that Osun State people vote for AAC and its candidate, Olufemi Eniolapo Johnson (SOGBADERO) come July 16. “This is necessary to save the future of the state and that of the people from the profiteering politicians who have turned our dear state to a political playing-ground where they come and display their political antics to steal public funds. “Finally, as political parties are campaigning and holding campaign rallies for their candidates and parties squarely, we call on the law enforcement agencies, INEC and other election stakeholders to genuinely provide security for lives and properties and ensure free, fair, transparent and credible elections for the people of Osun State.”