The Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) for the 2023 election, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has ruled out the possibility  of him returning to either the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) or the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). While calling on the people to have trust in the NNPP to transform the country and place it on the right path to progress, explained that the party has been experiencing surge in membership in the last few months since he joined the platform. The two term governor of Kano State disclosed this on  weekend in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti state capital during a consultation visit to the state. Kwankwaso who represented Kano Central in the Eighth National Assembly said, ” This our party was registered about twenty one years ago but in the last four months when I joined the party, so many people have joined us and that is why we have structures everywhere across the country. Not only that so many people have even registered including Ekiti state. Kwankwaso argued that going back to his two former political parties would amount to ” eating his own vomit” According to him APC and PDP are dying political parties .”So, the only way to avert that disaster is for Nigerians to go and sell the ideas of NNPP , which is a progressive party and vote for the party come 2023.” According to him ,APC and PDP has no clear-cut agenda for the nation and that he would never returned to his past. “Don’t forget we have candidates across board now in NNPP ahead of the 2023 elections, so you will expect me to leave and join others in the PDP ? It is not going to happen. I was a foundation member of the two major parties and they have nothing to offer again, that is why I left them and I can’t go back,” he said. -Advertisement- POLL The former Kano governor, therefore called on Nigerians  to reject the candidates of the All Progressives Congress and the People’s Democratic Party during next year’s election, saying they have failed the nation over the years. He also expressed regret over the plights of commuters plying the deplorable Akure-Ado road, knocking the APC-led federal and state governments for abandoning the people to suffer on the road. According to him, the rising cases of insecurity across the country and excruciating economic policies which he said has resulted in poverty, unemployment, inflation were enough reasons for the people to reject the ruling party, adding, ” the way we are going now is one way to disaster in the country.” “We have seen the performance of the APC and PDP and all of us believe that they have failed the country woefully and nobody should expect anything from them again. These people in the two parties have failed and failed woefully, they have nothing to offer. “Look at the road from Akure to Ado-Ekiti, it is in a very terrible and deplorable situation.You go around any of these cities, Abuja and other areas, you hardly see anything happening, poverty is at the highest level in this country, insecurity also at its peak and we can’t continue like that, because the way we are going now is one way to disaster in the country.