ABUJA – The newly elected presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, has been urged to carry party members along. He was also asked to “immediately embark on reconciliation with fellow aspirants and aggrieved leaders of the APC.” Party Chieftain and social commentator, Garus Gololo, told Daily Independent in Abuja, that only “by carrying every member along will the APC outwit the candidates of the PDP and NNPP respectively.” Gololo who expressed fear of a mass exodus of aggrieved party members to other parties, said that “it is not enough to win the primaries. APC at this point must be very careful, otherwise, those who lost the primaries will work against it at the general elections.” He recalled the popularity enjoyed by Kwankwaso and Atiku in the North, noting that “APC can only enjoy something close to this if they carefully pick a credible running mate for its flag bearer.” He also warned the newly elected flag bearer against considering the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, as his running mate; adding that the results of the primaries shows that the Senate President is not acceptable in the North. “If Tinubu by any mistake picks Lawan as a running mate he will lose the 2023 elections because Lawan is not a credible running mate at all,” he insisted. This is as he urged the national leader of the APC to find a way to “forgive all those who insulted him or led campaigns of calumny against him, in one way or another.” POLL Tinubu on Wednesday won the ticket to represent the party at the 2023 general elections by polling 1,271 delegate votes, to top former Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi who scored 316 votes, with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo coming third with a total of 235 votes cast by delegates to the APC National Convention. Other aspirants, Ahmed Lawan scored 152 votes, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, 47 votes, Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi 38 votes and Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade carting away 37.