The dumbfounding she­nanigans which we all witnessed over the course of this year’s primaries season should be enough to con­vince the Doubting Thomas in our midst that the problem of Nigeria is simply that of leadership and its recruitment processes. From all indications, this country shall continue to drift into the awful category of failed states in spite of the enormity of her developmen­tal potentials until the leadership question is decisively resolved or something politically fundamental happens. The recent shenanigans that the political class took the nation through in all the name of party primaries merely highlighted the lingering fear about the irrevers­ibility of the ongoing communal drift into perdition. So much hope has been raised by the political elite and so much of it woefully dashed. There is however the faint hope that if we could just get it right now for once, we might be on a re­alistic path to national redemption. The ongoing story of Rwanda’s un­precedented rise from the ashes of a bloody genocidal Civil War to enviable developmental progress should be a source of inspiration for Nigeria which is presently wal­lowing in overwhelming distress. All that matters is the availability of a leadership with positive vision but it nonexistence so far has been the foundation of all our national predicaments. The critical question now is how do we source for that caliber of leadership that can patriotically assume the challenge of systemic resuscitation and nation build­ing in the face of the unrelenting vandalism in the land? Left to the corrupt and unprincipled political elite evilly complemented by the ubiquitous anarchic and insurrec­tionist groups willfully debilitating the political, social, economic and moral fabrics of the nation, the sooner the Republic disintegrates the better for them but how soon their fiendish wishes materialise would depends mainly on the quality of leadership that the na­tion chooses to elect in confronting those existential threats. Over the course of human history, leadership and heroism have been the greatest propellers of human advancement as it is often said that a people without a leader is lost. The basket case of Nigeria and many other African countries has been unquestionably anchored on the sad fact that there has been monumental leadership failure on the continent and that reality has probably tempted some unscrupulous individuals to embark on a frantic latter-day hunt for he­roes where there is none. Yes, there are leaders and there are leaders. So, there was Napo­leon, George Washington, Man­dela, Mao Zedong and Lee Kwan Yew. Also there were Idi Amin, Mobutu, Said Barre, Pol Pot, Hitler, etc., all with their names indelibly etched on the sand of time either for good or for bad. The essence of Plato’s contentions in his treatise about the Philosophical King, for example, was to ensure that only the most mentally and morally prepared individuals should ever be entrusted with leadership posi­tions. The critical qualification is that would-be members of the rul­ing (elite) class should have so elo­quently distinguished themselves in their various callings that the rest of the society would intuitively trust their judgments to be always altruistic, rational, and patriotic as leaders but not crooks, deviants and liars as we have them aplenty. Even in the animal kingdom we also find that leadership is usually entrusted to the most capable, most daring, and most healthy member of the pride. Unfortunately, in Af­rica, we have tended to concede leadership to traitors, crooks and braggadocious interlopers. In the unfortunate case of Nigeria, there has been an unbroken relay of “leaders” who by their individ­ual lack of preparation coupled with ideological bankruptcies should never be near wherever leadership subject is being dis­cussed. It has been suggest­ed that those who received the leadership baton from the colonial masters at inception were not sufficiently pre­pared for the roles which they suddenly assumed. There is also the view that the departing British colonial authorities acted in bad faith by deliber­ating picking those they knew were not prepared for the lead­ership to take control of such a complex and variegated political entity like Nigeria. As if that was not bad enough, the ineffectual post-colonial admin­istration was soon to be violently replaced by soldiers who were com­plete novice in statecraft and bereft of the requisite political where­withal to govern anything larger than institutional military forma­tions like battalions and platoons. As expected, they were everything that responsible national leaders should not be – brutish vandalistic! Their massive failure in political power management was further aggravated by the fact that they all became corrupt, dictatorial and bereft of any form of ideological motivations beyond their naked lust for power. One would have expected that the end of the military era in Nigeria’s checkered governance would usher in a different kind of leadership that is led by patriotic democrats who would be guided not by draconian decrees but by a supreme Constitution that con­tains fundamental guidelines for decent democratic leadership. Alas! The so-called democratic transition turned into a sham because rather than seek for a clean break from the past mili­tary governing idiosyncrasies, the outgoing military made sure that it was only those they have previously dealt with during their blatant dictatorship that would succeed them. POLL In fact, if you were not a trust­ed ally, crony or an enabler of the military or those who had used the cover of the military to undertake crooked and illegitimate business­es such as drugs dealership, un­conscionable military contracts or closely allied to military hench­men, there was no space for you in the transition train. So, at that the end, the emergent PDP-led civilian government became a roll call of “who was who” in the departed military dictatorship. What is more, the supposed new civilian democracy found it convenient to inaugurate the new constitutional order with a former military leader in the person of re­tired General Olusegun Obasanjo as President! So, the ensuing Re­public became, for all intents and purposes, a diarchy of sorts in which mainly military-endorsed civilians and ex-soldiers jointly wielded the mantle of power which then made people to wonder: “what indeed has changed?” Even today, the reigning President is a former military leader just like Obasanjo was, thus raising the question as to why military men have found it so easy to return to leadership roles in a civilian constitutional de­mocracy that was supposed to be steering the nation away from the undemocratic military dictatorial instincts of the past. The political elite operating in cohort with the military has been the undoing of Nigeria. The lack of credibility of the political class can be seen in the way that the hues and cries about the imperative of a Southeastern president fizzled away amongst its chief proponents in the face of US dollars. Individuals who had the opportunity to effectuate that de­mand or register their case during the primaries shamelessly sold out. For years the nation was inundated by cacophonous demands for the presidency to shift eastwards but when the time came for a decisive push for it, their own delegates handed their votes to Atiku thereby undermining the prospect of for­midable Igbo aspirants like Peter Obi and Pius Anyim. How do you trust such spineless and merchan­dising politicians? Leaders elsewhere, whether democratically elected or not, ac­tively seek to build their societies, augment and preserve national val­ues but our counterfeited elite are corruptly leading the nation into perdition; where an oil produc­ing country is in economic ruins, democracy finding it difficult to take roots while life is becoming increasingly unbearable for those outside the radius of govern­ment. By the time you read this, the much-awaited APC primaries would have been over and a clearer picture of where Nigeria is head­ed would have emerged. How that solves the nation’s lingering lead­ership shortage problem remains to be seen.