LAGOS – A political pressure group, Coalition of All Nigeria Support Groups (COANSG) has told the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate; Dr. Olajide Adediran popularly called Jandor, and the Lagos State chapter of the party to pick a female from the Igbo ethnic group as a deputy governorship candidate of the party in the 2023 general elections to be able to win Lagos State. The group in a press statement on Monday signed by its national chairman, Hon Mark Iheanyi, stated that 2023 has presented another opportunity for the PDP to get it right and win the governorship election if it is ready to take the right action, pointing out that having successfully gotten a young and energetic politician as its gubernatorial candidate, the next step according to COANSG is to field a running mate who can give the party the desired votes. The statement reads in part, “We must commend the party for the emergence of Jandor as the gubernatorial candidate. He is young and energetic and his choice can increase the chances of the party. To us, the PDP has got it right but the party can go further by matching that with the right candidate as his running mate.  “The PDP leaders got it right 100 per cent with the emergence of Jandor, the party can take advantage of the population of the Non-indigenes in Lagos to win in 2023. The group in its permutation said that 90 per cent of Yoruba votes will go to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in support of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, who is also the gubernatorial candidate of the party in Lagos State, while the PDP can get the remaining 10 per cent Yoruba of the votes. It stressed that the only remedy for Lagos PDP will be to take advantage of the votes of non-indigenes in the state and since the Igbo ethnic group make up 80 per cent of the population of non-indigenes in the state, the party can rely on the group for victory in the polls. “A look at the political scene shows that the 2023 elections will take an unusual tone because we used to have two major political parties during an election but with the entry of Peter Obi into the presidential race, the Labour Party has become the third force and that has changed the political equation. “It is likely that voters will split in the 2023 election and that is why the PDP can act fast by picking a female Igbo deputy governorship candidate to attract Igbo votes to the party.” the group said.