A former Minister of Interi­or, retired Lt.-Gen. Abdul­rahman Dambazau, has called for urgent clean-up of weapons and drug among the Fulani youth as part of practical solutions to the ugly trend of kid­napping in the country. Dambazau made the call in his paper, titled ‘Dilemma of the Fulbe Pastoralist,’ presented at the Pasto­ralists and Fulbe Security Confer­ence, in Abuja. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), the conference is with the theme, ‘Exploring the Contemporary Challenges Facing Pastoralism and Fulbe with a View of Proffering Workable Solution in Curbing Insecurity across the Nation.’ -Advertisement- It was jointly organised by Miyet­ti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) and Northern Consensus Move­ment (NCM). The former minister stressed the need for urgent practical solutions to kidnap­ping by the Fulbe youth that leads to daily loss of lives and destruction of properties. According to him, one of the steps should be blocking of access to weapons and clean up all the weapons al­ready in circulation within Fulbe pastoralist youth envi­ronment. “We must also clean up the stable, and by this, I mean, with the help of the NDLEA, the society must work on the drug abuse among the Fulbe pastoralist youth,” he said. He noted with concern that drug traffickers had tar­geted the Fulbe youth and there was high rate of drug abuse among them, which must be decisively dealt with. POLL According to him, in or­der to deter the criminals among the Fulbe pastoralist communities, it is important that the criminal justice sys­tem comes strong against all those arrested for such vio­lent crimes. He said that they should be prosecuted and if found guilty, be subjected to maxi­mum punishment. “We must ensure justice and pursue human capital development that would improve the education and health of the Fulbe pastoral­ist to open more opportuni­ties for him for self-develop­ment in the society. “To do this, access to qual­ity education and healthcare facilities should be provided for the Fulbe pastoralists, in addition to skills acquisi­tion,” he said. Danbazau, who said the Fulbe pastoralist communi­ty had been isolated for long, said that their integration into mainstream of society should be given priority. He also called for the implementation of gov­ernment’s National Live­stock Transformation Plan (NLTP) approved in 2019, an attempt to modernise live­stock rearing, would provide the foundation upon which the integration would be mounted. “Beyond the idea of the UN Great Green Wall in the Sahel to checkmate the southwards movement of the desert, states and Fed­eral Government, and the private sector, should raise special funds for establishing ranching communities. “Particularly in the vast lands in the North-West and North-East, with all neces­sary facilities to enable the pastoralists settle down per­manently. “After all, government has been subsidising agriculture, especially for farmers, and the production of livestock should be part of the gov­ernment efforts to increase revenue,” he said. Speaking on the dilem­ma of Fulbe pastoralist, the former minister believes that the conference was an attempt to interrogate the predicaments of the Fulbe pastoralists in relation to the insecurity in Nigeria. “It should be noted that contemporary challenges facing Fulbe pastoralists are multifaceted and com­plex.” According to him, the Fulbe ethnic group is known to pursue pastoralism not only as means of livelihood but also as a way of life, most­ly as nomadic and semi-set­tled in the various forests spanning the country. He said that the Fulbe pastoralist was in dilemma because his wealth of cattle had disappeared due to cattle rustling, conflicts, or the con­sequences of climate change that brought about desertifi­cation and drought. He said that another di­lemma was that the group remained in the forest hiding because of the new criminal trade of banditry and kidnap­ping for ransom, which many of its youth are involved. “While in the past he was easily identified by his stick with which he controlled the movement of his cattle, today he is identified with the AK- 47 and other light weapons he uses to attack rural com­munities and also ambush to kidnap passengers and motorists traveling on the highways. “The Fulbe pastoralist was known to be humble, kind, gentle, disciplined, hon­est, and selfless, but today he is perceived as a bandit, mur­derer, rapist, cattle rustler, and kidnapper,” he said. He, therefore, called for concerted effort to address the prevailing challenges facing the Fulbe pastoralist in the country. He said that this was the only way to ensure peace in the country and the entire region. The Minister of Agricul­ture and Rural Development, Dr. Muhammad Abubakar, said that President Muham­madu Buhari was very much concerned about the chal­lenges of livestock develop­ment in the country. Abubakar said that the Federal Government was also much aware of the secu­rity and other challenges in the subsector and was willing to do everything to address them. The minister said that Federal Government had ap­proved a huge sum of money for the retracing and reclaim­ing of grazing reserve in the country. He said that government was willing to checkmate the spate of insecurity in livestock sector.