Do you know thousands of retirees-to-be dread going into that ‘unknown’ world of self-employment when their retiring day gets near? These are retirees to be who never try their hands on business when they are at work. At retirement, they look askance, not knowing what to do, not knowing where to start from. This writer once asked a retired senior staff of a federal ministry why he was not doing business. Read his answer: ‘What business will I do? I don’t know. I have never done business in my life, and I do not feel like doing one now.’ He retired as a director in the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. He could go into contract jobs. He could do consultancy. All from home, using space in his residence as office. Perhaps he felt he had made so much money in the public service, enough to keep him and his family alive for the rest of his life. Is there any wisdom in this? There are numerous business opportunities for people who are currently in employment – businesses they can do from home. They are not doing so because they are reluctant to venture. Many believe they do not have the time to do it. They can get somebody to manage the business for them. Some can get their wives to do the management of the business for them. After all some wives are either by design or by accident of history, full housewives, and so can become useful as family business managers. There are many too who dump self-employment to run businesses from home. In fact, many start-ups start off from home. Tract Step of Entrepreneur tells the story of Coffee News owner and CEO Bill Buckley, who left the financial industry to start a Coffee News franchise out of his home: “I really didn’t want a ‘real job.’ I wanted to work for myself,” Bill Buckley recalls. “And I loved working from home.” That was 1995, after Buckley had spent 25 years in the banking industry. He did a 180 to become the first U.S. franchisee of Coffee News, working out of two rooms in his home in Bangor, Maine, to produce free weekly newspapers for local restaurants. A lot has changed in 16 years. Buckley went from franchisee to U.S. sub-franchisor in 1996, and to owner and CEO of the entire company in 2008. But one thing hasn’t changed: He’s still working from home. -Advertisement- POLL “It gives me the flexibility to do all the other things I want to do in my life,” Buckley says. “I work whenever I have things to do, and when I don’t, it’s all free time.” Being able to skip the commute and make his own schedule means more time playing tennis, golfing and going to car shows with his wife, Coffee News vice president Sue-Ann Buckley. But that doesn’t mean being a home-based franchisor is all play and no work. “I work just as hard- -if not harder and longer–here at home than I would if I were in an office,” Buckley says. “We have close to 400 franchisees around the world, so I have 400 bosses. When they call, I sit up at attention. You have to be responsive.” Buckley makes sure his 400 “bosses” get all the same support a non-home-based franchisor would provide. Every eight weeks he takes over a local hotel to offer new franchisees a three-day training session. After that they’re assigned a mentor and given a free website, software package and access to an online chat group so they’re never on their own. “It’s all perception. My office tower today is my web page,” Buckley says. “When you call, you don’t know whether you’re calling an office building in New York City or a farm in the middle of nowhere. That’s the new normal.” Success at home Here are some words of advice from Donna Partow, author of Making Money from Home: How to Run a Successful Home-Based Business: What are the advantages of working from home? One of the great advantages is the tax savings. The average person can save about $2,800 a year on their taxes just by virtue of having a home-based business. The other advantage is the ability to balance family and career. How do you achieve that work/life balance? It’s critical to have a distinct and separate space for your business. When you’re in that space, you’re working, and when you’re out of that space, try to leave work behind. It’s also important to establish accountability. One advantage of connecting with a larger organization like a franchise is that it gives you structure and people with whom you can connect, set goals and establish accountability. What about marketing? Harness the power of social media: Twitter, Facebook, blogs, online stores. Nowadays someone working out of their home can present just as powerful a marketing front as a company with thousands of employees. And don’t forget YouTube–people want to see and hear information, not just read it. Home-based entrepreneurs actually have a competitive advantage over big corporations in this area, because slick video productions are viewed as unwelcome advertisements, whereas a homespun information-packed video is considered more trustworthy. Carol Tice, also of Entrepreneur tells you seven ways solopreneurs can grow a home business: Home-based businesses with a sole owner can only grow so much, right? Wrong. With a little creativity you can keep expanding your home business, without hiring employees or renting an office. Here are seven tips for increasing revenue at your home business while keeping it a one-person show: 1. Use technology. From scheduling newsletters and social-media dispatches to issuing blog-post notifications via email, automate as much as possible. Collaboration tools such as Citrix Systems software can also help you readily pass off or work in the same document with colleagues and consultants without having to send giant email attachments or deal with a courier service. Additionally, video conferencing or call forwarding technology can do wonders for helping your little company appear much bigger — and more professional. 2. Outsource. These days, freelance marketplaces such as Elance and vWorker.com make it easy — and relatively inexpensive — to find contractors for a wide variety of roles, from accountants to virtual secretaries. There’s no law that says you have to make official, full-time hires to grow. Increasingly, I’m encountering high-revenue, fast-growing companies that have few, if any, official staffers and are driving growth entirely through contract labor. 3. Watch for opportunities. Entrepreneurs’ prime advantage over big companies is the ability to be nimble and shift gears quickly if a new opportunity emerges that might lead to more business. That’s what home-based franchisor Patricia Beckman did when she saw a need for a standardized virtual-assistant chain. Now her VA business, Cybertary, has 25 franchisees and is growing. 4. Treat your business like a business. Don’t neglect the back-office end of your business. For instance, consider using an online invoice system such as FreshBooks or Intuit’s Bill Manager. Being able to systematically track your payments and expenses will not only save you time, it’s also more professional in the eyes of customers or clients. Keep regular business hours so clients can rely on you. 5. Invest for growth. Yes, being home based can help reduce overhead, but you still need to put money into the business to keep it thriving. After all, you’ve got to spend money to make money, remember? And that’s true no matter where your business is based. 6. Don’t forget your plan. 7. Get out there.  