Travel agencies in Nigeria have warned that if the current “disturbing situation” involving the trapped funds of foreign airlines operating into Nigeria is not immediately checked by the Federal Government, the country and its aviation industry may face a bleak future worse than COVID-19 pandemic. National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA), the umbrella body of travel agencies in the country, has, therefore, called on the Federal Government to direct the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to forthwith release the trapped funds of the foreign airlines, which a source close to one of the operators said had reached about $500 million in recent days. NANTA also urged the Ministry of Aviation to deploy all the necessary machineries to ensure that the funds are immediately released to the airlines, warning that it may lead to job losses among professionals in the sector. Mrs. Susan Akporiaye, President, NANTA, told journalists on Monday that the body was deeply concerned about the impression the trapped funds of the airlines would portray about Nigeria. As at May 2022, the trapped funds had risen to $450 million and sources close to some of the foreign airlines told Daily Independent on Monday that the funds may have risen above $500 million as at late June 2022. Akporiaye stated that NANTA as a strategic concerned partner in the downstream aviation sector had over the years appealed to the government through the CBN and the Ministry of Aviation to see to the possibility of reducing the humongous trapped funds and release to the airlines. The NANTA president insisted that the current situation presented a real threat to the industry and the continuity of the travel agencies’ business as professionals, warning that this may lead to huge job losses for players in the industry, while the economy might further suffer. Akporiaye expressed worry that the foreign airlines may resort to taking out lower inventory in the system resulting in high cost of tickets from the Nigerian market, stressing that a six hours trip to London for instance may go as high as $2000 (about N1.2 million) or more on the economy class. -Advertisement- POLL She raised the alarm that this may also lead to tickets sold outside the country to flood Nigeria, thereby affecting the survival of Nigerian travel agents and consequent loss of taxes and levies from such transactions. She added: “As Nigerians, we are patriotic and have presented our country well in the global travel industry and rightly felt disturbed that Nigeria was on the brink of a wrong narrative at the just concluded 78th annual general meeting of International Air Transport Association (IATA) in Doha, Qatar, on the account of airlines’ trapped funds to which Nigeria is Africa’s leading boggy boy. “We are by this outing once again, appealing to the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Ministry of Aviation and the Office of the Vice President to speedily intervene to bring down the amount of trapped funds to help resolve the operations of these airlines.” She reiterated that it was not a good business environment for an investor to be unable to take its funds out of the country, while at the same time expected to operate at international best practices. Daily Independent had reported exclusively in April that the trapped funds of foreign airlines had risen to an estimated $300 million, while also finding it difficult to access the funds through their banks at official rate and resorted to the alternative market to source forex at over N600 to a dollar. Daily Independent had also gathered that foreign airlines now sell higher classes fares in order to remain in business and profitable, while jettisoning the lower classes. The official exchange rate to a dollar in Nigeria remains between N418 and N420. Sources close to the foreign airlines operating into Nigeria had attributed shortage of foreign exchange in the country to their inability to repatriate the blocked funds out of the country. No fewer than 25 foreign airlines operating into Nigeria are involved in the challenge of fund repatriation. Some of the major carriers affected by the crisis are British Airways, Etihad, Emirates, Lufthansa, Air France/KLM, Delta Air Lines, Virgin Atlantic, United Airlines, Rwand Air and Ethiopian Airlines. Though it was learnt that a few of the foreign airlines don’t encounter major challenge in repatriating their funds out of the country, but most are still faced with the difficulty.