LAGOS  – Chief Priest of the ancient Okere Community in the heart of Warri, Warri South Local Government Area in Delta State, Pa Ekeghoro Fregene, joined his ancestors on Sunday June 5, at the age of 100. A member of the Elders’ Council, Legal Adviser and Public Relations Officer of Okere Community, Hon. David Eyitemi Oki, who confirmed the transition of the prominent traditionalist on Monday June 6, said the late Pa. Fregene, was buried 4:00am, Monday June 6, after Koromaju (Traditional wake-keeping). The late Pa. Fregene, was traditionally embalmed immediately after his transition on Sunday, before he was laid to rest in the wee hours of Monday. It was gathered that the departed centenarian, had handed down a declaration while alive, that he should not be taken to the mortuary, but be buried immediately whenever he joins his ancestors. Hon. Oki, a former Councilor and Supervisor in Warri South Local Government Council, disclosed: “Pa. Ekeghoro Fregene, died yesterday 5th June 2022 and was buried by 4:00am today. “He died at the age of 100 years and was the Chief Priest of Okere Community, remember Okere is the first and largest community in Warri metropolis. His (Pa. Fregene’s) residence in Ogun-Obite Quarter, was filled with mourners within and beyond Okere Community, because he was a truthful, honest, humble and genuine gentleman”. At this juncture, it is expedient to throw insight to the community in which he served as a priest in his lifetime. Okere, the name of the community, literarily means ”it is small” in Itsekiri language, is an Itsekiri indigenous community and is the oldest in modern-day Warri metropolis having been found about 1497 by a Benin war general, Ekpenede, (Ekpen for short) and sent after Prince Ginuwa’s entourage. According to Bini and Itsekiri histories, Olu Ginuwa, a prince of Benin Kingdom founded the Warri kingdom about 1480. In the 15th century it was visited by Portuguese missionaries. At the beginning of the 17th century, a son of the reigning Olu was sent to Portugal and returned with a Portuguese wife. Encamped across the Uton Tuba, with the Warri River between them and their quarry, and with no means to cross over to Ijala, Ekpen was compelled to end his chase and settle further upland at the place christened “Okere” in reference POLL He is said to have planted his staff at the centre of the settlement with the invocation “Ogungbaja Okere” (literally meaning that war will never come to Okere). This new staff grew into the tree which stands proudly by the Okere market junction today as a major historical landmark. Another tree, Arimabo – meaning one who sees and exposes what is seen, was planted after Ogungbaja Okere Odola and it’s still today at the centre of the Okere Market roundabout. Okere comprises six idimis: Odekporo, Ogun-Obite, Idimi Ode-lle, Idimi Jakpa, Ajamimogha and Idimi Sobo (Urhobo Quarter) which is the most recent, having come into existence on the arrival of some Urhobo immigrants about 1778 and were allowed to settle there by the reigning Town Head (Olare Aja), Ogieboro Arukuneyi. Today due to the unhealthy stoning of the embers of ethnicity, Idimi Sobo now calls itself the “Okere Urhobo Clan”.