…wants Election Appeal Committee to investigate high profile manipulationsMINNA – The Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Abdullahi Aliyu Sabi, has called on the All Progressive Congress (APC) Election Appeal Committee to investigate what he described as ‘high profile’ manipulation of party primaries in Niger-North senatorial district (zone C). Senator Sabi in a five-page petition to the Chairman, APC Legislative Election Appeal Committee for Niger-North Senatorial District, said the charade called election primaries fell short of all known democratic norms. Sabi, who is calling for the outright cancellation of the APC Senatorial election primaries held last Saturday claimed that the entire process was not only heavily compromised but manipulated and reflecting clearly forceful usurpation of the people’s mandate. What happened on Saturday is more of a complete violation of the guidelines and procedures for the conduct of the party primaries, the electoral act, 2022 and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Sabi said, adding that he is rejecting the outcome in its entirety. It is unacceptable, he insists, saying, “We want a legal, free and fair primaries election where the will of the people of Niger-North Senatorial district will not be coerced nor manipulated but freely conducted in line with the party guidelines and procedures”. Pointing accusing fingers on Governor Sani Bello and desperation said, “What happened last Saturday in the name of APC senatorial primaries was nothing but an inglorious and shameful charade, all in the name of trying to force a sitting governor on the people as their Senator”. The entire process from accreditation of delegates to the point of voting, according to Senator Sabi was hijacked by the Governor’s right-hand man and a five-time member representing Kontagora/Mariga/Magama/Wushish Federal Constituency, Alhaji Abdullahi Idris Garba who ordinarily should have no business dabbling into the Senatorial primaries. While expressing regrets that under the watchful eyes of the Chairman of the APC primary Election Committee for the state, Dr. Ray Murphy who had earlier told him on phone that due to time constraints it was not possible to hold a joint stakeholders and aspirants’ meeting before the election, Sabi said the Governor’s friend thwarted the wishes of the people. Sabi alleged that it all started inside a private residential building hence his rejection of the outcome. “The verification and accreditation of delegates were done in the private residence of Garba, located at Maigari Godabe road, opposite Safari annex, instead of Teachers House, Kontagora officially meant to serve for that purpose accreditation and voting”. “This conspicuous change in venue for the accreditation made it impossible for other delegates perceived to be anti to their biddings to be ex-communicated hence was not accredited and before they knew what was happening results was announced”. In trying to manipulate, many delegates were affected; three different lists was used for the primaries; House of Representatives, State House of Assembly and the Senatorial election primaries just as part of their desperation to foist the Governor on the zone as Senator. Sabi said, “The called new names to replace the legally recognized local government delegates, a clear contravene of section 115 (1) (a) and 119 (1) (e) and (f) of Nigeria’s electoral Act because some delegates were invited to the private residence of the Federal lawmaker, and the event at the private residence also turned out to be an official process of; harassment, intimidation, threats, hijack and kidnapping delegates who were serially threatened by the Governor’s security details who is an aspirant in the Senatorial election”. Indicting the heads of some security agencies of complicity in the electoral fraud, Senator Sabi said, “The home of Garba played host to the state Commissioner of Police, the Director of the Department of the State Security Services and other state government functionaries in a desperate show of force against the delegates”. “The hurriedly conscripted delegates were issued tags suggesting that they were already verified, accredited and ready to do the biddings of their pay masters even without our agent, Mohammed Garba Danladi on ground while at the official venue delegates were still waiting for the arrival of election materials, including tags”. Tags issued to the delegates at the Federal lawmakers’ house had the name and picture of the Governor on them, the petitioner further said, “We later learnt that the plot by the 10-man local organizing committee was executed with active connivance of the state organizing secretary of the party, Alhaji Musa Fasasi”.