According to a report from SPORT, Chelsea have joined the race to sign Gabriel Jesus. The Premier League giants are looking for attacking reinforcements this summer and have alerted the Manchester City forward of their desire to submit a formal offer for his services. Along with Chelsea, Arsenal and Real Madrid are involved in the pursuit of Jesus. The Brazilian is expected to depart from the Etihad Stadium in the summer following the arrival of Erling Haaland. Manchester City, though, are not willing to sell their star player on a cut-price deal and are expecting around €50 million from the sale. Real Madrid were one of the clubs who have been offered the chance to sign Jesus ahead of the new season. Having missed out on Kylian Mbappe, the European champions are considering the possibility of roping in the Manchester City starlet, who brings vast experience to the table and is versatile enough to fit anywhere across the frontline. Chelsea’s interest in the forward, meanwhile, stems from the uncertain future of their own strikers. Romelu Lukaku has reportedly agreed to join Inter Milan by taking up a massive salary cut, while coach Thomas Tuchel is not happy with the performances of Timo Werner either. Both the frontmen could be offloaded by Chelsea ahead of the new season, thus accentuating the need for a new central striker that can complement the creative setup consisting of Kai Havertz and Mason Mount, among many others. Arsenal, though, are believed to be in the ascendancy, as far as the pursuit of Jesus is concerned. The Brazilian international has worked with Mikel Arteta in the past, and the two apparently share an excellent relationship. Some sources even claim the Manchester City forward has already agreed personal terms with Arsenal. Jesus has been offered a lucrative salary and the promise of regular game-time, making Emirates a likely destination for the 25-year-old. POLL From a sporting perspective, Gabriel Jesus could serve as a direct replacement for Alexandre Lacazette, who is set to leave the club after running out his contract at the Emirates. However, whether or not Arsenal want to splash €50 million on the Brazilian remains anyone’s guess at the moment, giving Chelsea and Real Madrid a window of opportunity in his pursuit.