Prof Taye Babaleye, Head of the Public Relations and Advertising Unit of Lead City University, Ibadan, recently gave his inaugural lecture where he streamlined some of his contributions to the organized body of knowledge. He spoke with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT on the relationship between Public Relations and Agriculture, as well as the ills plaguing the educational system in Nigeria. Excerpts: You resigned from IITA as PR Manager after 23 years, why didn’t you delve into other fields of endeavor? I have always loved to be a lecturer in the university. Initially when I left the university in 1976, I first worked at Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo State where I was teaching French. Then it was affiliated to the University of Ile-Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University. I was hired as a graduate assistant. So, I have always loved to be in the classroom helping to develop the younger ones. You just had your inaugural lecture, why do you think academic institutions make inaugural lectures a basic necessity for their professors? Inaugural lectures are made basic necessities for professors because it is a worldwide phenomenon. It is an opportunity for that lecturer who is giving the inaugural lecture to let the world know what he or she has contributed to the body of knowledge in his or her field. And in Nigeria, especially in public universities, it is almost impossible for anybody to be a vice chancellor or a deputy vice chancellor without first giving an inaugural lecture. So, it’s a kind of norm in the academics. Some are of the opinion that there is no relationship between public relations, which is you specialty and agriculture, which constituted the theme of your inaugural lecture. What do you have to say to that? Those who say that are ignorant about the practice of public relations. Public relations is applied communication science which can be applied on any field of human endeavor. It should interest you to know that when we talk of agriculture, it is human beings that are there, whether as large , medium or small scale farming, it is humans that are there. And what is PR? PR is image making, ability to gather information that will assist the farmers to be able to attain greater heights in their farming practice. And of course, because we are in an environment where people look down on farmers, we have to find a way of improving their image so that people will not have the impression that it is only those that are relegated that are into agric practices. -Advertisement- POLL In advanced countries like the US, it is less than five per cent of their population that are farmers, yet, they are the ones feeding the whole nation of over 200 million and they always have more than enough to eat. So, when we are talking about boosting the image of the farmers, we have to understand where the farmers are coming from, their background and what can be done to scale up their activities, so that they will attract more fund, attract the attention of the policy makers, attract the attention of the business class and that of the food importers who will be convinced to stop importation and look inwards to get what they need within the country. So, PR and farming go hand in hand, just like you can say PR and education, business, medicine and other fields. The basic principles of PR is to improve the image of the individual or an organization even a city. PR is applied communication, just like advertising where you can advertise anything you want, to be able to make profit or create awareness. It actually helps to enlighten members of the public about the image, substance, activities, or value of whatever is the focus at the moment. Whoever thinks that PR doesn’t have anything to do with agriculture, doesn’t have a good knowledge of what PR does. There was so much reference to IITA in your inaugural address, could you please justify that and do you think they have made enough impact in the Nigerian agric sector to merit such references? You know when you are giving an inaugural lecture, the totality of your contributions to the body of knowledge is what is required. I worked a better part of my life in IITA, I had to concentrate more in the research works I did in IITA, particularly that I contributed in the area of helping the farmers to optimize yields. That is very important because there is no inaugural lecture that will be given by anyone that will not be tilted towards positively impacting the society. So, I can say with full assurance, that I have impacted society positively. And on what IITA has done, believe you me, if IITA had not been in Nigeria, the food situation in this country would have been horribly serious. I will mention about six crops that IITA has been able to substantially improve upon to make Nigerian farmers sustainable. One of them is cowpea which we call beans. We have different varieties of cowpea, it is even believed that cowpea originated from this part of the world. And IITA has a genetic resource unit where they brought over a 1,000 varieties of beans into the store below five degrees Celsius to preserve them for posterity. Our scientist will go there and bring them and study each and every one of them, characterize them so as to be able to know the qualities that they have. We were able to produce a particular variety that could be harvested within 60 days of cultivation. It is called 60-day cowpea. The variety of cowpea that Africa was used to before are the creeping type whereby you plant just one seed, then it will cover the whole site, by the end of about six or seven months, you probably will be able to get just about one kilogramme of seeds because the seeds will not come up at the same time and the flowers will not bud at the same time. Now when IITA scientists came on board, they made it to stand erect and raised the buds up while the leaves will be below. That way it can be mechanized. When you want to harvest, you can set your machine and go into the farm on a large scale production. This is one crop that has a cycle of over six month brought down to two and the yields increased to over three tons per hectare rather than less than 300kg per hectare. IITA developed more than three varieties of that which is selling in different parts of Africa, moving up the food situation. Soya bean is another legume like cowpea which came from Latin America. By the time IITA started working on it, the highest variety yield per hectare, was about four to five kilogrammes per hectare, IITA developed a variety that yields up to eight tons per hectare. Soya bean is still regarded as the most lucrative and beneficial legume anywhere in the world. It is used to produce baby milk and rich in protein; there is no livestock feeds without soya bean. For so many years, the Nigerian government was spending over $5billion annually to import soya bean into the country. But since IITA started developing on it, it brought the importation to a halt. Another very popular crop is cassava, which came into Nigeria during the slave trade. The varieties that were brought were not high yielding and they were susceptible to many kinds of diseases and the varieties yielded less than four tons per. Then a stand of cassava will remain in the soil for 18 months before harvesting. IITA came in brought in varieties that were producing as much as 30 tons per hectare to the extent that Nigeria is now the leading producer of cassava in the world. All these things are documented and farmers who are planting IITA varieties of crop know it. That is why the federal government can actually boast of banning some varieties of crops because there are alternatives that Nigerian farmers can produce. So IITA is a blessing to Nigeria. In a nutshell can you tell us some of your contributions to the body of knowledge? I have published 10 books and I have another 10 chapters in different publications, I have written more than 40 national and international peer-reviewed journals. I have supervised five PhD students and more than 20 master’s degree students and several undergraduate students, all between 2005 till date. What is your view on the proliferation of private universities in Nigeria? Proliferation of private universities was caused by the incessant strikes of the federal and state government universities that are under-funded, under-staffed and mismanaged by the university authorities themselves. Even as it is, I will say that with good management, the private universities are not enough yet. Many of our students are still going outside the country to places like Ghana and Benin Republic where they even pay more than the private universities in Nigeria. Private universities come to fill a gap. Imagine a student spending seven years instead of five years in the university. Not because the student failed, not because the parents were not able to pay the fees but because of the strike hiccups. If I have my way, I would have suggested that the public universities should be streamlined. Let some of them continue to focus on the development of postgraduates studies so that the private universities can be feeding them with students as they are finishing from the undergraduate levels. What is your advice to government, ASUU and Nigerians in general? There is no advice that one can give that has not been given before. I will say that the government should answer the lecturers and let the lecturers come to an agreement so that the students will not suffer. For the Nigerian government to just pretend as if nothing was happening is quite embarrassing, while the lecturers and students are suffering, especially when you see the way the politicians are spending money recklessly. 