A coalition of People Democratic Party (PDP) Persons with Disabilities Support Group, has said that the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar’s presidency is an idea whose time has come. The PDP Disabilities Support Group also vowed to actualize his presidency come 2023, adding that his knowledge of the economy will lead Nigeria out of poverty. Addressing newsmen at the party national secretariat, the National Coordinator of the group, Dr. Chidi Olujie, said, “the special delegate convention to elect our Presidential Flag-Bearer, has strengthened our party and demonstrated our leader’s readiness to take over the affairs of this country come 2023. -Advertisement- “While I congratulate all party faithful on this predictable success, I equally charge all members, regardless of gender, disability, and age, to work harder to deliver all our Candidates come 2023 “I want to formally, on behalf of the Coalition of PDP persons with disabilities support group, congratulate the 2023 PDP presidential flag Bearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar GCON (Wazirin Adamawa) on his predictable victory at the just-concluded special delegate convention. “Your emergence didn’t come to us as a surprise considering your political antecedence in reaching out to all and sundry.” He further said: “We are convinced that Atiku’s presidency is an idea whose time has come and is ready to be validated by the Nigerian masses come 2023. Persons with disabilities believe in your capacity, reckon with your experience and trust your knowledge of the economy and security in leading Nigeria out of the poverty and insecurity situation we found ourselves “The Coalition recognizes the efforts of all contenders in the last special delegate convention and sincerely appreciates them for deepening democratic ethos and practices within the party by participating in the election. POLL “However, we want to extend our appreciation to the Governor and Aspirant at the just concluded convention, His Excellency, Right Honourable Aminu Tambuwal, the Governor of Sokoto state, for his magnanimity and show of statesmanship for stepping down for Atiku Abubakar. This singular gesture will undoubtedly remain the cornerstone of our Association as a party that is ready to take leadership. “We are committed to engaging, mobilizing, and actualizing the Atiku Presidency come 2023. Within our available resources, we shall sensitize, re-orientate, and educate the public in general and persons with disabilities in particular on the necessity of PDP coming back.”