ABUJA – The governorship candidate of the Peoples Redemption Party in Delta State,(Engr) Igbini Odafe Emmanuel has said it is not out of place for presidential flagbearers to choose placeholders, especially as it conforms to the new electoral act that has been signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. Recall that some presidential flagbearers picked vice Presidential candidates as placeholders, prompting reactions from cross-sections of Nigerians. Odefe said INEC erred by discrediting the candidates that picked placeholders in the build up to the general election in 2023. He said, “As a political activist and a former three-time governorship candidate, I am compelled to react to the recent claim by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) through its National Commissioner Barr. Festus Okoye, that there exist no place in Nigerian Constitution and Legal Framework for what is now described as “placeholders” in Nigeria electoral process specifically as it concerns submission, change or substitution of names of candidates for general elections by registered political parties. “This claim by INEC is a fundamental falsehood deliberately made by it to mislead Nigerian voters and to cast aspersion on some political parties like APC and Labour Party which publicly disclosed that the names they submitted to INEC as their Vice Presidential Candidates were meant only to beat the June 17, 2022 date set by INEC but which they may change or substitute within the window provided by the sections 31 and 33 of the Electoral Act 2021, as amended to do so. “Contrary to INEC’s claim, I wish to state unequivocally that actions taken by APC and LP are constitutional and in line with sections 29, 31 and 33 of the Electoral Act 2021, as amended. The use of the word, “Placeholder” is merely misinterpreted by INEC. “Placeholder” simply means that it is not substantive but temporarily standing in for something or someone else. The word is used in solving Algebraic Expression and Equations in Mathematics. “Let me also inform Nigerians that this idea of changing or substituting candidates for general elections have been in our electoral laws of 2006, 2010 and now 2021, as amended. “Furthermore, it is imperative for me to inform Nigerians that changing or substituting candidates for elections is not limited to only Vice Presidential Candidates as we now seem to focus on. In fact, all names so far submitted by Political Parties to INEC as Presidential, Vice Presidential, Senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly Candidates are all “Placeholders” and can be changed or substituted before the 90 days to date of election, after which, no change or substitution is allowed except case of death of a candidate. -Advertisement- POLL “In conclusion, APC and LP have not acted against the Constitution and Electoral Act of Nigeria”.