LAGOS – Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, has said that with former Vice President Atiku Abu­bakar, the party stands a better chance of winning the 2023 presidential elec­tion. Speaking with Sunday IN­DEPENDENT on Saturday, Kalu, the National Coordinator, Peoples Democratic Party Co­alition (PDPCO) and Director General, Atikulated Agenda Support Group, stated that Ati­ku’s emergence as the party’s flag bearer was not surprising as he had worked assiduously for the party’s growth. Kalu maintained that Atiku also made the party members to see his objectives of aspiring to rule the country and what he stood for as a true Nigerian lead­er, adding that he had earned the people’s support, hence his victory at the primary. -Advertisement- Kalu said: “When a political leader gives a clear view of his plans when elected into office, it makes the people to either support him or not. That is ex­actly what happened in Atiku’s victory at the polls. “Nigerians have seen his po­sition on anticipated leadership blueprints and then bought into his ideas and voted him to emerge as the PDP’s presiden­tial candidate. “Prior to the primaries, he made wider consultations, ex­pressing in thoroughness how his government would operate when elected into office and it appealed to the people and they supported him. “As for the possibility of winning elections, it is obvious that Atiku has been a focused and determined leader from the day he joined national politics. PDP stands a better chance of winning presidential election as it works to solidify the par­ty structure and then function in line with the aspirations of Nigerians for a better economic transformation.” He maintained that Atiku, despite inter and intra ethnic sentiments and conflicts of interest, had been a highly re­spected personality across the nooks and crannies of the coun­try and that those who knew his plans for a greater and united Nigeria would vote for him in the forthcoming election. POLL Kalu stressed that he had taken steps to oil his own plat­form, the Atikulated Agenda Support Group, which played vital role during Atiku’s cam­paigns in the 2019 presidential election, and that steps had been taken by the state chap­ters of the platform, as they had been reassembling all support­ers and other affiliate bodies towards mobilising 50 million Nigerian youths for the tasks ahead. According to him, “Atiku­lated Agenda operates in all the nooks and crannies of the country with a very powerful administrative tap root strongly pillared on a solid foundation. “That confirms to you that the body is not only coming back, but has already begun wider operations since the announcement of the party’s primary election result. “This agenda is for all Nige­rians who understand the next level Nigeria is getting to in the hands of Atiku Abubakar, as he gets elected the next president. “His agenda is simply to develop our economy to com­pete with the fourth industrial revolution and as well tackle insecurity and create jobs for the unengaged youths. He in­tends to seriously address the shaking of Nigeria’s balance of payment system with other countries in the world.”