LAGOS – The Federal Airports Au­thority of Nigeria (FAAN) has put in the apparatus to tackle some of the in­frastructure challenges in most of the country’s airports, starting with the installation of airfield light­ing facility at the domestic runway of the Murtala Mu­hammed Airport, popularly called 18L. The runway has been without the facility for about a decade, a situation, which prevents domestic airlines to make use of the facility at any time from 6p.m. But Capt. Rabiu Yadu­du, the Managing Director of FAAN, in an interview with aviation journalists on Wednesday in Lagos, said that the equipment would be installed on the runway by the third quarter of 2022. -Advertisement- According to him, FAAN had contacted the contrac­tors who had promised to install the facilities on or before July 2022. With this, Yadudu said that aircraft would be able to land and take off on the runway at night, thereby saving fuel consumption for them. Yadudu regretted the pains the airline operators had gone through over the years due to the absence of the facility, but noted that some of the challenges were inherited by the current management. Yadudu further lamented the ageing infrastructure at most of the airports, saying some of them are as old as 40 years. He, however, said that the management had com­menced gradual replace­ment of the old infrastruc­ture, assuring that most of them would be replaced and upgraded in the coming years. POLL He said: “Some of the equipment we have are ageing. Some of them are even 40 years and above. As the current management in FAAN, we want to make sure that anybody who comes as the next Manag­ing Director of FAAN, we want to make their job eas­ier. We are going out of our way to make sure we do our own. “Now, we are fixing the 18L. You cannot land on 18L at night, now, the con­tractor is back. He was sup­posed to finish in March, but the cables he had were of low qualities and we are insisting on original ones. So, he said he will fix it by June or latest July. So, af­ter nine years, we are fix­ing some of these things that were abandoned and we are also starting new ones, including baggage handling, the central cool­ing system. “We contacted the air­field lighting company in Europe to fix the new ones, overhaul the whole airfield lighting system, there was no overhaul in 42 years. That is also in the process. We are fixing things so that those that come after us will get things easier.” On the call for the coun­try’s airports to remain op­erational for 24 hours daily, Yadudu said the agency was ready and willing to do this, but insisted such airport must be able to pay its bills. He pointed out that for airports to remain open for 24 hours as canvassed by some of the airlines and operators, FAAN, the Nige­rian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), fuelers and handling companies would need to deploy their personnel and facilities to such airports, but insisted with less traffic, such was not sustainable. He said: “FAAN wants all airports to operate 24/7 because it is a business for FAAN. We earn our reve­nue from that operations; we are a service delivery agency, but the challenge is will the 24/7 pay for itself ? Somebody has to pay for the 24/7 operations. Will the business pay for itself ? If we open an airport with just only three landings, FAAN will close down. “No organisation in the world will do that. Even, if you go to Europe, you will find out that many airports are sunrise to sunset. You can operate an airport even for sunrise to midday so that everybody that knows should go around that win­dow. “FAAN cannot operate an airport that we cannot breakeven, because we are already challenged. We want 24/7 days airports, but we need to know if the busi­ness will be sustainable. At first, some of the businesses may look as if they are sus­tainable even for the next two years. So, somebody must be ready to have the business model to sustain 24/7 operations. I cannot commit to 24/7 operations when you are not coming.”