Suddenly, it has become clear that the President Mohamma­du Buhari administration has lost touch with reality. Reality is about authenticity, the truth as opposed to falsehood and falsity (which hints of not just inaccuracy but deceptiveness). So, what happens when members of a government begin to reject truth, and instead, begin to manufacture their own truth? Those under that government have every reason to be­come worried. Recently, various bodies and per­sons raised their voices against what the President Mohammadu Buhari administration has stated to be the truth. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) and sundry economists have countered Buhari’s claims in the interview pub­lished by Bloomberg, on the economy. But for simplicity, lucidity and precision’s sake, I will bring up here the reply the Abuja-based Daily Trust newspaper gave to Buhari’s answers concerning the economy in the Bloomberg interview. Its report, published Wednesday 22 June 2022 was titled “Is Nigeria’s Economy In Better Shape Than In 2015 As Claimed By President Buhari?” Here are excerpts: “According to the president, “We leave Nigeria in a far better place than we found it. Corrup­tion is less hidden, for Nigerians feel empowered to report it without fear, while money is returned; terrorists no longer hold any territory in Nigeria, and their leaders are deceased; and vast infrastructure development sets the country on course for sustainable and equitable growth.” We will leave Nigeria much better than we found it – Buhari Public office and accountability issues in Nigeria: Verdict: FALSE. Verification: Although the Presi­dent made extensive comments on different sectors, Daily Trust verified his claim on the economy, and found out that what the president said were largely false. Verifying the president’s claim, Daily Trust analysed key eco­nomic indices which meet the World Bank’s criteria to ascertain whether an economy is performing or not. These criteria include inflation, debt level, exchange rate, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employment rate and distribution of natural resources. -Advertisement- POLL Inflation: Nigeria’s inflation rate in 2015 was a single digit of 9.01 per cent. Inflation rose to its highest level since 2017, rising from 16.82% recorded in April 2022 to 17.71% in May, according to the recently released Consumer Price Index report, by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Debt: From N8.8 trillion in 2015 before President Buhari took over power, according to the Debt Man­agement Office, it is now N41 trillion as at June 2022; a jump of over 500 per cent. It increased from N39.56 trillion in December 2021 to N41.60 trillion in the first three months of 2022 alone. Fuel prices: From N87 per litre in May 2015 to N162 per litre now. Foreign Exchange rate: “In 2015 when President Buhari assumed office, the dollar was exchanging at N198/$ in the parallel market. By 2018, it was N306 to the dollar, and in 2019 it went up to N360 to the dollar and eventually exchanged at N520 in 2021. From 2021 till date, the dollar at the parallel market is exchanging for between N600 to N610”. Unemployment: “Nigeria’s unem­ployment rate at the last quarter of 2015 stood at 10.4 per cent according to the National Bureau of Statistics. The figure went up to 14.2 per cent at the end of 2016. At the end of 2017, it moved up to 20.42 per cent. It moved up to 23.1 per cent in 2018 and the lat­est figures from the NBS indicate that the unemployment rate now stands at 33.3 per cent”. My comment; at 33.3%, it means over one-third of Nigeria’s workforce is unemployed! Gross Domestic Product: GDP in 2015 when President Buhari assumed office stood at $486 billion; it was “$440 billion in 2021, with 3.98% growth of the economy even though official fig­ures by the World Bank are still being expected”. Conclusion “Verifying the key eco­nomic parameters that determine if an economy is in a good shape, checks by Daily Trust show that the key eco­nomic indices as at 2015 were better than what is obtainable currently. As such, the claim by President Buhari that he is leaving a better economy for Nigerians is FALSE. This Factcheck is produced in partnership with the Centre for Democracy and Develop­ment (CDD)”. Sincerely, what irks me the most is not the puny indices of development which the Buhari administration post­ed; governments have failed before and will still fail in future. What I find inexcusable is the wooden-headedness which the president’s answers be­trayed. For instance, when Bloomberg asked: “You campaigned for office with a pledge to fight corruption, se­cure the country and fix the economy. How would you rate your perfor­mance in fulfilling those pledges during your eight years in office? Why has insecurity been so hard to tackle? Are you making headway”? A: “We leave Nigeria in a far better place than we found it. Corruption is less hidden for Ni­gerians feel empowered to report it without fear, while money is returned; terrorists no longer hold any territo­ry in Nigeria, and their leaders are deceased; and vast infrastructure de­velopment sets the country on course for sustainable and equitable growth. Security: In 2015, Boko Haram held territory the size of Belgium within the borders of Nigeria. Today they are close to extinct as a military force. The leader of ISWAP was eliminated by a Nigerian Airforce airstrike in March. The jets acquired from the US and in­telligence shared by British were not provided to previous administrations and stand as testament to renewed trust re-built between Nigeria and our traditional western allies under my government. “ Yet, we all know that just recently, an Owo, Ondo state Catholic church was bombed …and the government suspected ISWAP of being behind it. Recently too, a train from Abuja which was bound for Kaduna was derailed, some unfortunate passengers were either killed or abducted. In reaction, The Kaduna state Gov­ernor cried out that his state was un­der siege while the Niger state gover­nor shouted that in some of the state’s Local Government Areas, especially, Shiroro, communities now pay tax to the terrorists. Yes, the governor also said terrorists now dwell in that state. Then Buhari added: “We urge those same international partners to take additional steps costing them nothing, by proscribing another group – IPOB – as a terrorist organization. Their lead­ership enjoys safe haven in the West, broadcasting hate speech into Nigeria from London, spending millions lob­bying members of the US Congress, and freely using international finan­cial networks to arm agitators on the ground. This must stop”. Please note that IPOB was not men­tioned in the question. While we must grant that there is worrisome insecu­rity in the South-East, it will be hard to explain while Buhari did not take the same liberty to mention the killer cattle herders and the bandits who are said to be mainly of the Fulani stock. For record purposes, an authority as respectable as Sheikh Mohammed Gumi has linked banditry with the angst some young Fulani people feel. I say this because though the wanton killing of persons, especially govern­ment officials in the South-East, must be condemned and stopped, the “un­known gunmen” in the South-East have not done one per cent of the harm to life and property which the suspected killer herders or the bandits have perpetrated. Truly, Buhari’s explanation on RUGA alarmed me: “My adminis­tration is the only (one) in Nigeria’s history to implement a solution to decades-long herder-farmer conflicts, exacerbated by desertification and de­mographic growth. The National Live­stock Transformation Plan, putting ranching at its core, is the only way to deplete the competition for resources at the core of the clashes. Governors from some individual states have sought to play politics where ranches have been established; but where there have been disputes have dramatically reduced”. Please, dear Mr. President, has “the National Livestock Transformation Plan, putting ranching at its core” re­ally taken off? And now here is the real question, has the NLTP (with ranch­ing at its core) reduced the incidents of insecurity in any state or Local Government Area? Second, it is worrisome that the President does not, years down the line, appreciate the bad blood and disunity that the “the National Live­stock Transformation Plan, putting ranching at its core” introduced into the country. That plan papered over the question of why cattle-herders should not have been compelled to open up ranches for their private en­terprises as is the case in other coun­tries. If they lacked the money with which to do so, a loan facility should have been opened up specifically for that purpose. Mal-administration is of four kinds; tyranny or oppression, exces­sive ambition, incompetence or dec­adence and folly or perversity. Here, I’m concerned with just folly, taking the late Harvard historian, Barbara Tuchman’s definition in the MARCH OF FOLLY book; “the pursuit of policy contrary to the self-interest of the constituency or state involved. Self-Interest is whatever conduces to the welfare or advantage of the body being governed; folly is a policy that in these terms is counter-productive.” When I remember the street pro­tests which erupted against Buhari’s predecessor owing to insecurity, low Naira exchange rate, and petrol importation and scarcity, I wonder why the Buhari administration has spent seven years in office without making one refinery fully operative. That would have reduced fuel scar­city, reduced the amount wasted to import petrol, lowered inflation and powered the economy beyond the state it is in today. Yet, when we de­cry the petrol importation, inflation, the somnolescent economy, Buhari would boast that he has built over 800 roads and important railway lines. Who travels on those roads now? And if you remove the fear of kidnapers and killers, who can afford the trans­port fares? And are our roads even smooth? Tuchman teaches that folly is a child of power; and this APC admin­istration has governed with a swager; with absoluteness, listening to no sec­ond opinion on anything. Tuchman said that the power to command fre­quently causes failure to think; that the responsibility of power fades as its exercise augments. She said: “The overall responsibility of power is to govern as reasonably as possible in the interest of the state and its citizens (yet, Nigeria constructed a rail line to Maradi, Niger Republic). A duty in that process is to keep well-informed, to heed information, to keep mind and judgement open (yet Buhari’s media handlers frequently damn crit­ics and those with contrary opinions to hell) and to resist the insidious spell of wooden-headedness. If the mind is open enough to perceive that a given policy is harming rather than serv­ing self-interest, and self-confident enough to acknowledge it, and wise enough to reverse it, that is a summit in the art of government”. It is no wonder that the Buhari ad­ministration has failed to reach that summit. An administration that raid­ed the home of a sitting Chief Justice of the Supreme Court but turned a blind eye when Supreme Court Jus­tices made monetary complaints against another Chief Justice is not prepared to reach that summit. Count Axel Oxenstierna Sweden’s Chancellor during the Thirty Years War, confessed on his deathbed; “Know my son, with how little wis­dom the world is governed”. And when wisdom fails or in this case, it has been truly frustrated, pure force rises to the fore. That is why the Bloomberg interviewers would have written down questions and sent them to the presidency, then Buhari’s handlers would have seen them, yet, they would ignore the direct ques­tions and begin to advance answers to unasked questions. That is living in a make-belief world. Or what do you make of this: Ques­tion: Q5. The sharp rise in borrowing since 2015 has left the country now spending almost all of its revenue servicing debt. What will that level of debt servicing costs mean for the country going forward? Do you think you have done enough to try and bring debt under control? A: A narrow focus on debt miss­es the point. What it fills is Nige­ria’s longstanding infrastructure deficit by constructing a foun­dation for sustainable growth – spreading opportunity to ensure no part of the country is left be­hind, which has led to insecurity in the past. The issue of debt-servicing was not addressed. Haba!