….denies selling off 72 tractors meant for improved farming in LGCs MINNA – Countdown to the 2023 general election, the Niger state government has declared today, Thursday and tomorrow Friday as public holidays to enable citizens, especially civil servants to register and get their Permanent Voters Card (PVCs). Niger state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr Emmanuel Musa Umoru, disclosed this while addressing journalists at Government House, after the week’s State Executive Council (SEC) meeting. The decision to make Thursday and Friday work-free days is in demonstration of the commitments by the Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello-led administration to ensuring that Nigerlites exercise their constitutional voting rights in the next years’ general election. All segments of the state workforce are by the two days public holidays expected to revalidate their PVCs while those of them who registered but by virtue of relocation needed to transfer their voters’ card verification will have enough time to effect such changes. The commissioner was supported during the briefing by his; Transport, Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and as well Agriculture and Rural Development counterpart, Zakari Mohammed Tanko, Abbas Abubarkar Musa and Alhaji Yusuf Muhammad Gunu. Meanwhile, Niger state government has denied some media reports that 72 tractors belonging to Local Government Areas, for the improvement of agriculture in the rural areas were missing. State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Abbas Abubarkar Musa and that of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Yusuf Muhammad Gunu, throwing more light into the origin of the speculations said the tractors were simply moved to a different location in the state. “I want to put records straight on this missing tractor online story whereby the tractor was reported to have been stolen. The tractors are 69 in number and not 72 as reported, it is also meant for hiring by the Local Government Areas to improve food production”. The commissioner however could not give a detailed number of tractors moved from the trade fair complex where they were parked and where they are now told journalists that some of the tractors were scraps but failed to provide further details. Yusuf Gunu stated, “103 farming tools or tractors were sold because they can no longer be repaired and so we sold them as scraps to buyers who are mostly rural dwellers. We sold them between N2 and N2.5 million but I can’t say exactly how much is total sum recovered from the sales now.”