TOYIN ADEBAYO, JOSEPH UNDU ABUJA  – A vigilante member was slain in Abuja’s Lugbe neighborhood for allegedly insulting Prophet Muhammad. The mob killing, according to our correspondent, took place at the Timber Market area of the Fruit Market in Federal Housing Estate, Lugbe. -Advertisement- According to eyewitnesses, the victim, a Muslim, was in the habit of insulting the prophet, the most recent of which oc­curred at midnight on Friday. However, the mob action oc­curred around 1.pm on Satur­day after seeking refuge in the market’s vigilante office. It was gathered the local se­curity outfit was outnumbered before he was killed in front of the office, thereafter, burnt. According to the eye wit­ness, Halilu, a trader at the market, “The guy is known as Small Hundaru. That was not his first time of insulting the prophet before the action was taken. “He was caught after buying food in the market in the after­noon, because when the blas­phemy occurred, it was just few people who were there. Then a stick was used to hit him in the head. Though he had a gun with him, it was retrieved before the beating. POLL “Thereafter, he was stoned before he ran to the office. His colleagues at the office were aware, but they couldn’t shield him due to the number of peo­ple that chased him. “When he was unconscious, petrol was poured over him and not to stoke any fear in the mar­ket, he was burnt in front of the office.” When our reporter arrived on the scene, she saw the charred tyres that had been used to burn him, as well as traders who had shut their shops in preparation for any violence. The scene was calmed by the presence of police officers, however, three people were claimed to have been shot by the officers. The FCT Police Command’s Surveillance and Ambush team said on Saturday that it tried to rescue the victim, a 30-year-old member of the local vigilante group, around Tippa garage, Federal Housing Estate, Lugbe Area of the Fed­eral Capital Territory (FCT). According to a statement signed by the Command’s Spokesperson, DSP Josephine Adeh, on Saturday, the victim, “Got into an argument with a cleric (Malam) whose name is yet unknown, from the same area. “The heated argument de­generated into an outbreak of violence that led to the murder and setting ablaze of Ahmad Usman by the enraged mob mobilised by the clergy, num­bering about 200. “Upon the receipt of this information, a quick inter­vention team comprising of The Surveillance and Am­bush Team of the Command attached to the Gwagwalada Divisional Police Headquar­ters, was drafted to the scene where the enflamed victim was rescued suffering severe degrees of burn and taken immediately to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by a doctor on call.” Adeh disclosed further that normalcy had been restored in the area, while monitoring and surveillance of the area had continued.