Food is the major source of energy. Every living organism on this planet needs food to stay alive and to continue all other essential life processes. Plants are the main source of food on which both humans and animals depend. We cannot imagine life without food. With the rapidly growing population, demand for more food, loss of produced crops, and other problems in the agricultural output are the main reasons for the scarcity of food and are the biggest concern some parts of the world are facing today. -Advertisement- This has led to an increase in the requirement of strategies that can help in the management of the crops produced. With the war in Europe between Russia and Ukraine, COVID- 19 aftermath and the raising insecurity in Nigeria, food security has become an issue that need an urgent attention especially in Nigeria. Nation without food security has no security. Crop production is the commonest system of farming in Nigeria. It is as old as farming itself. This is a practice of growing and producing crops for food and fibre for both human and industrial use. Some of the crops produced on a large scale include rice, wheat, maize, yam, soyabeans, beans, dawa, groundnut, cassava, cocoyam, potatoes, among others. Before you engage in crop production business, you must think of which crop or crops will have good yield and in high demand in your area before venturing in other not to go into unprofitable venture. Crop Production Involves The Following Practices: POLL • Soil preparation (clearing, tilling, ploughing): In soil preparation enhancing the soil with neem based organic manure will go a long way in high crop yield. Also you will apply less fertilizer. • Sowing of seeds: Use highbred seeds with disease resistance this as a result will give you high yield (good output) • Fertilizer application (organic or inorganic/ Liquid or powder) • Irrigating the soil but not in all cases. • Weeding: In commercial crop production chemical wedding is advisable especially when you are mono cropping. But if during the soil preparation stage you cleared the land properly weed will not be an issue as time goes on. • Harvesting of crops: This could be manual or mechanically depending on the scale of farming. • Storage of crops/ Marketing The Factors Affecting Crop Production Are: • Soil fertility • Availability of water or rain • Diseases • Pests • Climate • Security With the availability of farming machineries through leasing and agro chemicals, farming has been made easy. As a result, return on investment is sure. Though there are other unforeseen challenges but as soon as you harvest, the market is ready. What Are The Major Food Crops? Potato, rice, ginger, beans, cassava, sorghum, soybeans, maize and wheat are some of the important food crops. NOTE: Orange color sweetpotatos is on high demand now because it is used for baking.