Venerable Chiadikobi Emmanuel is the Founder of Jesus Healing School, and The Vicar of St. Andrews (DÇC) Church, Nnewi, Anambra State. AS Christians celebrated the Father’s Day last Sunday, the cleric, in this interview with PERCY ONYEJEKWE, urges the Church to fight back against its attackers, condemning the incessant killings in the country, even as he says that the government should stop being cowardly over security, among other issues. Excerpt: What is your reaction to the killings in the country, attacks on the Churches? It is a condemnable evil and a sad development. Killing is an abomination in the sight of God. Looking at the whole thing you will see that it is spiritual. There is indication that Christianity is under attack nationally and religiously. But Nigeria is said to be a secular state with freedom of religion and worship. What is your take on this fact? You can see that when it comes to Christianity, attacks against the religion do not receive proper legal attention when it comes to attacks and killings. And when you watch carefully, you will observe strategic moves and ‘gossips’. For instance, from the cattle grazing policy and appointments and some other factors, it seems obvious that the ‘gossip’, is that there is an allegedly Islamic agenda to take over Nigeria. Today, the society is overcharged with fear and there is pressure to decline Church activities. What would you want the Christians to do, stand or sit and fold their hands? Now, when you look at the whole scenario, you will see that there is a spiritual undertone over the whole thing. In the North, there are attacks against the Church and Christians. And in the South, which is dominantly Christians, there is uprising against the Church. The Church has a problem in itself. People are becoming more diabolic. It bothers me. Christians should not perverse their faith by looking at the weaknesses of the government because the government cannot save any nation. So, Christians should rise up to the challenge. Daniel fought the Prince of Persia, Paul fought the Breast of Ephesus. The Christian must rise up and fight both the Prince of Persia and beast of Ephesus in Nigeria. The Church should wake up to fight. Are you advocating that the Church and Christians should take up arms against their attackers? -Advertisement- POLL No. Not arms. The first thing to do is fervent prayer for the government and citizens. The truth is the Church has not prayed as one body. One day of national prayer can change the situation nationwide. Secondly, the Church has failed to raise good leaders at all levels of government. When a child of God avoids politics and hands it over to the devil what do you think would happen? The result is the obvious. Joseph was a spiritual leader in a secular world. David was a spiritual leader in a secular world, among others. Are you implying that the Church has failed? No! The church comprises of Jesus, the head and believers, the body. Church cannot fail as Jesus cannot fail. I blame the government which is part of the problem. What I am saying is the killings are wakeup call on the side of the church and failure on the side of the government. It is a complex problem. Where does the government come in here? The primary duty of the government is to ensure peace in the land. It is also the duty of government to ensure the progress of the land by providing amenities, right education and enabling environment for business growth. Last Sunday was Fathers’ Day. What message do you have for fathers on child upbringing? Love of the father, that was the Father’s Sunday sermon. And that was my message too. In different generations, people understood God in diverse ways. Some see Him as a great being seated in heaven waiting to judge and cast sinners into hell. Some see Him as a holy God who is exceptionally good but all together unreachable to the sinful man. In the Bible, Abraham called him El Shaddai and Jehovah Jireh, Isaac knew Him as the God of his father and Jacob as the fear of his father, Isaac. To Moses He is ‘I am that I am’, and the Man of war. Joshua called him Ebenezer – our Helper, while David called him the Lord of hosts. All these are professional names describing God’s work rather than His relationship with man. However, Jesus, on the last days, revealed Him as our Father who is heaven. A father is the first ancestor of a child, the provider, sustainer, and defender of his home. Here Jesus tells us that we are from God, and He is our male parent! We are members of His family. He has the duty and obligation to provide and to defend man. What marvels most is that He did not call Him ‘My Father’, but ‘Our Father’. He knew we are sinful, yet He is loving enough to call us His children. He said to Mary Magdalene, “Don’t hold on to me, because I haven’t yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them, ‘I’m ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God,”(John 20:17). This is the greatest revelation of God in all times! He is a Father to all mankind! No wonder Jesus told the Jews: “If I were trying to glorify myself, my glory would mean nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, ‘He is our God” (Joh 8:54). He exposed their lack of knowledge of the Father! Until you acknowledge God as our Father who is in Heaven, you cannot know Him! God is a Father, by His Spirit we all were born, and by His power we are protected and nourished. We do not cherish the fatherhood of God because our sinfulness beclouds our thinking. Consider our relationships with our children, when they were young we took care of their feces, as they grew up we took care of their school fees, and when they found it difficult to learn we become more worried. We hire teachers and give them more attention, coaching them until they succeed. If they grow wayward, we do not cast him away; we go on our knees, consult pastors, fast and pray that they may come back to their senses. Peradventure they become addicted to drugs we become addicted to sorrow until we see their repentance. Thus, the more they derail, the more we go out for them. Jesus said, “If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?” St Paul said in Romans 5:20, “Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound.” Hence, no father casts away his child because he is evil, even so our Father in heaven sent His Son to recover all His sinful children because He is grieved with their situation. Thus, the father ran to embrace the prodigal son, change his clothes, and ordained a festival to mark his return. Let us learn from our heavenly Father. Firstly, He provides and protects His children. He giveth light and rain to His righteous and unrighteous children, loves His lovable and unlovable children and provides for them. We must learn to love our family members – our wives, and children. We should learn to love our neighbours with agape love. “Love your enemies and pray for those who despitefully use you,” says the lord Jesus, “that you may be like your Father who art in heaven.” Secondl, He Teaches His Children. “For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel,” (John 5:20). Father’s should show their children good examples and guide them into their destinies! Every good father owes his children the responsibility of directing them into their careers and supervising their productivity until they are established. Thirdly, He Presents His children honorably. “For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son. That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him,” (John 5: 22-23) “Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God,” (John 8:54). God handed over judgment, authority, and power unto His Son that He may be honoured and glorified. Even so, every father should train his children to be successful. The father is honoured in the glory of his children! Fourthly, He prepares for a successful handover. “For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son,” (John 5:22). Every successful father should prepare to hand over his family, business, and standards to his children. He should teach them to be successful leaders of the family and society. Parents are important in shaping the society. Leadership training starts at home. This duty leans mainly on the fathers who are leaders of the families. The Bible says ‘train a child the way he should go and when he grows up he would not depart from it.” Today, as we reflect on the fatherhood of God, we must strengthen our hand in the leadership of our homes. We inherited the ability to love our children from our Father who is in heaven. We should begin to acknowledge with thanks the love of our Father in heaven. No man, no matter how sinful should count himself out of this love. The worst sinner ever, of certainty, drinks of His love though his derailment breaks His heart. What is your prayer for the parents? We pray in the words of St Paul that God will open our eyes that we may know the love of God that we may be filled with the fullness of God! “And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God” (Eph 3:19).