Following gory road crashes leading to the maiming, injuries and deaths of dozens of children, especially school children in Ogun state and particularly in Ogun West, the Traffic Compliance Enforcement Agency TRACE, has concluded arrangements to embark on the training and retraining of teachers in primary and secondary schools on the enforcement of traffic control within the Ado-Odo-Ota Local Government Council Area. The agency reveals that the two-day training would involve about five hundred (500) Head Teachers both from Primary and Secondary Schools in a combined training on effective traffic control, while those trained will be saddled with the responsibility of imparting the knowledge garnered to other teachers in their individual schools for the advancement of the same purpose. Speaking about the Traffic Control training programme, Cdr. ‘Seni Ogunyemi, TRACE Corps Commander/Chief Executive said, “The Traffic Control training for teachers is actually targeted at reducing fatalities suffered by Children, especially during school hours. It is our belief that when teachers are adequately informed about the rudiments of traffic control and Road safety, it will be transmitted down to the students, to reduce the ugly incidences of road crashes involving school children. -Advertisement- “Comparative data of the first three months of road crashes as it occurred in the last three years recently released from our agency shows a total of 518 crashes, with 163 deaths and 916 injured within the period across the state. The data shows 32% of these crashes, injuries and deaths involve hapless children. “Most of the crashes involving school children occur when coming to schools or closing from schools. It is particularly higher when crossing the roads for most of them who are inclined to crossing the road in a hurry to either get to school because they are late or want to get home early. Added to this is the over-speeding and impatient nature of motorists, especially Okada riders and Tricycle operators on mostly narrow and overcrowded roads, scouting for passengers and trying to outrun their fellow riders. These unhealthy road attitudes serve as precursors to road crashes involving school children. “Another precarious challenge with school children is the fact that some do not know how to cross the roads properly. “So the need to have well trained road crossers from among school teachers should be a welcomed idea, which the training programme is about to provide to the array of schools in the Ado-Odo- Ota Local government Area and environs. “Some private schools have taken the initiative by employing expert children crossers, but not all the schools can afford such personnel, especially government schools, so the need to carry the training of the teachers is apt at this time and should be embraced by all schools. With the success of the programme in Ado-Odo, we hope to replicate it in other parts of the State.” CDR. Ogunyemi affirmed. POLL Expantiating more on the programme details, he said, “The programme is more of a practical one than theoretical involving other facilitators from sister agencies, including the Federal Road Safety Commission, FRSC, who will be presenting in colours the various road signs, their meanings and purposes. The Red Cross society will take the teachers through the rudiment of crash victims rescue which is a very important technique that people need to be acquainted with. The Nigerian Police will also take participants on how to incident crash cases and other legal angles.” According to the TRACE Commander, the training is part of the many initiatives designed by him to drastically reduce the alarming number of crashes recorded in the Gateway state last year. He said, “Many traffic watchers will like to see a reduction in the number of road crashes across the country to conform to W.H.O’s Global Acceptable Limit of 5 deaths in 100,000 people per annum. “The drive to reduce the number of crashes on Ogun roads started since late last year at our 6th annual Corps Commander Conference with the theme, ‘Panacea For Our Traffic Woes: Improving Road Safety Through Technological Driven Road and Traffic Management’, where Professor Kayode Oyesiku, an expert in transport technology elaborated ways to apply technology for improving road safety and ultimately reduce number of crashes on the roads. According to him, the first step taken by the agency since the beginning of the year was to accentuate and effectively provide traffic management and prompt rescue service throughout the 12 Ogun major traffic corridors in the state, including; the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Atan-Lusada-Agbara-Badagry Expressway, Interchange-Sagamu-Ijebu/ Ode-Benin/Ore Expressway, Abeokuta-Kobape-Siun-Interchange Expressway, and Lafenwa/Rounder-Olorunda-Aiyetoro-Imeko-Ilara Border among others. “This training is in furtherance of our plans to encourage corporate and community participation in road safety, as well as focusing on emergency traffic challenges and rapid response, with the aim to ‘reduce fatality to serious’ and from ‘serious to minor’ and from ‘minor to zero’ as the case may be.” He stressed. According to a Report by World Health Organisation (WHO), “186, 300 (One Hundred and Eighty Six Thousand, Three Hundred) children die each year from Road Traffic Crashes around the world – that’s more than 500 (Five Hundred) children every day. In fact, Road Traffic injury ranks among the top four causes of death for all children over the age of 5 (five) years”. About 95 percent of Road Traffic fatalities among children occur in the world’s Low-and Middle-Income Countries which includes Nigeria. Report also from the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS), an average of 14 people die from road crashes in Nigeria daily and three out of these are children. The thought of children crossing the road is enough to make any adult apprehensive, as unpredictable movements and the natural recklessness of a child can cause accidents. Road Safety experts say every four minutes a child is prematurely lost on the roads of this world. Many more are injured, often severely. These traumatic events cause immeasurable suffering and grief and at times economic hardship for families and friends. In addition, they cost societies precious resources, diverting these from other pressing health and developmental challenges. Children of all ages are at risk of being involved in a Road Traffic Crash or Accident. They maintained therefore that road safety initiatives and programmes should be all encompassing involving all and sundry, especially children who are highly susceptible to the vagaries of road conditions. They pointed out that there is a Road Safety Education Curriculum for Secondary Schools from JSS 1 – JSS 3 and SS1 – SS3, as recommended by the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), about twelve years ago and approved by the Federal Executive Council. However the Road Safety Education could not be implemented because there was no appropriate book and other instructional materials for Teachers to use in Schools, but much later some spirited organisations took up the challenge in 2020 after a meeting with the Technical Working Group of the National Road Safety Advisory Council (NaRSAC). The project is also designed to contribute to the accomplishment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), agenda, and the UN Decade of Action on Road Safety and Injury Prevention (UNDARSIP), with the objective to implement the Global Plan for Road Safety (2021 – 2030) which recommended a maximum speed of 30km per hour in school environments and built up areas. It is therefore important for the Governments to construct Speed breakers or Bumps near schools to compel Drivers to reduce their speeds near Schools. Recommending that Governments while constructing roads should always give priority attention to the construction of pedestrian walkways which must also be kept free at all times for pedestrian walking alone. Teaching kids road safety is a very crucial part of raising the young ones as it directly concerns their physical safety and well-being as they grow and become independent. Rather than isolated lectures and demonstrations, road safety is something that needs to be taught early in life, continuously and even subtly at times. As kids grow, they are bound to venture outside, and very soon, they will need to cross roads on their own. It is essential, therefore, that they understand the importance of stopping and looking both ways before crossing, and never take a chance by hurrying across when there is an approaching vehicle. All classes of vehicle Drivers and Riders must always obey traffic regulations to avoid infringement that can make them at loggerheads with the law enforcement Agents. Traffic Law Enforcement Agents must employ the use of technology to avoid the temptation of chasing Drivers which has previously caused lots of accidents and traffic logjam. Pedestrians, especially children, must avoid backing the traffic and be focused so that they can see potential hazards early enough and avoid them. They opined that setting good examples when you take them out becomes the best way to teach road crossing skills. Children can be lost in their world at times and do not notice the environment and structures around them. They need to be taught to pay attention to their surroundings and be responsive to their senses. Car horns and engine sounds indicate the approach of a vehicle even before it is visible, and kids should be taught to listen to them when crossing.