 LAGOS – The Christian Association of Igbo Ministers (CAIM) has reacted to recent attack of the Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi, by Rev. Father Mbaka of the Ad­oration Ministry. The association, in a state­ment at the weekend, stated that what Father Mbaka erroneously termed as’stinginess’ was actual­ly an exhibition of prudence in financial management. The clerics, in a statement signed by Apostle (Dr.) Solomon C. Okorie, CAIM’s Internation­al President, and Rev. Dr. Fran­cis Ujunwa Simeon, the Inter­national Secretary, stressed that Nigeria now needed a leader who could prudently manage the country’s vast human, ma­terial and financial resources for the benefit of the citizenry, not a spendthrift. The group stressed: “Pe­ter Obi is the right man con­sidering his antecedents. In recent times, the social and mainstream media have been awash with the story of Rev. Father Mbaka’s virulent attack on Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, asserting that he would fail in the 2023 presidential election because he is stingy.” According to the clerics, Mbaka had vowed to close his Adoration Ministry if Obi ever won the election, even as he had urged his teeming parishioners not to vote for the LP candidate. The CAIM alleged ‘stin­giness’ of Peter Obi could be traced back 2018 when Father Mbaka reportedly asked Obi to publicly announce the specific amount he would donate to his Adoration Ministry. Obi, it was gathered, want­ed Father Mbaka to show him a specific project for him to ex­ecute, which did not go down well with the cleric, who al­legedly warned that except Obi paid the money, he and Atiku Abubakar would not win the 2019 presidential election. -Advertisement- POLL CAIM stated: “His grudge against Peter Obi still persists till todaydespitethehypocriticalapol­ogyhemadetoObiatthebehestof hissuperiorsintheChurch. “What Father Mbaka erro­neously termed as ‘stinginess’ is actually prudence in financial management. Nigeria now needs a leader who can pru­dently manage Nigeria’s vast human, material and financial resources for the benefit of the citizenry, not a spendthrift. Pe­ter Obi is the right man consid­ering his antecedents. “Father Mbaka’s utterances and actions run foul of Chris­tian ministerial ethics. First, for a minister to harbour mal­ice and bitterness against a Church member for over four years because of any perceived offence is really contrary to the doctrine of love.