Ali Yusuf is a smartphone engineer based in Abuja. He also fixes phone software and helps people download apps on their phones. In the last six months, the number of people seeking advice from him on the best way to manage their data and airtime has increased to the point he had to look for a way to meet their demands. “It took me some days of surfing the internet to discover some cheats that can help people manage their data usage,” Yusuf said. “There are some browsers and calling apps that can help with data and airtime management.” Iyabo Adeola works in the customer care service department of one of the major telecommunication companies in Lagos. For one year now, she has noticed that their customers, especially the young ones, who live in cities and towns, use more data service than airtime. “With the social media, call and text apps, and online news media, the rate at which people use data services is increasing,” Adeola said. “Now people are making calling and texting through apps, and the telecom industry is feeling the heat.” Yusuf and Adeola are not the only Nigerians that have noticed this competition. Directly or indirectly, the fewer calls and SMSs telecommunication subscribers make with their airtime, the more the network providers count their losses. Recently, telecommunication operators are threatening to increase tariffs on calls, text, and data services by 40 per cent because of the high cost of doing business, irregular power supply, and insecurity. They are concerned that unless there is an intervention to save the sector, operators will have no choice than to begin a process of price review. Furthermore, according to a Business Day newspaper report, stating this June, every airtime recharge will attract a five per cent tax that will go to the federal government. On the other hand, the telecommunication companies are weighing the impact this will have on the industry and the consumers. “Yes, it’ll affect the consumers of telecommunication services because the telecom companies are already asking for an upward review of the price paid by the consumers,” Ajibola Olude, the chief operating officer of the Association of Telecommunication Companies in Nigeria (ATCON), said. -Advertisement- POLL Most Nigerians do not know about this five per cent tariff increment by the government and the proposed 40 per cent increment by ATCON. However, those that are aware are already weighing other opinions, searching for a cheaper and better alternative. Yusuf has this to say about the way some Nigerians are managing the situation. “The rate people are downloading calling/texting apps like Dingtone, WeChat, and the rest, is unprecedented,” he said. Adeola response to the situation is, “People come to our office these days with complaints that have to do more with data than airtime.” This is an indication that many Nigerians are now relying more on calling/texting apps for their daily communication than the traditional calls with airtime. Students, teenagers, and young people who make up the bulk of the Nigerian population are exploring these alternatives more. According to the Punch newspaper, in 2021, 35 million Nigerians are active on social media, with the most used social media platform being WhatsApp, Facebook, and YouTube. The newspaper added that the most downloaded apps were WhatsApp, Facebook, and TikTok; and the apps most spent on were Line, Dingtone, and Truecaller. Other apps that can be used for calling/texting are Viber, Chili Talk, Hangout, KakaoTalk, among others. For the purpose of the article, Dingtone will be used to explain how calling/texting apps work and the benefit of using them. Dingtone is used here because it is gaining more popularity among young Nigerians. According to the Senior Marketing Manager at Dingtone, Dora Yale, calling apps work by utilising the last voice over internet protocol (VOIP) technology to send telecommunications and video over the internet, rather than using expansive undersea cables or satellite technology. She added that this service could be free if the caller and the receiver are using the same app. If they are not, a small charge will be involved, about 80 – 90 per cent cheaper when calling/texting with airtime. Dingtone is currently ranked first and second in the best-selling social lists on the AppStore and Google Play in Nigeria, respectively. Yale said the whole world is talking about how fast Nigeria is growing. If you want to be at the forefront of Africa’s growth right now, Nigeria is the place to be. Since phone costs are rising in Nigeria, Dingtone is working to offer phone services to Nigerians as a way to reduce costs, foster the expansion of global trade, and strengthen ties between immigrants and their families. The Vice President of Product of Dingtone, Tiger Liu, said Nigeria is a potential market with more and more people becoming dependent on technology for everyday activities and the government planning to build a Digital Nigeria. We want to stay beside Nigeria on this journey and be a part of the digital transformation the nation is going through. That’s why we are focusing more on improving our app to keep up with the demands of the local market. Liu noted that, though they are providing healthy competition in the Nigerian telecommunication sector, there are more importantly providing cheaper call/text services to low-come Nigerians and also contributing positively to the economy. “We want to make sure that Dingtone can be used in any kind of situation for people working from home, for their international business, for their family needs, for their professional needs, for their kids, among others,” Liu said. “Dingtone provides a cheaper way to talk and text. There is no monthly fees, no contracts.” The presence of Dingtone and the other calling apps is increasingly felt on a daily basis in the Nigerian cyberspace as more people in the country acquire smartphones and these apps. This is not looking good to the network providers who are gradually losing out on the phone calls their subscribers ought to be making with their airtime. “This is a healthy competition for the telecom industry in the country, if not in the world,” Yusuf said. “The telecom providers need to reduce their charges to better compete with these apps, if not willing to lose money and costumers.” “We’re still in business, but it’s not as juicy as it used to be,” Adeola lamented. “I’m sure our telecom industry will look for innovative ways to outsmart these apps in the nearest future.”