The transfer saga surrounding rumoured Aston Villa target Luis Suarez is reportedly close to an end. The former Liverpool striker is searching for a new club after reaching the end of his Atletico Madrid contract. Suarez helped guide Diego Simeone’s side to the La Liga title in 2021 and made 45 appearances in all competitions last term. Steven Gerrard was linked earlier this summer with possibly reuniting with Suarez at Villa Park. BirminghamLive recently reported that a deal for the Uruguay international was looking unlikely, though, and the 35-year-old is now said to be close to sealing a move elsewhere. The Mirror has reported that Villa are “set to miss out” on the striker, who was also touted with a move to B6 in January. Suarez played alongside Villa boss Steven Gerrard at Anfield, where he scored 82 goals in 133 appearances before signing for Barcelona in 2014. However, instead of arriving at Villa Park, Suarez is reported “closing in” on a move to South America. The Mirror, via a report from Spanish outlet Mundo Deportivo , suggest that the experienced forward is “very close” to signing for River Plate in Argentina. Club president Jorge Brito admitted earlier this month that River Plate had made an offer to Suarez. Brito then reiterated the club’s interest , as quoted by Fabrizio Romano: “Yes, we have contacted Luis Suarez but it’s now only up to him.” Steven Gerrard already has several decisions to make regarding Villa’s striking department. The Villa boss favoured a front two of Ollie Watkins and Danny Ings during the most recent campaign and has both Keinan Davis and Cameron Archer returning from successful loan spells, prompting alleged transfer interest in the pair. Villa moved quickly to get several key pieces of business over the line by the start of June. Both Philippe Coutinho and Robin Olsen made their respective loan moves permanent, while Boubacar Kamara was snapped up as a free agent from Marseille and Diego Carlos completed a £26million move from Sevilla, shortly after the end of the season.