Following the ormer Governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima, has apologised to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, saying he did not mean to denigrate them. Shettima, who is a strong ally of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, had described Osinbajo as a decent man who should be selling popcorn and ice cream. Speaking on Channels Television programme ‘Politics Today’ on Friday, Shettima said, “Osinbajo is a good man; he’s a nice man. But nice men do not make good leaders, because nice men tend to be nasty. Nice men should be selling popcorn, ice cream.” -Advertisement- On Lawan, he said the facts are clear that the Senate President, who cuts the image of a tomato trader, lacks capacity to confront the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar. “Go to Ohafia or Arochukwu and ask for Ahmad Lawan, the first thing that will come to their mind is that of a tomato dealer who is bringing tomatoes from Maiduguri. Go to any part of the south. Does the brand name sell?” he said. His comment about the duo, who are presidential aspirant on the platform of the ruling APC has, however, followed backlash from their teaming supporters. Taking to his official Twitter page to apologise in a series of tweets on Sunday, the former governor said his remarks were never meant to insult Osinbajo or Lawan as perceived in many quarters. He wrote,  “My interview on Channels TV was taken out of context. When I appeared on Channels TV last Friday amidst the tension rippling through our political arena, it was to underline the promise of Tinubu’s presidential bid held for those yet to establish the certainty of the hurdle ahead of the convention. POLL “I never set out to subject them to ridicule but, rather, to stir up interest in the contrasting virtues of the cast of aspirants putting up a fight against my preferred aspirant, one most favoured and advantaged to guarantee APC’s victory in the forthcoming presidential election,” he said. “The interpretations of my remarks on @ProfOsinbajo and @SPNigeria, Senator Lawan are, thus, being done literally and overblown. “My words weren’t woven to portray them as unworthy aspirants, but merely to qualify them as non-threatening contenders. “I, however, take full responsibility for my utterances and wish to appeal to our teeming supporters to neither take my words out of their metaphoric contexts nor interpret them as a measure and declaration of hostility towards my dear friends and allies. I hereby tender my unreserved apologies to the Vice President and the President of the Senate for the unintended pains my jibes might have caused them and their families and supporters.”