Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor has affirmed that there is a need for Government, Construction Industry Collaboration to successfully curb the menace of building collapse and ensure that buildings are safe and fit for habitation. He stated this while speaking at the 5th Lafarge Africa Concrete Ideas at the Eko Hotels in Lagos with the theme; Building Up Safely: Government-industry Collaborations on Tuesday. Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Dr Kadri Obafemi Hamzat his Deputy said those in the business of manufacturing construction materials need to ensure that they are compliant with standards and of good quality. “Also, professionals who work on construction sites need to be properly certified because whether we like it or not, the primary responsibility of adhering to standard remains with them. “As a proactive Government, we are ever open to ideas and initiatives that are targeted at improving the living standards of Lagosians and the quality of buildings being put up in our State for habitation. I assure players in the Construction, Infrastructure, Building and Housing Sectors respectively that we are ready to welcome all ideas brought by you that are aimed at promoting the construction of safe buildings in our State. The Governor added that the State is mapping out ways to make the building industry and generally the landed economy in Lagos become more viable and compliant with the demands of a Smart City State and a 21st-century economy. “I implore you all to work closely with us and also initiate ideas that will help us achieve our desired goals faster. Speaking further he said Housing, Building and Construction safety is not just a Lagos, Nigeria or Africa’s problem that it is a challenge many nations have faced at some point in time in their national history. -Advertisement- POLL “Building collapse, which results mostly from lack of adherence to standard and quality when it comes to building and construction is one issue we want to leave in the past as we forge ahead to a greater, smarter and more sustainable future. “Building safety is first and best guaranteed before the process of building and construction commences. It begins with safe and standard building plans, quality building materials, and adherence to proposed plans and structure. He commended the Lafarge Group for the incredible job they are doing within the Nigerian construction sector, adding that the quality Products by the group have translated into a significant growth of the construction and housing space, increased economic activities and development, growth in the nation’s GDP, and most importantly, creation of jobs for the teeming population of youths. Khaled El Dokani, the Country Chief Executive Officer, Lafarge Africa Plc earlier in his opening remarks, commended the Sanwo-Olu’s administration for the infrastructural development that the State has witnessed since the inception of the administration in 2019, which has continued to foster economic development and stimulate prosperity in the State. He said that the administration has continued to play an active role in promoting ideas toward improving the built and construction sector in Nigeria. “Your continuous review of extant laws on urban and regional planning and development is an attestation to this fact. “Being the Special Guest of Honour of this edition of concrete ideas reflects your commitment to working with the private sector to further boost the growth of the building sector. “We, therefore, seek your support in transforming these ideas into concrete solutions that will be beneficial to the nation,” he said.