The stakeholders of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State have petitioned the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, and demanded the immediate cancellation of the party Senatorial primaries held in Kaduna south that produced Mr Sunday Marshall Katung. The stakeholders who alleged that the exercise was characterised by irregularities and inducement of delegates also said that the primaries should be cancelled over alleged tax evasion. In the petition, which was received by the PDP National Chairman on May 31, 2022, the stakeholders alleged that Mr Katung failed to disclose his assets, besides the irregularities in terms of non-accreditation of delegates for the election. In the election result declared by the returning officer, Sabo Babayero, Katung polled 112 out of the 269 votes cast, while Senator Danjuma Laah came second with 74 votes. Shehu Garba got 52 votes, Monday Dikko 21 votes, Adams Jagaba seven votes while Suleiman Dauke and Mark Jacobs got no votes. They, therefore, tasked the Senator Iyorchia Ayu led National Working Committee (NWC ) to order for a fresh primary or hand over the ticket to the first runner up, Senator Danjuma Laah to avoid the Zamfara or Bayelsa governorship experiences. In the petition signed by Abdulrasheed Ahmed Dogara, Habila Tadi Norman, Dennis Baba and Suleiman Isah also accused Katung of tax evasion and other sharp practices. They reeled out documents from the Kaduna State Internal Revenue office to show that Mr Katung misled the revenue agency when he paid N84,000 (Eighty-four thousand naira only ) for three years of tax clearance instead of N140, 947,115.43 (one hundred and forty million, nine hundred and forty-seven thousand, one hundred and fifteen naira, forty-three kobo) According to them, “Mr Katung who was declared winner of the Senatorial primaries has tax issues with KADIRS and was said to be operating 26 bank accounts and requested to pay N140,947,115.43. POLL “Invariably, the tax clearance (FCT- IRS/TCC/B/199092140) issued on April 11, 2022, to him by FCT-IRS, an assessment to pay N84,000 and used in the submission of expression of interest form to our great party is very questionable. “Our concern bothers on his suitability as a candidate in the forthcoming election given his tax status. “This seems to us as bananas peel lying in a wall to rob our great party of candidacy in the forthcoming Senatorial election in Kaduna state. The event of the last governorship election in Zamfara state is still very much fresh in our memories of where our party from it. But this time around the reverse could just be the case.