Barcelona have reportedly tabled a new offer worth €35 million, plus €5 million in add-ons, to secure the signing of Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski.According to Polish journalist Tomasz Wlodarczyk, Barcelona have launched a second bid to sign Bayern Munich superstar Robert Lewandowski this summer. The Catalan heavyweights have made an offer of €35 million along with €5 million in bonuses to lure the Poland captain to Camp Nou. The Lewandowski transfer saga has been dominating the headlines for well over a month now. The 33-year-old is entering the final year of his contract with Bayern Munich. And after enjoying another prolific season during which he scored 50 goals in all competitions, the striker has confirmed that he does not wish to continue in Bavaria. Barcelona have shown a serious interest in signing Lewandowski, who himself has his heart set on a transfer to Camp Nou. The former Borussia Dortmund striker is understood to have reached a contract agreement over a three-year deal with the Blaugrana already, but a move has stalled due to Bayern Munich’s reluctance to sell their superstar. Indeed, the German champions have time and again made it clear that they will not consider letting Lewandowski leave despite his admission that he wants to leave. Barcelona, for their part, have been making efforts to sign the legendary goalscorer, having already lodged an opening bid of €32.5 million, plus add-ons. However, their offer fell on deaf ears as Bayern Munich did not entertain the offer, with the Bavarian giants allegedly seeking €50 million for Lewandowski. Barcelona were reported to be preparing an offer of €50 million. However, as per the latest information, the Blaugrana have lodged a bid of a lower valuation worth €35 million, along with €5 million in bonuses, taking the total value of the proposal to €40 million. German publication BILD also corroborates these claims, stating that an offer of €35 million has been submitted. But it adds that Bayern Munich will not respond to the bid by Barcelona as they consider it to be too low. On top of this, Die Roten sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic has insisted in an interview with Sky Germany that he expects Lewandowski to return to pre-season training in July. -Advertisement- POLL So, Barcelona’s pursuit of Lewandowski is proving to be quite complicated despite the willingness of the centre-forward to make the switch. Whether Bayern Munich are willing to relent from their stance in the coming weeks if the Catalans come up with a better proposal will be interesting to see.