“With the creation of World Children’s Day, UN member states recognized children, regardless of race, colour, sex, religion and national or social origin, the right to affection, love, understanding, adequate food, medical care, free education, protection against all forms of exploitation and growing in a climate of universal peace and brotherhood.” The United Nationshttps://www.un.org › observances › world-childrens-day. “A Better Future for Every Child”: How apt! How thought-provoking and thematically relevant the 2022 Children’s Day manta could be, as was celebrated across Nigeria on May 27 this year. It could not have been more touching and telling given a world, sad to say, that is currently deeply entrenched in the quagmire of haunting hunger, scary starvation and wasteful wars. Perhaps, we could add pervasive political chaos, economic crises and crass corruption in high places. So, against this dark backdrop, what is there to celebrate? A concerned Nigerian asked. But there was more to it. -Advertisement- For instance, what do we make of a searing food insecurity situation that has almost 21 million children out of the 2.2 million children in the world just one step away from starvation? That is according to the World Vision’s Global Hunger Initiative designed to reach 15 million people who face life-threatening starvation. Worse still, the number of children living in conflict zones has been increasing since 2000. According to Worldhttps://reliefweb. int › report › approximately 426 million children (over one in six) were living in a conflict zone in 2019. This constitutes a 2% increase from 2018. Of these, Africa was the world region with the highest number of children living in conflict zones (179 million). Of these, an estimated 12.8 million people, including 8 million children are affected by conflict in north-east and north-west Nigeria. Over 2.3 million are displaced, while 1 million are living in inaccessible areas. That is as at December, 2021. With all these frightening figures, what is there to celebrate and how can we guarantee a better future for every child in the world? Another citizen asked. But a well-heeled public relations outfit, based at Opebi, Lagos that goes by the name of Events Plus Marketing Ltd sees a half-filled cup of hope, instead of a fast draining one for our children often described as the ‘leaders of tomorrow’. As a thoroughbred, integrated communication and marketing outfit, with a proven track record of providing bespoke programs that cater for all events and entertainment services it took it upon itself to celebrate this year’s Children’s Day. And it did so with pomp, power and panache. That was at the National Institute for Sports Gymnasium, at the National Stadium Surulere, Lagos on Friday, May 27, 2022. Bringing them together annually to identify and highlight their talents; to bring out the best in them under a conducive atmosphere has always proved impactful and remarkable. Acting as catalysts to actualize this vision this year was the sustained sponsorship from top-notch food and beverage companies as well as those that produce chemicals and the wave-making, Folu Agoi-led PEN (International Association of Poets, Playwrights, Editors, Essayists and Novelists) Nigerian Centre. Amongst the top-notch food companies/brands in attendance were Peak chocolate Milk, Fanice, Maltina, La Casera, Gala and Golden Penny instant cereal. So were Oxford (Niger) biscuit, Nestle Pure Life Bottled water, Naw Nigerian Army water, Frutta Champions Custard and Vanilla custard from Yaali Foods. As for Chemicals the popular Purit and Beauty Make up from Lindy were also on hand. They all made available their prime products as delicious gifts to spice up the activities that the children drawn from several schools across Lagos state, were happily and actively engaged in. They were fully fed with the food products and were happy for it. These included over 1,000 pupils/students of Osezele Schools, WinaRose(Mushin), Sparkfield, Tee-Treasure, Precious Gift Golden(Mushin), De-GoldTribe Schools(Surulere), Dynasty Brilliant Home(Mushin),Kingdom Kids Minders(Surulere),Stepfields Schools(Surulere) and Gideon Schools(Isolo) amongst any others. POLL Excitement was therefore, palpable in the air as the children took active parts in rendering the National Anthem, singing sweet songs by students of SS Mulumba and David School Nursery department. Some others took part in the colourful cultural displays from the Yoruba and Ibo ethnic groups with classy choreography to boot. There were interesting events such as the poetry competition, the literary debate, spoken poetry and readings by members of PEN to intellectually engage the students. That was before the presentation of prizes, certificates and trophies to deserving winners from each category. By this year’s sterling events management, Events Plus Company is gradually achieving its aim to foster a conducive environment for all services rendered. It should therefore, keep upholding a successful practice in delivering quality service efficiently, timely and within a budget framework, as promised. These include corporate events, corporate entertainment, event planning and management, booking entertainers (Dee-Jays, comedians, dancers, musicians), business events (product launch, products/events road show), festivals such as Christmas, costume parties, funfairs, wedding, Independence Day, Easter and Children’s Day. It would be recalled that Children’s Day is a commemorative date celebrated annually in honor of children, whose date of observance varies by country. In 1925, International Children’s Day was first proclaimed in Geneva during the World Conference on Child Welfare. Eventually, World Children’s Day was first established in 1954 as Universal Children’s Day to promote international togetherness, awareness among children worldwide, and improving children’s welfare. In Nigeria, the 27th of May is set aside to celebrate children. On this day every year, children in Nigeria are granted a holiday as part of the government’s plan of promoting civilization in the country to create recognition of the welfare and rights of the children It would be recalled that when yours truly wrote on the topic: “Beyond the Children’s Day celebration” (Daily Times, May 28, 2004) there was this reminder: “Talking about education, the government has not done enough to implement the UBE Objectives. Nigeria still ranks amongst the world’s worst three countries in terms of school-aged children still out of school”. But that was not all. Furthermore, it stated that: “The recent report by the International Labour Organization(ILO) that Nigeria lost about 4,00 children to trafficking paints a dark picture for our children’s future” That was some 18 years ago. Subsequently, I wrote another opinion essay titled: “’Nigerian children learning under trees in the 21st Century!”(BusinessDay 24th November, 2019). It was in response to the report published in the Punch edition of November 18, 2019. As reported, both Tidi and Farin Kasa primary schools in Shongom LGA of Gombe state ‘have been abandoned by governments at all levels. Each of the schools, which lack fences, boasts of only four teachers that handle 150 pupils!” All said, the celebration of Children’s Day will become more meaningful if this year’s edition should serve as a wake-up call to all parents, teachers, leaders of religious institutions, and of course our current crop of political leaders and subsequent ones to rise up to the challenges and do more that they have promised. That is, with regards to our children’s safety and security, in and out of schools; their education, healthcare and food security to make this years’ theme: “A Better Future for Every Child” to become a reality. Kudos to Events Plus PR!