As the 2023 general elections draw closer, a youth group under the aegis of Nigerian Youth Collective Action (NYCA), has called on youths in the country to get their Permanent Voter’s Card in order to partake in the process that would usher in a new set of leaders that would direct their affairs of the nation from May 29, 2023. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos on Thursday, Oluseyi Ogunrinde, Southwest Coordinator of NYCA, called on Nigerian youths to brace up and be ready to vote against all political parties that will be presenting older candidates as their presidential flag bearers. While noting that Nigeria is a country with more than 70 per cent of its population below the age of 50 years, Ogunrinde disclosed that the group has concluded plans to mobilize Nigerian youths to vote for any political party that will present a presidential candidate below the age of 50. -Advertisement- He explained that the youthfulness of the youth populace, fuels huge energy capable of delivering sustainable prosperity to the over 200 million Nigerians if well harnessed and rightly targeted. He explained further that the whole essence of the Not Too Young To Run agitation and the successful passage of the Bill into law was to have a generational leadership change “and we applaud the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in this regard. “The prohibitive costs of nomination forms and the current practice of making very old people presidential candidates of political parties is a direct assault on the Not Too Young To Run Act and blocks the opportunities for young people. “We condemn in strong terms, the failure of some political parties to follow the demands of Nigerian youth for a generational shift in leadership and their subsequent selection of old candidates, some close to 80 years old, for the next Presidential election. “Nigerian youths will ignore, avoid, and not vote political parties that field candidates that are above 55 years of age as their Presidential candidates,” he said. POLL Ogunrinde noted that one of the major problems confronting the nation is that too many old people who are not in tune with the current global governance practices are left in charge of the country’s national affairs, hence, the need for a young generation of leaders, come 2023. “Nigerian youths shall mobilise for, support and vote for parties that field only young candidates especially presidential candidates. We have decided to say No to old candidates and to support young candidates. “Therefore, today, we launch our #NoToAncestorPresident and #WeDemandYoungPresident political movement towards the 2023 Presidential election. It is needful to deepen participation by deliberately mainstreaming young people in government for the purpose of ensuring the prosperity of our nation. “Finally, we urge Nigerian Youths to remain steadfast in our renewed commitment towards ensuring that there is a generational power shift in our country come 2023,” he added.