Mohammed Bello-Koko,the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA),recently fielded questions from journalists during an interactive session in Lagos, where he speaks about his plans to move the Authority to a higher level. ANDREW UTULU was there for Daily Independent.Excerpts: Sir, you been at the helms of affairs  for eleven months now, eight on acting capacity, three as substantive Managing Director. What is your vision and what legacies do you want to leave behind? I will love to see our ports fully automated. Automation will be the backbone of efficiency in our ports. -Advertisement- It will improve the remedy we want to achieve in our ports. It will achieve a lot of things we want to achieve. I am really interested in getting this done and done rightly. Though, we have so many automation done, but they are all in silos and we need to upgrade them. We need to also put something down that everyone will log into. The shipping lines, whatever we do, the shipping will just be all about us. We need to copy something that is of value and being done in other parts of the world. Something that you can say this is it. Something that will add value and that is, the port community system and harbors automation. I am looking forward to a legacy of a rehabilitated port infrastructure with the right marine equipment and that is something we have already started working on. We have started discussions in terms of design, we have already gotten the full design of Tin Can Island, and the design is being done to see how it could be reconstructed. What is the likelihood of the cost of reconstruction? What are we going to do with parts of Apapa?  We are pushing BUA to start reconstruction. POLL It has sent its final drawing. In Rivers Ports also, some of those berths that have collapse will be resuscitated. So, if we are able to do this, then, we have achieved quite a lot. Also, the staff welfare, to me, is very key. It is very important. We cannot satisfy the staff, but it is something we want to pay special attention to. These are the first set of things. Everything I reeled out to you are legacies I want to leave. So, hold me responsible for everything I have said before, especially these things.  I will work with the relevant government agencies, investors and lending agencies that are interested in lending, whether direct or indirect lending. Some of them just need guarantee from Nigeria Ports Authority so that if there is a default, we will be responsible for that. What is NPA doing to revive the conglomerate of ports in Delta State, such as the Warri port, Burutu Port, Koko port and Sapele port? We will also like to know the extent to which you are interacting with the proximate communities in those places where we understand that Nigerian Naval College has occupied the Sapele port and some of the NPA lands which we think government will need for more productive activities are also being encroached, and to what extent are you interacting with the communities for reclamation? On the Koko port, there is an interested investor who wants to use Koko port for export and middle house. There is lease, it is a short term lease, but the company wants a long term lease. It is when we finish this marking and surveying of the channel that we will be able, because they don’t need a channel that they don’t even know what is there. They need a channel that is also deeper. If the channel has NNPC pipe that is buried about 7.5 meters. So, you cannot dredge the channel now. Discussions are going with NNPC to see how that pipe can be buried deeper. That means if you decide to dredge it deeper, you can go for probably 10 to 14 meters to make it deeper. Yes, we know that it is one of the longest channels, so it makes it extremely expensive to dredge. For Sapele, we have been having meetings with the Nigeria Navy, I have mentioned it earlier, we are collaborating with them to see what we can do so they it can be operational without posing security threat to them, because you cannot bring civilians into a military zone. That place has been practically turned to a naval base. The reason for that of course, we know was due to what happened in the past which led to their presence. But discussion is taking place between Nigeria Ports Authority and the Chief of Naval Staff. We are accessing the facilities in Koko and Burutu, and we are going to rehabilitate, especially Koko. We need to ensure that there is electricity there; the keys buildings are collapsing, these are  the things we are going to do in 2022. When I went to Delta, we visited the Olu of Warri, we appealed to him to help us talk to the community and let them know that their actions and inactions will determine the kind of business that will come to those locations. Aside that, we are even having complaints from some companies that were doing the limited survey of the channel, but the company that supposed to do the mapping and surveying of the channel is going to do fifty laps. They already have a problem of where to hang overnight. On each community, they get their own issues. But, what we had to do was get the community leaders into the issues so that they help us speak to the communities to understand that whatever we have done there was to improve the economic activities of the area, and we thank the traditional rulers for being fully involved in this, the Olu of Warri has given commitment that whatever is within his Kingdom, he will handle it, and will also reach out to other traditional rulers to make sure there is no disruption of shipping activities in that location. Stakeholders are still complaining about ETO, are you creating another platform, besides, are you looking at extending ETO to Lekki Deep Seaport when it becomes operational? Stakeholders are complaining about the issue of ETO. One of their major problems is the issue of extortion. That is why I also mentioned the issue of collaboration we are having with the Lagos State government and the police commands and authorities. The Navy and everybody are quite cooperating. We are trying to ensure that we have the rosters of the people that are on duty on a weekly basis. So, if there is an offence at check point 9, we will know who was responsible. That will reduce such incidents. But to ensure that there are no illegal check points, we bought 20 motorbikes and gave to the riders that go round. Lagos state government has set up a mobile court to prosecute offenders and also, they will be on the watch out for illegal checkpoints. Before ETO, it was just like, let us call it that people were benefitting from the chaos. They were enriching themselves and were not happy that there is a new order, and we are not changing that. We will keep automating and keep the system working until we get it perfect. I have said that we are likely to create competition and give people alternatives. We get cyber attacks, if today, ETO is attacked and it takes five to six days or one week to bring it back, we are all in trouble. So, it is a necessity. As for extending ETO to other locations, such as the Lekki deep seaport, we will extend our automation and the truck call up system. Whether it is ETO or another one, I do not know, but I know it will be something that will happen almost immediately.