LAGOS  – The crisis in Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has gotten to the level where observers believe that internal democracy in the party is lacking and that the players have never been committed to winning elections. The norm according to some analysts is that every time any state executive committee (exco) emerges, there is always crisis that will trail that exco till the end of its tenure or a court order sacking the state chairman of the party because there is always a faction that will oppose the exco, and even the current exco which is chaired by Dr. Philip Aivoji is not speared because there has been accusations and counter accusations that the election that produced the committee was manipulated in favour of a group. There is speculation in some quarters that the entry of the convener of a political movement, Lagos4Lagos, Abdul-Lateef Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor, may just pull the magic wand judging by his popularity. -Advertisement- It is likely that the speculators are anchoring their argument by the fact that Jandor pulls a lot crowd at every political meeting, and also that the kind of weight he pulled when he was officially received into the main opposition party was intimidating. They believe that for the former APC chieftain to have brought about seven serving governors, former governors, national chairman of the party and a former President of the Senate to Lagos to witness his reception into the party, showed that he is ‘a big fish’ in the political cycle. The popularity of Jandor may not have dwindled going buy what played out during the state gubernatorial primary election few days ago when four aspirants, out of the six contending for the candidature of the party in Lagos State withdrew from the race before election. Dr. Ade Dosunmu, Engnr Deji Doherty, former chairman of the party, Jimi Kamal and Rhodes Gbadebo, candidate of the party in the 2019 Lagos West Senatorial election all withdrew from the contest, leaving only Adediran and Vaughan David Kolawole, also called Dacova in the contest. Jandor proved his mantle when he pulled 679 votes out of the 709 accredited number of delegates votes to emerge the candidate of the party in Lagos State, winning his only rival, Kolawole who garnered 20 votes, while 10 void votes were recorded. POLL The election was seen as very peaceful, even Mr. Emmanuel Ogidi the electoral committee chairman did not mince word when he commended the delegates and appreciated their conduct. To buttress the position of the electoral committee chairman when he appreciated Dacova and the other four aspirants for exhibiting the spirit of sportsmanship and choosing the interest of the party above personal interest, Jandor in his speech before voting commenced said, “Don’t forget that all of us including the four contestants who were in the race until this afternoon, everyone of them is eminently qualified to be Governor of Lagos State and to emerge as the PDP candidate. I want to thank them for keeping the PDP before my arrival, including my elder brother Davova. “Our aspiration is to rescue Lagos and that is why we have decided to come together to speak with one voice. “I am fortunate to be the last man standing. I want to appeal to you delegates that I need the vote, not just for me but for the PDP. He added, “If you give me the ticket, it won’t be a ticket for just PDP, but a ticket for the entire Lagosians,” he said. After the election when Adediran was returned elected as the flag bearer of the party in Lagos State, the former APC chieftain thanked Dakova and the former contenders and promised that he would work with them to ensure that the main opposition party wins Lagos State, stressing that the ticket is not just for him but for the entire PDP and the people of Lagos State. “I will work with all the contenders in this election; we will strategize on how to take Lagos State back to the people. This ticket is for PDP and the people of Lagos State,” he said. Kolawole, congratulated Jandor and advised him to ensure that Lagos is changed, even as he promised to support him. The question on the lips of many is whether Jandor will be able to win Lagos State for the PDP, going by the fact that the main opposition party has never at any time won the state even when it had an inroad into other state across the region, Lagos has remained in the hands of APC which at various times changed name from Alliance to Democracy (AD) to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Action Congress (AC) and finally to a merger that metamorphosed into APC. Analyst are of the view that it is going to be a herculean task for the PDP to win Lagos State as long as Asiwaju Bola Tinubu still calls the shot, more so with the infighting of the members of the party and the suspicion that some members of the main opposition party may just be moles working for the ruling party in Lagos State. Chief Bode George, former deputy national chairman of the PDP who is the apex leader of Lagos state PDP has expressed optimism that the crisis in the party will soon be over, he said that despite the crisis in the party’s primary election in Lagos State, the PDP will come out very strong at the end of the exercise, unlike the APC because the main opposition party members are better party managers. George who spoke on Arise Television said that he has been in PDP since 1998, and there has never been a time that the exercise will be smooth sailing. “There will be crisis that is why you have leaders, elders and managers. The ability to manage the crisis will be the strength that will convince Nigerians that if they entrust their resources in your hands you will manage them on their behalf. “It is not the other way that the APC is managing Nigeria. By the end of the week, the people will see which primaries will be best managed,” he said. To show how determined the party is in wanting to clinch the mantle of leadership in Lagos State in 2023, Bode George in a press conference a few days ago charged party members to be united ahead of the 2023 general elections and commended them for successful primaries He said, “The journey to 2023 has started, I want to appeal to you not to fight anybody, but close ranks so that we can win the 2023 general elections. “I want to let you know that the general public is watching us to see how well we can manage our party. The Atona Odua of Yorubaland added, “I want to appeal to all aggrieved members to go to the appeal panel. We have a window of about one week because all the names of our candidates must be submitted before the 3rd of June. I believe that the management of the party will do what is equitable. “We heard that some members are leaving the party. I want to appeal to them to rescind their decisions because there is no perfect party anywhere. It is not everything that you desire that you will get, you will win some and lose some,” he said. While appealing to those who won during the primary elections to work with other members, he said, “I would like those who are the flag bearers of our party to note that it is no longer their names that they are carrying but the name of the party. They should work with everyone from the ward to state level. Alluding to the APC, which he alleged has mismanaged the resources of Lagos State, George said, “We have the competence and the ability and we have the assets as well. There is no part of this country that does not have one asset or the other; we have to utilize the assets for the betterment of the citizens and not for personal benefit. “The resources of Lagos State cannot be appropriated by one individual, his children and cronies. People are hungry and so people are angry. The will of the people should guide the representatives of the people. The PDP leader charged the people to be united so that they will be victorious at the 2023 polls, stressing that if the PDP goes through the electronic system of election, it will win because the people of Lagos are tired of the APC. “We must get rid of these loafers in Lagos,” he said. While commending the efforts of the party members for comporting themselves in an orderly manner during the primary elections George said, “I want to express my profound gratitude to you for your conduct and for the love that you have for the party. None of us was able to forecast that the election would be peaceful, but we thank God because he took charge”.