ABEOKUTA – Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), said on Thursday that he was instrumental to the electoral victory of President Muham­madu Buhari in 2015 general election. He also confirmed that he nominated Prof. Yemi Osin­bajo as Buhari’s running mate. The APC leader and pres­idential hopeful spoke at the Presidential Lodge in Abeo­kuta, the Ogun Sate capital, while addressing APC del­egates ahead of the party’s presidential primaries of June 6 to 8. -Advertisement- Tinubu, who was in com­pany of Lagos State gover­nor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his Kano counterpart, Umar Gan­duje, and former Borno State governor, Kasim Shettima, reminded the delegates how President Buhari lost elec­tions on three occasions and vowed not to contest again after weeping on a national television, adding that he was the one who convinced him to contest again and that he will support him to victory. While saying it is his turn to become the next president, Tinubu said he agreed with Buhari not to joke with the Yorubas. He further revealed that the presidency has been his ambition since his days in Action Congress, Action Congress of Nigeria and the APC, adding that he nomi­nated Osinbajo to be the vice president after a campaign of calumny was allegedly launched against him by the former Senate President, Bu­kola Saraki. The former governor also said when he was asked to submit three names for run­ning mate, he pencilled down Yemi Kadoso, Wale Edun and Yemi Osinbajo. He added that he later set­tled for Osinbajo as running mate. POLL “It is my time, I’m educat­ed, I’m experienced. I have been serving you for a long time, bring me the presidency, it is my turn. “When Atiku was be­ing flogged out of PDP by Obasanjo, he ran to me for help, I let the ticket for him. Nuhu Ribadu came to me and I backed him. “If not for me that stood be­hind Buhari he wouldn’t have become the president. He tried the first time, he failed, the second time, he failed, the third time, he failed, he even wept on a national television and vowed never to contest again but I went to meet him in Kaduna and told him he will run again, I will stand by you and you will win, but you must not joke with Yorubas and he agreed. “Since he became the pres­ident, I have never got minis­terial slots, I didn’t collect any contract, I have never begged for anything from him, it is the turn of Yoruba, it is my turn. “Since the time we start­ed with the Action Congress (AC), Action Congress of Ni­geria (ACN) and now the All Progressives Congress (APC), I wanted to contest for presi­dent that time. “This is me telling you between my life and God Al­mighty, Buhari called me to be his vice president. He said be­cause the first time he contest­ed, he picked Okadigbo, flam­boyant, Catholic, but Nigerians didn’t vote for him. The second time, he picked another Igbo, Umezuruike, Nigerians didn’t vote for him, that if he goes to bring the Pope to run as his vice, Nigerians won’t vote for him, but you Bola Tinubu, you have six governors, you have never lost an election before, come and be my vice. “He knew all the calcula­tions then favoured us, that is why he wanted me as his vice, but I told him to let us build the party first. “And when we finished building the party, after we brought in people from the PDP, Saraki now saw those from the PDP will not get anything if Buhari, a Muslim, becomes the president and me, also a Muslim becomes his vice, he won’t get the Senate President and the Senate President can­not also be a Muslim, that was how they started the campaign of calumny against me. “And I told them that I have a candidate that is a Christian that I can nominate so that the party will not break, that was how I nominated Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. I surrendered my right to him (Osinbajo).” He also took a swipe at Gov­ernor Dapo Abiodun, saying he wouldn’t have become a governor without his support. “It has been over 25 years now that I have been serving them. This one sitting behind me, Dapo, can he say he can be the governor without me? “We were together at the MKO Abiola Stadium, he was intimated, they didn’t want to give the party’s flag, I was the one that handed the flag to him. He knows that he cannot be the governor without the help of God and my support.” While responding, Gov­ernor Dapo Abiodun, who described Tinubu as a strat­egist, a fighter and political warrior, said the delegates have heard and digested the message for which Tinubu was in the state. He, however, refused to endorse Tinubu the way he earlier endorsed the Vice President Osinbajo. “I welcome our political leader, a strategist, a fighter, a political warrior, a frontline administrator, a mentor of men, builder of bridges, a se­rial winner. “Since tomorrow is the last day for consultation, in Ogun State, we don’t come last, it is a very interesting time in our nation, Nigeria. We in Ogun State, we are educated in Ogun State, we are indeed the education capital of Ni­geria and our people are very industrious people. “We have listened to our national leader; he has spo­ken to you in our language, I do not have a doubt in my mind and I am sure you do not have a doubt in your mind as to why our national leader has come. “Our leader, our people have listened to you very well and I am sure they have di­gested everything you have said, be rest assured that we will do the right thing, we shall do the right thing. “You have made a case for why the position must come to the South, not just the South, the South-West. Our leader, may God grant you your heart desire, my God answer all your prayers.”