AWKA – It was a hellish experience yesterday in Anambra state as applicants for computer based recruitment test bemoaned poor organisation of the exercise. While some applicants described the exercise as a make-believe others who had a herculine experience trying in vain to log in for the recruitment test noted that the whole process was marred by bad network signals which precluded them from taking part in the aptitude test. Following the difficulties experienced in the course of the exercise, some Cyber Cafes in Onitsha took advantage of the situation and swindled applicants who apparently were frustrated and desperate to partake in the teachers’ recruitment exam, asking them to pay the sum of N3,500 each with a guarantee of stable network signals but all were to no avail as poor network signals still prevented many applicants from taking part in the recruitment exam. -Advertisement- A source said, ” Nobody wrote the exam in Onitsha. There were so many people who came for the exam at post office Onitsha and the post office premises could not accommodate them; so they were directed to Modebe secondary school where they were asked to pay N3,500 each and write down their names. At Modebe secondary school, the computers could not log in. Even when people tried to use their phones to log in still it did not work. Those who collected money from the applicants continued to work on their computers still there was no response. People began to question why the commissioner didn’t organise the exams in batches instead of directing thousands of Ndi-Anambra to visit one site at the same time. So nobody wrote the test and the commissioner didn’t help matters at all. People left in frustration insulting the commissioner and the governor. But when contacted for her response regarding the conduct of the teachers’ recruitment test, the Commissioner for Education in Anambra state Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh said maybe the server was bad but informed that about 5, 600 candidates wrote the computer based test successfully. The Commissioner equally told our correspondent that government didn’t create centres for the teachers’ recruitment test; that applicants were told to write the test from the comfort of their homes using their phones and personal computers for the exercise. Again she said no applicant was asked to pay a dime to any person for the recruitment test. POLL Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh said, ‘ We did not create centres where exams will be taken. We told everybody to write from the confines of their homes where they are comfortable and where they know they will have access to network. That’s what we said. We never created centres. Maybe the server was bad, I don’t know but we have about 5,600 and some fractions of candidates who wrote and submitted their answers. So because we have complaints, we will report back to the governor and get directives on what to do next. “