Comrade Godspower Aguh, an activist and trade unionist, is the State Chairman, Okada Riders Association (Non-Indigenes), Lagos State Chapter. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the ban placed on Okada riders by the Lagos State government, among other issues. Excerpt. Could you tell our readers about your association? The association has been in existence for more than eight years. In Lagos, it has over 112, 000 members across the state, the association does not collect money from our members nor do they pay for tickets at the garages. That is why we do not drag the garage with anybody. But, we meet every month to discuss issues concerning our members. As the name applies, the association is made up of non-indigenes, that is, every other ethnic group outside Yoruba. The association is also registered. -Advertisement- You are the state chairman of the association in Lagos. Could you tell us other members of the state executive? I have been the chairman for eight years now. I was re-elected for another four years on April 30, 2022. The election also produced Comrade Mandic Menasseh; Friday Ekpo (Secretary); Umaru Shehu (Treasurer); Chibuzor Nsofia (PRO); Thaddeus Njoku (financial Secretary) and Onyekachi O. Onyekachi. We also have 45 zonal chairmen and 120 unit chairmen that stood as delegates for the election. What would you say are the achievements of the association so far? Whenever our members are in trouble of any kind or are involved in an accident, we are always there for them. We have always promoted peace among our members and other road users. Whenever our members are involved in police cases, we always wade in to prevent miscarriage of justice. What challenges are the Okada Riders in Lagos State have been contending with? POLL Okada riders are always confronted with challenges on daily basis. These include extortion of money by law enforcement agents of different cadres. From time to time, Lagos State government always comes up with laws which we consider punitive, considering the fact that we are doing our legitimate work. What is your take on the recent ban placed on okada riders by the Lagos State government? Every state government knows how to protect the lives and properties of the state and residents. Lagos State government has the power to ban okada riders in any route which it considers not safe security wise. We have told our members to stop operating on the highways and the six local governments whose operations have been banned by the state government t. What happened in the Ojo area of Lagos where okada riders fought the police is condemnable. We condemn it outright. In every 12, there is always a Judas. So, it is with okada riders. Many of the riders do not belong to our association. But, the government and uninformed people lump everyone together. Since the ban came into effect, we have continued to educate our members to ensure that they comply. Our association is in partnership with the government for progress. Okada and tricycle riders are always accused of aiding and abetting robbery and other criminalities. What is your executive doing to sanitise the group? We have always continued to talk to our members to avoid all acts of criminality. During our regular meetings, we educate our people on being law abiding to ensure that criminals are not in our midst. Okada riders are always used by politicians during elections for campaigns. Now that the Lagos State governor has placed a ban on okada riders, what do you think must have gone wrong between the government and the okada riders? Many do not understand what the governor did. He did not ban okada riders outright. It is only on major roads and six local government areas. We can operate in other local governments and streets. I want to tell you that no politician or political party in Nigeria will win elections without okada riders. Now that the election is coming, we have the population. We have our wives, children and relations that we can influence their votes. Even when we are on operations, we campaign for whoever that needs our services. Like other Nigerians, okada riders have the right to be involved in campaigns. What is your take on the state of roads in the country and how it is affecting your operations? The roads are not something to write home about. The government is not trying at all in this regard. They cannot mention the roads not to talk of building new ones. But, billions of Naira are going through their nose every day. I pray that God will give us a God-fearing man to lead the state and country. The state of roads affects our work and business. They also affect every other person. That is why you find people jumping from different vehicles to mount okada to get to their destinations on time. The state of the roads leads to accidents every day. The poor state of the roads adversely affects the economy of the country. You are from Imo State. What do you see as interesting development in your state, especially under the current Hope Uzodimma administration? Concerning my state, Imo, Governor Hope Uzodimma has not been doing well at all. As the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of the state, he allowed his state to be a battlefield where human blood is wasted every day. He should remember that he will not be governor forever. One day, he will become an ex-governor. He is crying foul over a Supreme Court judgment on APC leadership in Imo State which gave Rochas Okorocha’s candidate the party’s chairmanship. That is karma in action. About PDP in Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha is a leader that is worthy of emulation. As the party’s leader in the State Ihedioha did everything to avoid rancor in his party in the recently held party primaries. What is your take on the coming 2023 general elections, both at state and federal levels? My brother, I am highly disappointed in what we are seeing and hearing. It has never happened in Nigeria where a father is contesting for Senate seat, the son is contesting for the House of Representatives and the daughter is also going for the House of Assembly. This is where this administration has brought us to. For the presidential primary, the PDP has held theirs, which made every delegate a multi-millionaire. In the next four years, all of us will be fighting to be delegates. I foresee that in the APC primary, their delegates will be going home with billions of naira because we have bullion-van contestants there. Among the politicians we have in the South East, Peter Obi ranks number one, followed by Emeka Ihedioha. With the exit of Peter Obi from the PDP, I will advise Atiku to pick Emeka Ihedioha as his running mate if he wants to have the South-East votes back. In the coming APC primary, we need a young and vibrant man who can stand in the international arena without shaking his hands and legs. I pray that our leaders should stop this relay race of handing over to their children, making us their slaves every year. They should remember the Rawlings revolution in Ghana. I pray for peace and unity in the country. We should see ourselves as brothers and sisters.