Growing up in a toxic home has affected Kate so much that she is afraid of getting married. She saw her parents fight and hit each other physically when she was a little girl. Growing up in such abusive home has left a negative seed in her mind and has now grown into a vineyard of scary images of marriage. Right now, Kate is afraid of getting married and even considering staying single forever. “I am from a broken home. My parents separated when I was 12 years. I stayed with my paternal grandparents while my sister went with my mother. Before they broke up, I saw my parents tearing at each other physically any time they quarreled, and this happened always. My mother accused my father of infidelity. My father didn’t hide his numerous girlfriends, and some of these girls were next door neighbours. He flaunted them shamelessly at my mother’s face. These made my mummy to fight with almost all the girls. Sometimes when she couldn’t take it anymore, she would leave us with our dad and travel to her parents’ house. Later, she would return. She would always tell me she was still with my father because of my sister and me. She said anybody my father would bring to replace her won’t treat us well and she didn’t want us to suffer in another woman’s hand. “My parents stayed together but lived as though they were strangers. My father didn’t talk to my mother, and my mother stayed in her own lane until my father caught her with another man in a hotel. That was the end of their marriage. My father almost killed her but for the intervention of neighbours who called the police. The case was taken to court and their 13 years marriage was dissolved. Then my sister was just three years, so she took custody of her. -Advertisement- “I am 28 years now. I am all grown but I have this deep fear about marriage, I never enjoyed what most of my friends enjoyed: the parental care, and protection, most importantly someone to share my pains and problems with. Whenever my mother came to visit me even till now she would badmouth my father and my father would do same about my mother. It is not only my parents’ marriage now, I have since seen a lot of couples fight bitterly as if they were arch-enemies, and looking at them sometimes, I wondered if they ever truly loved each other. “I am so afraid of getting married, I have rejected proposals from two guys, and they all felt bad, but I knew I was not ready yet for marriage and sometimes I feel like not getting married at all. I want to be a feminist; just pursue my career, and love myself. And if need be adopt a child. I want to know if marriage is that important and must every girl get married?” Dear Kate, marriage is a beautiful thing. Getting married to a man that loves you and you love is also good. It’s a pity you grew up with a negative mindset about marriage; the fact that your parents’ marriage didn’t work out doesn’t mean yours will go the same way. As long as you are not a nun, it will be good to marry and have children. Marriage also is for companionship. As a woman you will not feel complete until you are with your better half, the person that completes you. Of course, God completes us, but we need an earthly partner. You said something about being a feminist, feminism doesn’t reject the constitution of marriage, so feminism doesn’t equate being unmarried. Don’t mind pseudo-feminists that speak ill of men and marriage. Just take your time and I hope you find a man that will change your line of thought about marriage. POLL Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.