As the euphoria for the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 general elections continues to occupy the political landscape, it has been observed that such historic victory has become a good political lesson to the three southern geo-political zones of South-south, South-East and Middle Belt. Speaking in the aftermath of the special convention of the ruling party on Wednesday, the former governorship aspirant for the 2023 election in Rivers State, Prince Tonye Princewill said 2023 presidential elections between Bola Tinubu of APC and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar of the PDP, would be an interesting watch. “The delegates have spoken and they went for age, political history and the leader himself (Tinubu) to lead the party in the next general election. “Asiwaju was not my first choice, but I believe that when you subscribe to a process, you must also subscribe to its outcome. He won the election free and fair and took us to school with a full lecture on political party primaries 101.1. “I for one diligently took notes. So now, we will see two professors of Nigerian politics going up against one another.  Two people cut from the same PDM (Peoples Democratic Movement) cloth, two allies, now opponents, will square off, while the rest of us will be asked to choose a side”. Princewill noted that the southern Nigeria geo-political zones of “South-South, South East and the Middle Belt have been taught a good lesson. So, a dark horse, or better still a light-complexioned horse, like Peter Obi provides an alternative, mainly in the South, while Kwankwaso of Kano provides an alternative in the North”. He regretted that though the constituency he belongs to wanted a different kind of country with a clear separation from the past and it was “my view that Rotimi Amaechi could have been the one to provide it. The delegates in their number, however, disagreed with me. “What I can say is Asiwaju and Atiku are no pushovers. They are both very cerebral and know what it takes to turn a country’s fortunes around. I’m a student of their politics and a fan of their stubbornness. They handed me over to Amaechi in 2007 and then promptly denied it later. My very first lesson in media damage control”. POLL The former governorship candidate in the state informed that he would wait for what Amaechi who came second with 316 votes at the convention would say to his political family now that the convention has come and gone before he takes a position. “2023 is too important to be observing it slowly approaching from a distance. Politics, as we know, is far too important to be just left to our politicians, likewise, Presidential campaigns are far too important to be left to the Presidential candidates. “In closing, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate both Atiku and Asiwaju, without forgetting Peter Obi. May the best Dad win”, he said in a statement.