The legitimacy of electoral process is determined by how far the election reflects the choice of the majority of the voters. In our electoral system, political parties are formally tasked with the responsibility of presenting candidates, their flagbearers, for elec­tions against those of other parties. It was to ensure that whoever the various political parties put forward as their “candidate” is actually the popular choice of members of the particular political parties and not just arbitrary impositions from party chieftains or Godfathers and, worse still, whoever can buy the most votes from the so-called “delegates” at the primaries that we have election laws and regulations in place. On paper, the goal of both the Con­stitution and the Electoral Act is the establishment and enforcement of electoral processes and procedures that would ensure that candidates that are presented for the various elective positions by political parties are genuinely representatives of the political parties and not just fronting for extraneous special interests who do not care about the health of our democracy or the credibility of the political system altogether. The primaries system of choos­ing candidates for elective positions was historically necessitated by the introduction of political parties in US politics. The US ‘Founding Fathers’ did not initially want political parties because they believed that political parties in England (the same coun­try they just broke away from) are nothing but agents of division and unnecessary schisms in the society. But because of the competitive na­ture of politics in which the system of alliances and partisan followership are the inevitable tools for garnering and retaining political support, the eventual evolution of political parties became inevitable. -Advertisement- When it became the case that polit­ical parties are the functional instru­mentalities for garnering support at elections, the need arose to have some control over party leaders who could arbitrarily impose candidates on the ballot who may not be popular with the generality of party members usu­ally at the expense of genuinely pop­ular aspirants. It was to curb these abuses that the primary system was introduced to provide a level playing field for all aspirants to vie for the party’s ticket who would them be presented to the general electorate to contest for elective positions against the candidates of the oppositions. The goal was simple: to ensure that whoever the parties put forward at elections are actually the legitimate choice of the members of the polit­ical parties and not those of vested interests lurking within the party hierarchy which in our own case would be the moneybags, Godfathers and state-capturing political entrepre­neurs. Just like anything that we have copied from elsewhere, the primaries system has been roundly counterfeit­ed and that is why we are witnessing right now a political circus in which “delegates” are the star performers. With the ongoing political parties’ primaries, most Nigerians who did not quite understand the essence of the alarm that we raised here in 2020 about the credibility of Nigeria’s par­ties primaries should have by now seen with their own eyes and heard with their own ears how we have managed to counterfeit and corrupt the primaries system into a form of bonanza for party delegates, plainly purchasable ideological nonentities who the system has foisted on the country. As a result of the massive abuses of the delegate system in the party nomination process, the joke into town these days is that party dele­gates who have been overwhelming­ly drenched by US dollars and other foreign currencies running into billions have started buying exotic “tear-rubber” vehicles and frantically picking up choice properties in Abuja and elsewhere after selling off their votes to the various candidates who have unabashedly turned the various nomination processes into a form of Dutch Auction in which the highest bidders picked the party nomination. The result has been the appearance of all sorts of dubious emerging as “candidates” who could eventually “win” at the end. How can votes se­cured through cash payments be said to a function of electoral free choice? Through a curious Electoral Act, we have managed to disingenuously create a situation in which we have “delegates” who do not report to their “delegators” who are supposed to be the party members who they claim to represent. The idea of a “delegate” connotes a situation in which one party acts on behalf of another ac­cording to certain set of parameters or scope of duty. But as things are in the country today, whoever emerges as a candidate for an elective position cannot be said to be the choice of the people but strictly the product of a corrupt market process brazenly conducted by party lackeys or hatch­et men, a development that has effec­tively cut-off members of the various political parties from the nomination process. POLL Just as we pointed in an earlier piece where we questioned the cred­ibility of party primaries in Nigeria, “elections can take place in the ab­sence of democracy but democracy, per se, cannot exist without elections. Elections under a democracy are con­ducted with a view to electing leaders that would best carryout whatever the electorate requires of them for reasons of good governance… Un­fortunately, the process has in actual practice been contaminated by fraud and indecent mercantilism with Forex liberally disbursed to pursue such grave anti-democratic aberra­tions and with devastating impart on the Naira. How can anyone in good con­science say that the so-called “win­ners” of the ongoing extremely corrupt primaries processes are the legitimate representatives of their political parties when it is clear to all and sundry that their “nominations” were bought from the delegates who represented only pockets? How can there be a decent democratic outcome from such a brazen “cash and carry” mercantilist process? We have long noted that “the out­come of an election is most likely to be regarded as legitimate if the pro­cedures adopted in selecting the can­didate reflects the actual choice of the voters that he seeks to represent. If the procedures are “fair” and “just,” then, we can say there is electoral justice but whenever it is corrupted, then there is a problem.” What we have been witnessing so far is an aw­ful dollar-for-votes circus promoting nothing but electoral injustice to the extent that it corruptly diverts votes from the good and popular candidates to the rich but grossly loathed ones. When these people are eventually presented to the nation at the general elections as “candidates”, Nigerians would be forced to vote for individuals who were not supposed to be on the ballot but for the perverted trading of votes during the primaries. What a sham! President Buhari is on record to have repeatedly promised the na­tion a free and fair election as his parting gift, but can we still claim there are free and fair elections in Nigeria with the volume of dollars being sucked out of circulation that has badly undermined the people’s confidence in democracy? Would he be happy with the sorry state of the nation today in which elections have become a national bonanza at which votes are being openly hawked at party primaries? If a leader could not move his nation forward, he should at least preserve the good things that he met on ground. As things are now, Buhari may be be­queathing to Nigeria a thoroughly discredited electoral system as his ultimate legacy. The credibility of any electoral process is the outcome of a delicate combination of both perception and reality as people tends to react to the outcome of elections quite differently. To some, especially in the established Western democracies, it is a question of numbers wherein the contestant with the highest votes wins. But to others, especially in Nigeria, election results are generally what those who control the electoral process and the law courts decide and not what the voters themselves wanted when they cast their ballots, that constitute the “results.” The bottom line is that it is not what the electorate desire or what they actually do at the polls that mat­ter, but what Naira and dollars do at the level of party primaries.