ABUJA – The Coalition of Human Rights Protection in Nigeria has called on the Embassies of the United States and Britain to place travel ban against the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory Mohammed Bello as well as Senator Gbenga Ashafa and Mukhtar Galadima of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, over the demolition of Prince Joseph Kpokpogri residence in Guzape Area of Abuja on 14th May 2022. The group also demanded that the family members of the afore mentioned persons be barred from all territories of America and the United Kingdom pursuant to Part 9 of the Immigration Rules on the ground that their presence would not be conducive to the public good. Leader of the group, Ambassador Edward Omaga said on Tuesday, that unless excluded and or barred, the FCT Minister Bello, as well as Senator Ashafa and Mukhtar Galadima may fly into the United Kingdom with their family members to avert justice. The group made the demands when thousands of its protesters besieged the United States Of America Embassy and the British High Commission to demand an immediate travel ban on the FCT Minister. The protesters made up of lawyers, human right activists, women and youths were in the embassy to seek justice for one of their own, Prince Joseph Kpokpogri, who is the Chairman of Anti-Corruption and Integrity Forum (ACIF). “On Saturday, 14th May, 2022 at about 8am, some government agents alongside heavily armed security agents numbering about 200, with bulldozers and excavators invaded the Hilltop Mansion belonging to Prince Joseph Kpokpogri, located at Guzape, Abuja in a commando style and demolished same together with all the state of-the-art furniture and fittings. “The said government agents acted on the orders of Muhammad Bello (Minister of the Federal Capital Territory), Senator Gbenga Ashafa (Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Federal Housing Authority) and Mukhtar Galadima (Acting Director, Department of Development Control, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council” Omaha stated. “Indeed, the demolition which was recklessly done without following the due process stipulated by our laws happened under the supervision of Mukhtar Galadima, as we all saw in videos widely circulated on various social media platforms. -Advertisement- POLL “There is no doubt that Prince Joseph Kpokpogri is the person entitled to the statutory right of occupancy over Plots 203 and 204, 27 Road, Apo Estate, Abuja  covered by letters of allocation issued by Federal Housing Authority with Ref. No. FHA/BD/ES/APO/P.203 and Ref. No. FHA/BD/ES/APO/P.204, upon which he built his Multi Million Naira Mansion. He lawfully acquired the two plots of land from Barr. Muyideen Obans and Mrs. Alaba Akindele, respectively sometime in January, 2015 and signed the relevant transfer documents. Accordingly, Prince Joseph Kpokpogri took steps before embarking on the building by applying to the Federal Housing Authority headed by Gbenga Ashafa for necessary permits and approvals, which were granted. “As a matter of fact, the Building Plan was eventually drawn by the staff of the Federal Housing Authority after one of the officers in charge of development named Sidaka Abdulrahman rejected the one drawn by Kpokpogri on policy grounds. “Worthy of note is the fact that the construction of the Guzape Hilltop Mansion from the foundation to completion was closely supervised by a team of Engineers of the Federal Housing Authority led by Engineer Shuaibu Zubairu who was the Project Manager. “Some Engineering staff of the Department of Development Control under the leadership of Mukhtar Galadima Usman were also on ground to supervise the building project. Permit us to add here that the construction of the building could not have been done successfully without the Engineering staff of the Federal Housing Authority because the Building Plan was designed by them. Amazingly, upon completion of the building and at its opening ceremony, the staff of the Federal Housing Authority as well as Department of Development Control were present to celebrate with Kpokpogri. “There was never a time when the government officials served Kpokpogri any Stop Work Order notifying him to stop the construction of the building even though they were aware of the construction of the building from foundation to completion. “Also, neither the FCT Minister nor FHA and Development Control revoked in writing the allocation of Plots 203 and 204 located at 27 Road, Apo Estate, Abuja held by Kpokpogri. No Court Order was obtained and served on Kpokpogri notifying him of the demolition. As a matter of fact, the property was never marked for demolition during or after construction until one week to the demolition, precisely on 7th May, 2022 and no reason whatsoever was given for the marking” the group said.