TONY EZIMAKOR; TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI; INNOCENT OWEH A carnival-like atmosphere en­veloped the Eagles Square, Abuja venue of the special convention of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) Tuesday night to Wednesday morning as as­pirant after aspirant announced that they were stepping down for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to fly the flag of the party in the 2023 presidential election. To this end, pundits said that it will be a tight battle among Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and Senate President Ahmad Lawan. Voting was still going on as at the time of going to press. Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Ni­ger Delta Affairs and former governor of Akwa Ibom State led the avalanche of aspirants who stepped down for Tinubu, stating that the former gov­ernor of Lagos has what it takes to transform the country like he did in Lagos State. Speaking in the same vein, Gov­ernors Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun; Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State; Jigawa State governor, Abubakar Badaru, all stepped down. Even Dimeji Bankole and Ajayi Boroffice, who had earlier addressed the convention, returned to announce they were equally stepping down for Tinubu. Earlier in his address, Asiwaju Tinubu said he is the leader the coun­try needs this time to achieve better and greater things and urged dele­gates to cast their votes for him. POLL Tinubu promised to unite the coun­try and tackle insecurity through job creation. “We need to build a Nigeria where sufficient jobs for the urban popula­tion are available and lead to a good life. Think big at this moment that we may accomplish great things in the next APC admin­istration that will come on May 29, 2023. “My experience in office and the knowledge gained through hard work, tough tri­als and patient undertaking have prepared me for this hour. I am a man of purpose with a serious mission. My vow is to use all that I know and all of my abilities to the benefit of the nation and its people. I do not step forward because I think this nomination is my due. I step forward because I can help lead our nation to become what it ought to be. “I do not say this as a boast. Hear me out. I claim not to be special or great. My training, experiences, acquired knowl­edge are what is special and uniquely suited for this mo­ment. I am merely a conduit, a servant of a cause much larger than myself. Now is a time for progressive vision and singu­lar purpose. There is a general agreement that 2023 will be an encounter with destiny, when our nation shall need a certain type of leader to realise a better Nigeria. “We need to build a Nigeria where sufficient jobs for the urban population are available and lead to a good life. “We need to encourage and support our farmers so that they can care enough to maintain their families, while feeding a growing nation. We must continuously invest in the modernisation and expansion of infrastructure, including power, to enhance the quality of life of our people. Addition­ally, we must continue to em­power the states so that grass­roots economic and political development is maximised. “Though our tribe and tongue may differ, we must build a united country, pre­mised on equity, fairness and justice. True reform and prog­ress lie not in copying others but in identifying our own opportunities. I have done this in Lagos. I humbly ask you to allow me to use these skills and experiences to advance the na­tion”. -Advertisement- 2,322 APC Delegates Elect Presi­dential Candidate Two thousand three hun­dred and twenty-two delegates from 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) con­verged on Abuja, the nation’s capital, to elect the presidential candidate of the ruling APC, for the 2023 general elections in a suspense-filled exercise. The whole nation, especial­ly the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which had already elect­ed former Vice President Ati­ku Abubakar as its flagbearer followed the exercise with rapt attention. Initially, 23 aspirants were cleared by the party to partic­ipate in the race after efforts by President Muhammadu Buhari and the party leader­ship led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu failed to prune down the number aspirants. The aspirants include Asi­waju Bola Tinubu, former Lagos State governor; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Sen­ate President Ahmad Lawan; Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti State governor; Godswill Akpabio, former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs; Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi State and Dimeji Ban­kole, former Speaker of the House of Representatives. Others are Tein Jack- Rich, President/ Founder of Belemaoil and Belema Aid Foundation; Ogbonnaya Onu, former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation; Ben Ayade, Cross River State governor; Ikeobasi Mokelu, for­mer Minister of Information; Rotimi Amaechi, former Min­ister of Transportation; Emeka Nwajiuba, former Minister of State for Education and Gov­ernor David Umahi of Ebonyi State. The rest include Ahmed Yer­ima, former governor of Zam­fara; Ibikunle Amosun, former governor of Ogun State; Uju Kennedy, only female aspi­rant; Tunde Bakare, Nicholas Felix; Ken Nnamani, former President of the Senate presi­dent, Ajayi Borroffice, deputy Senate leader and Mohammed Abubakar-Badaru, governor of Jigawa State. Buhari Tasks Delegates On Flagbearer That Would Guarantee Victory President Muhammadu Bu­hari early Wednesday morning in Abuja urged members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to remain united and avoid acrimony, rallying dele­gates at the special convention to consider voting the presi­dential candidate with the best chances of securing victory in the 2023 general elections. In his address at the Eagle Square, venue of the special convention, the president said the critical task ahead of the Abdullahi Adamu-led Nation­al Working Committee (NWC) ‘’remains to continue to forge the unity of purpose among party members and to keep se­curing needed compromises in the interest of the party.” The president, who spoke to the delegates before the voting exercise to elect the presiden­tial candidate, urged party offi­cials and delegates to follow due process and abide by all extant laws and regulations pertain­ing to election of the party flag bearer. The Nigeria leader said the flag bearer must be knowl­edgeable, fair-minded nation­alist with a very strong belief in the unity of the country and strength of character and purpose to steer the country forward. “My fellow party members and compatriots, I commend you for your various roles and contributions towards the successful conduct of the var­ious APC primaries across the nation. I commend the party stakeholders, officials, organs and the Abdullahi Adamu-led NWC. “I commend your efforts in organising party exercises and urge you not to rest on our achievements so far. Now we have a big task ahead: the special convention for the pres­idential primary. ‘’I congratulate all the win­ners, our newly emerged party flagbearers, so far, for the 2023 general elections and urge you to be magnanimous in victory, particularly towards your fel­low aspirants who conceded to you. I urge you at all times to abide by the party rules and follow party reconciliation pro­cesses. ‘’In every competitive event, there are bound to be winners and runners-up; and as such, all the aspirants who lost or conceded at the pri­maries, I equally urge you to maintain the spirit of sports­manship and to stand by our great party for the next chal­lenges ahead. “As we go into the presiden­tial primary, I urge all to keep to the same spirit. We must avoid acrimony and maintain the spirit of sportsmanship. The critical task ahead of the Abdullahi Adamu-led NWC re­mains to continue to forge the unity of purpose among party members and to keep securing needed compromises in the in­terest of our great party. ‘’I enjoin you all to be fair to all and to create a level playing field for all the presidential as­pirants in the coming crucial party exercise. ‘’Please, follow due process in all the party decisions and I call on all party members, par­ticularly the party officials and delegates to abide by all extant laws, rules, and regulations and to consider voting for the presi­dential candidate with the best chances of securing victory for our great party in the coming general elections,’’ he said. Underscoring that the prin­cipal challenge before the par­ty is the need to keep a united front, the president affirmed that the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party has vested its powers in NWC for the time being, as request­ed, and in compliance with the party constitution, to ensure smooth party administration and operations in these critical times in the overall interest of the party. President Buhari, therefore, assured the party chairman and the entire NWC members of his support, adding: ‘’Please do not hesitate to call on me and all other appropriate quarters for the help that will propel our great party to the victory that we all seek. To ensure a hitch-free presidential primary, please let us work collectively in the interest of our great par­ty and our great country.” On governance issues and how his administration has steered the ship of state in the last seven years, the president declared that the APC govern­ment in spite of inheriting a nearly dead economy, has made substantial progress in imple­menting reforms, providing infrastructure and social care and redeeming Nigeria’s image in the international communi­ty. ‘’Fellow delegates, fellow men, women, youth, citizens of our country. Many people have short memories. But let us remember the situation we inherited. ‘’A nearly dead economy in spite of oil being over $100 per barrel for many years. Vast areas of our country under in­surgent control. Salaries, wag­es, pensions unpaid for months in many states. ‘’Problems were left unat­tended or ignored. Infrastruc­ture left to decay. Internation­ally we were despised. ‘’Your APC government has changed all that. Our response to any new challenges, whether banditry, kidnappings, insur­gency has been prompt and head-on. Rehabilitation of in­frastructure has taken place on a massive scale. Our response to COVID-19 is second to none in Africa. ‘’We have made substantial progress in governance, in im­plementing reforms, in demo­cratic processes and in social care. ‘’We are now respected in Africa and across the world. These major achievements by APC are historic and far-reach­ing. ‘’We now have to choose a leadership not just to win elec­tions next year but to continue and improve on these land­marks. ‘’We must choose a knowl­edgeable, fair minded nation­alist with a very strong belief in the unity of our nation, Nigeria, and strength of char­acter and purpose to steer the country forward. We should not allow the PDP to drag the country backwards,” he said. We Cannot Afford To Chose Base Sentiment— Adamu Senator Abdullahi Adamu, chairman of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC), during his address charged delegates to the party’s special conven­tion to choose wisely as they seek President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor and flag­bearer of the party in 2023 general election. Addressing a mammoth crowd of party faithful and supporters at the Eagles Square, Tuesday night, in Abuja, Senator Adamu said the party cannot afford to choose its next leader on the basis of sentiments or other primordial consideration. The successor to President Buhari, he said, must share his vision and ideals, even as he maintained that the APC needs not fragment because of the ambition of its members. He said that choosing a presidential standard bearer for any party is not only a dif­ficult task but a burden which the party must undertake with forethought so as not to regret. He, therefore, cautioned that since only one person would eventually emerge from the array of qualified applicants, some of the applicants may be called to make compromises in the interest of unity of the party and in accord with dem­ocratic ideals. Adamu stressed that the APC must go into the 2023 elec­tion strong and united, noting that the positive responses of party men and women since the coming into office of the present National Working Committee (NWC) gives confi­dence that the APC healing pro­cess in the party is in progress. Earlier, while addressing the delegates, co-chairman of the Election Planning Subcom­mittee and Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, assured the party of a transparent, free and fair election.