LAGOS  – Incensed by the spate of building collapses being witnessed nationwide, the President of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS), QS Olayemi Shonubi has canvassed the death penalty as a deterrent. He was however, quick to add, that the death penalty option is for incidences where lives are lost. Shonubi dropped the hint, in an address he presented at the Quarterly Interactive Forum organised by the Property and Environment Writers’ Association of Nigeria (PEWAN) held at Lagos Chamber of Commerce (LCCI) Events Centre, Alausa,Ikeja. -Advertisement- According to him, the spate of collapse of buildings under construction in recent time with the attendant loss of lives, properties, investment, Income/livelihood, ‘is a sad development’ that calls to question the credibility and integrity of the entire construction process from application for planning approvals/building permits to the monitoring of the actual construction to ensure that they conform to the approvals given up to the issuance of Certificate of fitness for habitation. Shonubi said that there was the need for the state government to strengthen her policy for obtaining planning approvals/building permits as well as enforcement of the various policies enacted in the past to ensure adequate monitoring of the actual construction to prevent further occurrences. His words: “The government’s at all levels need to strengthen the laws that govern the construction process and should include provisions for severe penalties, not only fines, for everyone involved in any collapsed building project from approval level to execution level. Endemic corruption at all levels has blinded most from adherence to professionalism and so much so that they don’t care to sacrifice money for human life”. He went on: “We have gotten to a stage where professional blacklisting as punitive measure alone is not sufficient, no longer can address the issue as erring professionals always get something else to make a living. But, when an erring professional is made to face life imprisonment or death sentence, I reckon that this will help to bring sanity as well curb these untoward developments. In her welcome address, the Chairman of PEWAN, Mrs. Okwy Chikezie thanked the guest speaker for finding time in spite of his crowded schedule to honour the association’s invitation at a very short notice. POLL She was quick to add, that QS Shonubi had the singular honour of being the association’s first guest in this year’s Quarterly Interactive Forum.