The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has said that foreign airlines operating at the old international terminal of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos would be moved to the recently constructed terminal at the airport, despite their reluctance to move. The agency also said that plans have reached an advanced stage by the management to decentralise essential operations, including the management and the welfare of staff for improved service delivery. Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director, FAAN disclosed these in an interview with aviation correspondents over the weekend at the Lagos Airport. Yadudu wondered why most of the foreign airlines declined to relocate their operations to the new terminal, alleging that some of the operators attempted to blackmail the country, but insisted the government would not succumb to such blackmail. He, however, said that the management had so far relocated two carriers to the new terminal, especially those operating earlier morning and afternoon flights, stressing that this had led to mild decongestion of the old terminal. Besides, Yadudu explained that the gradual relocation of the airlines to the new terminal would also prevent abrupt system collapse, citing the case of Heathrow Terminal 5 in London, which took the authority about six months to fully move operations of British Airways to the new terminal when it was constructed. He expressed worry that some of the same foreign airlines had complained about the old facility’s baggage systems and other poor equipment, but wondered why the reluctance. He said: “The terminal is open. When you commission a new terminal, you have to do an operational transfer before you can move. We decided to start moving in phases. We didn’t want everyone to move at the same time. If you remember, when Terminal 5 opened in London, it took others about six months because of some teething challenges. POLL “The relocation is in phases. No airport system will say you want to relocate to a new terminal and you want to remove everybody, you will crash. So, we sent two airlines and other ones will follow. I told them to move the airlines that operate morning and afternoon flights so that we will decongest the old terminal. So that congestion in the morning and evening will be reduced. “It is unfortunate that some of them said they will not move, but we are not ready to compel them to move. We just keep quiet. You cannot be a FAAN client and dictate to us. When the time comes, they must all move. Those that refuse to move want to paint us in a bad light that we don’t have a good terminal, which is not true. “You were complaining of the bad facilities and the baggage handling, now, we provided you with a new one, yet, you refused to move. The whole of aviation in the world is of national interest and unfortunately, Nigerians are joining them to condemn the industry.” Also, Yadudu emphasized that the management was ready to decentralise essential operations, including the management. Yadudu regretted that a lot of things are concentrated around the headquarters and you cannot be macro-managing all other airports from the headquarters. Yadudu, therefore, reasoned that if left the way it is, efficiency of the management would be reduced, while its effect on the staff would be less felt. He declared that from the first day he assumed office, he informed management and staff that he would embark on decentralization, which would enable each airport to be responsible for itself. -Advertisement- But, Yadudu said that despite the decentralization, the headquarters would continue to monitor, survey the facilities and watch performances of each airport management. ”I think in the next two weeks, we will start it. We have used the last two years doing the planning and now, we have developed the Key Performance Indexes (KPIs). About 90 or 100 items are in all these. With this, the issue of laxity in the system can be checkmated. This will make us know those who are messing it up and we won’t wait till the end of the year before we take action. “Even, the welfare of our staff, we will decentralise it and the managers are responsible. We will also ensure accountability. If your manager is messing up, it is easier for you to know. Also, we have started the scholarship exercise for all our staff and the best five students in each five regions will get the scholarship and FAAN will make sure we fund their university education. The decentralisation shows the management is not ready to hold on to power.”