An online broker can be defined as a trading intermediary that allows his clients to open and close positions with the usage of digital platform. Gone are the days when you had to use the traditional method of talking to your stockbroker on phone before you trade. The digital age has changed the trading landscape and we now have online share trading, which has made it easy to trade with trading platforms like MetaTrader 4 (MT4),MetaTrader 5 (MT5), cTrader, and Tradingview etc. -Advertisement- The number of online brokers in Nigeria  has been in increasing in the recent years due to the increase in the figure of traders which is  estimated to be more than 300,00 retail online traders. Stockbrokers are regulated in the country by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in collaboration with Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX) It is important to note that retail online forex trading is not regulated by SECin Nigeria. Trading with oversea regulated forex brokers in Nigeria is not illegal, but you are doing so at your own risk. Choosing a Stock Broker in Nigeria While choosing a broker in Nigeria, take the following into consideration: POLL Ensure the stock broker is Registered with SEC Before you open an account with a stockbroker in Nigeria, ensure they are regulated by SEC. This step is the most important as you can report any act of professional misconduct of any broker to SEC. You could also be compensated in case the broker fails to meet his obligations. For instance, SEC publishes announcements of revocation of registration of CMOson their website to ensure the public is aware. This shows SEC is not leaving any stoned unturned, in ensuring that the brokers are working in line with the capital market laws, and ethics. In order to be sure that the stockbroker is registered; you should visit the website of SEC where the list of all capital market players including stockbrokers are displayed. But, if you are interested in seeing a detailed list of registered stockbrokers, then you can visit the website of the Nigerian stock exchange to view the trading license holder directory. The Stock broker should have a Functional App A trading App can be defined as a user-friendly software platform where you can buy and sell stocks online.You should be sure that the trading App offered by your broker has advanced capabilities. A good and functional trading app should containfeatureslike: Stock Broker should allow Direct Cash Settlement (DCS) The Direct Cash Settlement policy which was initiated by SEC on January 4 2016, is one of the policies formulated to sanitize the Nigerian capital market and to ensure the safety of investors’ funds. Initially when it was introduced it was voluntary, but SEC later made it mandatory for all capital market operators (CMOs), including stockbrokers. DCS policy stipulates that cash earnings from trading activities carried out by brokers on the Stock Exchange (NGX) should be disbursed directly into investors’ nominated bank accounts. The policy is part of the measures initiated by the regulatory body to boost accountability and transparency in the stock market and also to ensure that both local and foreign investors have confidence in it. Make sure you report to SEC or to the NGX if you notice that the broker doesn’t key into the mandatory DCS. Stockbroker should have good Customer Service Every stockbroker should know that no system is perfect. They should have an effective   24-hour live chat channel where they can be attending to Issues and complaints from their teeming clients. One of the major criteria to consider, is to find out how swift and how effective a stockbroker is as regards responding to issues from their clients. Ensure the customer service has the following: Stock broker should be in NGX’s Weekly Report of Best Stockbrokers The Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX) publishes a weekly list of the best performing stockbrokers on its top 10 broker performance report. The report isbased on criteria such as traded volume and traded value. Availability of this service offers you a good opportunity to select the best stockbroker that would be suitable for your trading plan. By relying on the service, you reduce the risk of choosing an inactive stockbroker. Stock broker for Margin Trading Margin lending is an investment facility in the capital market that lets you borrow money from your stockbroker to invest in stocks. Margin is the deposits (collateral) you open with brokerage firm to cover the credit risk you might cause for the creditor (broker) Assuming you purchased N2, 000 worth of market securities with N400 from your broker; the N400 or 20% is the margin (collateral) while the margin facility given to you is N1600. Most stockbrokers in Nigeria accept stock of Blue-chip companies as collateral in lieu of cash and there is also a list of marginable securities to follow as all stock cannot be bought using margin lending. You should patronize a broker that offers margin facility so that you won’t need to sell your existing stock to raise cash just because you want to take advantage of a new opportunity, you can simply use them as collateral. Margin lending could also help you to diversify your diversify your portfolio. However, it could also make you experience losses if the value of stocks go down. Stockbroker Fees and Commissions Before signing any trading contract with a brokerage firm, one major factor you should consider is the way it charges its fees and commissions. This move is essential so that you would not choose the one that would be too exorbitant compared to the value of your capital. You can check the websites of selected stockbrokers and check the section of Frequently Ask Questions (FAQ) to view and compare the way they charge their fees. For instance Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers charges 1.1325% in buying shares, while it charges 1.4775%  in selling of shares. It charges also charges CSCS alert fee+ VAT of 4.30 per transaction. On the other hand Cardinal Stone Securities charges a commission of 1% per transaction, a SEC fee of 0.3%, stamp duty of   0.075%, and CSCS trade alert goes for N4 per transaction. How to pick an Online Forex Broker As stated earlier, Forex trading is not illegal in Nigeria, but it is not regulated by SEC. Nigerians have to patronize foreign regulated brokers. To pick a good one, follow these guidelines: Ensure the forex broker is Regulated No forex brokers are regulated in Nigeria by SEC, but there are lots of foreign forex brokers that a Nigerian investor can trade with.  They are registered under regulatory agencies of overseas countries. So, if you want to choose a forex broker, ensure you pick the one that is registered with Tier-1 regulatory bodies in case you have any grievance. Few of the credible Tier-1 regulatory bodies are: Compare the fees of the forex broker with Other Brokers International Forex brokers do charge fees for clients like: commissions, spread, overnight handling fee, currency conversion fees, inactivity fees and withdrawal fees etc. As per this list of some of the best forex brokers in Nigeria there are over 30 forex brokers which accept clients from Nigeria & are regulated by at least one Top-tier regulations. But their typical fees for currencies are very different. For example, one major broker HotForex has 1.3 pips spread, while another broker FXTM has 2.1 pips spread for EUR/USD. So, carry out extensive comparison of the fees of your choice forex broker with other brokers. With this you avoid paying exorbitant fees that would devalue your gains. Choosing a broker without comparing fees can be counterproductive as brokers have different fee regimes because they are regulated by different bodies. Select a Forex Broker with Good Customer Service Activities take place on the Forex market during the day and night, starting from Sunday night (when the Australian exchange market starts its Monday morning) to Friday evening in the United States. This means that Forex market never really sleeps. The customer’s service staff should always be there to resolve your complaints through 24hr live chat, phone and email. Try calling their line at odd hours and see if there will be a response. Some foreign forex broker customer service reps may be asleep when you are awake. This is because of time zone differences and can be an issue when you need urgent help. Choose wisely Online trading is becoming more popular in Nigeria; most especially stock and forex trading.So, as you too are about to make a move, endeavor to follow all the rules given in this article. Don’t be in a haste, do your proper research so that you would trade in a proper way.