The Institute of Physician Associates of Nigeria bill, 2022 is sluggishly passing through the Nigerian Parliament so the country can be emancipated from healthcare enslavement which only allows the rich and wealthy Nigerians better healthcare access and delivery. Medical tourism has been a common option for wealthy Nigerians. Meanwhile, millions of people are dying in Nigeria because of the inaccessible healthcare system. Consequently, efforts to establish a workable solution that has been implemented globally are being suggested for enactment in Nigeria.  The physician associate bill is meant to establish a healthcare workforce capable of easing healthcare accessibility in Nigeria. For those unfamiliar with the physician associate profession, a Physician Associate is a mid-level healthcare provider designated to diagnose illnesses, provide medical care by developing treatment plans, and prescribe medications, and surgical interventions in line with the guidance of a supervising physician (medical doctor). Physician Associates co-exist in all healthcare specialties as long as a supervising physician is available to guide and direct the subjects. The Physician Associate profession began in 1965 after the United States encountered a marked shortage of medical doctors. Consequently, the PA program was designed as a fast-track medical doctor training curriculum. Today, the profession has expanded globally. PA profession is well entrenched in Afghanistan, Australia, Canada, Germany, Ghana, India, Israel, Liberia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, and the United Kingdom. Other job titles for the same profession include Physician Associate in the United States; Certified Physician Associate in Canada; Physician Associate in the United Kingdom; Physician Associate in the Republic of Ireland; Clinical officer in Kenya and Ghana; Clinical Associate in South Africa; Assistant Medical Officer in Malaysia; Assistant Doctor in China. In Nigeria, healthcare accessibility and delivery had been at the trough as more medical doctors are emigrating from Nigeria. Also, the Nigerian medical schools are not able to produce as many medical doctors in tandem with the population growth. World Health Organization recommends that one provider cares for 600 people. In Nigeria, one physician is impossibly caring for 5000 people. If nothing is done to halt this unhealthy trend, the physician-to-patient ratio may become 1:1000 within 5 years. If enacted, the physician associate profession will create immediate job opportunities for thousands of Nigerians. The Nigeria University system will be able to commence training for accelerated-trained mid-level medical providers who shall be armed with a second degree in physician associate studies. For example, a graduate of biochemistry can undergo intense two-year medical training to become a physician associate who is able to care for people after both didactic and clinical training. A residency program may be included to ascertain more intense training for surgery, dentistry, and other specialties. As such, thousands of PAs trained outside Nigeria shall be able to practice in Nigeria. The enactment of the PA profession will guarantee better medical care in under-served or rural communities throughout the country. This will help reduce or eliminate the menace of “fake or quack doctors”, providing unorthodox clinical care to the people in the rural communities. In fact, the PA profession will help in improving medical literacy, economic growth, and healthcare access and delivery in Nigeria. Nigeria will join the committee of Nations that take pride in a healthy populace. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Dallas Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com