As the 2023 general elections draw nearer, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Oyo State, Barrister Mutiu Agboke has disclosed that over 700,000 Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) are waiting for collection in the commission’s office. Agboke made this disclosure on Sunday while speaking during a programme organised by Political Awareness Group (PAG) an association of Muslim Professionals and Technocrats in Nigeria. Agboke while addressing a gathering of stakeholders said no one will win in Oyo State except the people votes such a person in. The REC while responding to an allegation raised by Akintola that some Muslims were being denied the right to register for PVC in some South Western states due to Hijab and cap, insisted that there is no policy of INEC that prevents anyone from registering for PVC because of Hijab. He advised residents of the state to use the open window to go and claim their PVCs. “We have over 700,000 PVCs uncollected in Oyo State, let people come out to collect it. “We should sensitize people. I can tell you confidently that no one will win in Oyo State except the people vote for you. I will not be the one to conduct the 2023 elections. I am leaving in July. In the next two weeks. “Muslims should come out and exercise their civic right. We have not announced officially the closure of registration. It currently ends on the 30th but from Nigerian’s yearnings, we might extend it. -Advertisement- POLL “On the issue of Niqob and Hijab, there is no INEC policy that disqualifies anyone from the registration because of Niqob or Hijab. “But if you are a Muslim woman under this category none of INEC staff would disallow you from registration because it is either your face is taken or your biometrics even though it has implications during the election”. Those in attendance include the Aare Musulumi of Yoruba land, Edo and Delta States, Daud Akinola Makanjuola represented by Kazeem Eleta, Director of Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) Professor Isiaq Akintola, APC senatorial candidate in Oyo Central district, Yunus Aknitunde, PAG Chairman, Abdulwaheed Olowonjaye and other personalities.