WARRI – The Delta State All Progressive Congress (APC) Gubernatorial Campaign Organisation has described the Ifeanyi Okowa-led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) administration as the worst in the history of the state. Besides, the party stated that Okowa’s nomination as Vice Presidential candidate of the opposition PDP has brought his sheer incompetence to national focus, asking him to prepare to vacate the government house. In a statement by the Director, Communications and Media Strategy of the Delta APC Gubernatorial Campaign Organisation, Ima Niboro, the organisation accused the PDP government of running a clueless and shortsighted administration with an agenda to impoverish the people and make life difficult for all but a few favourites in the state. Niboro, who was reacting to a statement credited to the governor in which he said the APC had poor knowledge of governance, noted that key economic data and self-evident facts attest to PDP’s deep-rooted irresponsible governance of Delta state and charged the PDP to begin preparation to vacate Delta Government House after the 2023 general elections. Specifically, Niboro lamented that state institutions have been reduced to personal estates, adding that Deltans are witnessing the cruellest, insensitive and clueless government in the history of the state. “Okowa is a clueless governor who fiddles while Delta burns. Under his watch, Delta has become the Keke capital of the world. Under his watch, Delta is ranked 31st amongst the 36 States of the Federation in fiscal performance and responsibility. We are the fourth most indebted State in Nigeria and there are no infrastructural developments to justify the endless reckless borrowings. We are now at a major crossroads of unprecedented socio-political and economic decline. “Despite our huge revenue-generating potential, a paltry N59.73 billion Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) was reported in 2020. We are also one of the States that depend most on federally distributed revenue. Our local economy cannot withstand even the slightest national economic shock.