**Menace Capable Of Cause Pre, Post Election Violence ABUJA – The Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has urged the United Nations assistance towards checkmating the menace of vote buying by politicians. IPAC National Chairman, Yusuf Sani Yabaji, while receiving in audience the Special Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG) of the United Nations and Head of the UN Office for West and Sahel, Mr. Mahamat Saleh Annadif, said the phenomenon is capable of causing violence during and after the elections. While soliciting the support of the UN in rescuing Nigeria’s democracy from the negative trend, the IPAC Chairman observed that the bane of democracy in the country includes, “the obscene use of money to induce voters; to buy votes, number two is the violence that normally come from the exercise, and mostly these violence are perpetuated by those that should stop violence. Then, number three is that people take advantage of their positions. That is the incumbency factor. “The fact that you are in government and you deploy all the resources of government to have an advantage over the other contestants. So, these three issues are the ones we will like you to see what you can do to ensure that, if you can not eliminate it, it is reduced to the lowest minimum.” Yabaji who observed that the success of any election is as good as the preparations, noted that the visit by the UN delegation ignites hope that Nigeria is not alone in the democratic journey, insisting that it is expected that the forthcoming election will be free, fair and credible. This is as he observed that one out of every five black is a Nigerian, IPAC said Nigeria is looked up to globally for leadership, hence the process of electing the leaders must not be left to chance. Speaking further, the IPAC boss said “We believe if there is a way the UN can attract Nigeria some support, not in terms of money but infrastructure that can be used, that politicians can be aware that if they do some of these things, it will be discovered and they will be dealt with, it will help to reduce the cancer that makes votes not to count. -Advertisement- POLL “The truth is that when you induce people to vote differently from what they would have done, you end up with leadership that is not representative of the people and when you have that, the consequences is that there will be no peace because the dividend of democracy will not reach the electorate, because the person elected was elected because he used his money. “So he will not have empathy, interest of the people at heart. He will be busy on how he will make more money so that in the next election, he will use more money to continue to buy over people’s conscience”, he said. Citing the upcoming Osun governorship election, he said that there is fear over what will happen, pointing out that they do not know if “they will repeat what happened in Ekiti or even do more. So we are happy that you are meeting with authority, you can use this opportunity to see how you can reduce vote buying in our democracy.” Speaking shortly before a closed session, Mahamat Saleh Annadif said the peaceful conduct of an election that is free and fair remains the interest of the United Nations. He said the United Nations will wish to see elections that will lead to more dividends of democracy in Nigeria.