Infertility refers to an inability to conceive after having regular unprotected sex. Infertility can also refer to the biological inability of an individual to contribute to conception, or to a female who cannot carry a pregnancy to full term. In many countries, infertility refers to a couple that has failed to conceive after 12 months of regular sexual intercourse without the use of contraception. Studies indicate that slightly over half of all cases of infertility are a result of female conditions, while the rest are caused by either sperm disorders or unidentified factors. In Europe, Nigeria, and other parts of the world, approximately 85 percent of couples will conceive within one year if they have regular unprotected sex.  It is estimated that  20 percent of couples will conceive within one month; 70 percent will conceive within six months;  85 percent will conceive within 12 months; 90 percent will conceive within 18 months, while 95 percent will conceive within 24 months. Therefore, doctors will not usually diagnose a couple as infertile until 24 months have passed without conception and regular unprotected sex. Most people will see their general practitioner (GP) primary care physician if there is no pregnancy within 12 months. In medicine, a risk factor is something that raises the risk of developing a condition, disease, or symptom. Here  are some  risk factors to infertility: Age – a woman’s fertility starts to drop after she is about 32 years old, and continues doing so. A 50-year-old man is usually less fertile than a man in his 20s (male fertility progressively drops after the age of 40). Alcohol consumption – a woman’s pregnancy can be seriously affected by any amount of alcohol consumption. Alcohol abuse may lower male fertility. Moderate alcohol consumption has not been shown to lower fertility in most men but is thought to lower fertility in men who already have a low sperm count. Being obese or overweight – In industrialised countries, overweight/obesity and a sedentary lifestyle are often found to be the principal causes of female infertility. An overweight man has a higher risk of having abnormal sperm. -Advertisement- POLL Eating disorders – women who become seriously underweight as a result of an eating disorder may have fertility problems. Over-exercising – a woman who exercises for more than seven hours each week may have ovulation problems. Not exercising – leading a sedentary lifestyle is sometimes linked to lower fertility in both men and women. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) – chlamydia can damage the fallopian tubes, as well as making the man’s scrotum become inflamed. Some other STIs may also cause infertility. Exposure to some chemicals – some pesticides, herbicides, metals (lead) and solvents have been linked to fertility problems in both men and women. Mental stress – studies indicate that female ovulation and sperm production may be affected by mental stress. If at least one partner is stressed it is possible that the frequency of sexual intercourse is less, resulting in a lower chance of conception.