The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has put in the apparatus to tackle some of the infrastructure challenges in most of the country’s airports, starting with the installation of an airfield lighting facility at the domestic runway of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, popularly called 18L. The runway has been without the facility for about a decade, a situation, which prevents domestic airlines to make use of the facility at any time from 6 p.m. But, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director, FAAN, in an interview with aviation journalists on Wednesday in Lagos, said that the equipment would be installed on the runway by the third quarter of 2022. -Advertisement- According to him, FAAN had contacted the contractors who had promised to install the facilities on or before July 2022. With this, Yadudu said that the airline would be able to land and take off on the runway at night, thereby saving fuel consumption for them. Yadudu regretted the pains the airline operators had gone through over the years due to the absence of the facility but noted that some of the challenges were inherited by the current management. Yadudu further lamented the ageing infrastructure at most of the airports, saying some of them are as old as 40 years. He, however, said that the management had commenced gradual replacement of the old infrastructure, assuring that most of them would be replaced and upgraded in the coming years. POLL He said: “Some of the equipment we have are ageing. Some of them are even 40 years and above. As the current management in FAAN, we want to make sure that anybody who comes as the next Managing Director of FAAN, we want to make their job easier. We are going out of our way to make sure we do our own. “Now, we are fixing the 18L. You cannot land on 18L at night, now, that the contractor is back. He was supposed to finish in March, but the cables he had were of low quality and we are insisting on original ones. So, he said he will fix it by June or latest July. So, after nine years, we are fixing some of these things that were abandoned and we are also starting new ones, including baggage handling, and the central cooling system. “We contacted the airfield lighting company in Europe to fix the new ones, and overhaul the whole airfield lighting system, there was no overhaul in 42 years. That is also in the process. We are fixing things so that those that come after us will get things easier.” On the call for the country’s airports to remain operational for 24 hours daily, Yadudu said the agency was ready and willing to do this but insisted such an airport must be able to pay its bills. He pointed out that for airports to remain open for 24 hours as canvassed for by some of the airlines and operators, FAAN, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), fuelers and handling companies would need to deploy their personnel and facilities to such airports, but insisted with less traffic, such was not sustainable. He said: “FAAN want all airports to operate 24/7 because it is a business for FAAN. We earn our revenue from that operation; we are a service delivery agency, but the challenge is will the 24/7 pay for itself? Somebody has to pay for the 24/7 operations. Will the business pay for itself? If we open an airport with just only three landings, FAAN will close down. “No organisation in the world will do that. Even, if you go to Europe, you will find out that many airports are sunrise to sunset. You can operate an airport even from sunrise to midday so that everybody that knows should go around that window. “FAAN cannot operate an airport that we cannot breakeven, because we are already challenged. We want 24/7 days airports, but we need to know if the business will be sustainable. At first, some of the businesses may look as if they are sustainable even for the next two years. So, somebody must be ready to have the business model to sustain 24/7 operations. I cannot commit to 24/7 operations when you are not coming.”