All is now set for the hosting of one of the nation’s most glamorous events where the best of Nigeria’s corporate institutions, outstanding managers in both public and private sectors, entrepre­neurs, diplomat emeritus and entertainment icons will be celebrated for their immense contributions towards the socio-economic and political development of the country. The event, which is the 2021 edition of the annu­al Champion Newspapers awards and recognitions, is slated for Friday, June 3, 2022 at the prestigious Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Island Lagos. Already, Lagos State Gov­ernor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has confirmed his readiness to play host to the galaxy of stars expected at the event which will be held under the chairmanship of legal lumi­nary and former President, Aka Ikenga, Barrister Goddy Uwazurike. -Advertisement- The high profile Champi­on Newspapers awards is to identify and reward leaders and managers of men and re­sources who have exhibited uncommon zeal, ingenuity, determination and forth­rightness to impact positively on Nigeria as a nation and her people, institutions and the economy at large Giving insight into the glamorous event which is to hold with much panacea, the Group Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief of Cham­pion Newspapers, Dr (Mrs) Nwadiuto Iheakanwa, re­vealed that such eminent per­sonalities as the indefatigable Chairman/Chief Executive of the National Drug Law En­forcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa, Retd, OFR; gallant Executive Governor of Borno State, Prof Babagana Umara Zulum; former Governor of Kano State and grassroots politician, Dr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso; the Honour­able Minority Leader in the House of Representatives, Rt Hon Godwin Ndudi Elumelu and outspoken Speaker of the Abia State House of Assem­bly, Rt. Hon. Chinedum Orji, among others, will take to the podium at the event to be decorated for their individual and collective roles in ensur­ing for a better Nigeria. A total of 25 awardees would queue up at the glam­orous event to be decorated with medals of honour and excellence. Zenith Bank Plc, Standard Chartered Bank Plc, NEM Insurance Plc, E-Money and Eze Ndigbo Ghana are also slated for the special recognition at the Fri­day event. “This award and recogni­tion is indeed one of our mod­est ways of recognizing lead­ers in both public and private sectors of the economy who have made greater sacrifices in ensuring that the objec­tives and ideals of our nation­hood are sustained as well as promoting good corporate governance. As a watchdog of society, it is our duty not only to track and document their performances but also to ac­knowledge their commitment to serve and their doggedness to transform the Nigerian so­ciety”, Nwadiuto revealed.