…….We Won’t Violate Our Constitution Because PDP Did LAGOS – Osita Okechukwu, Director General of the Voice Of Nigeria (VON) and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that if the party zones its presidency to the South it will reflect reciprocity. Okechukwu who spoke on Television on Wednesday said that the Northern electorate is very sophisticated, they voted for Moshood Abiola from the south-west and if APC goes south the northern electorate who are core APC will vote for the party’s candidate. -Advertisement- He said, “When people talk of the high votes in the north, there are northerners who live in the south who also have Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs). “The large chunks of votes in Kano also have southern votes, there might be up to 10 to 20 per cent of such votes and any candidate that emerges before the election Nigerians will sense victory and confidence. Okechuwu noted that if such a candidate is produced he will provoke the dormant votes as we have been seeing over the years. “The last presidential election was 40 per cent and the offseason elections have less than 20 per cent. If today Mr. President presents a candidate from the south, and he has a national appeal, those votes will become active,” he said. The DG said that people shouldn’t be afraid because the PDP violated its constitution, and disobeyed the zoning convention that has kept and civilized democracy. “We will not violate our own because of that,” he said. “Mr. President shouldn’t listen to such debates because he knows that there is no region that can win elections without the others. There is no southern belt candidate that can win without the northern belt and no northern belt candidate can win without the southern belt. We must consider equity and fairness,” he said. He added, “The idea that if APC goes South, Atiku Abubakar will get a victory is a lie. It is not embedded in critical analysis. If APC goes to the south tomorrow, the northern electorate is very sophisticated and they will vote for the candidate and the southern votes will also reflect that.”He urged the state governors to consider reciprocity during their meetings in order to move the country forward because if there is no Nigeria people won’t talk about the president. While responding to a question on the request by the President to choose his successor, Okechukwu said that he believed that a south-east Presidential will be the best option for the APC since any of the five aspirants from the region is qualified to be President.