Amb. (Dr.) Amos Osalumese Areloegbe is a two time gubernatorial candidate in the Labour Party and the Action Peoples Party (APP) in Edo State. He is a Forensic Auditor by profession and hails from Ewohimi, Esan South-East of Edo State. In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, he spoke on the political situation in Nigeria and concludes that if care is not taken, there may be a repeat of June 12, 1993 in the 2023 presidential election. He spoke on other national issues. Excerpt: As a former gubernatorial candidate in Edo State, what was your experience like in your quest to reclaim your mandate at the tribunal in the last election? It was not funny neither was it a tea party. It was a bitter experience going to the election tribunal. I have been a two time governorship candidate in Edo State. I contested in the 2016 governorship election under the Labour Party and did the same in 2020 under the Action Peoples Party (APP). My experience from the last Election in Edo state has opened my eyes to see so many betrayals from my very own people and, until we are united, the journey to getting to the top is still far for my senatorial district. That is to say we need to be united like the Northerners to fight with one purpose over matters concerning our region or tribe. The kind of politics we play in Edo State is self-centred politics. We are not united, and most of our leaders, I am not saying all, are concerned about themselves and not about the people. I’m not comfortable with it and that’s not how politics are played in civilized climes. -Advertisement- What’s your take on Governor Godwin Obaseki’s performance? Well, for Obaseki’s government, he is doing what he feels is right for him, but he is not spreading his performance evenly to all the senatorial districts, especially we, the Esan people and our senatorial district, are not being carried along or attended to. It could be because some of our so-called leaders have been settled or cornered what belongs to the zone. In the area of skills acquisition, I think Obaseki is doing greatly in the state capital. With the disunity in Esanland and infighting by serving politicians to serve more than two terms in office, do you think Esan quest to produce the governor in 2024 can be achieved, and what is your take on the action of the serving politicians? The current situation where some Esan serving political leaders are against two terms in office is because of their selfish interest. If one has been given the opportunity to serve two terms, you leave after your two terms, no one is an island of knowledge. Give others the opportunity to contribute their quota to the development of the Esan nation instead of wanting to die on the seat. Well, I know that my people are politically conscious and will find a way round it to ensure those who have served two terms will not be given a third term chance because that system has been on and has given room for peace and unity to reign in Esanland. Against the backdrop of the neglect of Edo Central by the government, will it not be justifiable for us to seek a governor of Esan extraction in 2024? POLL Yes, it’s justifiable. It is long overdue for us, the Esan people, to produce the next governor after Obaseki. If we, the Esan people, can be united to select one credible candidate irrespective of political party, even if it is for me to support, I’ll gladly accept and support wholeheartedly. The neglect of Esan nation by successive governments is against the law of fairness, equity, unity, and sense of belonging. Since the inception of this current democracy in 1999, an Esan governor has not emerged because Sen. Osunbor’s 18 months in office has been annulled by the tribunal and, in all fairness, Esan nation should be supported to produce the next governor after Godwin Obaseki. Delta State and Edo State were created the same day from the former Bendel State, but looking at their pace of development, it does appear that Delta is far ahead of Edo State, what do you think? Delta State is fast developing than Edo, but that does not mean Edo is not developing; it is, but at a slower pace – probably because of the resources available to it. In the entire Niger Delta, Edo State receives the lowest allocation from the federal government because of fewer oil wells in the state compared to Delta State with higher number of oil wells. Again, Edo State has not been fortunate to have purposeful leaders since then and that could be why Delta State seems to be more developed. There has been an agitation for zoning of the presidential slot to the South, do you believe in zoning as a means of achieving oneness and equity? Yes. I strongly believe in zoning and power rotation; it will help to correct the imbalance in development and forge unity, equity, fairness, a sense of belonging to all the zones. What’s your take on the just concluded PDP presidential primary? The PDP presidential primary was a clear eye opener to all that the Northerners are more cohesive and more united than we, in the South, West and the East. Everybody in the southern hemisphere wants to be there and no one is willing to step down or make sacrifice for the other. Southern politicians should wake up from their greed and prepare to make sacrifices for the region instead of the me-or-nobody-else attitude. How would you describe Buhari’s government in the past seven years? The APC-Buhari led government, in the past seven years, has seen Nigerians living in bondage due to divisive policy and lack of unity caused by his favour for his ethnic group to dominate and oppress the others. How would you describe the coming 2023 presidential election? 2023 can be free, but that is if INEC will not be compromised by the ruling power because the way the goal post is being shifted by the umpire, I pray strongly that the incident of June 12, 1983, will not resurface where the election will be inconclusive when the powers-that-be see that their party or candidate is not leading at the election. It is only God that can know what would happen if this happens again in Nigeria. I pray we will still have a country called Nigeria then.