Osteomyelitis is a bone infection caused by bacteria or fungi. In most cases, a bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus is the most common pathogen. Osteomyelitis affects people of all ages and genders. Children younger than 3, the elderly, and people with severe medical conditions are more prone to the disease. Approximately 20% of adult cases of osteomyelitis are hematogenous, which is more common in males for unknown reasons. The infection is more likely to affect long bones, such as those found in the legs and arms, while in adults, bone infections more often target the spine. Symptoms Acute osteomyelitis develops rapidly over 7 to 10 days. The symptoms of acute and chronic osteomyelitis are very similar and include: Drainage (yellow pus); Fever; Irritability or lethargy; Limited, painful movement; Loss of appetite; Lower back pain; Nausea and vomiting; Sweating or chills. Sometimes osteomyelitis causes no signs and symptoms, or the signs and symptoms are hard to distinguish from other problems. This may be especially true for infants, older adults, and people whose immune systems are compromised. Causes The significant causes of osteomyelitis include the following: Primary Hematogenous: Hematogenous osteomyelitis involves an infection traveling to the bone from the bloodstream. It might develop if Staphylococcus aureus enters the body through an IV treatment. It is more common in children. POLL Secondary: Non-hematogenous osteomyelitis may result from trauma, such as a fracture or an open wound. When children develop non-hematogenous osteomyelitis, it most likely stems from trauma. Surgery may be responsible, especially if it involves a prosthetic material, such as metal pins, screws, or plates, which can carry bacteria or fungi. Osteomyelitis results from a diabetic foot infection or any other reason for diminished blood supply to the bones. Diabetic foot osteomyelitis (DFO) is mainly the consequence of a soft tissue infection that spreads into the bone, involving the cortex first and then the marrow. The possible bone involvement should be suspected in all DFUs patients with infection clinical findings, chronic wounds, and the case of ulcer recurrence. Types Acute hematogenous osteomyelitis occurs predominantly in children, with the metaphysis of long bones the most common location. Patients usually present within several days to one week after symptoms. The subacute and chronic forms of osteomyelitis usually occur in adults. The cardinal signs of subacute and chronic osteomyelitis include draining sinus tracts, deformity, instability, and local signs of impaired vascularity, range of motion, and neurologic status. Generally, these bone infections are secondary to an open wound, often an open injury to bone and surrounding soft tissue. Localized bone pain, erythema, and drainage around the affected area are frequently present. Risk Factors The artificial joint, such as a hip replacement; Rheumatoid arthritis; Blood infection or conditions like sickle cell anemia; Long term use of steroids; Diabetes, especially a diabetes-related foot ulcer; Metal implants in bone, such as a screw; Pressure injuries (bedsores); HIV/AIDS; A recent broken bone or bone surgery; Sickle cell disease; Traumatic injury or wound; Weak immune system. -Advertisement- Diagnosis Blood tests: A complete blood count (CBC) checks for signs of inflammation and infection. A blood culture is to check for bacteria in the bloodstream. Imaging tests: X-rays, MRIs, CT scans, and ultrasounds provide images of the bones, muscles, and tissues. Bone scan: A bone scan uses a small amount of safe, radioactive material to identify infections or fractures during an imaging scan. Biopsy: This is performed by a physician with a needle biopsy to take samples of fluid, tissue, or bone to examine for signs of infection. Treatment A bone infection can take a long time to heal. The disease may clear up faster if treatment starts within three to five days of first noticing symptoms. Treatments include: Antibiotics: Antibiotics kill infection-causing bacteria. Antibiotics may be used for four to eight weeks, starting with intravenous (IV) antibiotics in the hospital for a week or two and then taking medications orally for several weeks. Chronic infections may require months of antibiotics. Antifungals: Oral antifungal medications will be taken for months to treat fungal infections. Needle aspiration: The physician uses a fine needle to drain fluid and pus from the abscess. Pain relievers: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs(NSAIDs) fortreatingpainandinflammation. Bone surgery is done by surgically removing infected dead tissue and bone. This procedure may result in bone deformities. Spine surgery: People with vertebral osteomyelitis may need spine surgery. This procedure keeps vertebrae from collapsing and damaging the spinal cord, nerves, and other parts of the nervous system. Prevention It’s essential to clean and treat wounds to prevent bacteria and prevent infections. If you’ve had a recent bone break or surgery, or have an artificial joint, go to a nearby clinic at the first sign of any infection. But in many instances, there isn’t anything you can do to prevent osteomyelitis. Complications Abscesses: Infection may spread to muscles and soft tissue, causing abscesses. These pockets of pus can seep through the skin. Treatment to drain these abscesses may slightly increase the risk of skin cancer. People with chronic osteomyelitis are more likely to have recurring abscesses. Bone death: Also called osteonecrosis, bone death can occur if swelling from the infection cuts off blood flow to your bone. Very rarely, this may lead to loss of a limb or amputation. Stunted growth: Osteomyelitis in a growing child may stunt bone growth. Prognosis The sooner you treat osteomyelitis, the better. In cases of acute osteomyelitis, early treatment prevents the condition from becoming a chronic problem that requires ongoing treatment. Besides the pain and inconvenience of repeated infections, getting osteomyelitis under control early provides the best chance for recovery. The prognosis of osteomyelitis depends on etiology, patient factors, time to an institution of suitable treatment, and other factors (e.g., location, organism, and antibiotic susceptibility and sensitivity). Delayed treatment or significant bone and soft tissue injury can lead to long-term problems and even deformity. Chronic osteomyelitis is prolonged in its course and can be extremely debilitating, with episodes of recurring infection interspersed with quiescent periods. The organisms become increasingly resistant. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Dallas Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com