Former Minister of Education, Dr Oby Ezekwesili, Supreme Court Justice Amina Augie, President of Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Olumide Akpata, the Chief Judge of Oyo State Munta Abimbola and Osaro Eghobamien, (SAN) are among the dignitaries expected at the 4th Justice Aderemi Annual Law Series (JAALS). The 4th Justice Aderemi Annual Law Series with the theme, “The 2023 Election Year: the Birth of A Restructured Nigeria”, will hold on Thursday, July 7, 2022, at Aare Afe Babalola Hall, NBA Bar Centre Iyangaku, Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. One of the organizers of the lecture, Mr Kunle Aderemi, while speaking on the Law series, explained that the theme of the series is strategic and timely, stating that the time to discuss frankly the continued existence of the entity Nigeria is now. He stressed further that to the extent that the country appears divided along ethnic, religious and political lines, Nigerians must revisit this all-important topic, particularly as the country goes into its election cycle to elect a new President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. According to him, “It is a season where career politicians will travel around the country canvassing for votes promising many things including restructuring Nigeria. It is therefore important to interrogate whether this is what will restore peace and security in the country. Aderemi stated the Annual Law series is in recognition of the legacies of Hon Justice Pius Olayiwola Aderemi JSC CON, an adroit and quintessential jurist, noting that the keynote address will be delivered by Dr Ezekwesili while the Supreme Court Justice Amina Augie JSC will chair the occasion and the President NBA, Olumide Akpata, declare it open. He added that Osaro Eghobamien, (SAN) would chair the Panel of Discussants some of which include Oyo State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof Oyewo Oyelowo SAN, Speakers of the Oyo and Ekiti Houses of Assembly, Right Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin and Rt. Hon. Funminiyi Adufe. Other panellists are the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Prof. Oluyemisi Bamgbose (SAN), Mrs Funmi Quadri (SAN) and Dr Kunle Oshibogun, Council Member, Buckingham Council, United Kingdom (UK).