An almost brand new Su­per Eagles were assem­bled recently to embark on a tour of the USA by the newly employed Portuguese Coach, Jose Peseiro to execute some grade “A’ friendly matches with Mexico, Ecuador, and a few of them in America to begin the process of whipping the national team into a winning side after the exit of Gernot Rohr. The Eagles that took on the national team of Mexico last Saturday were beaten 2-1. The Eagles in clear terms after losing to Mexico cannot be said to have had a bad beginning; al­though, their next match will be against Ecuador. This column would have been read before that already played match billed for Thursday of this week; however, the match could be a make or mar outing in terms of a “win” or “loss” but my judg­ment here will depend on how many goal(s) the Eagles would have conceded to lose or get to win. It may have also turned out barren or bracket goal margin for a draw! This discourse will be for another day given the result of Thursday’s match! The first match against Mexi­co, for me, was well-executed, even though, the Eagles lost. I heard Peseiro loud and clear when he described his team as disciplined and having that character of pur­pose to do better and to deliver in subsequent engagements after that encounter! No doubt, I want to believe the Portuguese-born manager in his assessment of the team, having lost 2-1 to Mexico. -Advertisement- It’s on record now that he lost his first match so far, notwith­standing, the Portuguese gaffer will have more edge here in Nige­ria fulfilling his coaching career if he’s able to identify and locate where Nigerian football talents are and he’s able to galvanise them into one formidable squad of purpose unlike when he han­dled the Venezuelan national side which was less a football country! If at the end of this playing tour of the Americas, whether on a good note or not, Peseiro would have learned one or two import­ant key areas to hold onto for subsequent assignments before he would start his campaign for the CAF Nations Cup qualifying series with the Eagles. It would be too early to start a critique of the team’s Head coach, as he would need time to do more of these friendlies to enable him to blend the team and to acclamatise with both the new and old play­ers who will form the bulk of his new Eagles. If he’s that intelligent enough and indeed worth his on­ions as we were made to believe by his employers, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) then, Nigerians will just need a dose of the “patience pill” to survive this trying period of his arrival to Nigeria. I can vividly remember when Bonfrere Jo was appointed to han­dle the Dream Team of 1996 to At­lanta Olympics in America. The Dutch coach who had stayed back in Nigeria after his compatriot, Clemens Westerhof had left Nige­ria, however, got his first dose of baptismal fire in the hands of the Togolese U-23 team in a friendly match at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. The Nigerian Dream Team lost 0-2 to Togo in a friendly in preparation for the At­lanta 1996 Olympics football event right here in Lagos! That was the irony that brought about the best of Nigerian football at the time! If the then NFA had used that yardstick to judge Bonfrere, per­haps, the Dream Team captained by Kanu Nwankwo (Papilo) and his teammates wouldn’t have won the Olympic Gold of the football event of that global world games held in Atlanta in 1996. Bonfrere and his supersonic squad dealt with countries like Argentina to mention but a few, and final­ly at the expense of Brazil won the Olympic Gold medal in the men’s football category. Nigeria became the first African country to win the football gold medal in the Olympics in 1996! The joy of that victory brought a huge relief to the African conti­nent and its football. Nigeria be­came the celebrity of the Olym­pics, and all the members of that golden squad under Bonfrere and Willy Bazuaye (late) became the toast of football fans, supporters, and stakeholders across Nigeria, Africa, ditto the world. Since then, the country and its subse­quent Dream Teams had become a shadow of itself. Nigeria, hith­erto, has not been able to repli­cate such a superlative team; not even in the Super Eagles. POLL Where did the football feder­ation and the sports ministry get it wrong from 1994 to date? This puzzle will remain unrav­elled. Perhaps to ravel, this one million dollars riddle is the new Portuguese coach, Jose Peseiro! Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nige­ria!