MAKURDI – Concerned Elders of All Progressives Congress (APC), Gwer-East Local Government Area (LGA) chapter of Benue state have advised members of the party in the state to avoid anything that would bring about disaffection and subsequently lead to cracks in the party. Spokesman for the group, Prof Jonathan Uever who disclosed this also urged APC members to put aside their differences and work towards the success of the party, ahead of the 2023 general elections. In a statement personally signed by Prof Uever and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Sunday, he congratulated all candidates of the party that emerged victorious at the party primaries recently. He also congratulated the Presidential candidate, Ahmed Bola Tinubu; the Benue governorship candidate, Rev. Fr Hyacinth Alia; all Senatorial, House of Representatives, and State Assembly candidates of the party over a “well deserved and God given mandates. “We also appreciate the other contestants who were less fortunate at the primaries for the Spirit of sportsmanship displayed during and after the primaries. “We are very optimistic that with that spirit, we can work together, engage ourselves sincerely and move on from the outcome of the party primaries in unity, thereby ensuring our victories in 2023. “It is clear that as party men and women, we may all have had our preferred candidates for each of the elected positions, but whatever the outcome, let us not allow it to cause cracks amongst us. “We need to approach the forthcoming election with clear focus and common united front in order to secure a much desired victory at the polls.” -Advertisement- POLL Prof Uever further stated that “In Benue state, we need to work even harder to ensure that we end this government of propaganda and ensure that the loan app is deleted. It is our strong belief that if elected, Fr Alia will provide the dividends of democracy that have eluded the people of Benue state. “Let us be reminded also that what transpired during and the aftermath of the primary election was only but an intra -party affair and brotherly contest. It was not a war won or lost. “The APC project is far from over and we need all members of the party to come together to ensure the success of the party at next year’s general elections. It is now time to sow and hopefully, we shall all reap the eventual dividends of democracy at harvest time”, he appealed. End.