***As EU-ACT, ISMPH Make Moves To End Severe Acute Malnutrition ABUJA – It was a mixed feeling for Hajia Rabi Sule, a grandmother who lost her daughter to bandits in Sokoto state and was left to care for the child her daughter left behind. Alimatu, severely malnourished was left at the mercy of her grandmother, Sule who could barely fend for herself. Her case deteriorate to the state of being wasted. A year old girl who looks like a day old baby is suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition. Recounting her experience, Sule said:” This baby is my daughter’s baby, she was killed by bandits in Sokoto state that is why I took custody of Alimatu her only child. “The death of my daughter was devastating, as she was the person who is providing me with basis necessity of life. She died and left this child behind, after her demise, I find it difficult to fend for myself and my grand daughter Alimatu. Close to tears, look at her, she is about a year old and she is looking this small, they said she is not getting the right nutrient of food. I give her whatever I have. “This training today (European Union Act (EU-ACT) in collaboration with International Society of Media in Public Health (ISMPH)) has revival my hope, they are training us on how to use our local produces to make nutritional diet for our children and to empower us on organic fertilizer. This will help me boost my income, when I sell my finished produced I will be able to cater well for the need of my baby. I thank the organizer for this laudable project”, Sule said. -Advertisement- POLL Also, a 37 year of mother of five, Yemi Joel whose child is malnourished due to her heath challenge narrated her story. According to her, ” I find it difficult to do hard labour due to the breast problem I have. I cannot breastfeed my children because of the pain. ” This training will empower me and other vulnerable women and increase our financial status to cater better for our children. Vera Manasseh, the Barangoni community’s deputy women’s leader, agreed that the empowerment program would significantly reduce poverty in the neighborhood. She bemoaned the large number of malnuished children in Barangoni and said that the EU-ACT project had given the neighborhood a new lease on life. “Many of our women have malnourished children due to ignorance and poverty. But with this training, we are optimistic that things we change for better for us and our children. We have been taught a lot of things, including how to convert wastes to wealth.” She said. The Etsu Bwari, Dr. Ibrahim Yaro JP who was represented by his Secretary, Amos Musa noted that the empowerment programme would go a long way in eradicating poverty in the area stressing that the women will now be able to take proper care of their malnourished children and their households. He applauded European Union Agents for Citizen- Driven Transformation for funding the project and ISMPH for implementing it. Also, the Chief of Barangoni, Danlami Nana said his people are predominantly farmers. According to him, training women in his village on how to produce organic fertilizer would enable the farming community have bumper harvests and improve the income of the people. Meanwhile, the Executive Director, the International Society of Media in Public Health (ISMPH) Chief Moji Makanjuola who spoke during the opening of the skill acquisition programme said they are empowering 30 vulnerable women’s whose children are malnourished on life saving skills. This, according to her will help equip the women to fend for their children and themselves. Represented by the ISMPH Program Manager, Solomon Dogo said the project is sponsored by European Union ACT (EU-ACT) to give succor to vulnerable women through life saving skills. According to her: “The project is to see how we can curb malnutrition in FCT by training and empowering women on how to produce organic fertilizers and other products so that they can have a means of livelihood. Because we have noticed that one of the problems causing malnutrition is poverty. Most of them do not have means to solve or to take care of their children nutritional needs. So, we decided that we’re going to train the poorest of the poorest women whose children are malnourished. So that they can have life saving skills. And this project is being funded by EU acts as the European Union Act project”. The Programs Officer of ISMPH in charge of the project, Bukola Smith said that the women would be assisted to get market for their products through media exposure, adding that they would  eventually be happy mothers because, they will  have the resources to take care of their malnourished  children.