EMMANUEL OBETA Brand Development or Building Campaigns A brand campaign puts your company’s story and message in front of an audience, with the goal of increasing brand awareness and improving brand equity in the mind of the consumer. -Advertisement- It is a way of controlling your brand’s narrative and public image, as well as differentiating your organization from the competition. It can also be looked upon as a series of several small activities across the various interface point between the brand and the customer which raises the profile of the brand, increases its estimation, value or worth in the minds of the customers. It also creates a positive impression for the brand in the minds of the customer through the creation of a positive, delightsome and memorable experience for the consumers. A good example could be a replication of the brand journey through the year’s right from its inception which is presented to the customer as a themed story line coupled with opportunities to personally interface with the brand like in a test drive or sampling session. Brand campaigns are not advertising campaigns although it could utilise advertising as one of the tools of achieving its objective of showcasing the brand. A brand campaign has the purpose of developing a brand with the aid of communication. POLL It is the part of brand management that is visible to the consumer. The whole essence of the campaign most of the time is to ensure that the brand has a higher value of recognition and that the consumer connects certain attributes, features and achievements with it. Mobile marketing campaign on the other hand is any advertising activity that promotes products and services via mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones. It makes use of features of modern mobile technology, including location services, to tailor marketing campaigns based on an individual’s location. It includes promotions sent through SMS text messaging, MMS multimedia messaging, downloaded apps using push notifications or in-app or in-game marketing, through mobile websites, or by using a mobile device to scan QR codes. Mobile advertising targets audiences not so much by demographics but by behaviors. Smartphone users according to Investopedia for instance tend to find informative content to be the most relevant, while iPad users tend to be captivated by interactive advertising that features rich media presentations with eye-catching imagery, the message of the content being a secondary concern. The major advantage of mobile advertising campaigns is their personalised as well as need driven nature whereas its greatest downside is the intrusion into people’s privacy as well as the possible illegality of the modality of collecting and utilising these personalised information about the individual users of the gadgets. Viral Marketing campaign is not a type of marketing campaign like all the other types of marketing campaign but more or less like a possible outcome of all the different kinds of marketing campaigns. It is more like what can happen to any of the different campaigns to attain a degree of quantum reach or resonance with the market audience that could not have been anticipated by the marketers. The important thing about viral marketing is that the efforts put into the marketing activity is magnified or multiplied in quadruples beyond the extent of the invested efforts such that so many other factors, influencers, opinion leaders and other positive elements within the society latches on to the campaign at their own expense or freewill. They rebroadcast or re -circulates the messages or contents of the marketing campaign such that it reaches a wider audience than could never have been reached without such additional efforts. Viral marketing generates interest in a brand or product (and therefore potential sales) through messages that spread quickly from person to person. The idea is that the users themselves choose to share the content. The other critical element of viral marketing campaign is that the issue of inhibition or resistance to the marketing message is completely removed such that people are eagerly and willingly able to accept and disseminate the message without any compulsion or reservations. These messages sometimes get to a high level of popularity that they become popular lingos or generally accepted speeches or comments. Social media marketing campaigns Instagram for instance has about 500 million daily active users (which is 70 million more than the total population of South America and is worth a total of 17.4 billion dollars in advert revenue just for 2020 with about 1 billion active users. LinkedIn has about 1billion users, with a strong and specific business focus and annual revenue of over $10 billion. YouTube on the other hand has over 2 billion monthly active users with more than a billion hours of content being consumed on the platform every single day and an annual advert revenue of about $21billion while Facebook has roughly 2.89 billion monthly active users earning a total of $28.6 billion advert income in 2020. Combined together these social media platforms have over 6 billion active users and advert revenue of over $77 billion per annum. Social media marketing campaign gives your business an online presence while giving you an opportunity to benefit from these humungous sales and human potentials to drive your sales or achieve the other numerous objectives the organization has set out to achieve like generating leads, building brand awareness, creating an engagement and interaction platform with your customers. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com