LAGOS – The Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs (LASODA) has assured People Living With Disabilities (PLWDs) in the state that it will synergize with all arms of government to make PLWDs access all healthcare facility programmes available to them. General Manager of LASODA, Dare Dairo, made this declaration on Tuesday during a sensitisation programme on health care insurance scheme policy in line with the Special People’s Law in Lagos State. Dairo, who spoke on the theme: “Health is Wealth,”said the Lagos State government does not toy with healthcare of its residents, hence the establishment of various healthcare facilities to take care of all the residents of the state, including PLWDs. “The Lagos State government does not take the issue of PLWDs with levity. It has put all efforts available into making diversity in disability to be seen by all in their day-to-day activities, including the move of ensuring that nobody is left behind, was a validation of the mandate of LASODA, towards ensuring that the vision of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, of not leaving anyone behind, including people living with disabilities, in the day to-day running of his administration is not in doubt”, Dairo said. He maintained that it also formed part of the reasons the agency was established, adding that the “Federal Government has also helped, particularly through the Act of Disability that was recently signed into law, although at the state level, we need more collaboration to fashion more ways by which we can extend the love of the community to the PLWDs and to further carry many people along to fulfill the mission. The General Manager appealed that PLWDs should come forward and avail themselves of the opportunities abound in the state, even outside healthcare issues, adding that they should also be patient with government and be constructive when pushing their requests to government. “Let me appeal to all the PLWDs to be patient proactively and constructive in pushing out issues forward because we can see that Lagos State government is a listening government and I can assure you there would be reasonable solutions at the end of the day”, Dairo said. Earlier in his welcome address, the Lagos State Commissioner for health, Professor Akin Abayomi, who was represented by Dr. Tolu Ajomale, assured that all things related to health issues of PLWDs should not be in a hurry anytime they visit hospitals, but should exercise patience and explain all as it affects them health wis. -Advertisement- POLL Also in his presentation on the background of the Equity Fund by LASHMA, Olusegun Braimoh, explained that the importance of health insurance for all residents of Lagos State including PLWDs is quite enormous and of great advantage, especially because a lot of fund had been earmarked for the purpose to take adequate care of the health of all residents of the state devoid of colour, creed or race. He said not less than 200 hospitals are working with LASHMA and people with disabilities are not exempted “Ilera Eko, a new standard social health insurance plan is a basic health insurance plan consisting of primary and secondary health care accessories without limit of time, age or status, including people living with disabilities. The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, who was represented by Sunday Ladipo, commended LASODA for the successful hosting of the sensitisation programme, assured that Lagos Assembly has been known for enacting laws, added that they shall continue to enact laws and policy that would address special needs of living with disabilities. “It is incumbent on all of us to recognise the rights of people living with disabilities to have a life of dignity, enjoying the same access to equal opportunities as every other person in society”, Obasa said. The event was attended by various service providers and stakeholders as far as the issue of people living with disabilities was concerned and expectedly raised many pertinent questions that were opaque, but was dealt with one by one by the office of LASODA and LASHMA as far as accessibility of the health care insurance was concerned.