…Say Attack Gory, Gruesome ABUJA – State Governors under the aegis of the Nigerian Governor’s Forum (NGF) have expressed sympathies to the Owo community, the government and people of Ondo State and the country in general over the attack on worshipers at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State on Sunday. An explosion reportedly rocked the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, in Owo town, Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State capital while mass was ongoing on Sunday, with many worshippers killed. -Advertisement- Dr. Kayode Fayemi Governor, the Ekiti State Governor and Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum, conveyed the sympathy in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja, while praying for the victims of the attack, described it as a gory, ugly, and gruesome act by extremely wicked persons. “We Mourn with the People of Ondo State The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) wishes to express its deepest sympathies to the Owo community, the government and people of Ondo State and the country in general following the attack on worshippers at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State in which scores of people were reportedly killed. “The NGF considers this a gory, ugly, and gruesome act by extremely wicked and warped minds meted out to innocent victims on a holy day.“However, in the spirit of all our faiths, we pray for them. May God forgive and grant them mercy. “As Governors, on our oath, we solemnly pledge to work with Mr President, all citizens and residents of our dear Country, Nigeria to assure you of a fully secure environment. “Our goal is to halt brutalities, address unresolved criminal acts and ensure all killers are ultimately brought to face the consequences of their actions” reads the statement in parts. POLL It is recalled that exactly a week ago, the head of the Methodist Church in Nigeria was abducted along with two other clerics in the south-east of the country. The Methodist prelate said he paid $240,000 (£190,000) or N100 million to be freed with his companions.Two weeks ago, two Catholic priests were kidnapped in Katsina, President Muhammadu Buhari’s home state in the north of the country. They have not been released. In March, gunmen targeted the vital rail link between Abuja and the northern city of Kaduna killing at least nine people and kidnapping dozens of others, many of whom are still being held.