The Danish government has declared its intention to expand its ongoing School Feeding project meant to improve the nutrition of primary school pupils in Akwa Ibom State. Danish Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Sune Krogstrup disclosed a town hall meeting with stakeholders in the project in Uyo on Tuesday. Represented by a senior official in the Consular Office, Poul Erikstrup,  Krogstrup said that farming remained an important aspect of the Danish economy adding that the project was part of some value chains involving small targeted projects in Nigeria. Krogstrup stated that the philosophy of the project remained what is already known but doing it more effectively added that this would help to influence the food pschy and mentality of children for improved nutrition. The ambassador who said that knowledge sharing remained the strongest aspect of the project called on stakeholders to increase efforts to sustain this new nutrition culture. He commended the Akwa Ibom government for their strong support and recommendation adding that not only would the project help schools and stakeholders to preserve resources, but it would also help increase collaboration between Denmark and stakeholders. Executive Director of Africa’s Children Aid, Education and Development Foundation (ACAEDF), who are the implementing partners, Mr David Umem in a remark said the project solely funded by the government of Denmark is meant for children who go to school hungry and finding it difficult to concentrate in their studies. Umm said the maiden edition involved four schools but is working towards all schools in the state having a farm and fish pond, growing 70% of what the children eat in school, with the model meant to be handed over to the Federal Government to improve its school feeding programme. POLL “The project is an answer to pupils taking responsibility, an answer that no child should go to school hungry and that pupils have equal opportunity to learn and grow. “The project helps to sustain the interest of kids in school and inculcate the  spirit of self-reliance on them.” The Executive Director said. He commended the Measurements Evaluation consultants for developing the model for the success of the project and School-based management for their interest, commitment and sense of responsibility. Project Manager, Mrs Nyenime Bassey explained that the project incorporated the crop, Aquaculture and nutrition components and involved fish ponds and farms and innovative greenhouses to reduce cost. Bassey commended stakeholders for their commitment and interest and called for increased commitment to enable the Danes to expand on the project. Krogstrup had earlier in the company of Ms Elizabeth Ulla Muller,  United Nations Population Fund(UNFPA) Resident Representative in Nigeria, Mr Poul Jacob Erikstrup and Victoria Epelle from the Consular office in Lagos, paid a visit to ACAEDF – Land of Hope Children Centre in Eket to see the level of work with the School Farm for School Meal (SF4SM) Project. Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Akwa Ibom State on Multilateral & Donor Agencies, Mr Ndiana-Abasi Udom was also part of the visit on behalf of the Akwa Ibom State Government.