Following the alleged conspiracy of kidney harvest the of a 15-year-old Ukpo Nwamini David in London, the University of Lincoln, United Kingdom, has banned Senator Ike Ekweremadu who it recently appointed a visiting professor of Corporate and International Linkages. It could be recalled that the former Deputy of Senate had after the university appointment two weeks ago, tweeted: “It was a pleasure and an honour to receive a letter of appointment by the University of Lincoln, UK, as Visiting Professor of Corporate and International Linkages. “I also got a highly treasured gift – a copy of the Magna Carta. It was created in 1215, about 807 years ago.” But reacting to the development after he was arrest and subsequent arraignment, the university’s spokesperson quoted by the London Mail on Friday said that Ekweremadu’s duties at the institution have been suspended for the time being. The spokesperson said, Visiting professors are often, as is in this case, non-resident at the university, unpaid and advisory. “We are deeply concerned about the nature of these allegations, but as this is an active police investigation, we cannot comment further at this stage. “Whilst this matter is subject to investigation, this person will not be undertaking any duties as visiting professor at Lincoln.” Speaking further, the mail in a report said David also did not know that he was taken to London for the purpose of donating his kidney, adding that the teenager at the centre of the organ harvesting allegation, is said to have entered the United Kingdom (UK) with his age put at 21 years. -Advertisement- POLL “The 15-year-old was given the passport of a 21-year-old in order to get into the UK, but did not know he was there to donate a kidney until he went for a hospital appointment in London, a court heard yesterday (Thursday),” the Mail quoted Prosecutor Damla Ayas as telling  the Uxbridge Magistrates Court. The newspaper added: “After he (David) arrived in the capital in February, he had a string of medical appointments about kidney donation, but a consultant at the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, North London, became concerned about the boy’s real age and if he knew he was there to donate an organ, it is alleged. “’He was provided with a medical travel visa saying the purpose of the travel was to provide medical treatment for the defendants’ daughter who was undergoing dialysis in relation to a number of health issues. “It was premeditated, it was planned. Blood tests were obtained in Nigeria and he travelled to the UK in February this year. “He was taken to several medical appointments, in particular a medical appointment at the Royal Free Hospital, and was spoken to by a consultant about the organ harvesting for a kidney transplant. “The consultant was concerned about his actual age and was concerned he was not aware he was the donor of the kidney. He only found out that the purpose of his visit was for an organ transplant when he visited the hospital.”