Political institutions are a superstructure resting on an economic foundation.” V. I. Lenin, 1870-1924. Leader of the Communist Revolution in Russia. “If the unemployed could eat plans and promises, they would be able to spend [their leaves in Dubai]. W.E B Du Bois, 1868-1963. If Lenin were to resurrect today in Russia, he would have an immediate heart attack. TheCommunist revolution whichhebroughtabout has been totally erased. Russia is now just another capitalist country; where the political leaders continue to deceive the proletariat that they practice communism. Despite the failure of communism, Lenin was absolutely correct about the economic foundations of societies. Anynationwhoseleadersmismanageitseconomy will have a tough time avoiding political and social disruptions. Those tensions turn around and damage the economy even more until a nation is like a young cat chasing its own tail. Nigeria is one of the countries in the world today where the leaders have got us running aroundin circles with no destination in sight. -Advertisement- POLL “Promises, like [biscuits] are made to be broken [especially by Nigerian politicians].”Jonathan Swift, 1667-1745. Du Bois, a black American thinker, was a “must read” forusyoungblackpeopleinAmericainthe1960s and early 70s. Hewasspotonwithhisquipabouttheunemployed and the failed promises we receive. I had to modify the statement in order for Nigerian readers to understand it. The unemployed and the working poor in Nigeria have been told about so many plans (to provide housing, education, freehealthservices, power, foodsecurity, pension, reducepovertyandsecurityforall) whichhave not been fulfilled. The Promise Of Job Creation “…tocreateatleastonemillionnewjobseveryyear, for the foreseeable future..” APCManifestoinFromOppositionToGovernment Party by Dr Ogbonnaya Onu. Creation of one million jobs a year was one of the promises made by the All Progressives Congress, APC to Nigerians in the months leading to the 2015 General Elections. Thetypesof thejobswerenotspecified; andwewere not told where the new jobs will be available. By today seven million new jobs should have been created. The Federal Government even went further when it launched a plan tagged Economic Recovery Growth Programme, ERGP in April 2017. After failing to create one million jobs in 2016, and instead recorded a recession accompanied by massive job losses, Buhari’s government promised to create 15 million jobs in four years. The four years ended in December 2021. Even the unrepentant liars in the Federal Government cannot deny this truth. Instead of more jobs being created, more jobs were lost. Most of those who were rendered unemployed by COVID-19 have not been re-employed. Millions of former farmers have been driven off the land by bandits, kidnappersand herdsmen. Buhari istheLifePatronof the herdsmen – the most destructive terrorists. So, if youreallywanttoknowwhyforeignerswould not invest in Nigeria, as long as Buhari is President, then read this. FDI Determines Job Creation And The Future Of Nigeria. “ForgetFDIif youdon’tfixinsecurity, EgyptianPresident tells African leaders.” Report, June 17, 2022. President Sisi spoke clearly and honestly; his statement must be rendered un-edited. Accordingtohim“If youdon’tachievesecurityand stability, no investor will come to your country. If there is no security and stability, there is no hope. If I am not sure of security and stability in one country, I will take my money and go to another country.” Egyptian President Sisi, June 2022 in Cairo. Sisi was a soldier before strong-arming his way to the Presidency of Egypt. There the similarity between him and Buhari ends. While Buhari apparently believes that investors are morons who will dump their hard-earned money anywhere, Sisi is realistic about what drives Foreign DirectInvestment, FDI. BuharirecentlyaskedNigerian envoys to aggressively pursue FDI in the countries to which they are currently posted. The ambassadors know that he might as well order them to squeeze water out of granite stones. Theorderisreflectiveof amindabsolutelydivorced from reality. Very few investments will come here and mostly to carefully selected destinations. Here is the bad news. Situation With Nigerian FDI “..Local, foreign companies withdraw 69% of investment projects.” June 2, 2022. “FDI crashes by 78% in three months June 7, 2022. “Kaduna, Rivers, 30 others attract zero investments in Q1. June 13, 2022 Ask yourself, if you are an investor will you head for a country where others before you are scrambling to get out? Theanswertothatquestionshouldprovetoyouwhy President Buhari is living in his own world – totally divorced from reality. When the man goes abroad, and stands with others more in touch with reality, he does not realise what a pathetic figure he presents. The other leaders have been fully briefed about the situation in Nigeria. They listen to Buhari politely; while all the time wishing he would just leave. Let’s face it; few busy people like to have their time wasted. The Link With Insecurity If Buhari really wants to know why FDI is eluding Nigeria, he should read Nigerian newspapers. Then, he will understand what Sisi was saying. Below are the reports for just a few days. Any President, who is not embarrassed by these reports, does not deserve to lead any country. Here they are. “Under Buhari, over 3,478 killed, 2,256 abducted in seven months – Reports. June 21, 2022. “913 killed, 265 abducted in May [2022], Report, June 14, 2022. “Bandits kill 32, abduct 80 in Kaduna, Katsina. Report, June, 13, 2022. “SuspectedherdersinvadeGov. Ortom’shometown, kill 16 timber dealers. Report, June 22, 2022. I have opened a file for documenting reported instances of killings, abductions and acts of vandalism occurring everyday in every state of Nigeria. Sad to say, there has been no single day in June this year when bandits, kidnappers, gunmen, and ritualists have not struck. Among the most besieged states is Buhari’s Katsina. The question needs to be asked: is it possible that Buhari who cannot protect Katsina canbeexpected toguaranteethelivesand propertiesof foreigners? Who, inhisrightsenseswillleaverelatively peacefulnationsandheadfor Nigeriawherehumanlife is the cheapest thing to invest? Power And Fuel Add To The Risks “Every nation’s economy is only as strong as the energy and power it can generate and supply.” That was theverdict of aUS-based ManagementConsultant friend, yearsago; whenhevisitedNigeriatoundertake research for clients wanting to invest in Nigeria. I assisted in the research work. He was in the country when we had another prolonged power generation and fuel crisis – such as we are experiencing now. He was highly impressed with our abundance of natural and human resources. He advised his clients to forget Nigeria. So, if you are a foreigner, will you invest in Nigeria? PresidentBuhariwillleavenextyearafterdepletingthe investments in Nigeria significantly. No investment; no jobs. That is one of the seven years’ legacies Buhari will leave behind.