UYO – Youths under the auspices of the Coalition of political parties in Akwa Ibom on Wednesday took a protest to the entrance of the state headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office, calling for the removal of the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr Mike Igini. Numbering over 2,000, the youths who chanted ‘Mike Igini must go’, blocked the entrance to the commission and prevented staff from entering their offices. They bore placards with inscriptions such as, “Igini is biased”, “democracy is not for sale”, “INEC must act now”, “Akwa Ibom REC is compromised”, “Igini don’t kill Akwa Ibom political parties”, “Igini is partisan”, “Igini is a factional Chairman of a party” among others. The youths alleged that Igini has become a partisan umpire and the result is the controversy surrounding the All Progressives Party (APC) primaries in the state. Further stating their grievances, Leader of the Coalition of Akwa Ibom State Youths in Opposition Parties, Mr Ubok-Obong Umoh called for a probe into the personal vendetta of the REC against APC, especially his comments on national television that APC will not have any candidate for 2023 elections in the State. Umoh accused Igini of acting on the instructions of the State Government, adding that the actions of APC or any other opposition party was not acceptable to him. In his words “We are protesting clear partisanship demonstrated by a supposed umpire, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Barr. Mike Igini. “Between 2019 and now, Igini has demonstrated that he has no faith in Nigerian democracy and as a result, he is now playing the script of the Akwa Ibom State Government. -Advertisement- POLL “Opposition is meant for checks and balances in government. If Barr. Mike Igini who is supposed to be an umpire feels that there should be no opposition in Akwa Ibom State, he should pack his belongings and leave,” he added. The State APC Youth Leader, Dr Awak Clement who also addressed the protesters queried why Igini should single himself out to fight APC in the state, saying “Igini is not the only REC that Nigeria has”. Clement who said Igini had openly declared war against APC even before the primaries, queried why the REC assumed the role of the Supreme Court to reject the judgement delivered by the Federal High Court. He urged INEC in Abuja to wade into the matter so the peaceful protest does not become disastrous. Addressing the press shortly after the protest, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr Mike Igini attributed the crisis leading to the protest to the APC. Igini accused the APC of forgery, saying APC in the state forged letters that led to the swearing in of Stephen Ntukekpo as the Chairman of the party against a court judgment. He insisted that INEC recognises Austin Ekanem, not Ntukekpo as the authentic state chairman of the party.