ABUJA – Abuja Investment Company Limited (AICL) and its Italian partners, DGM have revealed that the Kugbo International Market will be transformed into a green project. The Country Representative of DGM, Mr Patrick Coker, made this known on Wednesday in Abuja when AICL and the DGM delegation led by its President, Cladio Dell Ghanda and a Director of the company, Marco Costa, visited Kugbo International Market, Kafe District Market and Ecoville Apartment in Daki Biu which are some of the projects being financed by AICL via a Euro 350 million grant provided by the European Union to African countries under the Cotonou Agreement. The construction of Kugbo Market built on 13 hectares of land is being undertaken by Mesotho Group Limited (MSG) along the Abuja- Keffi Road. Coker said at a meeting between the delegation and the developer of the market, Jerry Joseph Damara that the project, which for completion next year will be turned into a green project, using renewable energy, solar, wind and water. He said all the wastes in the market will be recycled and turned into re-useable energy. The Chairman of AICL Board Committee on Investments, Hon Osita Opara, said they decided to visit with the Italian partners to have a first-hand assessment of the project at Kugbo and other parts of the Abuja metropolis because the projects will have several advantages, including job creation for the people. He described the investment by the foreign partners as enormous, saying government alone cannot use the budget model alone to fund projects in the Federal Capital Territory. “They are on a two-prong visit. One, they are bringing a grant of Euro 350 million to build a modern Green City where everything works to world class standard. It is a EU grant meant for African nations developing infrastructure for them. They are also investors, coming to invest, not only in market alone but in projects like highways, railways, roads, hospital and anything that will develop Abuja. They are liaising with the Abuja Investment Company Limited which is the commercial investment arm of the FCT,” Opara said. Ghanda, who has also visited other African countries, expressed delight visiting Nigeria. -Advertisement- POLL He described Nigeria as a big door in front of big development for the people and the best future for the job for the company.