Former Head of Department, Political Science, Bayero University Kano, Professor Shuaibu Murtala, on Thursday, urged the President Muhammad Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC), government to take decisive action concerning the abducted Abuja-Kaduna train attack victims. Murtala said the early warning issued by the bandits must not be taken for granted. DAILY POST reports that the passengers have now clocked 90 days in the kidnappers’ den. Professor Murtala, who was visibly shaking while speaking to DAILY POST, in Kaduna on Wednesday, urged Buhari to act fast and stop playing politics. He wondered what may have become of the health of the abducted victims, having spent almost 90 days in captivity. According to him, bandits, terrorists and kidnappers have no regard for human lives, as such, they have given enough grace and time for the Federal Government to do the needful and rescue the victims. He said the government’s action and inactions on the abducted victims would surely have direct consequences on not only the 2023 general elections, but the APC as a party. Murtala, who cited examples of the 276 female students of Government Secondary School, Chibok, abducted in the night of April 14-15, 2014, by Islamic terrorists, Boko Haram, noted that with all the politics played by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), then, as well as the rescue of 57 girls, the party failed in 2015. -Advertisement- POLL “When Boko Haram abducted 276 female students of Chibok, so much politics was played by the PDP Government led by former President Goodluck Jonathan. 57 students who jumped through the fence were said to have been rescued by the government then. Till today, the over 100 Chibok girls are still in captivity,” he said. Concerning the train attack victims, the insurgents had called on the government, to as a matter of urgency, release their children allegedly kept in Yola detention facility, as well as free all their comrades in detention facilities across the country. “We don’t need money. We have a good reason for doing what we did, until our demands are met, none of the victims will come out alive even if it means we all die with them. They are well taken care of as you can see from the video. But, this will not continue,” Abu Barra, the terrorists’ leader had said. However, on April 6, 2022, the bandits released Alhaji Alwan Hassan, the Managing-Director, Bank of Agriculture on age ground and in the spirit of Sallah. On May 16, 2022, the bandits again released a pregnant woman on compassionate ground. The terrorists later released a five-minute video of the abducted victims, with a seven-day ultimatum for the Government to start responding to their demands, else, they will first starve the victims, before killing all of them. Following this threat, a negotiator, Malam Tukur Mamu, who is also the Publisher of Desert Herald chosen by bandits to always convey their messages to the federal government, confirmed that the terrorists have released six female and five vulnerable men based on the agreement reached between the Federal Government and the insurgents. But, as families, friends and relatives of the remaining victims are expecting the release of their loved ones, the negotiator, Alhaji Manu who is also, Dan Iyan Fika and spokesman of Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, again, raised an alarm, informing Nigerians and the Federal Government to urgently do something in order to ensure the safe release of the remaining 51 victims. He said they were being bitten by snakes and subjected to dehumanization, adding that most of them who have not experienced forest life style, had fallen sick, while others were coughing out blood. Reacting to this development, President Buhari on June 21, 2022, through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu,had directed increased efforts through kinetic and non-kinetic means to bring the case of the kidnapped railway passengers in Kaduna to a closure. Now, as it stands, it remains to be seen whether the President Buhari’s order will lead to the rescue of the remaining 51 victims.