NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE; JOSEPH UNDU; JOY ANIGBOGU Former Chief of Army Staff, COAS, and Ni­geria’s ambassador to Benin, Lt.Gen Tukur Buratai, has strongly debunked claims alleging that billions in cash were found in his posses­sion at a property belonging to him in Abuja and for which one of his aides is being held by the Independent Corrupt Practic­es and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). ICPC has also debunked the news published by an online portal that it recovered cash, vehicles and jewelry running into billions from Buratai’s residence. ICPC said contrary to the inaccurate and concocted re­ports, it was the residence of Mr Kabiru Sallau, a military contractor that was raided in Wuse 2, Abuja, based on a tip-off where the items listed be­low were recovered. Speaking through his legal counsel, Bar. Osuagwu Ugo­chukwu, the ex COAS vowed legal action over the claim made by the online publica­tion (name withheld for legal reasons). Azuka Ogugua, ICPC Spokesperson, in a statement issued on Friday said the clari­fication becomes necessary in order to correct the inaccurate and concocted reports in the media about the seizure of multibillion-naira cash, dol­lars, Rolex watches stockpiled in an Abuja property. The said publication had al­leged that ICPC ‘uncovers Bil­lions in cash meant for arms, ammunition to fight Boko Ha­ram in Abuja’s, on its 23, June publication this year. Buratai’s counsel, Ugochuk­wu, said: “I have gone through the said Publication and have interfaced with Ambassador T.Y.Buratai and can authori­tatively say the content of the publication is false, concocted and malicious.” -Advertisement- POLL Explaining further why the report couldn’t be true, he said that on or about 5th April 2018, President Muhammadu Bu­hari approved the purchase of equipment worth $1bn for the military through the Ministry of Defence. “It is a fact that the first batch of Six Super Tucano fighter jets arrived Nigeria July 22, 2021 while final batch of the 12 A-29 Super Tucano fighter jets arrived October 18, 2021. “No Arms fund is ever miss­ing contrary to some previous mischievous publications,” Bu­ratai’s counsel said. “For the records, no such amount (N850M or any simi­lar sum) was found with Am­bassador Buratai nor does he have any aide bearing such name. “Ambasador Buratai has no office or house in Wuse Abuja nor does he have any bullet­proof cars, BMW, G-Wagon worth N450m and neither is ICPC investigating any such,” the lawyer claimed. He, however, vowed legal ac­tion, stating that the news was aimed at tarnishing the image of LT General T.Y Buratai. ICPC, in its statement, said: “Facts available for the time be­ing indicate that the property is owned by owner of K Salam Construction Company, a mili­tary contractor. “The Commission recov­ered money and other items from the property viz-a-viz N175,706,500; $220,965; G-Wag­on; 2022 editions of BMW and Mercedes Benz cars; custom­ized mobile phones; several de­signer wrist watches, including three Rolexes, and some prop­erty documents. “The Commission arrested the Managing Director of K Salam Construction Compa­ny Nigeria Limited, Mr. Kabi­ru Sallau and investigation is ongoing.