…I’m A Unifier Says Tinubu ABUJA – A carnival-like atmosphere enveloped the Eagles Square, venue of the special Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Tuesday night as aspirant after aspirant announced that they were stepping down for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to fly the flag of the party at the 2023 elections. Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Development and former Governor of Akwa Ibom State led the avalanche Stating that the former Tinubu has what it takes to transform the country as he did in Lagos State as governor. Speaking in the same vein, Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun, Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti State, Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru all stepped down. Even Dimeji Bankole and Ajayi Borofice who had earlier their address to the delegates returned to announce that they’re equally stepping down for Tinubu. Earlier in his address, Asiwaju Tinubu, he is the leader the country needs this time to achieve better and greater things and urged the delegates to cast their votes for him. Tinubu promised to unite the country and tackle insecurity through job creation. “We need to build a Nigeria where sufficient jobs for the urban population are available and lead to a good life most wholly benefits the nation. Think big at this moment that we may accomplish great things in the next APC administration that will come on 29 May 2023. POLL “My experience in the office and the knowledge gained through hard work, tough trials and patient undertaking have prepared me for this hour. I am a man of purpose with a serious mission. My vow is to use all that I know and all of my abilities to the benefit of the nation and its people. I do not step forward because I think this nomination is my due. I step forward because I can help lead our nation to become what it ought to be. “I do not say this as a boast. Hear me out. I claim not to be special or great. My training, experiences, acquired knowledge are what are special and uniquely suited for this moment. I am merely a conduit, a servant of a cause much larger than myself. Now is a time for progressive vision and singular purpose. There is a general agreement that 2023 will be an encounter with destiny when our nation shall need a certain type of leader to realise a better Nigeria. “We need to build a Nigeria where sufficient jobs for the urban population are available and lead to a good life. “We need to encourage and support our farmers so that they can carry enough to maintain their families while feeding a growing nation We must continuously invest in the modernisation and expansion of infrastructure, including power, to enhance the quality of life of our people. Additionally, we must continue to empower the states so that grassroots economic and political development is maximised. “Though our tribe and tongue may differ, we must build a united country, premised on equity, fairness and justice. True reform and progress lie not in copying others but in identifying our own opportunities. I have done this in Lagos. I humbly ask you to allow me to use these skills and experiences to advance the nation.”