Management of Government Primary School, Aka Offot, along Obio Imo street in Uyo, Akwa Ibom state have applauded governor Udom Emmanuel for promptly responding to the need to pick the pupils from the floor by providing desks. The management has also appreciated public-spirited individuals and donor agencies for reaching out to the school through the provision of desks since news and pictures of pupils learning on the floor were made public. Recall that the Correspondents’ Chapel of NUJ a few months ago got attracted to the vandalized school roof but discovered,  on getting closer, that the doors, windows, desks and tables were all vandalized. -Advertisement- It was also reported a few days later that the Akwa Ibom State Government had promptly sent some seats to the school. Speaking with our correspondent who visited the school for fact-checking on Thursday, the Headteacher of the school, Mrs Imaobong Uboh thanked Governor Udom Emmanuel for changing the mindset of the pupils by responding to their needs as soon as it was made public. Mrs Uboh also reported that others, including two persons from the United States of America, also donated 20 and 25 desks respectively to support the state government in her drive to address the infrastructural deficit in public schools. The Head Teacher explained that teachers also assist the state government by using improvised teaching aids for learning. “You can see the changes, the school wasn’t like this when I came, all the pupils were sitting on the bare floor, through your efforts  and others, God has changed our story, and we commend the government for quick intervention.” POLL “It was such an eyesore because, throughout my days in school, I never had the cause to  sit on the floor to learn, so when our Commissioner for Education came to the school, she wept, knowing that she is a mother, she immediately informed the governor and that same week, we were provided with dual desks” She said the media report on the vandalisation of the school infrastructure also got some concerned individuals from within and outside the country to send writing materials such as books, pencils biros and school bags to be shared among the pupils. “Others have also visited us, some of our citizens who are based in the USA also visited the school and blessed us with dual desks to assist the pupils. Others came with Stationaries like books, pencils, biros, and school bags, to share with the pupils and they were very happy.”  She said While commending the state government, through the Inter-Ministerial Direct Labour Committee for also re-roofing the vandalized buildings, Mrs Uboh however informed the state government that the seats so far provided were at risk as the vandalized doors and windows were yet to be replaced.