Minister of Federal Ministry of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, has hailed the election of Eghobamien-Mshelia as Nigeria’s representative, in the United Nations(UN) Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women(CEDAW). The Nigerian candidate, to the UN CEDAW Committee, Eghobamien-Mshelia, was elected, during the election of new members at the 22nd meeting of States parties to CEDAW, at UN Headquarters in New York, on Wednesday, June 22. In a signed statement, made available to this writer, the minister said “Eghobamien-Mshelia is one of the 12 members elected by States parties of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women to replace those whose terms of office are due to expire on 31 December 2022. The terms of members elected will commence on 1 January 2023 and expire four years later on 31 December 2026.” In an exclusive interview, with this writer, the gender activist, highlighted her agenda. “My three-fold vision on the committee is to make livelihoods and empowerment of women count in economic growth, especially in the context of the digital economy, Artificial Intelligence, Automation, Robotics and AfCFTA.” She listed the other two objectives as, “protecting women & girls from Gender-Based Violence(GBV), through digital multi-sectoral response and strengthening national women’s machinery for effective co-ordination and increased accountability.” Meanwhile, several organizations, including the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) and Hubert H Humphrey Fellowship have congratulated her for clinching victory at the election. She is a fellow of the prestigious Hubert H Humphrey Fellowship, a member of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) and the Founder of Women Arise Development Initiative (WADHI). -Advertisement- POLL Director General of ACCI, Dr Victoria Akai, on behalf of the President of the Chamber, Dr Al-Mujtaba Abubakar lauded this great achievement, saying,“Ehobamien-Mshelia will represent the chamber and the country well in this assignment.” Her educational qualifications include the following: “Fellow, Aspen Institute for Open Societies (2011) & Eisenhower MNP, USIA/EP (2003), Fellow Hubert H. Humphrey North-South USIA/ IIE (1995 – 1996), M.C Women Studies, University of Washington, Seattle, U.S.A (1996), University of Washington, Graduate School of Public Policy U.S.A (1995 – 1996) and a B. Ed (Hons) Guidance Counselling, University of Ibadan, Nigeria (1980).’ “She is the Special Assistant–Technical to Minister of Women Affairs & Social Development, Mrs Pauline Tallen and the Interim Coordinator Federal Project Management Unit, World Bank Supported Nigeria: For Women Project and FMWSD and the Core Team Leader UN Women National Technical Consultant, Women, Peace and Security, the minister added.” “She was one of the 12 members elected by States parties of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women to replace those whose terms of office are due to expire on 31 December 2022. The terms of members elected will commence on 1 January 2023 and expire four years, later on, 31 December 2026.” The full text of the statement reads:This is indeed one of the legacies of this administration in supporting Nigerian Women to occupy visible leadership positions in the International space. Therefore, my profound gratitude goes to the President of Nigeria, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, for his unwavering support of the entire process. This mandate would not have been achieved without the unflinching support of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, the Minister of State Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada and their dynamic team both at home and in the Mission in New York, for the high-level networking in delivering on this vision.