Chief Taiwo Kuye is a member of the South- West Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caretaker Committee. In this interview, he speaks on the outcome of the just concluded Ekiti State governorship election, forthcoming Osun governorship election, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s emergence as the vice-presidential candidate of the party among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: ooking at the Ekiti State governorship elections where your party came a distant third, what does that mean going into the 2023 general elections? The outcome has no implication for the 2023 general elections because virtually 90 per cent of the membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) saw the result coming. Even before the election, we knew and I knew personally that there is no PDP on the ground in the state. Yes, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducted an election in the state but PDP didn’t really participate in the election. How do you mean …? PDP was not prepared and we saw that loss coming. The handler of PDP in the state, Ayo Fayose is a two-faced man. Number two, the candidate is relatively unknown to Ekiti people, the preparations, the campaigns, the funding and everything showed that the party was not prepared. At every stage of preparations for that election, it was comatose. Was that the reason why the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and the presidential candidate did not visit the state to campaign for its candidate? That was not the reason. There was a mix-up as of Thursday last week there was a problem sorting out at the Wadata Plaza (PDP National secretariat) in relation to the picking vice presidential candidate of the party, the Broad of Trustees (BoT) was meeting and so many meetings were going on until the wee hours of the Friday to the election day. So, it was not possible for anybody to attend the grand finale of the party’s campaign in Ekiti. If we have had a strong party on the ground whether Atiku and the NWC visited or not we would have won the election. We have a state executive working committee and members of the zonal and national working committee in the state, those hands are capable of winning the state but we saw the loss coming. The loss of PDP in that election was already in the picture because the self-acclaimed god-father of Ekiti PDP, Ayo Fayose, did not even vote in the election. He was not even available on the day of the election, he didn’t vote and he was not even around. His polling unit was monitored from the beginning of the voting to the end, he was nowhere. So, the picture of losing that election was crystal clear right from the beginning. -Advertisement- POLL Sincethepartyknewthattheywouldlosethe election, what steps did they take to address the issue before the election? We know all their plans and what transpired at the special presidential convention of the party speaks volumes about Fayose. The narrative there is understandable to everybody because between Wike and Atiku during the convention. Imagine someone that bought the form for N40 million to contest for the presidency and he was the one that wrote and submitted the list of delegates from his state attending the convention but this man ended up not having any vote. Out of the 56 delegates he brought to the convention, he didn’t get even one vote. You know all these votes went somewhere. Intelligently and politically you will know this, so it is high time the party comes out with the true picture of where Fayose belongs. Oftentimes we have been saying that Fayose is an employee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and I stand to say this. What happened in the Ekiti governorship election can never happen in Lagos because in the worst scenario we will share the votes? But I wouldn’t tell you what will happen in Lagos State in 2023 because that scenario can never happen here. So, we have never had it so bad in Ekiti State in such a vital election of that magnitude. Osun State governorship election is coming up next month, how prepared is the party for the exercise? Take my word we are going to win the Osun governorship election. Osun as far as I’m concerned is a goner for the APC because we are prepared. A lot of things have been injected into the state chapter and we are more than prepared. Every faction has closed ranks in the state because Babayemi is seriously working for Adeleke, our candidate. For instance, over 2,000 members of the party wanted to decamp to APC about three weeks ago, it was this man that called them back. He told them to stay back and win the election first before continuing with their rift. So, there is focus in Osun and all hands are now on duck because everybody has come together to close ranks, so definitely, it is a win-win for PDP in Osun State. There are concerns that the performance of the PDP in some of these off-season elections might affect the party’s chances in 2023? No, the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections are staggered elections and when you look at staggered elections people put more energy unlike when we have general elections. So, more energies are being injected into staggered elections, like in Osun, our energy surpasses that of the APC and we are going to win. I have told you repeatedly that as far as the Ekiti State governorship election is concerned, it is an empty state for PDP. So, for me, following results on social media was a waste of time because I saw it coming. The general mismanagement of the affairs of the country by the APC government is going to affect that election. In Ekiti, APC made available money, vote-buying was on the spree and there was no challenge. Did you hear of any crisis in Ekiti? No, it was not contested but let APC try such in Osun State, it will not happen. It is going to be anything for anything and I promise you that PDP is going to win that election. But the party would have won the election if they had given Segun Oni the governorship ticket? Please add Segun Oni’s figure with that of the PDP and see whether it is up to the figure scored by the APC. So, everything put together APC would have still won because we were not prepared. It has never happened in any election in Ekiti State that PDP would come a distant third. They sold out. Who sold out? The master minder of that action sold out and I repeat, Ayo Fayose did not vote in that election. He wasn’t even available to talk, let alone vote. Your party has announced Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as the vice-presidential, what is your assessment of the Atiku and Okowa ticket? It is the best for us. I don’t want to talk about Nyesom Wike because he is my friend and a real party man. When you want to talk about a political juggernaut and a real party man, talk about Nyesom Wike. The choice of Okowa is a family and internal affair and every issue arising from that selection would be settled at the appropriate time. The majority of you know that Atiku won the presidential elections in 2019 and the mandate vote was stolen but that would not happen again in 2023. Look at the time of releasing results in Ekiti unlike before when six to seven days after we would be waiting for results from some states. But that one is not going to happen again because the process of voting, calculating results and transmitting immediately has made everything easy. This new process saves INEC the political challenges they have been experiencing in the past elections. So, just vote, calculate and send your results. Okowa is the best for us and if I go further I would be exposing our strategy for the election but simply note that the pair is the best for PDP. What about Wike? On the issue of Wike, normally, if you are the one you would be aggrieved and I told you earlier that it is a family affair. Wike is aggrieved but I know he would be the last person to leave PDP. Even if you cut his neck, he is going to be the last person to leave PDP. And it is also untrue that Okowa paid Ayu to get the slot because only Ayu cannot make him vice presidential candidate. How are you sure that PDP would win South- East and South-South considering the rising profile of Peter Obi and the Labour Party? If I start my analysis of Peter Obi we will not leave this place because even in the region he comes from he cannot get 25 per cent of votes cast from the whole of the east talk more of winning the north and other parts of the south. Peter Obi is a player so if let him continue with the ball at the appropriate time he would quit the field.