The Chairperson of Nigeria Institute of Food Science and Technology (NIFST), Western Chapter, Dr Ganiyat Olayinka Olatunde, has said the challenges faced by the food processing industry include inadequate infrastructure, inadequate access to finance, raw materials and lack of proper storage facilities. Olatunde stated this during the opening of the NIFST 8th regional food science and technology summit themed “Processing and preservation: A panacea to food security and wealth creation in 21st century” held at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. The summit was attended by Professor Abiodun Olapade, Barrister Adepeju Jaiyeoba, Professor Folake Olayinka Henshaw and Mogaji Akin Fagbemi among others. Olatunde, in her remarks, said the challenges faced by the food processing and development industry include inadequate infrastructure, inadequate access to finance, raw materials and lack of proper storage facilities. She said that the conference was organised to address these challenges and preferred solutions to surmount the challenges. She further stated that NIFST was trying to draw a lot of initiatives in order to meet the farmers and other stakeholders so as to address the issue of food security in Nigeria while assuring Nigerians that they would see the positive effects of their initiatives. The Vice-Chancellor of the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Professor Maduebibisi Iwe while speaking, advised governments at all levels to provide incentives for the food processing industry. Iwe who doubled as President of the Nigeria Institute of Food Science and Technology (NIFST), noted that this is necessary in order to avert hunger and ensure food security in the country. POLL Iwe who was represented by the Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Ilorin, Professor Ramat Olayinka, insisted that the federal and state governments should invest in the food processing industry in order to tackle hunger in the country. He said that the food processing industry has a crucial role to play in the development of Nigeria’s economy and it needed to be integrated into the country’s strategy for inclusive growth. He said that governments must provide incentives and create enabling environment that would encourage investments in infrastructure, research, innovation and technology upgrades. “Government should provide incentives for developing the industry and create awareness about the importance of processed foods. “We can only hope to see the sector multiply and contribute to our economic development if governments contribute their quota to the sector”. Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Professor Kayode Adebowale who was represented by Professor Olatunji Oyesile, called on NIFST to address acceptability challenges facing Nigeria’s local processed foods in the international communities. Adebowale said most Nigerian processed food don’t pass international standard, adding that most Nigerian processed food got spoiled before getting into other International countries of the world. -Advertisement- He said urgent steps must be taken by all stakeholders in the sector to address the challenges facing the processing industry sector. In his keynote address, Mrs Adepeju Jaiyeoba, who described the food as a centre for human existence that could not be avoided, said Nigeria needed to develop locally made nutritional food for children and stop being over-dependent on foreign foods that are so expensive. Other speakers at the occasion include Prof Abiodun Olapade, Professor Folake Hanshaw and Mogaji Akin Fagbemi. The highlight of the occasion was the representation of the award and the cutting of the founder’s cake.