LAGOS – With measles as one of the leading causes of death  children and six major childhood killer diseases,  the United Nations Children’s fund(UNICEF) has urged for support in to prevent noncompliance in schools, communities, place of worship through accurate reporting on media platforms ahead of the three-week measles vaccination campaign  which begins Friday,  June 17 in Lagos. Speaking at the Lagos state  Media stakeholders Engagement for integrated MVC Campaign, Dr. Aminah Yahaya, SBCC, UNICEF, said the campaign would  be staggered in two phases noting that the first segment  will take place in ten Local Government Area (LGAs), including, Agege, Ajeromi, Alimosho,Amuwo- Odofin,Badagry,Ibeju-Lekki,Ikorodu,Lagos- Island and Surulere. Yahaya said the Phase two in the following LGAs, including,  Ifako-jaiye,Apapa,Ikeja,Oshodi-Isolo,Ojo,Epe,Kosofe,Shomolu,Etinosa and Mushin. The UNICEF officer lamented the drop in child immunization worldwide, noting that  though the vaccine is safe and cost-effective, in 2018, there were more than 140 000 measles deaths globally, mostly among children under the age of five. However, she noted that measles vaccination resulted in a 73 percent  drop in measles deaths between 2000 and 2018 worldwide. Further disaggregating advantages of improved immunisation response, Yahaya said, “In 2018, about 86 percent of the world’s children received one dose of measles vaccine by their first birthday through routine health services – up from 72 percent  in 2000. “During 2000- 2018, measles vaccination prevented an estimated 23.2 million deaths making measles vaccine one of the best buys in public health. Vaccines are very effective ,safe  in preventing Measles  and can give a child life long immunity,” the UNICEF Officer  stressed. In a related development, Dr. Ibrahim Mustafa, Permanent Secretary,   Lagos state Primary Health Care Board (PHCB) said his agency is collaborating with support of developmental partners to conduct the state wide vaccination campaign. Mustafa, who disclosed this in a press statement, said measles is a highly contagious viral disease and it remains an important cause of death among young children globally. POLL However, measles undoubtedly is one of the diseases that can be prevented through vaccination, Mustafa added. To this effect, the permanent secretary said the campaign has been scheduled to take place from Friday, June 17, 2022 for three weeks, adding that children from nine months to five years are eligible for the measles vaccine, regardless of their previous immunization status. Mustafa said the measles vaccine will be given at health centres, hospitals, schools, mosques, churches, markets and other designated posts in the community. “In addition to this, vitamin A supplements will be administered to all children age six months to five years to prevent blindness and to boost the immunity of the child. Also, adults 18 years and above will have opportunity for COVID 19 vaccination during the exercise,” he added. What Is Measles The measles virus causes measles disease. Man is the only reservoir of the measles virus. Measles is common in early childhood, so that over 90 percent of people were infected by 5 years of age before the inclusion of the vaccination in routine immunizations and campaigns. Yahaya said, “Measles virus can live for up to two hours in airspace after an infected person leaves an area. Infected people can spread measles to others from four days before through four days after the rash appears. -Advertisement- “The first sign of measles is usually a high fever, which begins about 10 to 12 days after exposure to the virus, and lasts four to seven days. A runny nose, a cough, red and watery eyes, and small white spots inside the cheeks can develop in the initial stage. After several days, a rash erupts, usually on the face and upper neck. Over about three days, the rash spreads, eventually reaching the hands and feet. The rash lasts for five to six days, and then fades. On average, the rash occurs 14 days after exposure to the virus (within a range of seven to 18 days).” She noted, “There is no specific treatment for measles. Those that recover from the disease run the risk of developing its complications: blindness, encephalitis, severe diarrhea, ear infection and pneumonia.  Measles can be prevented by vaccinating our children against the disease during routine immunisation and mass campaigns “Measles vaccine is administered to children at the age of nine months( first dose) and the second dose from 15 to 23 months of age  in the health facility during routine immunisation “One dose of the vaccine is approximately 85 percent effective at preventing measles; two doses are approximately 97 percent effective. The vaccine is effective, safe and free.  It is an injectable vaccine , given  on the left upper arm,” the UNICEF Officer  added. Yahaya further  said, “Measles is caused by a virus and spread through air droplets ( cough and sneezing)and by direct contact with nasal or throat secretions of infected persons.  Transmission is favored in densely populated areas and poorly ventilated environments. Other modes of transmission are through sharing eating utensils, kissing and towels can spread the virus.”