How many citizens remem­bered that 29th May was supposed to be a major an­niversary? It was on May 29, 2015 – seven years ago – that Gen. Mu­hammadu Buhari became Nigeria’s President. Also, this Fourth Republic incepted on May 29, 1999, when Nige­ria’s last military rule interval which began on January 1st, 1984 came to a frantic end. Frantic? Yes, the military by then, having thoroughgoingly dis­graced itself, was forced back into the barracks as Nigerians agitated against military jackboot despotism and cam­paigned for democracy’s return. And Nigeria had a party. Hope was renewed. Many of the state governors were young and the smiles on their fac­es hinted of the goodies to come. The President in that promising era, Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, was no neophyte. He had not only been a military Head of State (1976-1979) he had been almost so superlative in office then, providing leadership to the African continent, standing up to the West in Africa’s fight against the accursed apartheid system in South Africa, that Nigerian university students tagged him “Uncle Sege”. He had an additional qualifica­tion for that high office; he had been unjustly jailed by the despotic Abacha. So, on Abacha’s death in June 1988, Gens Abdulsalami Abubakar, Ibrahim Babangida, T Y Danjuma and Aliyu Gusau schemed for him to become President, a position that could with­out question have gone to the late Dr. Alex-Ekwueme, who was Vice-Presi­dent in the 1979-1993 Second Republic. That was a great mistake; it made our democracy a sham that continues till today as it enthroned godfather­ism and denied the political parties the all-important internal democracy. Looking back, Ekwueme would have made a better President than Obasanjo who behaved like a bull in a china shop, as he devastated anyone whose opin­ion didn’t mirror his. -Advertisement- It was as though Obasanjo was do­ing Nigeria a favour by accepting to be president for a second time. His ego towered higher than Mount Everest even as his achievements sank deeper than the Rift Valley. It was clear by the turn of the millennium that “the most pressing moral, political and economic issue of our time is third-world poverty”, as the Economist of London wrote then. By that time, the UN had been blaring about the Millenium Develop­ment Goals. The MDGs were aimed at cutting the number of those that lived in abject poverty – which is on income of less than $1.90 per day, by half. The MDGs also had other areas such as education, housing, health, water provision that it tried to train world attention on. As poverty is our focus today, we should forget about the other sectors. By the turn of the millennium, near­ly 1.7 billion unfortunates were in the poorest of the poor category, and a clear one billion of them lived in just two Asian countries; China and India. Today, general despair (as opposed to optimism) reigns in Nigeria while unbounded optimism pulsates in both China and India. For instance, in 2021, a proud China announced that it has eradicated extreme poverty. In 2018 the number of people suffering from extreme poverty in India reached a new low and the world applauded that magical achievement. But what about Nigeria? Under the President Buhari administration, Nigeria over­took India in poverty as over 90million Nigerians fell beneath the poverty line. And with that Nigeria became the poverty capital of the world. And this happened during an administration which had promised to take Nigeria to “The Next Level” So, 29th May should have made Nigerians reflective as it marked the inception of Buhari’s presidency. And the man has presided over a period of dashed hopes. POLL Yet, little introspection is taking place. There is the quiet of the grave-yard everywhere. All those super-crit­ics of the Dr. Goodluck Jonathan era have grown deaf and dumb. All those clerics, lawyers, NGO-types who took to the streets to protest against the pet­rol pump price and the fuel’s scarcity when Jonathan was President have gone lame, blind, dumb and deaf. All those columnists who ridiculed the PDP have seemingly ceased being concerned patriots. And are all those who picked up arms against Chief James Onanefe Ibori, claiming there were fighting against corruption still alive? They and their shrieks have pe­tered out. Did they actually rave and rage against corruption or they were just hired hands which formed Save Nigeria, Respect Nigeria, and the likes? And I same shame to them all. They were noting but pretenders. The time to rave against corruption has finally arrived but they are playing dead. How bad is the Nigerian economy under President Buhari? Here is the answer: in September 2021 a new fact emerged: Nigeria maintained an infa­mous position as the poverty capital of the world, with 93.9 people living below thepovertyline. TheManagingDirector, Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited, who is above all else a mem­berof PresidentMuhammaduBuhari’s EconomicAdvisory Council(EAC), Mr. Bismarck Rewane, quoting a World Bank data, said in a presentation at the monthly Lagos Business School’s Eco­nomicBreakfastmeetingfor September 2021, that “seven million Nigerians fell into extreme poverty in 2020”. Nigeria first earned that dubious first in 2018 when a Brookings Institute report declared her the world’s poverty capital as Nigeria overtook India. The report made it as stark as possible, as though it was written to rouse the Bu­hari administration from sleep, stat­ing that six Nigerians fall into extreme poverty every minute. The Brookings Institution’s 2018 re­port had said: “At the end of May 2018, our trajectories suggest that Nigeria had about 87 million people in extreme poverty, compared with India’s 73 mil­lion. What is more, extreme poverty in Nigeria is growing by six people every minute, while poverty in India continues to fall.” Yes, while the level of poverty among India’s 1.38 billion citizens is falling, it is rising in Nige­ria with some 200 million. So, who is to blame if not the government? With this perilous state of affairs in the country, why have we not witnessed holyangerandastoutdeterminationto change things – as the two leading polit­ical parties are choosing their presiden­tial candidates? It appears that Nigeria has fallen into a most dangerous state; thatof hopelessness; thestiffesttragedy that could befall a people because when hope is gone, all is lost. Yet, how would anyone begin to explain what Nigerians experienced under the burden called the Buhari administration? This time, the discus­sion should not be left to the traducers. We should all engage in it and tell our­selves the very truth – truth about how our hopes were dastardly dashed and Nigeria was suffocated. We have come to the end of living and are merely sur­viving – without electricity, pipe-borne water, employment opportunities, se­curity, effective and affordable educa­tional system. The Kaduna state Governor, Na­sir el-Rufai who criticised President Yar’Adua endlessly, allegedly once wrote a memo to President Buhari and it was later leaked to the public. Even newspaper vendors made photocop­ies of it for sale. If that memo titled the “IMMEDIATE AND MEDIUM-TERM IMPERATIVES FOR PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU BUHARI -SEP­TEMBER 22, 2016 mirrored el-Rufai’s own, then he has redeemed himself. The version that sold publicly was recaptioned: “YOU HAVE FAILED”. He wrote: “However, we cannot, after more than a year in office, continue to rely only on this ‘blame them’ expla­nation”. (For them, please read PDP!) He continued: “Mr. President, Sir, in every crisis there lies an opportunity for fundamental change. The current crisis of reduced oil production, unit prices and earnings, which has led to the deterioration of the exchange rate, escalation of levels of debt and inter­est rates, reduced levels of industrial production and employment consti­tutes an opportunity for our nation to change decades of bad habits and wrong direction in our political econ­omy and governance”. That was written in 2016 and since then the economy has grown worse, the Naira value has plummeted fur­ther, the number of the absolute poor has increased, the level of electricity supply has reduced, the price of pet­rol, diesel, rice, yam, bottle of ground nut, sachet water, a loaf of bread, any measure of gari – cost of everything bought and sold in Nigeria- soared and Nigeria has piled up further debts. Not even the much-advertised rice pyramid showcasedonNationalTVasasuperla­tive achievement has had an impact on the price of rice, which has more than doubled since Buhari became Pres­ident. And local rice production has beenspecialtothisadministration. Not only did APC fail to solve any of the old problems, it brought in newer and dir­er ones. Nigeria’s problems worsened even when crude petrol price increased in the world market – because Nigeria has refused to refine petrol locally. And Nigeria’s President was an oil minister as far back as 1976. And he holds that same portfolio even now. It could be argued that the Aso Rock Cabal never allowed Buhari to see the genuine el-Rufai’s memo and may never have even heard that a version of it whether real or faked could have been vended on Abuja streets. Yet, he must have read a book John N. Paden wrote; MUHAMMADU BUHARI: THE CHALLENGES OF LEADER­SHIP IN NIGERIA. Page 104 of the 2016 book has this: “The Buhari adminis­tration was confronted with a formi­dable array of interrelated problems. The inflow of foreign currency was ex­tremely meagre owing to the low price of crude oil” and alleged depletion by the preceding administration (head­ed by Dr. Goodluck Jonathan who is being courted by some APC bigwigs to attempt to return to the presidency on APC ticket. It is difficult to beat that joke). “Debts were piling and coming due and had not been reported previ­ously. And fuel subsidies were eating a big piece of the national budget”. Unfortunately, Buhari did not solve any of the economic problems his bi­ographer had identified in the opening yeas of his administration. Is it the Nai­ra-Dollar exchangerate? Theamountof debtunderwhichNigeriasquirmedun­der PDP has more than doubled under Buhari and the borrowing binge contin­ues unchecked. So, too, the fuel subsidy which now “eats” the biggest piece of the national cake under the presidency of a past and present oil minister. No wonder the unbounded opti­mism and fierce ambition in the Ni­geria of 1999 has today turned into today’s dashed hopes, rotten bureau­cracies, profound economic problems, unmitigated and galloping poverty, widespread hardship and the absence of safety nets – spreading despair, yes despair – as Buhari has presided over a period of a total slowdown. Our leaders appear to be just waiting for the Naira-Dollar exchange rate to hit N1,000 to US$1 and beyond. This fail­ure has surpassed the failings of all the preceding administrations – in­cluding Buhari’s stint as Military Head of State. Surpassing failure? Yes, that phrase should be reserved for this ad­ministration as it could be the ineptest government in global history.