As part of its effort to address the ills and menaces children are faced with in society, Smile and Shine Children’s Foundation held a one-day forum for the young ones in Lagos. The event which was part of the organisers’ activities to mark this year’s Children Day also aimed to seek ways in which children can navigate such challenges and emerge successful in their life endeavours. Speaking at the forum which came under the theme,” creating a better future for Nigerian child” and which targeted at children between the ages of 10 and 18,  the wife of Lagos State Governor, Dr. (Mrs) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu who was represented by the wife of the Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Lagos State, Mrs. Edith Egube commended Dr. Nimi Ekere, the Founder of Smile and Shine Children’s Foundation and convener of the event, emphasising that she as well as the  State Government were proud of her efforts in ensuring that children are safe from all forms of abuse, especially child sexual abuse. A seasoned and distinguished educationist and principal of the British international school, Lagos, Kelvin Donnelly who also spoke at the event, talked about safeguarding and child protection in schools. -Advertisement- The guest speakers at the occasion were Pastor Laurie Idahosa represented by Pastor Toyin Ubamadu, Dr. Oluwajimi Sodipo, Barr. Temi Okeowo and a host of other notable speakers. The event had the guest speakers talk to the children on important issues like moral values and etiquettes, mindset re-orientation, character building and improvement, purpose discovery, safeguarding and child protection, cybersafety and security. There was a variety of activities like drama, poetry, music and dance by various schools. There was a question and answer session where children asked questions and also gave their opinions about how they felt things could be done differently in society. Speaking earlier, the founder of Smile and Shine Children’s Foundation,  Nimi Ekere said that the event would go a long way in educating participants on how to achieve all-round success in life.