Chelsea’s new owner Todd Boehly is hoping to make a big splash to kick-start the post-Roman Abramovich era at Stamford Bridge. The American was the head of the consortium which purchased the Premier League giants from the Russian oligarch in a deal worth £4.25billion. He has since gone about radically overhauling the club’s structure behind the scenes with Bruce Buck, Marina Granovskaia and Petr Cech all departing. Boehly himself will now lead the transfer operation in lieu of a permanent sporting director and is hoping to flex his muscles during the summer window. Thomas Tuchel is also eagerly awaiting new arrivals coming off the back of a largely underwhelming first full season in the dugout. The Blues did manage to reach two cup finals, but lost to Liverpool in both and were a distant third behind Jurgen Klopp’s men and champions Manchester City. It promises to be a vastly different looking line-up already with Romelu Lukaku returning to Inter on loan and a host of attacking talent touted to come the other way. Raheem Sterling is said to be Chelsea ’s top target, with optimism that a deal will be completed for the England star. While Leeds United’s Raphinha has also been subject of a bid and could join Sterling in west London. And that new-look attack could yet be spearheaded by none other than Paris Saint-Germain superstar, according to reports in Spain. SPORT report that Chelsea have shortlisted the Brazilian forward, with his future at the Parc des Princes uncertain. His current contract with the French champions runs until 2025, although it is due to be extended on July 1 when a clause in his deal is triggered. However, when asked to assure fans that the 30-year-old would stay, president Nasser Al-Khelaifi refused to do so. Tuchel has recent history with Neymar having managed him to two league titles and the Champions League final during his time with PSG. It wasn’t always plain sailing for the pair however, with their relationship undergoing some turbulence when he attempted to leave the club in 2019. -Advertisement- POLL That led to a notable backlash from his own fans and Tuchel refused to condemn supporters for booing him, but did say his character was different than it is often perceived – even if it is difficult to see sometimes. “They’re proud of their club and it’s not so nice when you hear your player talking for weeks and weeks saying he wants to leave,” he told the Guardian. “As I told Neymar, sometimes it’s like this in life – you have to face the truth and deal with the consequences.” Tuchel added: “Neymar has a good heart. Sometimes it’s a bit hard to see that he is a nice person when you only watch him play from outside. But he is, he’s a nice guy. “I told him: ‘You think the hardest part is over but from now on you have to deal with me and I’m going to push you hard. So the hardest thing is still to come for you.’” Neymar has also had some kind words for the German boss, revealing that through their mutual respect, a friendship between player and manager was built. “It’s a friendship but, at the same time, a huge mutual respect. I respect him as a coach but when we need to talk, we talk,” Neymar said. “I’ve developed a great affection towards him since the first time we spoke. When you have this great affection for your coach, you give your life on the pitch. For him I will do my best to win.”