LAGOS  – Nigeria must wean itself off dependence on imports, Analysts have advised. To sustain the 137.9% y/y rise in Nigeria’s exports to N7.1trillion in Q1:2022 on account of a 134.1% y/y upsurge in the volume of exports compared to the 3.8% y/y increase in price level, the nation’s leaders, they said should not allow the economy to be vulnerable in excessively depending on others They implored the Federal Government to fast track the implementation of policies to diversify its export potentials, mostly the huge stock of natural and agro resources, warning that the surge in exports volume to the roll out of export-stimulating interventions such as the 100-for-100 policy by the CBN, and on the other hand, the relative in the Euro area, the S&P Global Composite PMI for the Eurozone declined to 51.9 points in June 2022 (May: 54.8 points) – the lowest reading since January 2021. They advocated increase in the commodity price indices ,export and import, must be sustained, adding that the ongoing Russia Ukraine crisis which has caused commodity prices to rise to historic highs (Crude oil, Nigeria’s largest export by value saw its average price rise by c.38.9% in Q1:2022 to $107.3/bbl. – the highest since 2008. They also emphasised the need for more robust and comprehensive expansionary fiscal and monetary policy packages to expeditiously reflate the economy, adding that the export price index in March 2022 was driven by an increase in the prices of boilers, machinery, and appliances (+2.3% y/y); stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica, ceramic (+2.3% y/y); and mineral products (+1.6% y/y). They told Daily Independent that the Federal Government should address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities, reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate, reduce volatility and stimulate foreign exchange inflows to curb the current inflationary pressure in the country. Nigeria recorded a trade surplus of N1.2tn in Q1:2022 following a faster growth in exports value (137.9% y/y) to N7.1tn relative to imports that grew 21.0% y/y in the same period. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), recently published Nigeria’s commodity terms of trade (ToT) index for Q1:2022, which helps to provide additional insight to Nigeria’s trade performance. -Advertisement- POLL The ToT index, a ratio of export prices to import prices, rose 1.6% y/y in Q1:2022 to an average of 103.2 points. On a q/q basis, the index grew by 1.0% compared to a decline of 0.3% in Q4:2021. The improvement in the ToT index was driven by a 3.7% y/y increase in export prices to an average of 110.9 points compared to import prices, which rose 2.0% y/y to 107.5 points. The 137.9% y/y rise in Nigeria’s exports to N7.1tn in Q1:2022 was on account of a 134.1% y/y upsurge in the volume of exports compared to the 3.8% y/y increase in price level. Import volume on the other hand was estimated to have increased by 19.1% y/y against the 1.9% y/y increase in average prices. The surge in exports volume to the roll out of export-stimulating interventions such as the 100-for-100 policy by the CBN, and on the other hand, the relative in the Euro area, the S&P Global Composite PMI for the Eurozone declined to 51.9 points in June 2022 (May: 54.8 points) – the lowest reading since January 2021. This was driven by a decline in new orders for goods and services, the first time since post- 2020 lockdown. Meanwhile, the UK consumer confidence weakened to -41.0ppt in June from -40.0ppt in May. Besides, the outcome of some economic data release from the US (consumer confidence, GDP) and the UK (GDP) would impact market performance attractive prices of Nigeria’s export due to currency depreciation. Dr Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer of the Centre For Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in a chat with Daily Independent on Nigeria’s Q1:2022 positive net exports boost performance, attributed the increase in the commodity price indices, export and import, largely to the ongoing Russia Ukraine crisis which has caused commodity prices to rise to historic highs (Crude oil, Nigeria’s largest export. He noted that while the non-oil segment’s performance gives some credence to Federal Government’s diversification efforts, a delve into the three broad components showed that divergence lingers. On the current inflation rate, he said that rising inflation in Nigeria has resulted in the escalation of production and operating costs for businesses, leading to erosion of profit margins, drop in sales, decline in turnover and weak manufacturing capacity utilisation, high food prices which impacts adversely on citizens welfare and aggravates poverty. He said that it has also led to weak purchasing power in the hands of Nigerians which has implications for aggregate demand and price volatility which undermines investors’ confidence. Yusuf said the drivers of inflation in Nigeria are exchange rate depreciation which has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index; liquidity challenges in the forex market affecting access to manufacturing and other inputs; security concerns disrupting agricultural activities; climate change effects on agricultural production; structural constraints affecting productivity in the agricultural value chain; high transportation costs affecting distribution costs across the country. “This is also reflected in the huge differential between farm gate prices and market prices”, he said. Others, according, to him include high and increasing energy cost; monetisation of fiscal deficit, CBN financing of deficit, is highly inflationary because of the liquidity injection effects on the economy; high transactions costs at the nations ports increases production and operating costs of businesses; high import duty on intermediate goods and raw materials; aggressive revenue drive by government agencies, taking a toll on cost of production. He said: “To curb the current inflationary pressure, government need to fix the following: address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities. reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate, reduce volatility and stimulate forex inflows; address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures; address the challenge of high transportation and logistics cost; reduce fiscal deficit monetisation to minimise incidence of high-powered money in the economy; manage climate change consequences to reduce flooding and desertification”. An Executive Director of a new generation commercial bank, who craves anonymity, in chats with our correspondent, said the 137.9% y/y rise in Nigeria’s exports to N7.1tn in Q1:2022 was on account of a 134.1% y/y upsurge in the volume of exports compared to the 3.8% y/y increase in price level. He advised that government should ensure the restoration of normalcy and good order at the nations ports to reduce transaction costs; reduce import duty on intermediate products and raw materials for industries to reduce production costs, especially in the light of the sharp depreciation in the exchange rate; address concerns around high energy cost and create an investment friendly tax environment. Friday Udoh, Director of Emerging Knowledge, Policy and Partnership, Institute of Professional Economists and Public Policy Management, implored the Federal Government initiate reform policies that would solve structural constraints affecting productivity in the agricultural value chain Oyinkan Olasanoye, the National President, Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and other Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), told our correspondent that the drivers of inflation in Nigeria are exchange rate depreciation which has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index; liquidity challenges in the forex market affecting access to manufacturing and other inputs; security concerns disrupting agricultural activities; climate change effects on agricultural production; structural constraints affecting productivity in the agricultural value chain; high transportation costs affecting distribution costs across the country, which the fiscal and monetary authorities must put into consideration in planning She said: “Nigeria’s production networks will play a critical role in producing and distributing the goods and services that would reshape the economy when government policies addresses the challenges affecting the non-oil sectors of the economy” Afrinvest analysts on their weekly report on Nigeria’sQ1:2022 Terms of Trade Index Report: Positive Net Exports Boost Performance, said: “We attribute the increase in the commodity price indices (export and import) largely to the ongoing Russia Ukraine crisis which has caused commodity prices to rise to historic highs (Crude oil, Nigeria’s largest export by value saw its average price rise by c.38.9% in Q1:2022 to $107.3/bbl. – the highest since 2008). “Focusing on trade performance earlier reported, from the change in the export price index, we estimate that the 137.9% y/y rise in Nigeria’s exports to N7.1tn in Q1:2022 was on account of a 134.1% y/y upsurge in the volume of exports compared to the 3.8% y/y increase in price level. “Import volume on the other hand was estimated to have increased by 19.1% y/y against the 1.9% y/y increase in average prices. They specifically said: “In part, we linked the surge in exports volume to the roll out of export-stimulating interventions such as the 100-for-100 policy by the CBN, and on the other hand, the relative in the Euro area, the S&P Global Composite PMI for the Eurozone declined to 51.9 points in June 2022 (May: 54.8 points) – the lowest reading since January 2021. “This was driven by a decline in new orders for goods and services, the first time since post- 2020 lockdown. Meanwhile, the UK consumer confidence weakened to -41.0ppt in June from -40.0ppt in May”. “The disconnect could be linked to the sensitivity of export demand to prices. For instance, In Q1:2021, while the ToT index rose by an average of 1.3% q/q due to higher export prices over import prices, the quantity of exports declined 8.2% q/q. This reflects deterioration in competitiveness of Nigeria’s exports. “Going forward, as commodity prices remain elevated in the global market, we estimate that Nigeria’s trade surplus could amount to N0.7tn in Q2:2022 (Q1:2022 – N1.2tn) with a 5.1% and 15.1% q/q growth in exports and imports respectively to N7.5tn and N6.8tn. However, this gain may not impact Nigeria’s foreign reserves position, mainly due to net outflows in services and investments transactions with the rest of the world”.