James Milner has signed a one-year contract extension to stay at Liverpool until the end of next season. The 36-year-old’s deal was due to expire this month and he has accepted a significant pay cut to remain with the club he joined from Manchester City in 2015. Milner is understood to have had offers from at least one other Premier League club and from two teams abroad. Jürgen Klopp was keen to retain a player who made 39 appearances in the 2021-22 season, 25 as a substitute. Liverpool’s contract proposal was made in February and Milner chose to wait until the end of the season to confirm he would stay. -Advertisement- “I have never taken playing for this club for granted and I never will,” said Milner. “An overriding feeling for me – and a vitally important one in the process – was the belief I can still contribute to the team. The gaffer was clear what he thought and that was a big factor in me extending my contract. As long as I can still play my part, that’s not something easy to walk away from. “Last season was extraordinary, even though it didn’t have the ending we hoped it would, but I think that will only make us all even hungrier for more success, to be honest. I felt that after the parade and that played a part in my decision-making also. It’s a unique club. Now this is signed, I’m already looking forward to getting back with everyone, refocusing and going again. It’s a brilliant dressing room to be part of.” Klopp’s regard for Milner, who has played in midfield and at right-back, was apparent after Liverpool’s victory at Newcastle on 30th April, which the former England international started. “It’s difficult to be fitter than Milly,” the manager said. “He’s a role model. I have told him, I can tell the whole world – nothing we have achieved in the last few years would have happened without James Milner, it’s as easy as that. Whether he was on the pitch or not, he’s set standards in a way not a lot of people can set standards, and it educated all of us.” Bayern Munich will continue talks with Liverpool in the coming days in the hope of reaching an agreement to sign Sadio Mané. The forward wants to leave and personal terms with the Bundesliga champions would not be an issue but Liverpool are reluctant to sell unless they receive a substantial offer for the 30-year-old, who has one year on his contract. Klopp would ideally also want a replacement lined up first.