…May Inaugurate Refuse collection Centres In Facility ABUJA – The Federal Ministry of Environment in collaboration with European Union and other development Agencies on Saturday carried out cleaning exercise at the popular Jabi Lake, in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. Mohammed Abdullahi, the Minister of Environment, who spoke shortly before the commencement of the exercise, said the event tagged: Sensitization Campaign Walk and Clean Up Exercise was meant to ensure a sustainable biodiversity, as part of activities to mark 2022 World Environment Day. -Advertisement- Represented by the Director, Planning, Research and Statistics, Malam Stanley Jonah, the Minister recalled that the World Environment Day was instituted in 1972 in Sweden to ensure that the world is made a better place for all. According to him, the whole essence is to ensure that measures, issues, and frameworks are put in place to ensure that menace of the environment are effectively combated. He noted that biodiversity loss, and pollution are key to the exercise, stressing that Jabi Lake was particularly chosen because of the environment pollution that is taking place there. “I was discussing with EU ambassador a while ago, and we discovered that there is no refuse collection centres in this Lake. This runs contrary to the spirit of World Environment Day. So I want to use this medium to call on us all, especially the development partners, we can run this partnership with the ministry, to ensure that in this arena we have strategic collection points for refuse instead of dumping them at the Lake there” he said. Also speaking during the event, Samuela Isopi, the EU Ambassador to Nigeria and Economic Community of West African States, said the decision to clean up the Lake was to demonstrate that action and example were more important than words. POLL “We decided together that action and example was more important than words, and that is why we decided together to organize this symbolic day of action, the cleaning day” she said. Isopi noted that Jabi Lake was chosen because of its challenges in terms of environmental protection and also because it is one of the most vibrant places in the city. The exercise saw all participants picking refuse materials scattered across the length and breadth of the Lake were people come to exercise and unwind especially weekends in the nation’s capital. Cleaners were also seen on canoes picking rubber and plastic materials from the body of water in the Lake.