***Says Atiku will stop APC’s Maladministration The Peoples’ Democratic Party(PDP) Women Leader  in Ekiti State, Hon Sade Akinrinmola (alias Sade Gboyin) has commended the spirit of sportsmanship exhibited by the  runner up in the party’s  presidential  primaries and Rivers  State governor Nyesome Wike. The PDP chieftain  expressed optimism that the emergence of former Vice  President, Alhaji Atiku  Abubakar as the party’s Flagbearer  would restore the dwindling  hope of the Nigerians to hood governance. -Advertisement- Akinrinmade disclosed this  at a  mobilisation programme held in Ado Ekiti, on Saturday, to rally  support for the governorship candidate of the PDP in the June 18 Ekiti poll, Hon. Bisi Kolawole. Atiku, had last week polled a total of 371 votes to defeat his close rival, Wike who scored 237, while Fayose was also a presidential aspirant in the keenly contested primary. She posited that  the PDP is now in good stead to reclaim the country from the ruling All Progressives Congress, with Wike and Fayose, whom she described as having electrifying popularity across the country expressing readiness to work with Atiku. “His Excellencies, Nyesom Wike and Ayodele Fayose, had demonstrated that they are good leaders. They have shown that political contest is not a do-or-die affair. “Now that the party is forging a common unity for the presidential candidacy of Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, it is certain that victory is sure for the party in the coming poll, because the APC has disappointed Nigerians. POLL “The former Vice President is a known figure in Nigeria and being supported by heavyweights like Governors Wike and Fayose and other party topnotches will boost his chances of reclaiming Nigeria from a non-performing party like APC”. On the June 18 Ekiti poll, Akinrinmola, said the victory of PDP is certain, predicating this on the fact that that the ruling party has failed the populace. Akinrinmola noted that the PDP candidate,  had garnered enough experiences as a former Assembly member and ex-commissioner that superintended over Environment Ministry. “With these intimidating credentials, Bisi Kolawole can’t be an inexperienced Governor that will find it difficult to meet the yearnings of the Ekiti populace”, she stated.