This is a special review: it is coming years after I scrupu­lously studied Power, Politics & Death: A front-row account of Nigeria under the late President Yar’Adua, written by Olusegun Ad­eniyi. I couldn’t do the review at the time but made some notes, which have now assisted my memory. The fact that I devoted my time to study Power, Politics and Death shows that I have a good opinion of the work. Besides, its subject is of enormous in­terest because of its historical place in the annals of Nigeria. It is my impression that Umaru Musa Yar’Adua could be the best among Nigerian presidents. Unfortu­nately, Yar’Adua may not occupy more than a footnote when the history of the country is written because of his decision to cling on to power in spite of his deteriorating health. In the same vein, his achievements may end up as mere symbols rather than enduring legacies for generations. -Advertisement- Today, President Yar’Adua’s name only evokes memories of the power intrigues and unconstitutionalities that characterized his last months in office rather than his being a stickler for the rule of law, transparency and accountability. A mere footnote, few lines, a leaf, pages or chapter, Adeniyi’s book has offered a challenge that writers of such Nigerian history cannot com­pletely ignore on the place of Presi­dent Umaru Yar’Adua in the political and socio-economic development of the country. Yar’Adua declared his assets pub­licly. “As president, he lived a Spartan lifestyle devoid of any form of person­al pleasure… Yar’Adua instituted the policy of e-payment…for the settlement of all federal government obligations… helped to sanitize the banks by putting the weight of his office behind the Central Bank reform, which saw the removal and subsequent trial of some chief executives of banks, even when his family had substantial interest in one of the affected banks,” wrote Segun Adeniyi. There were also efforts by the Yar’Adua government to reform the oil sector, especially the need to stop some of the upstream operators from defrauding the Federal Government and bring in foreign players from Asia as well. Chapter 4 leads us to the largely successful plans made by Yar’Adua to end militancy in the Niger Delta and its attendant humongous economic losses to the nation. The president also had plans to ensure permanent peace in the region. The reader is shocked to the marrow to discover “the report of the Board of inquiry…how arms and ammunitions (sic) belonging to the Nigerian Army were sold to some Niger Delta militants…the extent of the theft was so staggering and the crime so well organized that the investigating team could hardly determine the exact amount of arms removed due to delib­erate false accounting and destruction of stock cards by the perpetrators.” Ac­cording to the army report, weapon procurement was also said to be linked to some governors in preparation for “the 2003 re-election campaign.” Despite the intrigues and setbacks as narrated in the book, the successful implemen­tation of the Amnesty Deal is regarded as one of the landmark achievements of the Yar’Adua administration. POLL Adeniyi enjoyed a close relation­ship with Yar’Adua, which sometimes allowed him to have input in critical appointments and decisions of the latter. Was he then a confidant of the President? Yes, to some extent. “So, before the president left for Saudi Ara­bia, I had his authority to intervene (in support of the CBN banking reform) in his name while he was out of the coun­try. It was the highest demonstration of trust in me by the president, which I will forever cherish.” (Pg. 96) Adeniyi, who was President Yar’Adua’s spokesperson, wanted his boss to renew the mandate of Prof Soludo as CBN governor in 2009 based on his performance and ethnic fair­ness. At a point, he shot at his boss: “Sir, I can see that you don’t want to extend Soludo’s tenure because the media is awash with stories that you are resolved to give the position to a northerner...” Al­though the President was not pleased with the insinuation, he went ahead to explain his dilemma to Segun. Despite the fact that “promoters of some of the affected banks contributed huge funds to the campaign that had brought him to power”, Yar’Adua gave Sanusi unflinching support because he believed that the CBN governor had the responsibility to protect the interest of depositors. In the book, we know how Yar’Ad­ua handled the menace of Boko Ha­ram then in its infancy, how (some) politicians, according to Yar’Adua, usually compromise the electoral sys­tem and his personal commitment to electoral reform. In the chapter “Yar’Adua and the World”, the author did not make any reference to Citizens’ Diplomacy, a foreign policy promoted then by Ojo Maduekwe, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But a quote on the position of the President on 2008 elections in Zimbabwe, through Maduekwe, caught my literary eyes: “No African country should be allowed to use the fig leaf of sovereignty to cover its naked­ness on good governance and human rights issues, including electoral integ­rity.”(Pg. 138) According to Adeniyi, “The power sector is another area where Yar’Adua could not deliver… With the benefit of hindsight, perhaps the investment to increase the availability and quality of gas ought to have preceded the NIPP contracts.” In the second and final part of the book, which deals with the poor health of Yar’Adua and the crises it engen­dered, a reader like me could not but wonder, if not upset by the decision of the President, despite his humility and austere lifestyle, to subject his failing health to further pressure – to prove what? I do not know, neither did Adeni­yi account for that in the publication under review. According to the author (before July 20, 2009), “Whenever the president attended the FEC meeting, he ensured that he stayed till the end, how­ever long it took. Yet, it didn’t require medical training to see that he was merely struggling, as his body could no longer withstand the stress he was putting himself through.” Since Adeniyi enjoyed such a close relationship with Yar’Adua, it is not clear to the reader if at any point he urged the President to consider res­ignation in order to save his health and life? I did not encounter such in the 293-page book. But then the drama surrounding the false news alert on purported plan by Yar’Adua to resign on health grounds, credited to NAN by AFP on September 16, 2008, which climaxed in the closure of Channels Television on the orders of the Presi­dent, had led to the aides of Yar’Adua taking an oath of secrecy, ostensibly on the failing health of the President, which, according to the author, “had indeed become a state secret, to the han­dlers at least!” After another medical trip abroad in August 2009, according to the book, “The sad but candid verdict was that there was no major improvement in his health condition. He was by now going to the office about three times a week and only between 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. By this period also, govern­ment was practically on autopilot (pg. 186).” Yet, Mr Umaru Musa Yar’Adua did not resign to save his health. Worse, he was advised by the AGF and oth­ers, according to Adeniyi, not to send a letter to the National Assembly trans­ferring power to the Acting President so he could have time to attend to his worsening health without any stress to the polity. What a tragedy! Is it not safe to conclude that Yar’Adua killed himself or was advised by political limpets to continue the journey to the world beyond?! According to ex-President Obasanjo in January 2010, “If you take an appointment, a job, elected, ap­pointed, whatever it is, and then your health starts to fail, and you realize you will not be able to deliver to satisfy your­self and the people you are supposed to serve, then there is a path of honour you are supposed to take. There is a path of honour and morality, and if you don’t know that, then you don’t know any­thing.” (Pg. 206) Although Segun regretted his ref­erence to Jonathan as Vice President rather than Acting President, the rea­son cited on page 276 seems untenable. Hear him: “In the light of the fact that Yar’Adua was brought home invalid, which I didn’t know at the time, I agree it was wrong for me to have addressed Jonathan as VP…” This would suggest that if Yar’Adua had arrived hale and hearty, it would have been right to ad­dress Jonathan as VP! Adeniyi had noted this earlier on page 260: “Yet, the reality was that as long as Yar’Adua was alive and had not been removed, he remained, in the eyes of the law, the commander in chief of the armed forces. Jonathan had also been conferred the title of commander in chief by a resolution of the National Assembly. Dambazzau and the entire armed forces were therefore caught in the dilemma of serving two masters…” The views of Adeniyi on this case were and are wrong lock, stock and barrel. From the moment (February 9, 2010) Goodluck Jonathan became the Acting President, Yar’Adua’s pres­idential powers immediately ceased or were held in abeyance. He was now a president without executive powers – a president only in name. All presiden­tial powers now resided in the Acting President. Indeed, for the period of his acting presidency, Goodluck Jonathan was the ‘Head of State, the Chief Ex­ecutive of the Federation and Com­mander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federation’, in line with Section 130 of the 1999 Constitution. He could appoint and sack ministers, constitute and dissolve the Executive Council of the Federation. The Acting President could appoint the chairman and mem­bers of any of the powerful Federal Executive Bodies listed in Section 153 of the constitution. He could hire, fire or redeploy the service chiefs. He could confer honours and pardon convicts, declare war and conclude peace… all in line with the constitution. In other words, the Acting President was the President of Nigeria until Yar’Adua communicated to the National As­sembly his readiness to return to his seat. If what Adeniyi wrote was the position of the Chief of Army Staff, then Dambazzau got it wrong com­pletely. Was there no AGF to advise them on the correct position of the constitution? Perhaps the proper un­derstanding of the constitution could have helped considerably to reduce the tension at that time. It is good we now know from Adeni­yi’s book that the much-touted “cabal” was just a lie as it did not really exist in the villa. However, the writer did not mention the reported N400bn owed NNDC which Yar’Adua allegedly said “had expired” – some of us heard such a phrase for the first time! The publisher of the work could have done better in the area of proof-reading. Nevertheless, Power, Politics & Death: A front-row account of Nigeria under the late President Yar’Adua is an extraordinary book that captures extraordinary times in Nigeria. Segun Adeniyi deserves all the plaudits in this world for this in­valuable work.