The members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo have reacted to the dismissal of Nnamdi Kanu’s fresh bail application by the Federal High Court in Abuja. Following the court ruling, the Media and Publicity Secretary of the pro-Biafran group, Emma Powerful said that the group was not surprised, having seen the outcome through the President’s body language and utterances, noting that President Buhari’s comment on the matter in Kigali, Rwanda was aimed at intimidating the judge to dismiss the bail application. He said, “Buhari’s recent statement in Kigali, Rwanda was a testament that he has lost focus because he said he won’t interfere in the judicial process on Nnamdi Kanu, but was talking with both sides of his mouth. “IPOB understands the body language of Buhari and his Federal Government that they will influence Justice Binta Nyako to drop bail applications for Nnamdi Kanu’s freedom. “But we are ready to wait for them. We want to use this medium to inform humanity, particularly Biafrans to stay calm and that victory must come to us.” Correspondingly, the Secretary, South-East Zone of Ohanaeze, Chief Damian Okeke-Ogene, also attributed the court’s verdict to Buhari’s statement. Okeke-Ogene who spoke to Punch said, “If you assess the President’s comments and utterances before today’s court sitting, you will understand that he was not interested in releasing the young man because he knows that doing so will bring happiness to the people of the South-East, who are longing for his release. “Although, the court has adjourned the matter, but Buhari’s recent utterances in the build up to the court sitting greatly influenced the decision of the court and the President knows that keeping Kanu means that the insecurity in the South-East will continue because the people see him as their idol and they want him released.” -Advertisement- POLL Also, the Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders has also expressed its displeasure over the court’s ruling in a statement made issued by its President-General, Goodluck Item on Wednesday. The statement partly read, “The verdict of Justice Binta Njako is the same statement made by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, June 23, 202,2 during a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of Great Britain, Boris Johnson, at the 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Kigali, Rwanda. “When did the statement of the President become the verdict or judgment of the court?  Are we running a democratic government or a unitary system of government were only one man determines the fate of millions of Nigerians even when it is unconstitutional, undemocratic and inhuman?”