Gareth Bale has laughed off questions about his immediate future after helping Wales to the World Cup for the first time in 64 years. Bale played an important role in the decisive goal as his free-kick took an unfortunate deflection off Andriy Yarmolenko and flew into the back of the net. Ukraine pilled on the pressure during the second-half but could not force the ball past Wayne Hennessey, who was in impeccable form between the sticks. Yarmolenko came the closest as his effort flew just over the bar but Wales held on to win 1-0 and secure their spot in this winter’s World Cup in Qatar. They will join England, Iran and USA in Group B, with the tournament getting underway on Monday, November 21. -Advertisement- There has been talk surrounding the future of star man Bale, who recently confirmed his departure from Real Madrid after eight years at the club. When asked on Sky Sports about whether the World Cup will postpone his retirement, Bale replied “for a little bit”, hinting that he will carry on playing until at least the competition later this year. The 32-year-old has been linked with a move to a number of clubs across English football, including Welsh duo Cardiff City and Swansea City. Manchester United have been backed to sign the ex-Tottenham Hotspur star with the Red Devils looking to sign a new right-winger this summer. But securing Wales’ qualification to the World Cup will no doubt be the main thought on Bale’s mind at the moment and he delivered his reaction on his nation’s narrow win. Bale also branded Wales’ success as the “greatest” win in the countries’ history after they reached their third major tournament in six years. He said: “Yeah the result is the greatest result in the history of Welsh football. We’re all ecstatic, you can see it with the fans, we’re going to the World Cup.” “It’s what dreams are made of, it’s what we’ve been working for since we first got here, I’m speechless because I’m so happy,” he added. “We did it for all our amazing fans. Words don’t describe how I feel at the moment.” POLL Bale has suffered with “back spasms” over the past month but was deemed fit enough to start for Wales on Sunday evening. This was after he was named on the bench for Real Madrid in the Champions League final against Liverpool last weekend. He admitted the injuries have been “difficult” but was grateful to get through the game. He said: “It was difficult, I haven’t done too much over the last four weeks because of my back spasm which everyone knows about. I was just happy to get through the game, contribute in any way I could, the important thing was to get the win and get through to the World Cup.”