ASABA – The Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) Chapter of the Federal Medical Center (FMC) Asaba, yesterday threatened to withhold their services over continued harassment and physical assault on their members by patients and their relatives. Speaking to journalists during the protests, the President of ARD FMC, Dr. Emmanuel Asore, warned that there would be consequences should a doctor be harassed or assaulted by a patient or their relative while on duty. It was disclosed to Daily Independent that within the last six months, no fewer than three medical practitioners at FMC Asaba have been physically or verbally attacked by patients and/or their relatives, stirring the ire of the medical association. It was reported, in the latest instance, that one of the doctors was hit on the head while discharging his duties, while a nurse lost her tooth and another’s vehicle was vandalized by patients or their relatives. For the safety of other doctors, caregivers and other medical personnel, members of ARD FMC had temporarily withdrawn their services since the incident occurred, but resumed yesterday with the hope that such assault would not happen again. Corroborating the ARD FMC President, the General Secretary of the Association, Dr. Kenneth Okolie, lamented that despite the sacrifices that doctors make in the face of shortage of health workers in the country, their patients verbally and physically assault them. Vice President of the association, Dr Uwadia Omozele lamented that the incidence of assaults and harassment of health workers was higher among doctors because of their direct relationship with patients and their relatives. Dr Omozele said that the negative development even posed more risks for female doctors and medical practitioners, stressing that patients should seek redress through established and appropriate channels when they are not satisfied with the services of a doctor, but not assault or intimidation. -Advertisement- POLL “This is the last assault of a doctor or other health workers that will happen in FMC Asaba. Maybe they think that there is nothing that the doctors can do but this time, we are telling them that there is something that we can do” he stated. Likewise, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the association, Dr. Queensly Adigwe, said it was unfair for patients to lash out at doctors who were already strained and weary. “Doctors are leaving this country because other countries realize that they need more medical personnel; a lot of doctors have relocated to Canada and the United States. Yet, the few of us remaining in the country are being assaulted by our patients and their relatives. Dr. Adigwe suggested improved security in the hospital, life assurance and hazard allowances and other welfare packages for the doctors who are bound by the Hippocratic Oath. Meanwhile, it was further gathered that the individual, who was alleged to have hit a doctor at FMC Asaba, had been taken into police custody and the matter charged to court.