Many known effects of climate change on human activities and some sectors of the economy are already receiving appropriate evaluations with mitigation strategies being proffered across the World. One of such areas is the road infrastructure sector. In spite of the importance of transportation as a key driver and enabler of the economy, little research has been conducted around the world on how vulnerable it will be to climate change. This is surprising as lack of efficient and reliable transportation can severely impact on economic growth given that the influence of meteorological effects on accidents and traffic disruption will negatively impact any economy. Changes in climate will cause both negative and positive impacts on the operation and maintenance costs of transportation systems. Any unforeseen damage caused by climate change on the few and insufficient road infrastructure in Nigeria will negatively impact the economy and severely retard economic growth. Road administrators worldwide are concerned about the change in climate during the past decades because of its increasingly significant impacts on road infrastructure. Some evidence of impacts of climate change on road infrastructure include: excessive solar radiation that damages road surface, uncommon and frequent submergence of roads by severe flood events, increased coverage of roads with mud, sand and dirts. Local communities and businesses are also affected by the damage of road pavements due to climate change. According to Engineer Ojo Hakeem, Council Engineer, Alimosho Local Government Area, Lagos State, “When roads are washed away by floods, movement of people, goods and services around that region are restricted thus, impacting upon local economy, environment, the health and wellbeing of residents. From a social point of view adverse weather events can isolate communities from medical care, denial of access to employment and normal daily activities. “In the South East Nigeria, climate change has caused excessive flooding leading to gully erosion developments. -Advertisement- POLL “Temperature changes affect the stresses and deformations of every component of road infrastructural system, because the materials will experience contraction and expansion in response to temperature changes.” He added. Engineer Hakeem explained further that road structures are constructed from materials chosen for their performance under design loads and environmental conditions. The performance of pavements can change dramatically given changing conditions, such as increasing temperature and changing sub-grade soil dynamics due to saturation and erosion. He stressed that higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. “With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings. Changes in precipitation and water levels form part of the consequences of global climate change which affect most infrastructure components in existence today. “Thus, climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Water is one of the most difficult aspects to design for in transportation engineering.” Engineer Hakeem added. In his submissions, Engineer Alfred Agboluaje, Senior Partner, Addex Engineering and Properties Nigeria Limited, “Saturated soils can be a critical concern in the design of a facility‘s substructure and foundations. Additionally, runoff from impermeable surfaces such as bridge decks or road surfaces should be handled in a way that redirects water flows away from the structure and does not harm the surrounding environment. “Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges. “Climate change will directly affect road infrastructure in several ways. High temperatures will cause roads to easily develop cracks within a short period after their construction. Furthermore, higher temperatures combined with increased solar radiation may reduce the life of asphalt road surfaces. “The direct impact of climate change on roads and its indirect impact on other economic systems are equally enormous. Poor roads resulting from huge potholes can lead to road accidents and delay the transport of foodstuffs and other goods across the country while vehicular traffic jams can lead to more fuel consumption in addition to huge time loss. “The impacts of climate change on roads are different depending on the type of road (paved and unpaved) and the functional classification (economic importance) of the road (tertiary, secondary and primary).” Engineer Alfred emphasised. He continued by saying, “Thus, material used in construction now should also be changed to accommodate future change in roads brought about by climate change. In other words, if throughout the lifespan of the road it is anticipated that a significant climate change stressor will occur, then roads, such as paved roads should be constructed with better materials that can withstand the change. “The reason is that for paved roads, increased precipitation results in increased potholes, erosion of the sub-base, drainage capacity, etc., and, thus, reduced amount of time until resurfacing is required. For temperature, based on pavement binder requirements, for every 6° projected pavement increase, a new asphalt binder must be used. This is due to the fact that increased temperature and traffic loads lead to rutting. These changes result in cost increases over base construction costs to the overall project.” He added. A report from the United States, said, since 1950, the number of record high temperature events in the United States has been increasing, while the number of record low temperature events has been decreasing. The U.S. has also witnessed increasing numbers of intense rainfall events along with disastrous wildfires, both of which are causing scientists concern for their nation’s roads and bridges. The report explained that infrastructure networks are the backbone of cities. Ensuring their resilience has become a vital aspect of governing and managing an economically viable and liveable city, but climate change is having a large impact on them. Today’s roads and bridges have largely been designed and operated for historical climate conditions that are regularly exceeded and these extreme weather events are only making matters worse. Flooding is said to be the most common and costly natural disaster in the United States, causing more than $830 billion in estimated losses since 2000. In addition to private property damage, deluges from hurricanes and other storms have washed out roads and bridges and flooded schools, hospitals and utilities. Events like the flooding of Interstate 10 in Phoenix in 2014, the Riverside County I-10 bridge washout in 2015 and Hurricanes Harvey and Maria in 2017 have revealed how vulnerable their transportation system can be to extreme flooding events. Damages to roads and bridges in the country caused by recent storms and flooding over the first half of 2019 are among the costliest in their recent memory. Since January, FHWA officials directed $54.9 million in quick release funds to help states repair roads and bridges nationwide — roughly three times higher than the $19.8 million awarded during the same period in 2018. In the challenge to preserve our road network in the face of increased traffic, greater temperature changes or more rainfall, there is a chemical recently developed by a company in the United Kingdom that has a complete arsenal of highway preservation products to equip local authorities and highways agencies with everything they could need to keep our road infrastructure in optimum condition. Australia’s floods of 2010-11 spread devastation and damage across Queensland, with 33 people losing their lives and causing billions in losses across the state. The floods also damaged 19,000km of roads, including those needed for emergency and delivery vehicles. It was a stark lesson in the importance of weather-proofing Queensland’s most vulnerable roads, to ensure that future flooding would lead to fewer people being cut off. Since then, Queensland has been using a process called foamed bitumen stabilisation. This injects small amounts of air and cold water into hot bitumen, the sticky dark substance typically used for road surfaces. The bitumen then expands and forms a water-resistant layer. The result is a stronger yet flexible road surface or pavement that is better able to withstand flooding. Foam bitumen stabilisation has also been applied to other roads as part of Queensland’s move to make its roads more flood-resistant, and is proving more cost-effective than traditional asphalt. Queensland faces considerable challenges as it has the longest state-controlled road network of any Australian state or territory with over 33,300km of roads. So far it has built 1,000km of foamed bitumen road surfaces and is “continuing to develop foamed bitumen techniques”, according to its transport department. This is one of many technologies that authorities are testing on streets around the world. From landslide-blocked roads in Nepal, washed-out coastal highways in the US, collapsed bridges in Kenya to melting ice roads in Canada – an increasingly volatile global climate is threatening to disrupt essential transport networks.