The race to the 2022 Nigeria Beverage Awards (NBA) has officially commenced with the organizer of the prestigious awards, Undatree Entertainment, calling on producers/marketers to submit their products’ entries for consideration. Temiyemi Abayomi Ogunwolu, the firm’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), in a statement, called on producers/marketers to submit their products’ entries to vie for nominations in about 14 categories. 2022 NBA, which is the third edition of the yearly event, tagged: “The Nigeria Beverage Award 3.0,” will hold on October 30, at the Radisson Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. According to the statement, the award ceremony will be a convergence of key players in the beverage industry in Nigeria. Various awards will be contested for and winners announced on the award night, the biggest of which will be the ‘Beverage of the year’ category, it added. Other categories that different brands will slug out for include: Beverage Company of the year, Alcoholic Beverage of the year, Non-Alcoholic Beverage of the year, Lager Beer of the year, Stout of the year, Fruit Beverage of the year, Malt Beverage of the year, Carbonated Soft Drink of the year, Bitters of the year, Energy drink of the year, ready to drink beverage of the year, most promising beverage of the year and table water of the year. Entries and categories for which products should be considered should be sent to info@undatree.com or info.undatree@gmail.com. Criteria to be considered before sending entries are volume of hectolitre sold, popularity and geographical spread. Submission of entries closes on June 30, 2022, while voting for the various categories commences on September 23, and closes on October 23, 2022. The onerous task of choosing the winners in each category will lie with the public via a voting process on the event website, www.nigeriabeverageawards.com. And the winners will be announced on the award night. POLL According to the organizer, Undatree Entertainment’s Project Director, Abayomi Soniyi, the event is organized to appreciate and celebrate the growth of the beverage industry in Nigeria. As prevalent in other climes around the world, beverage awards have become popular and integral yearly events in the beverage industry calendar.