ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday unveiled the credentials of the would-be All Progressives Con­gress (APC) presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections ahead of the party’s primary election between June 6 and 8. President Buhari said the candi­date that would stand as flagbearer of the party must be one that would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections. Buhari’s message came during a brief meeting with the governors at the Presiden­tial Villa, Abuja, shortly before he departed for Spain on a state visit. -Advertisement- He also charged the gover­nors to ensure that the forth­coming convention meant to pick a presidential candidate must reflect all the values and virtues of the party. The meeting which had in attendance 22 governors and the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Ada­mu, is coming shortly after the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) picked its flagbearer, for­mer Vice President Atiku Abu­bakar at the weekend in Abuja. “Our objective must be the victory of our party and our choice of candidate must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections,” the pres­ident told participants at the meeting. According to Buhari, “The processes for the 2023 general elections have commenced in earnest and I note that the most successful political parties glob­ally have always relied on their internal cohesion and a strong leadership brand to achieve bigger electoral fortunes. Our party, the APC, shall not be any different, more so as we are still implementing the blueprint for a more prosperous nation. “As I begin the final year of my second term as president of the Federal Republic of Ni­geria and leader of the party, I recognise the compelling need for me to provide stronger leadership to the party under this transition process and to ensure that it happens in an orderly manner. POLL “Such leadership is re­quired so that the party re­mains strong and united. It is also needed to improve our electoral fortunes by ensuring that it retains power at the cen­tre, hold the great majority in various legislative chambers and also gain additional num­ber of states. “In a few days, the party will be holding its conven­tion during which primaries would take place to pick the presidential flagbearer for the 2023 general elections. This is a very significant process and its outcome should prove to the world, the positive quality of the APC regarding democrat­ic principles, culture as well as leadership.” Buhari made an appeal to all the governors “to allow our interests to converge, our focus to remain on the changing dy­namics of our environment, the expectations of our citizens and the global community”. He assured that the consul­tation process will continue, to ensure that all aspirants and stakeholders would be brought on board right through to the convention, stressing that it would also ensure that any anxiety occasioned by different factors are effectively brought under control, “and that our party emerges stronger.” Speaking on behalf of the states’ helmsmen, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, and Chairman of Progressive Governors’ Forum, said the party must build on successes of its recent elective conven­tion, and the primaries con­ducted so far, “and come up with a candidate who will walk in the footsteps of patriotism and love for the country, which Mr. President has shown. “We will support Mr. Presi­dent to have a very successful convention,” he pledged. Recall that the emergence of the PDP presidential candidate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar may have unsettled the APC, even as the John Odi­gie-Oyegun led screening com­mittee carries out its screening exercise. Inside sources within the presidency said in view of the PDP convention, the APC stakeholders have been realign­ing to present a formidable can­didate that would match Atiku in all ramifications. Meanwhile, President Bu­hari has traveled to Madrid, Spain, on a state visit, amid preparations being on top gear for the party’s convention slat­ed for between June 6 and 8. Although his meeting with governors from the party at the State House ended shortly before he departed, majority of the governors refused to speak to reporters on the outcome of the meeting. Buhari is said to be going to Spain to honour an invitation from the Spanish President, Pedro Sanchez. According to a statement circulated by the Special Advis­er on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the president will also meet with the Head of State of the Spanish nation, His Majes­ty King Felipe VI, at a separate meeting during the visit. During the state visit, Bu­hari will discuss issues of mu­tual interest to both countries, which will also culminate in the signing of agreements and Memoranda of Understand­ing on a wide range of topics geared towards further en­hancing the bilateral relations between both countries. The statement also noted that areas where they would further their agreement will include: extradition and trans­fer of convicted persons, mu­tual legal assistance, cultural matters, cooperation towards fighting crime and enhancing security, as well as issues affect­ing dependants of diplomatic staff. The meeting would also exploit cooperation on energy, trade and investment, trans­portation, public health and sports development. “The president will also be the special guest at an invest­ment forum jointly organised by the Spanish Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Trade, and the Confederation of Employers (CEOE), where he will speak to the gathering of top members of the Spanish business community and their Nigerian counterparts on the investment opportunities in Nigeria and ways of expand­ing the volume of trade as well as further collaborating for the development of the economies of both countries,” Buhari’s media aide noted. The president will be accom­panied on the trip by the Minis­ter of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; Minister of Information and Culture, Alha­ji Lai Mohammed; Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; Min­ister of Youth and Sports Devel­opment, Sunday Dare; and the Minister of State for Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora. Other members of the dele­gation are the National Securi­ty Adviser, Maj-Gen Babagana Monguno (rtd); Director-Gen­eral, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; and Chair­man, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa. He is expected back in the country on Friday, June 3.