President His Highness Sheikh Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan visited His Highness Sheikh Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah, His Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Fujairah and His Highness Sheikh Saud Bin Rashid Al Mu’alla, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Umm Al Quwain, respectively, on Saturday. This is part of Mohamed Bin Zayed’s fraternal visits and consultations with the Rulers of the Emirates. During the meeting, which took place at Nad Al Habbai Palace, Sheikh Mohamed and Sheikh Saud exchanged cordial talk over the national causes and UAE citizens’ affairs along with all that would further improve the quality of life and welfare of all community members. They affirmed that caring for the Emirati human capital lies at the heart of the UAE leadership’s priorities since the establishment of the nation at the hands of the Founding Fathers, who, Their Highnesses said, considered their citizens the cornerstone of the drive of development and empowerment in the country. They prayed to Allah Almighty to perpetuate stability and prosperity for the UAE people and guide the country’s leadership on the path of progress and development. -Advertisement- Sheikh Mohammed Bin Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Crown Prince of Ras Al Khaimah also attended the meeting. Also during the day, Sheikh Mohamed Bin Zayed visited Sheikh Hamad Al Sharqi in Fujairah. Their Highnesses — during the meeting, which took place at the Rumaila Palace, Fujairah, and exchanged fraternal talks in a continuation of communication and consultation approach between the UAE President and the Rulers of the Emirates. They dealt with a number of issues related to the affairs of the country and its citizens, stressing that Emiratis will always be a top priority for the leadership and the homeland’s development objectives during various current and future stages, following the approach of the founding leaders, who dedicated themselves to serving the nation and Emiratis. They wished further progress for the homeland, prosperity for its people and success for its leadership in serving the country, enhancing its gains and promoting its global stature. POLL Among those who attended the meeting were Sheikh Mohammed Bin Hamad Bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Crown Prince of Fujairah. Sheikh Mohamed Bin Zayed also visited Sheikh Saud Bin Rashid Al Mu’alla in Umm Al Quwain. During the meeting, which took place at the UAQ Ruler’s Court, Sheikh Mohamed and Sheikh Saud exchanged cordial talk over the national causes and UAE citizens’ affairs along with all that would further improve the quality of life and welfare of all community members. They affirmed that caring for the Emirati human capital lies at the heart of the UAE leadership’s priorities since the establishment of the nation at the hands of the Founding Fathers, who, Their Highnesses said, considered their citizens the cornerstone of the drive of development and empowerment in the country. They prayed to Allah Almighty to perpetuate stability and prosperity for the UAE people and guide the country’s leadership on the path of progress and development. The meeting was attended by Sheikh Rashid Bin Saud Bin Rashid Al Mu’alla, Crown Prince of Umm Al Quwain, Sheikh Nahyan Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Zayed Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation, Lt. General Sheikh Saif Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, Sheikh Khaled Bin Mohamed Bin Zayed, Member of Abu Dhabi Executive Council and Chairman of Abu Dhabi Executive Office, Sheikh Hamdan Bin Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, and Sheikh Mohammed Bin Hamad Bin Tahnoun Al Nahyan, Advisor for Special Affairs at the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, along with a number of sheikhs and officials. WAM