IBADAN – A federal lawmaker representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon Shina Peller has urged Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to leverage on his emergence as the Presidential candidate for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 general election to resolve all the internal issues and disagreements emanating from the party. Peller stated this in his congratulatory message to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on his victory at the recently concluded APC Presidential Primaries which was held in Abuja. Describing the victory as a well deserved one, Peller noted that it was a battle well fought which deserves commendation from all irrespective of political, religious and tribal differences. while he also commended the courageous efforts of other contestants, adding that there can only be one winner in every contest. Moreover, he urged the 2023 APC presidential candidate to ensure that peace reigns within the party, adding that there can never be unity and peace except for internal democracy, justice, equity and fairness to prevail in virtually all activities of the party. According to the statement, “Hearty congratulations to the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his emergence as the APC Presidential candidate for the forthcoming 2023 Presidential election. “It was indeed a battle well fought, which deserves commendation from all well-meaning Nigerians irrespective of political, ethnic or religious affiliation. I salute Asiwaju Tinubu’s courage, doggedness and political sagacity – it is a well deserved victory! “In every contest, there will always be only one winner; this doesn’t necessarily makes others losers. On this note, I salute the courage of His Excellency, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and other contestants who have participated in the primaries. “I am using this opportunity to urge Asiwaju to leverage his emergence as the presidential flag bearer of the APC to resolve all the internal issues and disagreements emanating from the party and bring everyone together as one big family. Asiwaju needs to ensure that peace reigns within the party. However, this cannot be achieved except we allow internal democracy, justice, equity and fairness to prevail in our activities. POLL “I wish Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu the best as the 2023 general election beckons. Once again, CONGRATULATIONS Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu!”