Coscharis Motors Plc, the franchise owner of Land Rover products in Nigeria. has unveiled the all-new Range Rover Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) into the Nigerian market. The Range Rover, which is in its 5th generation, comes with aesthetics and state-of-the-art equipment, which makes off-road and on-road driving a pleasure and comfort to the driver and other occupants. At the unveiling of the latest model at its head office in Lagos over the weekend to auto journalists, Mr. Abiona Babarinde, the General Manager, Marketing & Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, said that the product is the latest wheel on the road and one of the most desirable Range Rovers ever produced by the Land Rover Company. Babarinde said that the flagship SUV came with classic, breathtaking and innovation, which will captivate its audience and enthrall the automobile public. According to him, the Range Rover is an icon and radiance for Land Rover, which the automobile company made better with the 5th generation without ruining its heritage, or upsetting the very traditional, loyal customer who’s loathe to lots of change. He said that as an iconic product, customers have to make orders ahead of delivery, assuring that Coscharis Motors would continue to satisfy the yearning of its customers. He said: “Today marks the celebration of the 5th generation of the Range Rover variants. This is the latest and one of the most desirable Range Rover products ever created by the Land Rover Company. This is the first in the market in Nigeria. “The new model is available in all the Coscharis dealerships in Nigeria.” -Advertisement- POLL Mr. Cletus Aregbeshola, the Marketing Manager, Jaguar Land Rover, also commenting, said Coscharis Motors comes with the latest interior and exterior for the luxury of the driver who has numerous options of buttons to tap for excellent driving. The interior, Aregbesola said comes with noiseless, luxurious and peaceful details and his the option for a third row passenger, yet with enough load cargo, which is adjustable at any time. Joseph Gwetsuro, Service Manager, Jaguar Land Rover, Coscharis Motors Plc, said the 5th generation of Range Rover comes with 3.0 to 5.0litre twin turbo engine and with 8 transmission power to make the vehicle the best in its segment. He added: “All the seats in the 5th generation of Range Rover have earphones on the headrests. The essence of the earphones is to eliminate the outside noise and enhance concentration of the occupants. The current model comes with a rear view camera that captures images at the back, not only the occupants of the vehicle. “This technique was first introduced into the Range Vogue, which started as an option, but today, it is a standard in all Range Rover models. “It has a hill descending control census, which can stop automatically even without applying the stop button. This SUV can go one metre under water without having any effect on the car or its engine. The gear shift for this product is new.” Coscharis is offering the all-new Range Rover SUV with five years warranty or 150,000 kilometres, depending on which comes first. The price range goes from N170 million or N200 million, also depending on the configuration of the brand. Interior, Comfort, Cargo As with past generations of the Range Rover, this new generation model offers a plush interior decked out with rich leathers and woods for clients. The interior can be arranged to seat four, five, or seven depending on configuration and wheelbase. An optional motorized divider for the cargo area helps keep things from moving around too much during travel, and the Range Rover’s split rear liftgate can be used as convenient and comfortable seating for outdoor events. Infotainment, Connectivity The model receives a new 13.1- inch curved infotainment display with Land Rover’s latest Pivi Pro interface. Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are both standard. Other standard features include in-dash navigation, wireless smartphone charging, satellite radio, and a 13.7-inch digital gauge display. A rear-seat entertainment system with dual 11.4-inch displays is available on the new product.