With Alexandre Lacazette set to leave Arsenal this summer, the Gunners will need to appoint a new club captain ahead of the 2022/23 season. Following the decision to let Pierre Emerick-Aubameyang depart on a free transfer in January, Mikel Arteta entrusted Lacazette to take on the reins as the club’s captain until the end of the campaign. The France international scored four goals and grabbed seven assists in 30 Premier League appearances last season. However, with Lacazette leaving at the end of the month, not only does Arteta have to bring in a striker as a replacement, he will also have to name his successor with regards to the captaincy for the new campaign. Gabriel Jesus and Alvaro Morata have both been linked with a move to the Gunners. -Advertisement- Martin Odegaard is a leading contender having worn the armband on multiple occasions over the closing weeks of the season, although those appearances came whilst Kieran Tierney, who was promoted to vice-captain, was sidelined through injury. Arteta has hinted the Scotland international is next in line to take over the role although Odegaard has also been talked up by the Spaniard and team-mates, including Aaron Ramsdale. Meanwhile, Gabriel Magalhaes, Benjamin White and Albert Sambi Lokonga could also been in with a shout after Lacazette tipped them to follow in his footsteps earlier this season. The former Lyon striker spoke about who would suit the role back in February and named the above trio, as well as Tierney, as leaders in the squad. “There are some future captains,” he told Arsenal.com “Gabriel, big Gabi, has got presence, leadership at the back. I think when he’s going to be more fluent with English, it will help a lot. Ben White as well, he’s more quiet maybe, but by the way he plays he can be a good leader and maybe with edge can build up. “Sambi Lokonga, but he’s already been a captain in the past so it’s not hard to say he can be a good captain. Kieran as well because I think he’s been a captain as well in the past for the national team a few times. You can see some future captains, or leaders.”