ABUJA – Mazi Okwudili Nwa-Anyajike has emerged as the standard-bearer for the National Rescue Movement (NRM) in a closely contested primary election for the party’s presidential aspirants. He scored a total of 180 votes cast to beat his closest rival, Professor Benedicta Egbo who emerged the second runner up with a total of 34 votes cast. Senator Ibrahim Yunusa and Hon. Anthony Ubani recorded 10 and four votes respectively. -Advertisement- In his acceptance speech, Mazi Okwudili noted that the primaries remain “the most transparent primary election conducted so far by any political party in the country “ He said that “today marks the beginning of a new, great and proud Nigeria.” He also revealed an agenda to focus on making Nigeria a better place for generations to come. While thanking other aspirants for a robust contest, the party’s standard-bearer commended aspirants Francis Igbo and Dr. Emeka Ukaegbu for stepping down for him and convincing their delegates to support him. Earlier, NRM National Chairman, Hon. Isaac Chigozie Udeh appealed to aspirants not to feel aggrieved at the outcome of the primaries. POLL According to him, “Who that emerges should not see himself or herself as a winner, but the representative of the Youths and Women Community, and our party flag bearer.” The National Chairman told the gathering that “NRM was poised to rescue Nigerians and our Country from the stagnant state we have found ourselves today; State of insecurity across the country, state of the failed education system, state of the state of a failed economy, state of the failed energy system, state of persistent hardship in the land and a failed leadership structure.” Hon. Udeh also disclosed that the party made it mandatory for persons between ages 35-55 to aspire for the President to allow for youth participation in the process in what he described as “Youth o’clock in NRM.” “On that note, I want to inform all of the Aspirants to know that there will be no loser in today’s Presidential Primaries because all of you are from one community in this contest,” he added On Zoning, he pointed out that the party “believes in one united and prosperous Nigeria. What we believe in zoning is quite different from other political parties zoning formula that is why we zoned our Presidency to the largest community known as youths and women community.” Those present at the Special National Convention include the NRM Board of Trustees (BOT), nine presidential aspirants and a delegation from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), among others.