ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) has told the National Chairman of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC), Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, that his resort to incitement in the forthcoming Osun State gov­ernorship election cannot save Governor Gboyega Oye­tola from inevitable defeat in the July 16, 2022 poll. The PDP described the statement by the APC Na­tional Chairman as reckless, irresponsible and showed the level of APC’s aversion to peaceful electoral process and disdain for the democrat­ic right, freedom and sover­eignty of the people of Osun State to freely and peacefully choose their leaders. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Olo­gunagba said, “it is pertinent to remind Abdullahi Adamu that election is not a warfare! “Directing his party mem­bers to ‘go down to the trench­es’ in the Osun State governor­ship election and brazenly asserting zero tolerance for election defeat cannot find accommodation within the ambits of the law. “Abdullahi Adamu’s com­ment further confirms that the APC is in mortal fear of Senator Adeleke’s soaring popularity, realising that Gov­ernor Oyetola is no match for Senator Adeleke; a blunt reali­ty for which the APC National Chairman has now become frenetic. “It is distressing that the APC has become so chaotic in the pursuit of its territori­al occupation agenda that the National Chairman views the Osun State governorship elec­tion as a warfare in which the people must be conquered. “More provoking is Ab­dullahi Adamu’s brazen as­sertion that the APC has no apology for such an irrespon­sible, reckless and offensive ‘posture’ against the sensibil­ities of the people of Osun State.” The party said that Nige­rians clearly observed the nerviness and dread of defeat written all over the APC Na­tional Chairman’s face while inaugurating and threatening the APC’s National Campaign Council on Osun Governor­ship Election not to come back crying in defeat; a fate that already awaits the APC on July 16. -Advertisement- POLL “Abdullahi Adamu should know that the Osun State governorship election is not about incitements, issuing of threats and grandstanding as a ruling Party. “He must understand that this election is a referendum on the monumental failure of the APC in Osun State and that the people are solid­ly behind Senator Ademola Adeleke in their resolve to liberate themselves from the stranglehold of the incompe­tent, vicious and inhumane APC administration in Osun State,” the party said. The party said that in the last four years, Gover­nor Oyetola has displayed unparalleled incompetence in governance and ran the most ineffective and clueless administration in the history of Osun State.