ABUJA – Christian and Muslim clerics of northern extraction have endorsed the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission, Reverend Yakubu Pam as the running mate to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the 2023 polls. The clerics made the endorsement at a one-day roundtable discussion in Abuja, convoked by Nigerian Clerics Consultative Forum. Speaking on behalf of the clerics, Bishop Sunday Garuba said the outcome of the APC primaries has brought to the fore the need for the party to do all within its means to ensure a balanced presidential ticket that would stand the test of time and guarantee electoral victory. Bishop Garuba said the Nigerian Clerics Consultative Forum convoked the general assembly to deliberate on the issue of a balanced and harmonious presidential ticket for the APC. “This is informed by the need for a balanced ticket with the overarching objective of ensuring that the ethno-religious balance of the country is achieved. “The necessity of ethno-religious balance cannot be overemphasized, hence the various agitations within the APC on the need for the party to get it right regarding its vice-presidential candidate. “The consultative assembly allowed Christian and Muslim clerics from various parts of the country to lend their objective voice to the vice-presidential candidate of the APC. “Deliberations on the suitability of a Muslim-Muslim ticket were scrutinized objectively by clerics in attendance,” the Bishop said. -Advertisement- POLL The representative of the Muslim clerics, Sheikh Surajo Abdullahi said the APC’s choice of presidential flag bearer for the presidential elections confirms Allah’s revelations regarding the personality that would lead Nigeria on the right track. The Sheikh added that the choice of Pam, a well-respected cleric from Northern Nigeria fits the bill as the Vice Presidential candidate of the APC. “Rev Pam has pedigree at advocating religious and ethnic tolerance in Northern Nigeria. “Rev Pam is well respected in Northern Nigeria and over decades served as the rallying point for peaceful coexistence between Christians and Muslims in Northern Nigeria. “He is a cleric that has garnered administrative experience with an unblemished record in service to humanity. The Muslim cleric described Rev Pam as a team player whose nomination would give all a sense of belonging towards attaining electoral success. Meanwhile, Sheikh AbdullahI described Tinubu as a team player with an unflinching religious and ethnic tolerance, as evident in the fact that his wife is an ordained Pastor of one of the largest Pentecostal churches in Nigeria. He urged the APC presidential candidate to ensure that the choice of his running mate would reflect national balance and harmony.