SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The recent call by the Federal Government for improved safe and healthy working environment and conditions, especially in the informal sector, for the protection of both employees and employers is in line with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Constitution which states that workers must be protected from sickness, disease and injury arising from their employment Ms Kachollom S. Daju,the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, made the call in Abuja, as she flagged off the Stakeholders’ Workshop on the Validation of Action Checklist on Strengthening the Capacity of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to produce high-quality Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and Healthcare-related products. Daju noted that a safe and healthy workplace would not only provide protection against injury and illness, but would also enhance productivity, which would ultimately lead to increased national economic growth. She stated that the Nigerian economy “is grown largely by MSMEs, with about 80% of employments in the informal sector, thus need to radically improve the nation’s safety and health culture to minimize work-related accidents and diseases.” The Permanent Secretary, represented by Director, Occupational Safety and Health in the Ministry, Mrs Lauretta Adogu, noted that the checklist would assist MSMEs “in their response to the COVID-19 pandemic by assessing the risk to the enterprise and ensuring that the workplace is prepared for any future epidemic.” Daju disclosed that the Federal Government, the International Labour Organisation (ILO), and other social partners have been working together to strengthen the capacity of MSMEs, as well as raise awareness on “workplace prevention of COVID-19, and measures to ensure safety and health at work with particular focus on the production of PPE and healthcare-related products.” The Permanent Secretary enjoined the stakeholders to employ their professional and technical skills in deliberating on the checklist, to bring it in conformity with international best practices, and to help the MSMEs minimize work-related accidents and diseases. -Advertisement- POLL She stated that inputs from the validation meeting of stakeholders would add optimal value to the overall performance of National Occupational Safety and Health Management System in Nigeria. Ms Vanessa Phala, the ILO Country Director, earlier, stated that the Action Checklist on OSH would support enterprises in building a culture of safety and health at work. She said: “Using illustrations adapted to the Nigerian context, the Checklist provides an easy-to-use tool for MSMEs to review their operations in a number of priority areas, including the prevention of Phala disclosed that following the negative impact of COVID-19 on MSMEs globally, “the Government of Nigeria and the United Nations system devised a project aimed at strengthening the capacity of local MSMEs and manufacturers to produce high quality PPEs and healthcare related products.” She stated that the Project has been working with about 174 local MSMEs across the six geopolitical zones in Nigeria, promoting safety and health at work among those and other enterprises. Stakeholders at the workshop include Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF), Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). It would be recalled that the ILO Constitution sets forth the principle that workers must be protected from sickness, disease and injury arising from their employment. Yet for millions of workers the reality is very different. According to the most recent ILO global estimates, 2.78 million work-related deaths are recorded every year, of which 2.4 million are related to occupational dis- eases. In addition to the immense suffering caused for workers and their families, the associated economic costs are colossal for enterprises, countries and the world. The losses in terms of compensation, lost work days, interrupted production, training and reconversion, as well as health-care expenditure, represent around 3.94 per cent of the world’s annual GDP, the website of the World Day for Safety and Health at Work 2018). Employers face costly early retirements, loss of skilled staff, absenteeism and high insurance premiums. Yet, many of these tragedies are preventable through the implementation of sound prevention, reporting and inspection practices. The ILO standards on occupational safety and health provide essential tools for governments, employers and workers to establish such practices and provide for maximum safety at work. On key instruments on occupational safety and health Promotional Framework for Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 2006 (No. 187) –ratifications, indicates that as an instrument setting out a promotional framework, this Convention is designed to provide for coherent and systematic treatment of occupational safety and health issues and to promote recognition of existing Conventions on occupational safety and health. The Convention is aimed at establishing and implementing coherent national policies on occupational safety and health through dialogue between government, workers’ and employers’ organizations and ventive safety and health culture. On Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981 (No. 155) – [ratifications] and its Protocol of 2002 – ratifications, the convention provides for the adoption of a coherent national occupational safety and health policy, as well as action to be taken by governments and within enterprises to promote occupational safety and health and to improve working conditions. This policy shall be developed by taking into consideration national conditions and practice. The Protocol calls for the establishment and the periodic review of requirements and procedures for the recording and notification of occupational accidents and diseases, and for the publication of related annual statistics. On Occupational Health Services Convention, 1985 (No. 161) – ratifications, this convention provides for the establishment of enterprise-level occupational health services which are entrusted with essentially preventive functions and which are responsible for advising the employer, the workers and their representatives in the enterprise on maintaining a safe and healthy working environment. On Hygiene (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1964 (No. 120) – ratifications, this instrument has the objective of preserving the health and welfare of workers employed in trading establishments, and establishments, institutions and administrative services in which workers are mainly engaged in office work and other related services through elementary hygiene measures responding to the requirements of welfare at the workplace. On Safety and Health in Construction Convention, 1988 (No. 167) – ratifications, the convention provides for detailed technical preventive and protective measures having due regard for the specific requirements of this sector. These measures relate to safety of workplaces, machines and equipment used, work at heights and work executed in compressed air. On Safety and Health in Mines Convention, 1995 (No. 176) – ratifications, this instrument regulates the various aspects of safety and health characteristic for work in mines, including inspection, special working devices, and special protective equipment of workers. It also prescribes requirements relating to mine rescue. On Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001 (No. 184) – ratifications, the convention has the objective of preventing accidents and injury to health arising out of, linked with, or occurring in the course of agricultural and forestry work. To this end, the Convention includes measures relating to machinery safety and ergonomics, handling and transport of materials, sound management of chemicals, animal handling, protection against biological risks, and welfare and accommodation facilities. The ILO Codes of Practice set out practical guidelines for public authorities, employers, workers, enterprises, and specialized occupational safety and health protection bodies (such as enterprise safety committees). They are not legally binding instruments and are not intended to replace the provisions of national laws or regulations, or accepted standards. Codes of Practice provide guidance on safety and health at work in certain economic sectors , for instance construction, opencast mines, coal mines, iron and steel industries, non-ferrous metals industries, agriculture, shipbuilding and ship repairing, forestry), on protecting workers against certain hazards , like radiation, lasers, visual display units, chemicals, asbestos, airborne substances), and on certain safety and health measures ,like occupational safety and health management systems; ethical guidelines for workers’ health surveillance; recording and notification of occupational accidents and diseases; protection of workers’ personal data; safety, health and working conditions in the transfer of technology to developing countries.