ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) may be headed for another round of internal crisis over the allegations that senior members of the National Working Committee of the party have replaced some of the suspended Directors of the various directorates of the party with cronies Following the various audit carried out by the Senator Abdullahi Adamu -led on resumption, the NWC suspended heads of directorates including those ofadministration, Finance, Welfare, Media and Publicity, Planning, Research and Statistics and Organizing. It has however emerged that while the fate of the suspended Directors was yet to be determined, it was alleged that the senior NWC members went ahead to fill some of the positions with their cronies. According to a source aware of the matter, the National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore was said to have replaced the former Administration Director, with his Special Adviser, Prof. Adedubura while the National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu brought in the Director of Welfare. Also, the Deputy National Chairman North, Senator Abubakar Kyari brought the Director of Finance, while his counterpart from the South brought the Director for Planning, Research and Statistics. The position of Directors of Publicity and Media and Organizing is still vacant. One of the former Directors who were suspended said he was shocked to learn that they have been replaced noting, that the NWC only asked to go on compulsory leave and not sacked. He said, “l am surprised when l heard that we have been replaced.” The filling of the position by the senior NWC members is causing another kind of ripple. As a concerned staff noted, the new Directors were brought in without any form of advert while those that have been marking time over the years were not considered for elevation. The source wondered why the party have failed to follow laid down procedure for hiring and elevating staff in the public service, wondering: -Advertisement- POLL “What is the difference between the NWC members’ action and the Caretaker Committee. Each national leadership of the party that comes, would want to sack the old staffers and bring in their own. “Some staff have been Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors for years without any promotion. “Another annoying thing with the way that the way Central Working Committee does the employment is that they can’t even advertise it a little. The way they employ here is the way they encourage employment in the government. One cannot remember when last he or she heard that there was an advert for employment going on some excerpt in the security outfits “One would have expected that an NWC that came in and said the way some employments were carried out and the way the employee carried out their duties in the party were not the expected standard was going to adopt the best practices to employ their replacements “As l speaking with you, the staff are reviewing the employment and they are going to come up with a position. “We can’t be working here for a long time and people will come from outside to occupy the juicy positions in the party. If anything happens in the party tomorrow it is we it would affect them more because the so-called employed Directors would leave.”