Prof. Shehu Raheem Adaramaja is the Executive Chairman, Kwara State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). He spoke with NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE on the current ASUU and Federal Government’s impasse and other challenges in the basic education sector in the state. Excerpts: Strike by ASUU has seemingly become part of the country’s academic calendar; what is your take on this? Well, the Federal Government is at fault. As an employer of labour, you shouldn’t promise what you can’t give. It is one thing to enter an agreement and it is another to implement it. One must not enter an agreement under duress. If you ask ASUU today they will tell you about a 2009 agreement. This government has struggled since last year. They set up another panel of the committee. ASUU is not easy to push aside, they are not. What is the way forward? It’s for the government to implement the agreements. It’s a simple fact. A university professor doesn’t earn N500, 000. My salary before I left was just N416, 000 as a professor. By the time they make statutory deductions I am left with about N300,000. The net salary of a senior professor is about N430, 000. And the last time salary was reviewed was before 2009. What is your mandate as the chairman of SUBEB? When Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak came on board, he decided to have me as a member of his team. He asked me to come and oversee this place, with trust. Like I said earlier, I was handled this responsibility as a trust. SUBEB in Kwara was rotten. You would have heard that the former occupant of this office connived with some people in the accounts section and the Nigeria Union of Teachers and some microfinance banks and cooperative societies to defraud the state to the tune of millions of naira. That is on the one part. On the other hand, it was also on record that the UBEC’s matching grant for 2013 was diverted by the previous administration. How much are we talking about in all? POLL Over N1 billion was diverted. The money was in our account but they deceived UBEC, in the course of awarding the contract, the money was siphoned and used for other purposes for which they were not meant. That led UBEC to blacklist Kwara State. How did you and the state governor tackle the problem? Well, the situation led to the governor looking for someone who can help reform the place and bring back the glory of the state in education. The choice was me. So the mandate is clear from the outset; go and reform the Kwara SUBEB. Let me also add that before I came, teachers’ morale was down. Paying their salaries, piecemeal and in installments was the order of the day. There were no promotions for hard work; teachers were unwilling to go to work; classrooms were dilapidated and had no furniture and pupils sat idle. Enrolment in public schools had gone down seriously. This gave opportunities to private schools to thrive in the state. That was what the administration of Governor Abdulrazak met on the ground and we are trying to reform it. What have been the outcomes of the reforms? The result of this is what you see in all 16 LGAs today. Go round them and see what we have accomplished. I told you that Kwara SUBEB was blacklisted. UBEC vowed never to have any form of relationship with the state again until the state returned N1 billion that was diverted. Before the former governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed left; he was paying the money in installments but couldn’t finish it up until the expiration of his tenure. He left a deficit of about N450 million. So, how did the state get out of the UBEC blacklist? Abdulrazak came on board, cleared the deficit and UBEC opened another record for him. It was in the process that it was discovered that the state arrears in matching grants for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019; six years of arrears were outstanding. The money all accumulated to N7.1 billion. For us to access that money, we have to match it up with our own N7.1 billion. This makes it a total of N14.2 billion. -Advertisement- When I came on board, all I met was N14.2 billion. The governor has never for one day asked me to bring one naira from the money. We swung into the construction of classrooms and toilets and made water available in these schools because of the COVID-19 experience. Some embarked on renovations, remodelling and reconstruction of over 1, 335 schools across the state. We also invested in teachers’ and pupils’ furniture. For the children, we provided 29, 005. This is a twin sitter that accommodates two students. What this means is that we had furniture for 58,010 pupils. We also provided for teachers for about 7, 000. In addition to that, we are also providing digital literacy that prepares the students ahead of Kwara Learn. So, we looked for a cluster of schools, and in the place, we put digital literacy. We have it in every local government. We also invested in teachers’ capacity building. So, the reformation is total What have been the learning outcomes of these massive investments? Last year, in August, the All Progressives Congress, in conjunction with the presidency and UBEC accessed all APC governed states on utilisation of the matching grant from the commission. They came to Kwara and we took them around all our projects. We had just started at the time but at the end of the day, we were given first in the North Central. We then asked ourselves if we were able to make it first in the region with just 30 per cent execution of our project. Also, we enrolled in the Presidential Schools Debate last year and camped the children for two months of training. It was easy for me because back at the university I was the chairman of the faculty debate committee. So, I knew what it takes to put up a formidable team. I had the experience. We went for the championship in Lagos and came back with the trophy. Today, Kwara State is Team Nigeria and will represent the country in the World Debate Championship that is coming up in August in the Netherlands. Also in Mathematics, we enrolled our students in a competition put together by the National Mathematical Centre in conjunction with UBEC. From state level to zonal level, our own Aisha, from Ilorin East came first. We came sixth in Nigeria. We came first in North Central and Sixth in Nigeria. You were once quoted while speaking on the learning outcome initiative, Kwara LEARN, the team in charge made some saddening discoveries about the state of education when they came. Can you tell us about it? What we met on the ground was sad. Before the commencement of the project, we did sampling. We did purposive random sampling; that is we took two rural and two urban for study. Then we did random sampling which is that we picked, say from the rural, we picked two. We took two from the urban area, mindful of the political fallout that may come out of it. What I mean is that if you pick all of these from one senatorial zone, others may not like it. So, from Kwara North, we picked Baruten, from Kwara South we picked Offa; in Kwara Central, we picked Ilorin East and Ilorin West. In education, there is what we call, formative evaluation that is before you start, what are those conditions you met. You do this so that when you do your summative evaluation, you will know the values you have added. In doing this, we dug down in all 365 pilot schools, evaluating what their situations were. In Baruten, we found that in some schools, you can’t find more than two or three teachers. In some locations, because of the terrain, whenever it rains, schools are closed. In some locations where there are big markets, no school for pupils. We also found out that some schools had to augment teaching staff through efforts of the community, and PTA teachers. So, we summed up all these challenges and sought a way out. What method did you deploy to solve the problem? We knew that Kwara LEARN is a digital initiative. We knew we had to retrain the teachers on how to use ICT based tools for effective teaching. Some can use gadgets other than their cell phones; some do not even know how to use phones other than to make calls. So, we devised a means of bringing them up to par on how to use it. In Kwara LEARN, once we deploy a lesson for classes, it goes around. And you can’t as a teacher refuse to teach it. Do you mean lessons will be deployed centrally? Yes, lessons are deployed centrally now. And teachers are bound to be in classes. If you are not in class, the system will prompt us that the teacher is not available. If the teacher is in school but not in class, we have a way of also detecting it. This will be the first of its kind in the whole of the north. We have to return Kwara to that status, thank God for Governor Abdulrazak.