ENUGU – The Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Lawal Abubakar, has decorated no fewer than 82 officers promoted to various ranks serving in Enugu State. The decoration witnessed a minute silence for the recent officers who were killed on the Nsukka axis of the state as well as other personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty within the state. Decorating the officers, Abubakar commended the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) for recommending such a number from the state to the Police Service Commission (PSC) for promotion. He, however, congratulated the newly promoted and decorated officers, while “reminding them that the reward for hard work is more work”. According to him, the IGP requires you to redouble your efforts and get more committed to delivering on security tasks within the state. “The IGP demands more commitment and success from you. You must prove to the IGP that you are capable, dedicated and disciplined to wear the new ranks. “At these ranks and stage, you are expected to lead aright and point out the operational and administrative direction for those under you in the command, department or unit,” he said. The commissioner also gave the “Award of Gallantry” to one of the personnel from the command (name withheld) that was able to escape from the kidnappers’ den in the state recently. POLL Responding, newly decorated Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Opara Ogonnaya, thanked the Almighty God, IGP and PSC for the privilege of the promotion and decoration. “We, the newly promoted and decorated, will not take this privilege for granted and we will put in our best to secure our people,” he said. Speaking, newly decorated DSP Daniel Ndukwe, who is the state’s Police Public Relations Officer, said that promotion and decoration remained a big motivation for the officers and men to work harder. “The Command is thankful to Almighty God, our dear IGP and PSC for recommending and approving such a number even as we assure our authorities of better results in terms of security of lives and property,” he added. 50 officers were promoted and decorated from the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) to Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) as well as 31 officers moving from inspector cadre to ASP and one ACP.