The Chairman of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Bauchi State Chapter, Mahmud Yakubu Muhammad has hampered on the need for media practitioners to be professional in reporting sports activities in the state. He gave the advice on Monday during the opening ceremony of the commencement of the Bauchi SWAN 2022 week which was held at the NUJ Press centre Bauchi. According to him, the aim of the SWAN week was to foster cordial relationships among media practitioners via sports, adding that the week was also an avenue to create healthy competition through various games that will take place during the week. He said that the association will be organizing training for sports writers in the state to keep them abreast with trends in the sporting world as well as enhance their reporting skills in sports. The SWAN Chairman said that journalists need to always exercise to stay healthy as it enhances the physical well-being of individuals and promotes mental and psychological health. “The health of our members and that of other journalists is very important, hence they need to be fit and mentally alert. Through sports, they will keep bodies healthy, thereby performing better in their jobs as media practitioners ” he said Also Speaking, The Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Bauchi State Council, Comrade Umar Sa’idu said that sports are no longer an entertainment or business but a force that unites Nigerians. He commended media organizations in the state for promoting sports activities through their reportage and encouraged them to sustain the tempo. -Advertisement- POLL In his speech, the North-East Vice President of SWAN, Jibo Zakari urged journalists to be professional in reporting sports activities by going for training that will enhance their productivity in the field of sports. Represented by the North-East Zonal Secretary of SWAN, Nasiru Abdullahi Kobi, Jibo said that the association will soon organize a North-east SWAN competition that further unites media practitioners in the zone.