**Cautions Politicians Against Causing Infractions In Polity  ABUJA – The Center for Reforms and Public Advocacy (CRPA) has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) against plans by political parties to replace running mates to presidential candidates. CRPA on Saturday reminded the electoral body that it was unconstitutional, and against the new Electoral Act to recognize such terms as “placeholders” making the rounds in the country’s electoral space. As it urged political parties to familiarize themselves with the relevant aspects of the new electoral law and avoid actions that are capable of causing infractions. The centre said that the extant laws only recognize “associate candidate” and “running mate,” insisting that “Sections 28 and 84 of the amended Electoral Act 2022, relate to only the candidate – presidential and gubernatorial – and not their running mates.” It noted that by the provisions of relevant laws, the substitution of candidates by political parties becomes possible in cases of withdrawal or death of candidates and these are president, gubernatorial, Senate, House of Representatives and State Assemblies who were nominated by political parties through valid primaries in accordance with Section 29 and 84. CRPA also explained that Section 33 of the Electoral Act says “A political party shall not be allowed to change or substitute its candidate whose name has been submitted under section 29 of this Act, except in the case of death or withdrawal by the candidate: -Advertisement- POLL “Provided that in the case of such withdrawal or death of a candidate, the political party affected shall, within 14 days of the occurrence of the event, hold a fresh primary election to produce and submit a fresh candidate to the Commission for the election concerned”; and to conform with section 33, section 29 must be adhered to, to ascertain categories of candidates captured.” This is as it noted that Section 29 in subsection (1) says “Every political party shall, not later than 180 days before the date appointed for a general election under this Act, submit to the Commission, in the prescribed Forms, the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections, who must have emerged from valid primaries conducted by the political party.” “So, it is no more business as usual, the current electoral law is very stringent in many areas especially methods of political parties’ primaries, who are delegates, how withdrawal is done, how the substitution is done and transmission of results, among others. “The current and subsisting electoral law does not capture a scene that makes possible the substitution of associate candidates or running mates either by the account of voluntary withdrawal or death. Subsequently, any substitution of running mates nominated by presidential and gubernatorial candidates comes flat in the face of the law. While this might not have been a deliberate oversight, it must be accepted that the law is sacrosanct and nothing can be added or removed from it unless through amendment of sections 31 and 33 to make provision for that in the future.” Accordingly, it pointed out that in accordance with section 31 which says “a candidate may withdraw his or her candidature by notice in writing signed by him and delivered personally by the candidate to the political party that nominated him for the election and the political party shall convey such withdrawal to the Commission not later than 90 days to the election” and section 33, only candidates who were nominated through valid primaries by political parties and whose names were submitted in accordance with section 29 can withdraw and be substituted under the law, not running mates that were not nominated through any primaries but by presidential and gubernatorial candidates.” It further commended the electoral umpire for doing all that is expected of it in the count down to the 2023 general election.