LAGOS – As the 2022 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for school candidates came to a close, the Council assured that it has made moves to commence marking and ensure the release of the results 45 days after the conduct of the last paper. West African Examination Council (WAEC), Nigeria National Office, Yaba in a statement signed by Moyosola Adeyegbe, Acting Head, Public Affairs, WAEC, Yaba announced that coordination and marking exercise for the examination will commence after the Sallah holidays. In the statement titled: “Coordination and Marking Exercise for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) For School Candidates 2022”, the council stated that the exercise would be carried out at eighty-five (85) marking venues spread across the country. The statement read in parts: “The West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Nigeria wishes to inform its Stakeholders and the General Public that the Coordination and Marking Exercise of the just concluded West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for School Candidates, 2022 will be carried out at eighty-five (85) marking venues spread across the country. “To keep up with the practice of releasing candidates’ results 45 days after the conduct of the last paper, the coordination and marking exercise will commence on Wednesday, July 13, 2022, after the Eid-el-Kabir holidays. “The Coordination meetings for Chief Examiners and Team Leaders will be held in the morning of Wednesday, July 13, 2022, while the Assistant Examiners Coordination meetings will commence in the afternoon of the same day.“The coordination meetings would span three days, from Wednesday, July 13 to Friday, July 15, 2022. The council explained that the step is to Muslim brothers and sisters (Staff and Examiners) to partake fully in the festivities before embarking on the assignment. The WASSCE for School candidates 2022 that was reverted to the May/June period commenced on May 16. -Advertisement- POLL A total of One Million, Six Hundred and Seven Thousand, Nine Hundred and Seventy-Five (1,607,975) candidates from Twenty Thousand, Two Hundred and Twenty-One, (20,221) schools registered for the examination. Out of this number, Eight Hundred Thousand and Fifty-Five (800,055) are males, comprising (49.76%) while Eight Hundred Thousand, Seven Hundred and Twenty-Four (800,724) are females, comprising (50.24%) of the total candidature. Candidates were examined in 76 subjects, made up of 197 papers. About 30,000 practicing senior teachers, nominated by various Ministries of Education participated in the examination as supervisors.