The recent decampment of a presidential aspirant and former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi from PDP to Labour Party in a bid to actualise his presidential ambition has been described as “the best thing that has ever happened to Nigeria.” Patron, Importers’ Association of Nigeria and well-known community leader in Anambra state, Chief Gilbert Bravo Obi told our correspondent in Onitsha on Monday that the former Anambra State Governor whom he described as a “presidential material” was capable of springing up surprises at the 2023 presidential poll. While urging Nigerians to rally around Obi to become the next President of the country, Chief Obi stated that the two major political parties, PDP and APC had in the past and present failed Nigerians, adding that it was now time for a paradigm shift if Nigerians must escape corruption and bad leadership in the entire system. Bravo Obi maintained that the country’s leaders both past and present have failed Nigerians because of their selfish political interests and called on all Nigerians to try Peter Obi. “We have seen politicians in Nigeria both past and present, but we are yet to experience somebody who is committed to good governance and prudent management of resources like Peter Obi.” “We can equate Obi with the late Premier of defunct Eastern Nigeria, late M.l. Okpara who sacrificed everything to develop the defunct Eastern Region.” Chief Obi said that most of the politicians vying to become the President of Nigeria had failed in their previous positions which they used as an opportunity to amass wealth to the detriment of the masses. “Look at the profile of all those aspiring to rule Nigeria and their past record. How many of them are innocent of sharp practices, rather they used their privileged positions to amass wealth and underdevelop their people. But look at Peter Obi and how he developed Anambra State.” POLL “This was a man who left about N75 billion cash and $150 million dollars for his predecessor, Willie Obiano. What Obiano did with the monies is a talk for another day”, he stated