KINGSLEY IGHOMWENGHIAN In what may seem an unwillingness to continue hoping for the release of the final report of the forensic audit conducted on troubled Tourist Company of Nigeria Plc from the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), directors of the Federal Palace Hotel and Casino, Lagos, on Monday, announced plans to commence implementation of an agreement that will see shareholder-creditors forfeiting accrued interests on their outstanding loans for the good of the company. The deal known as the Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA), a novel idea in Nigeria, was approved at a virtual meeting of creditors and shareholders held on December 8, 2021. Thomson Reuters Practical Law online, defines a CVA as “a procedure that allows a company: To settle debts by paying only a proportion of the amount that it owes to creditors.” The company is also allowed “to come to some other arrangement with its creditors over the payment of its debts.” Once approved, Thomson Reuters further explained, “the CVA binds all the unsecured creditors of a company who were entitled to vote on the CVA proposal,” meaning that it binds even those who voted against, or received the notice but did not vote, would have been entitled to vote but did not receive notice of the proposal, despite being entitled to be notified of it. Once bound by a CVA, a creditor is prevented from taking steps against the company that the terms of the CVA prohibit. The subject matter of the Tourist Company of Nigeria (TCN) CVA, according to Sunday INDEPENDENT findings is its lingering N28.204 billion debt to three creditors, including its single largest shareholder and operator- Sun International Limited (a subsidiary of Sun International South Africa), whose management agreement is ends on September 30, 2022. In separate notices to shareholders and creditors signed by Anthony Idigbe, the company’s chairman, as well as the company secretary, and joint supervisors, and filed on the Nigerian Exchange Limited portal on Monday, Tourist Company of Nigeria recalled that participants at the virtual meeting “voted unanimously in favour of the resolution authorizing the implementation of the CVA by either or both nominees/supervisors,” among others. The Loan The external auditors of TCN, KPMG Professional Services, had in the audited financials for the company’s full-year ended December 31, 2021, under “modification of shareholders and related party loan,” noted that the directors approved the CVA “between Sun International Limited, Ikeja Hotels Plc (shareholders and creditors of the company), and Omamo Investment Corporation Limited (a creditor of the Company) on 28 July 2021, in respect of the waiver of interest on the shareholders and related party loan from 1 March 2020 until otherwise agreed by the shareholders, in accordance with the CVA procedure prescribed under Chapter 17 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA), 2020.” A breakdown of the loans as of December 31, 2021 showed that the total non-current, unsecured debt TCN owes Ikeja Hotel amounted to N9.409bn, while that of Sun International Limited was N10.1bn, and Omamo Investment Corporation, N9.235bn, bringing the total shareholder and related party loans to N28.746bn, up from N27.134bn in the prior year. -Advertisement- POLL In the notes to its own 2021 audited account also, Ikeja Hotel Plc, reported that the terms of its related party loans advanced to Federal Palace Hotel (TCN) with 12 percent interest per annum and compounded annually on the outstanding loan balances, “were mutually agreed but not formally documented and executed.” Repayment of both interest and principal, it noted, “is based on the liquidity position of the company,” assuring that the SEC instituted forensic audit would resolve all legacy issues around these balances. KPMG warned that the loan and the amounts outstanding against TCN are material to the financial statements, just as the nature of this transaction, the novelty of the CVA and the complexity of the legal proceedings required to be followed to comply with the procedures prescribed in CAMA 2020. This, the external auditors stressed, “makes this a key audit matter in our audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31, December 2021.” CVA Terms & Conditions Although TCN would ultimately seek fresh capital injection that may not come from its current majority shareholders, as a way out of its quagmire, the board had in a bid to stop the haemorhaging, proposed a CVA “between Sun International Limited, Ikeja Hotels Plc (shareholders-creditors) and Omamo Investment Corporation Limited (a creditor) on July 28, 2021, in respect of the waiver of interest which would have accrued on the shareholders and related party loans from 1 March 2020 until otherwise agreed to by the shareholders and/or creditors.” The proposal was considered at separate court-ordered meetings of the shareholders and creditors who unanimously authorised the implementation of the CVA, meaning that TCN did not provide for interest payments on shareholders and related party loans for 22 months between March 1, 2020, and December 31, 2021. Going Concern Worries That notwithstanding, TCN directors say it remains a going concern, although it remains loss-making, as the severity is on the decline, judging by the 2021 loss before tax of N2.3 billion, a significant improvement from N7.9 billion in 2020. Accumulated losses however stood at N24 billion, while current liabilities exceeded its current asset by N546 million, up from N468 million, meaning that there is an urgent need for fresh capital injection. Net asset position dropped by 65.71 percent to N1.2 billion as of December 31, 2021, from N3.5 billion in 2020. The directors blame these partly on the telling effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the general business environment, especially in the hospitality and tourism industry which is yet to fully recover, and remain susceptible to further disruptions. The directors say they have assessed TCN’s ability to continue in business despite the accumulated loss position, even when borrowings exceed available cash resources, since repayment is governed by the existing Second Shareholders Agreement. The agreement, it explained, specifies that repayments of the loans would only be triggered when TCN achieves specific profit targets and provided adequate funding is available. Such profitability targets, the directors noted, “are unlikely to be achieved for the foreseeable future, hence the shareholders loan will not be due for repayment in line with the shareholders’ agreement.” The directors may have reached such conclusion looking at the economic indicators and the material uncertainty prevailing around the current challenging in the operating environment. The directors say they have assessed the cash flow projections for the year ahead and believe that the company will have sufficient financial resources to continue to operate for the following twelve-month period. Free-Float And Divestment Notice Arising from its years of woes, Tourists Company has been unable to meet the requirement by the Nigerian Exchange Limited that minority shareholders hold up to 30 percent stake any quoted companies. TCN’s majority shareholders (those with up to five percent stake) control all of 98.2%, led by Sun International Limited with 1.108bn units, representing a 49.3% stake. Associated Ventures International Limited holds 419.408m shares or 18.7%; while Oma Investments Ltd and Ikeja Hotels Plc own 405.614m units or 18.1%, and 273.529m shares or 12.2% respectively. Due to the directors’ inability to cure the free-float deficiency, TCN was on July 1, 2015, advised by the Exchange to delist its shares voluntarily. This was approved by a board resolution on July 13, and communicated to the NSE seven days later. But, when the delisting was delayed, TCN sent a reminder on April 27, 2016, to which the Exchange finally responded on May 13 2017, explaining “that the delisting process had been placed on hold until the governance problems at Ikeja Hotel Plc have been resolved.” Sunday INDEPENDENT notes also that Ikeja Hotel, owners of Sheraton Hotels, Ikeja is equally awaiting the SEC’s decision on the outcome of its forensic audit over lingering ownership issues that has since the various related party contenders going in and out of courts. Apparently disappointed at the inability to recover its loans in “the foreseeable future,” notified the board of its intention to divest and exit Nigeria, the full implication on the business of which the directors say they are yet to fully determine, but agree that such “may impact on the sustained operations of the business.” The board also nonetheless admitted that the divestment plan “and the continued economic impact of the general business environment on the financial performance of the company which has affected the company’s cash reserves indicates the existence of a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future.” The Long Wait For SEC SISA is not the only dissatisfied shareholder-creditor, as Omamo Investment, also dismayed by the failure of TCN to repay its debt on demand, instituted a winding-up petition against TCN on September 23, 2011, on the basis that it had become insolvent. The petition was dismissed by the Federal High Court, at the Appeal Court there have being one adjournment after another from November 2017, to April 2018, March 2019, and subsequently to November 2020 to hear pending applications. The case was, however, adjourned again to a new date that is yet to be communicated. The directors of TCN, nonetheless, say they expect the matters to be settled without a material loss to the company, even as the SEC’s induced forensic, as part of settlement agreement among the shareholders, has been concluded and the report submitted is being reviewed by the commission. Until, and unless the forensic audit reports are released hopefully, soon, the fate of Tourist Company of Nigeria and Ikeja Hotels Plc hangs in the balance, given the competition for market share among new and existing operators in the Nigerian hospitality industry that is daily becoming keener. The directors may need to attract fresh capital through the creation and sale of new shares to new institutional and retail investors by way of a public offering, proceeds of which would go into repaying the loans and providing the working capital urgently needed, and in the process diluting the stake of the existing shareholders and curing the free-float deficiency.