LOKOJA – In continuation of her flagging off projects in rural communi­ties in the state, the Kogi State Community and Social Devel­opment Agency, KCSDA has re­leased over N57million for the sinking of boreholes; renova­tion of classrooms, building of clinics, library and remodeling of science laboratory blocks in four rural communities in the Central Senatorial District of the state. The General Manager of the Agency, Chief Dauda Momoh disclosed this yesterday, while handing over cheques to the benefitting Community proj­ects Management Committee, CPMC, in Adavi and Okehi LGA of the state. The General Manager, who is from the District was moved by the tears of joy expressed by the people, reminding that Governor Yahaya Bello was not unaware of their plights as he has initiated these projects to ameliorate their sorrows. He added that after the due diligence on the needs of the people was done, the Agency identified, scarcity of pipe-borne water, lack of health fa­cilities and dilapidated school infrastructures as critical to the wellbeing of people Hence, the agency swung into action in collaboration with the CPMC across the state to develop an action plan, which, the Gover­nor has graciously released the fund for the projects under the Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus N-Cares programmes of the Federal Government. He called on the benefiting communities to use the fund for the purpose for which it was released. He warned the people against vandalism, stressing that, indul­gence in unpatriotic activities would negate the effective im­plementation of Government programmes. While assuring availability of the money for the projects, urged them to ensure that the jobs are completed within two months. -Advertisement- POLL He added that when the sci­ence laboratories are completed and put to use, it will galvanise the schools to produce needed professionals in engineering, medicine, science, architecture among others. The benefiting communities include Eika-Ohizenyi, Ebokehi in Okehi LGA and Ebogogo and Adavi Eba in Adavi LGA of the state. In a remark, the Ohi of Ebo­gogo , HRH Ibrahim John Isah , lamented that the only borehole serving the community was constructed under the adminis­tration of Late Adamu Attah of old Kwara State, which he said, has since parked off leaving the people to the mercy of water ven­dors and scooping from streams.