ABUJA – The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is in dilemma over choice of running mate from the array of qualified aspirants from the Southern part of the country. It is almost certain that the vice presidential slot will be ceded to the South-South or South-East geopolitical zone, judging from the unfolding scenario. Analysing the develop­ment, a chieftain of the par­ty from Kogi State, Musa A. Musa, said that from the South- South zone, the likes of presi­dential contender, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State are being men­tioned while in the South-East, former Enugu State governor, Chimaroke Nnamani; former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, and former Deputy Speaker, House of Representa­tives, Emeka Ihedioha, are on the card. However, fresh consider­ations, it was learnt, favour the South-East geopolitical zone for equity, fairness and justice. Protagonists of the South- East for the vice presidential position are contending that since 1999, the zone has not had the opportunity to produce nei­ther the president nor the vice president. According to them, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo (South- West), was president from 1999 to 2007, while Dr. Goodluck Jonathan (South-South) was president from 2010 to 2015. “As it stands today, the South- East zone should ordinarily be allowed to produce the presidential candidate for the 2023 election, but since Atiku Abubakar, a North-Easterner is our candidate, it is only fair and logical that the vice presi­dential position to the South be micro-zoned to the South-East,” the PDP chieftain stated. Three prominent South-Easterners, former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim; former governor of Enugu State, Senator Chima­roke Nnamani, and former Deputy Speaker, House of Rep­resentatives, Emeka Ihedioha, are being mentioned as likely running mate to Atiku. POLL Both Anyim (Ebonyi cur­rently an APC state ) and Ihe­dioha (Imo currently an APC state) were presiding officers in the National Assembly and have garnered cognate legisla­tive experiences. But Chimaroke Nnamani has twin advantages of legis­lative and executive experienc­es over them. Besides, Enugu State where he hails from has remained a consistent PDP state since 1999. Nnamani was Enugu State governor for eight years under the PDP and cur­rently a ranking senator repre­senting Enugu East. He is a medical doctor trained in Nigeria and Amer­ica, specialising in foetal med­icine (medicine of the unborn babies). He is a professor of medi­cine and currently teaches and supervises medical students at Enugu State University of Sci­ence and Technology (ESUT) pro bono. He left a legacy of massive infrastructure including but not limited to the permanent site of ESUT, teaching hospital, general hospital in all the local government areas, the Nigeri­an Law School, among others. A political analyst and Law lecturer at the Baze University, Abuja, Dr. Sam Amadi, submits that if merit, competence and capacity would be the yard­stick, Senator Nnamani is the destination for the vice presi­dential position. Dr. Amadi said Senator Nnamani’s international ex­posure having schooled and worked in America will be an added advantage and asset to the nation if nominated for the position.