Former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Jide Awe, Secretary to Ekiti State government, Foluso Daramola and Head of Service, Mrs Peju Babafemi have been appointed as members of the Transition Committee and Advisory Council for the incoming administration of Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO). Yinka Oyebode, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Kayode Fayemi in a statement on Sunday said the advisory council has the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi and the former Deputy Governor, Professor Modupe Adelabu as chairperson and co-chairperson respectively also have another deputy governor, Surveyor Abiodun Aluko and Jide Awe as members. The Transition Committee and Advisory Council, according to the statement comprise members nominated by the state government and the Governor-elect. The statement said that the composition is in line with the Ekiti State Transition Law, 2019. It reads “The State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has approved the composition of a Transition Committee and an Advisory Council, following the election of Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji as Governor-elect. “The Transition Committee. would among other tasks, study the state of affairs of the present administration, review the programmes and projects of MDAs and map out strategies for a smooth transition from the incumbent to the incoming government. The Advisory Council would address unresolved issues.” Others members of the transition committee are Tolu Ibitola (Chief of Staff), Wale Fapohunda, SAN. (AG/ Comm for Justice, Akin Oyebode (Comm for Finance and  Mrs Peju Babafemi (Head of Service). Also Dr (Mrs) Olabimpe Aderiye, mni, Dr Oyebanji Filani, Mr O’seun Odewale, Mrs Margaret Fagboyo, Prof Bolaji Aluko and Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi (Co-Chairperson). -Advertisement- POLL Mr Oluwole Ariyo, Deji Ajayi Senator Tony Adeniyi, Mr Niyi Adebayo, Engr Dipo Bamisaye, Dr Habibat Adubiaro, Mr Sunday Fatoba, Prof Bisi Aina and Mr Adejumo Feyisope. The release stated the Committees are to turn in their reports within six weeks from the date of their inauguration.