Who is Johnny Depp? He is the current hero of justice for men and women who suffer domestic violence in the hands of their partners. Johnny Depp is an actor, musician, and painter. He is mostly known for his acting career which spanned decades. His unforgettable roles in Pirates of the Caribbean, Public Enemies, Dark Shadows, Alice in Wonderland, Rango, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, among others, cannot be forgotten in a jiffy. He is a real entertainer and an ambassador of sincerity and truth. However, Johnny Depp is a human like any one of us. He has proven that to be human is to have flaws and no one should be too righteous to own up to their flaws. For it is nobler not to live in the world of denial. Hence, anyone can know the you in you that makes you the you you are. A few days ago, we witnessed a contentious defamatory trial between Johnny Depp and Amber Heard on the op. ed where Amber described herself as an ambassador of domestic violence. Unfortunately, she ridiculed domestic violence and the entire #metoo movement. -Advertisement- “Mr. Depp what as it being like listening to Ms. Heard’s Testimony of this trial?” “It’s insane to hear heinous accusations of violence, sexual violence, that she’s attributed to me, that she is accused me of. I don’t think anyone enjoys having to split themselves openly and tell the truth. Ridiculous, humiliating, ludicrous, painful, savage, unimaginably brutal, cruel, and false. No human being is perfect certainly not. None of us. But I have never in my life committed sexual battery or physical abuse. No matter what happens, I did get here and I did tell the truth, and I’ve spoken up for what I’ve been carrying on my back reluctantly for 6 years.” Listening to Depp’s response no epistemologist, dialectician, or logician would not be moved by Johnny’s remarkable testimonies of translucent and forthright unscripted compositions. Contrary, Amber Heard would never be responsible for anything: “The disappointment I feel today is beyond words. I’m heartbroken that the mountain of evidence still was not enough to stand up to the disproportionate power, influence, and sway of my ex-husband. I am even more disappointed with what this verdict means for other women. It is a setback. It sets back the clock to a time when a woman who spoke up and spoke out could be publicly shamed and humiliated. It set back the idea that violence against women is to be taken seriously….I am sad I lost this case. But I am sadder still that I seem to have lost a right I thought I had as an American—to speak free and openly.” This is Amber Heard! Even in defeat, she refuted justice and responsibility. She found faults in their judgments as well as the jurors. Heard would never take responsibility for anything because she believed it was she against the world. Imagine her making this submission other than the one she made: “I accept the verdict with a humble heart, and thanks to all those who helped me in this case. Although we lost, we live to fight again. To Johnny, congratulation, and to the public thanks to those who supported me and those who did not. May God bless you all!” With such a kind of statement, that would have changed our views about her but that is not Amber—for we can’t teach an old dog a new trick. She has always lived in the world of denial! Contrary to Heard, here is Johnny after the victory: “I am, and have been, overwhelmed by the outpouring of love and the colossal support and kindness from around the world…. I wish to acknowledge the noble work of the judge, the jurors, the court staff, and the sheriffs who have sacrificed their own time to get to this point, and to my diligent and unwavering legal team who did an extraordinary job in helping me to share the truth.” This is Johnny with a meek heart full of love, care, and respect for everyone. Depp can be regarded as the most caring man in the world. I might have not met him but he displayed it before the full glare of the public during his trial. He is a good man but the laws that could not prove him right in the UK now did in the US. Here is what Heard said to him: “Tell the world, Johnny, tell them, Johnny Depp, I, a man, I’m a victim too of domestic violence and see how many people believe or side with you.” This is Amber Heard! For Heard’s consistent denial after the trial in the court of public opinion, she became the most distrusted woman on earth and the internet. Although some empathized with her she seemed to claim all her frailties, all her woes, all her misfortune to Jonny. She has never been responsible for anything. This proved her to be a customary and professional liar. On the stand, she lied that she never punched him but she hit him. She practically lied about everything because she would never be responsible. She kept recording him and taking pictures of him in awkward states yet she said she had no evil intention. She is always in denial, faking and lying. This got the court of public opinion disgusted with her. On the other hand, Johnny was sincere, responsible, regretful, and apologies for his wrongs. POLL In the trial: ladies, Depp’s exes, all came out to support him proving his modicum of good character. Historically, from past allegations when public figures get accused of abuse, especially men the tradition was that people would come forward claiming they were also abused by those same figures. We have critical cases of Marilyn Manson, Harvey Weinstein, Bill Cosby, and others but this was not the case with Depp. The ladies testified that he was and is never an abuser but a DV survivor. The reason is that a good man is always a good man because he is over the moon to anyone. So, we the watchers were not falling for Johnny’s power but seeing a man so meekly being abused by a woman. So, it was not a surprise when women turned out to support Johnny. One of the highlights of this case was when the issue of the “human fecal matter” (feces) was found on the side of Johnny’s bed. Heard said it was a joke that went soar. Please, what could such a kind of joke be? To defecate on someone’s bed and leave it there for the person to see yet it was called a joke? Also, was the allegation of abuse Heard publicized that Christian Carino said has made Johnny unemployable in Hollywood. Johnny said Heard would “verbally decimate him or send me into a tailspin or depression.” What about the Vodka bottle Ms. Heard threw that severe Depp’s finger in Australia? The greatest surprise was that Heard tore Johnny apart physically and emotionally and she said because he was a man nobody will believe him. So, she went on posting photoshopped faces on magazines calling Johnny all manner of names. Thus, if at all she was a victim she was a victim of an overinflated ego. This personality disordered ego was the one that made her see herself always as a victim. Consequently, those in the court of public opinion have come to know the truth through her very testimonies and the world is ready to come for her because the court believed she has taken advantage of not only the #metoo movement but also the face of domestic violence victims. The truth in this swing of support wasn’t because Johnny Depp was so powerful that people came to love him all of a sudden by coming out from their woodworks to support him but because Johnny by nature is a meek man: “I will find it hard to love again (Johnny said), loving someone and taking care of the persons with all your mind and heart and later finding out I meant nothing and paying me back with all this which I didn’t deserve. Thanks for the support from you fans, I really appreciate the love and ending support, I love you guys so much.” Here is a fan’s response to Johnny’s statement: “And I really love you too Johnny. You are amazing and I have the best heart. I am happy that you got your story out and it just made me and many others feel closer to you. Thank you for inviting us to be by your side and there are many of us that are with you in heart and spirit. You are the sweetest most loving, caring warm hearted awesome man I have ever known. I am glad the trial is over for you and I know you have won we are waiting for the jury right now but I don’t need a jury to tell me your character. I am Praying for you Johnny; I love you and sending you hugs.”