***Plans To Write ICC, Police Authority, Others Ahead of Osun State Governorship election slated to hold on July 16th, 2022, a human rights activist, Comrade Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman has renewed the call for immediate removal of Osun State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Olawale Taoheed Olokode, over alleged extra-judicial killings of innocent citizens of the State by the men of Nigeria Police Force (NPF) under his watch recently. He also called out the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Adeke Police Station, Iwo, Osun State, Mr. Ige Adekunle over an alleged brutalization of an innocent Nigerian, Mrs. Blessing Mba on 31st of May, 2022, under the watch of CP Olokode, appealing  to the authority of the Police Service Commission (PSC) and Inspector General of Police) IGP) to save the innocent people of the State from the hand of Olokode and his men by removing Olokode from the State immediately. Condemning the action of the police towards Mrs. Mba on Sunday, he disclosed that Mba had not committed any offence than asking about the whereabout of her son who has been tortured and detained in their custody illegally. He describes the action of Police as barbaric, unconstitutional, illegal, inhuman, evil, uncalled for, anti- people, an aberration, ungodly and crime against God and humanity, calling for immediate removal of Ige Adekunle as DPO of Adeke Police Station, Iwo. Reacting to the recent shooting of the State Correspondent of The Nation Newspapers- Mr. Toba Adedeji, Comrade Sulaiman maintained that CP Olokode (+2348033181456) did not deserve to be a Police boss and not to talk of being in the State before, during and after the forthcoming Governorship election in order to safe the lives of the innocent citizens, particularly, the voters from the hand of his men. -Advertisement- POLL It would be recalled that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Dugbe Police Station, Osogbo, Mr. Oyegade lead the team of the Police Officers that shot a journalist and two(2) other protesters during a protest by the members of the State Chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress( APC) after the party primaries in Osogbo, the State capital recently. Sulaiman who is the Executive Chairman, Centre for Human Rights and Social Justice (CHRSJ), described the State Police boss as an architect of Police unprofessionalism and blood thirsting Police Officer who were not fit to hold any sensitive position in the land, maintaining that the tenure of Olokode as Police Commissioner, was full of bad occurrences in the State. CHRSJ Chief, promised  that the Police boss would soon be dragged before the International Criminal Court(ICC) for genocide, adding that DPO Ige Adekunle, DPO Oyegade and their men would soon face the wrath of the law by bringing them to justice. Sulaiman therefore, stated that his human rights organization would soon write the Police and other concerned authorities for disciplinary action against the erring Police officers.