The management of the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), has debunked rumors and publications which claimed that it’s Director-General, Mallam Farouk Salim blamed the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) for the influx of substandard products in Nigeria. According to a press statement made available by SON’s Director of Public Relations, Rilwan Adebola Fashina, the challenge Nigeria faces when it comes to substandard products is hydra-headed and involves some unpatriotic Nigerians and their foreign collaborators. This, therefore, requires the continuous cooperation of all regulatory and security agencies, patriots and quality vanguards, which SON appreciates immensely. The statement read in part: “The Management of SON wishes to state unequivocally that it holds the Nigerian Customs Service leadership and officers in very high esteem and has been working in very close collaboration with the service all over the Nation to substantially reduce the importation and distribution of substandard products in Nigerian markets. “These were publicly expressed by the Director-General, Mallam Farouk Salim recently in Lagos and Port Harcourt at interactive forums with maritime stakeholders in the two cities.” “The Management of SON wishes to therefore correct the erroneous impression that it attributes the influx of substandard products into Nigeria to the Nigerian Customs Service. Deliberate efforts were made by SON to request the publishers of the erroneous stories to withdraw them from circulation.” In a similar vein, the NCS also released a statement to debunk the rumors, which also claimed that Customs was responsible for revenue losses, the preponderance of fake and substandard products, and alluded that officials of SON were routinely excluded from joint examinations by officers of the NCS. “We want to state that the allegations are untrue,” the statement from Customs read. -Advertisement- POLL ““The Nigeria Customs Service is fully cognizant that strategic cooperation among security and regulatory agencies lies at the heart of national security willfully works in tandem with other security and regulatory agencies including SON to achieve national goals.” “Under the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System (NICIS II), SON and other regulatory agencies of government are linked directly and frequently make inputs in reference to items of significance to their operations. “At no time has NCS refused to oblige them with any request. Indeed the Nigeria Customs Service even without intervention from SON on its own directs suspicious items bordering on brand and intellectual property rights infringements to them.” The statement went further to add that SON has access to the NCS’s systems and always participates fully in examinations, even going as far as collecting necessary product samples for investigations. The field inspection process chart on SON’s official website also shows the organization’s involvement in port and border examinations. “There exist open channels of communication between officials of SON and NCS Area Commands should the need arise for clarifications or interventions. Therefore, this statement ascribed to the DG creates a totally false narrative and is viewed as an attempt to portray the NCS in a negative light,” the statement stressed. “It is questionable, raises serious concerns, and calls for scrutiny by discerning members of the public. It is also self-condemning, and regrettable, and exposes SON as being incapable of living up to its mandate. If after issuing certificates, participating in examinations, taking samples for further investigations, and authorizing release to the NCS, substandard goods find their way into the open market the DG SON should look inwards.” “While success is said to breed opposition, the success of the NCS is not achieved by tarnishing the image of another agency just to look good or score cheap points. Our nation at this time needs every security and regulatory agency to trust and work as a team for our socio-economic wellbeing. “We urge the DG SON and his agency not to be self-seeking, leave the path of rivalry and collaborate towards achieving national interest,” the statement concluded.