PORT HARCOURT – Against the backdrop of the raging narrative that the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu contributed immensely towards the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari as President in 2015, former Senator Magnus Abe has called for restrain in the misrepresentation of the remarks made by the former Governor of Lagos state. Abe confirmed that the remarks by Tinubu in Ogun State recently of his contributions to Buhari’s emergence as president and to the APC, in Nigeria is a statement of facts, which no one can deny. In a statement signed by his spokesperson, Parry Saroh Benson in Port Harcourt, Rivers state on Saturday, Abe insisted that there is nothing new or different about the statement, which has been publicly admitted by the President himself. -Advertisement- The frontline governorship hopeful in the state said that all other aspirants in the presidential race have often talked of their own contributions to the success of President Muhammadu Buhari: “the Vice President talked of his contributions and loyalty to the President; Rotimi Amaechi, former minister of Transportation, talked of his being the President’s two-time campaign DG and his sacrificially breaking out of the PDP to ensure Buhari’s success among others”. He wondered why it would be a crime for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to also make public, or even flaunt his own contributions to the success of the same President and the APC. “It is no longer news to all genuine lovers of the APC that the past seven years have witnessed all sorts of evil plots by desperate politicians to destroy the fabric of unity between President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “He did not say anything new, which Nigerians do not know. So, the politically contrived hue and cry about the factual statement is to create disunity between both leaders in order to promote their plots to upstage Asiwaju and destroy him in a classic ‘use and dump fashion’. “I appeal to all members of our great party, the APC, to disregard the innuendos aimed at painting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in a bad light as, in the minds of the plotters, there is nothing he will do that will not attract condemnation. POLL “Delegates should focus on their future, the future of the country and our Party, and ignore these chameleons and wolves in sheep’s clothing. Asiwaju we know and Asiwaju we shall follow. “Therefore, I urge all party faithful to be firm, especially delegates and be committed to the success of our party”, he said. Abe insisted that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is “the only one with the killer punch that can deliver victory to APC in Nigeria today”.