The Chairman of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Walid Jibrin has said that the party will do whatever it takes to ensure that Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, doesn’t defect to other political parties ahead of the 2023 general elections. It could be recalled that Governor Wike lost out to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar in the party presidential primary held in Abuja in May. Also, when the choice of a vice-presidential candidate came up, Wike was said to be the top choice among the three preferred persons for the ticket, but Atiku picked Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa instead. Following these developments, there have been speculations that Wike may dump the opposition party, having been visited by Peter Obi and Rabiu Kwankwaso, presidential candidates of the Labour Party (LP) and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), respectively. Waving off the defection speculation while addressing journalists in Kaduna, Jibrin described Wike as “a great man who has been fighting for the party, and the party will not want to see him move to another party”. According to him, a reconciliation committee will be constituted to visit the Rivers governor, adding that the party will meet with all the persons who participated in the primaries and together visit him. He said, “We in PDP know how to solve our problems. We know that Governor Nyesom Wike may not be happy.It is the intention of this party to constitute a reconciliation committee that will meet Wike to talk to him, appeal to him, and pray that he will not leave our party. “We will all visit Wike together and if it means kneeling to Wike, we will kneel for him. We respect him. We respect his integrity and honesty in supporting the PDP. We believe that in any contest, there must be a winner and a loser.” -Advertisement- POLL The BoT Chair, however, advised members of the party to be united in order to win the 2023 elections, noting that the PDP lost the recent governorship election in Ekiti because of lack of unity. “I want to call on PDP members to work together in unity. We should not be divided against ourselves. We must unite within ourselves. If we begin to have problems among ourselves, there would be more problems for us”.