Akamelu Somtochukwu of Princeton College, Surulere and Nater Paul Akpen of Benue State University have both emerged as winners at the Grand Finale of the 11th National Travel Essay Competition (NTEC) 2022. The duo emerged winners from a shortlist of top 10 and top five finalists from a pool of entries in the Secondary Schools and Tertiary Institutions Categories, respectively. The topics for NTEC 2022 include: ‘Ground Accident Prevention In Air Transportation,’ for the Secondary Schools; and ‘The Role of Biometrics and Mobile Technology on The Future of Air Travel,’ for Tertiary Institutions. A statement by Mr. Ewos Iroro, the Editor, Travel & Business News stated that the gathering attracted youths from secondary schools and tertiary Institutions across the country and was part of the air transport Youth Empowerment Seminar (YES), organised annually by Travel and Business News (TBN). This year’s event was held at the Training Centre of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Annex, Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Ikeja, Lagos, over the weekend and was with the theme: ‘Securing The Future of Aviation in Nigeria.’ Eminent personalities who graced the occasion and also doubled as members of the Panel of Independent Assessors include: the Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu who was represented by Mrs. Oyetoun Adegbesan, Deputy General Manager, Economic Regulation & Facilitation and the Managing Director, Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO), Mr. Basil Agboarumi who Chaired the occasion and was represented by Mrs. Christie Oseghale, General Manager, Safety & Quality. Others were the Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu who was represented by Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba, the Regional Manager South West; Ag. Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Mr. Matthew Pwajok who was represented by Mr. Gabriel Akinlade; and Engr. Ifeanyi Ogochukwu, former General Manager, ICT, NAMA represented by Ms. Ene Onyeke, Technology Advocate, Debbie Mishael Consulting; and among others. The event also witnessed excellent presentations and robust engagements with students from participating schools delivered by seasoned industry professionals.