Access to finance is a major factor hindering Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria from optimally performing their role as catalysts to economic development. In a bid to search for a way forward, the 2022 Annual Business Luncheon of the Capital Market Solicitors’ Association (CMSA) is focusing on how SMEs in the country can access funding through the capital market. The Business Luncheon Themed “Capital Market, Startup Financing and Syndicate Funding: Ability of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises to Access the Capital Market”, the event will hold on Thursday, 23 June, 2022 at Radisson Blu Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. Temi Popoola, CEO of Nigerian Exchange Limited, will be the Keynote Speaker. Other speakers include Adeleke Alex-Adedipe, Partner, DOA and Chairman, Conference Planning Committee, CMSA; Olumide Akpata, President, Nigerian Bar Association ( NBA); and Chike Obianwu, Partner, Templars and Chairman, CMSA. The business luncheon will feature a fireside chat on the topic “SMEs & Capital Raising: Options & Current Obstacles”, where Tomiwa Aladekomo, CEO, Big Cabal Limited, will be speaking with Jumoke Olaniyan, Head, Business Development Division of FMDQ. There will also be a panel session on “Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: Access to the Capital Market”. The session will be moderated by Vincent Iweze, Partner, Pentagon Partners and Vice Chairman, CMSA, while the panellists are Toyin Sanni, Founder and CEO, Emerging Africa Group; Gbadebo Adenrele, Head, Investment Banking Division, Vetiva Capital Management Limited; Funso Akere, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Capital; and Olu Oyinsan, Managing Partner, Oui Capital. The Capital Market Solicitors’ Association is an independent self-regulatory association of solicitors and commercial law firms engaged in capital market practice. It was established in 2001 primarily as a platform to articulate and promote the interest of legal practitioners specializing or dealing in capital market transactions. Through its flagship Annual Business Luncheon, CMSA brings together solicitors, regulators, capital market operators and other participants in the sector to examine topical issues affecting the capital market. Some of the themes explored in previous business luncheons include “Financial Opportunities in the Capital Market – An Aid to Improving the Nigerian Healthcare Sector”; “Technology-Driven Products in the Capital Market: Prospect & Challenges”; “Bridging Nigeria’s Housing Gap”, among others.