ABUJA – The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylvia has hinted that as we transit to greener energy sources to reduce carbon emissions, it is imperative that every nation and region comes up with a green initiative to foster collective combat against the incessant threat to the planet caused by CO2 emission. Such initiatives must be bold, decisive and on target. Saying, it should however be borne in mind that such initiatives should reflect the realities and conditions prevailing in these places, particularly the socio-economic development and energy needs. Sylvia gave this hint in his keynote address at the Nigeria-Africa Natural Resource and Energy Summit while adding that, the key consideration in every country’s energy policy should be pivoted on energy security. -Advertisement- According to him:”This constitutes a very high priority goal for nations all over the globe. The reason is not far-fetched: Energy propels economic growth. That makes energy security synonymous with optimum and sustainable economic growth. Energy is an indispensable ingredient for human development and socio-economic prosperity. It is central to jobs creation, security, health, and other challenges facing humans. “This is why access to energy is prominently addressed in the UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development Goals. In particular, SDG 7 focuses on access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, as a fundamental right. “As at today, energy poverty is still much prevalent in the world, especially in Africawhere millions of people still do not have access to electricity or clean cooking fuels. “Based on the UN data, about 760 million people lack access to electricity worldwide, with 3 out of 4 of them living in sub-Saharan Africa. Furthermore, one-third of the world’s population – about 2.6 billion people – have no access to clean cooking fuels, with over 900 million of these in sub-Saharan Africa. POLL “On the average, only 48% of the sub-Saharan African population have access to electricity, while only 18% have access to clean cooking fuels, compared with a global average of 90% and 70%, respectively. “In relation to CO2 emission, World Bank statistics shows that the world average of CO2 emissions was 4.48 metric tons per capita in 2018, with some regions and individual countries recording five to seven times this value. Emission by sub-Saharan Africa in total was only 0.76 metric tons per capita. “The implication of the above is that the issues surrounding energy poverty, climate and sustainable development are not mutually exclusive. Consequently, the approaches to attending to these issues should not be disconnected. Climate change is definitely of serious concern to Africa. But of equal concern is the alarming level of energy poverty. Both must be addressed in a sustainable manner. It must be a win-win situation. “Energy transition is about providing clean energy, and not about discriminating between energy sources. In the face of the current high level of energy poverty worldwide, especially in Africa, all energy sources will be required to achieve the sustainable development goal of providing access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. It is evident that this goal cannot be achieved by renewable energy sources alone. All available energy sources should be considered, while available technologies, like carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS), should be employed to make them cleaner”, he explained. Slyvia further stated that oil and gas will remain important components of the global energy mix for decades to come. They will continue to be needed and essential for propelling global socio-economic development, especially in energy-poor countries, mostly in Africa, specifically sub-Saharan Africa. Fossil fuel, used with appropriate technologies, should be a part of the solution to climate change in energy-poor countries. His words: “In particular, Natural gas is widely seen as a low carbon-emitting energy source that could play a major role in the energy transition quest. Natural gas is known to emit 30% less CO2 compared to oil, and almost 70% less compared to coal, for an equivalent amount of energy supply. It is well-positioned to become the dominant fuel for generating power worldwide. It is worth noting that the European Commission is making a move to classify Nuclear and Natural Gas energy sources as ‘green’ “Nigeria has already made a strong commitment to embracing energy transition, pledging to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. This is in addition to the commitment Nigeria made through His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari, at COP 26 in 2021 to attain carbon net-zero by 2060. “Nigeria is following a transition pathway that combines technology, investment, business strategies, and government policy that will enable Nigeria to transit from its current energy system to a low-carbon energy system with natural gas playing a pivotal role. “Nigeria needs affordable, reliable and sustainable energy resources to eradicate the prevalent energy poverty in the shortest time possible, and propel economic growth. The only viable option currently on the table is natural gas, considering our vast proven gas endowments, put at 209 tcf, with 600 tcf potential reserves. We cannot ignore this resource, especially when energy poverty is viciously staring at us. “The goal of Nigeria’s gas policy is to ensure that gas development is undertaken in accordance with our socio-economic development priorities. The aim is to guarantee long-term energy security in the country and boost the domestic gas market. Hence the declaration of 2021-to-2030 as the ‘Decade of Gas’ by Mr. President. “We have embarked on a critical pathway to ensuring that our abundant Natural gas resources is marshalled to engender domestic economic growth and development. “In this regard, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources has launched the National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP) as part of the National Gas Policy to expand Nigeria’s Domestic gas utilization; the National Gas Flare Commercialization Programme; as well as specific provisions in the new Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) that elevates LPG as the fuel of choice compared to other competing fuels.” In addition, the usage of solar energy is already being vigorously promoted across the country, while the use of hydro, wind and other natural resources are also being expanded. Africa has a key role to play in securing a greener world where clean natural gas is used to power economies sustainably, he said. In particular, Africa’s large gas reserves fit well with our push for industrial growth and the need for reliable and affordable electricity to propel this overdue growth. This is essential for Africa to succeed in eradicating prevalent energy poverty in the shortest time possible. While we will not wish away our vast hydrocarbon resources, let us remind ourselves that the energy transition is real. That is the direction the industry of the globally and Africa cannot afford to be left behind. It is important for Africa to stand together to weather the climate change storm while avoiding losing all recent gains in the quest to pull our vast population out of energy poverty, and hence economic poverty. We need to pull our financial resources together for the improvement of necessary energy infrastructures. We should start looking inward to develop strategies for raising investments for the purpose of achieving a greener Africa without jeopardizing our energy sufficiency if we are to succeed in eradicating energy poverty in our continent.