Sporting Lisbon have made an approach to Cristiano Ronaldo as they look to offer him a way out of Manchester United, according to reports. The Portuguese superstar began his career with the capital outfit and speculation has continued to swirl around his future at Old Trafford. United finished sixth last term, meaning a year in the Europa League, and frustration is growing as they struggle to make summer signings. Ronaldo only return less than 12 months ago but is rumoured to be considering his future. He has told Erik ten Hag he wants to be part of a Manchester rebuild, but only if he’s wanted. The Sun on Sunday has reported that Sporting chiefs believe they can convince him to quit the Premier League club however and move back to Lisbon. A source said: “Sporting know that Ronaldo loves winning trophies. That looks a long way away at United at the moment and time is running out for Ronaldo. So what better way to finish his career than move back home and play in Portugal. It’s a strong league and a great lifestyle. Senior officials have made enquiries and let Ronaldo know they are interested if he wishes to leave United.” United secured Ronaldo’s signature from Sporting for around £12m back in 2003. He went on to win the Ballon d’Or during his first spell at the Red Devils and has gone on to achieve huge success at Real Madrid and Juventus. That said, his mother, Dolores, has been a big advocate of her son returning to his homeland. Last September she told a Portuguese podcast: “He has to come back. I already told him: ‘Son, before I die I want to see you return to Sporting’. ‘Let’s see…’, he said.” United though have recently reaffirmed their stance that Ronaldo will not be sold this summer amid interest from Chelsea. The Blues owner Todd Boehly has reportedly held talks with the player’s agent, Jorge Mendes, over a switch to Stamford Bridge. Top sources at Old Trafford are adamant that their No 7 is going nowhere. They said: “Cristiano is not for sale. We want – and fully expect – him to be with us next season.” -Advertisement- POLL Thus far Ten Hag has been unable to make a single signing this summer as his recruitment continues to falter. Frenkie De Jong has been the club’s top target but Barcelona have continued to drive a hard bargain during negotiations. Ajax defender Jurrien Timber had been linked but he is due to remain in Amsterdam.