LAGOS  – In fulfilment of the present administration’s housing policy in making Lagos a 21st century economy, the Honourable Commissioner for Housing, Hon. Moruf Akinderu – Fatai has urged the contractors handling various ongoing housing projects in the State to embrace the right technology that would reduce energy usage by future home owners. He gave the advice during an unscheduled inspection visit to the Joint Ventures schemes at Abraham Adesanya Housing Estate in Ajah Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the State. His words:” It is time to invest in the right building technology that can make homes more energy efficient by minimizing electricity and water usage so that overall utility bills can be reduced”. He further said efforts should be made to design and construct homes that will help minimize the negative impact of excessive carbonization on the environment. The Commissioner also disclosed that future housing schemes to be embarked upon by the State Government will be based on designs that retain the elements of the natural environment like trees and faunas. He pointed that, “ the Babajide Sanwo Olu Administration is looking beyond the provision of adequate shelter towards creating sustainable and habitable environment for both the present and future generations”. “Hence, future State owned housing schemes will be more environmental friendly, he revealed. On the reason for his visit to the schemes, the Commissioner said, he chose an unscheduled visit to the sites, to enable him see things exactly the way they are. -Advertisement- POLL Speaking further Akinderu Fatai said: “I believe in seeing things for myself, rather than relying on mere periodic reports”. Akinderu – Fatai further urged the private sector partners to complete the projects within the stipulated time lines so that the goals of adequate housing can be speedily achieved saying that “ given the rate of urbanisation of the State, the present administration led by Mr. Babajide Sanwo Olu is more determined than ever to make more decent shelters available for the people of the State”.