Anambra State government has placed a ban on any form of election in Innoma Community, Anambra West local government area, pending the last Ofala of the traditional ruler of the community, Igwe Emmanuel Olota who had reportedly joined his ancestors. This was contained in a letter written by the State’s Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Tony-Collins Nwabunwanne. The letter made available to newsmen was dated 17th June 2022 and was copied to the leadership of the Innoma community, the security agencies as well as other relevant organizations in Anambra state. Commissioner Nwabunwanne cautioned that no one should elect or crown any person as a traditional ruler of the community, adding that anyone or group of persons found would face the wrath of the law. He stressed that every community in the state has a constitutional provision that stipulates the modus operandi of any traditional ruler’s election. Nwabunwanne said, “It has come to the notice of the state government that some group of people has formed a pressure group against the community’s chieftaincy constitution and allegedly elected and crowned a traditional ruler for Innoma community without due process. ” An act, if not checked could lead to a possible breakdown of law and order in the state. ” In view of this, the state government wishes to inform the generality of Innoma community to stop all further process of election and selection of a new traditional ruler, pending the last Ofala of His Royal Highness (HRH) Igwe Emmanuel Olota of Innoma,  who had joined his ancestors. -Advertisement- POLL “The community through the President General should also keep the state government informed whenever the process of having a new traditional ruler commences and should strictly adhere to the provisions of the Innoma chieftaincy constitution as it relates to the selection of a traditional ruler. “The state government will not hesitate to sanction anybody who parades or carry out any function as the traditional ruler of the Innoma community. ”