Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola and other political gladiators in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the State have endorsed the VoteNotFight, Election No Be War Campaign. The visit led by the VNF National Ambassador Innocent 2Baba Idibia had the campaign donor National Democratic Institute (NDI) represented by the Country Director, Dr Steven Snook; Program Director, Bem Aga; and Program Officer, Civic Education, Youth and VNF, Tracy Keshi. Other members of the team were NIGAWD Senior Program Manager, Kackah Alex; Tosin Ayo; VNF Steering Committee Member and Veronica Ene Onoja; StopVAWIP Convener, Justice Development and Peace Makers Centre (JDPMC) The contestants renewed their commitment to peace during the advocacy visit of the SouthWest team of the VoteNotFight Campaign to them in the state. The Southwest VoteNotFight (VNF), which is being implemented by a non Governmental organisation, The New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD) in collaboration  Osun Stop Violence against Women in Politics (StopVAWIP) Campaign is supported by the National Democratic Institute (NDI). In his remarks, Governor Oyetola, who expressed delight about the initiative also advocated greater attention to Nigerian youths. He recalled that a similar campaign that was held in 2018 in Osun state yielded a positive result, noting that everyone wants the growth of the state, so it is important for us to hold a peaceful, free and fair election. “It is an era of democracy, a government of the people, for the people and by the people, hence we must ensure that the electoral process is credible and there is equal participation of men, women and youths. -Advertisement- POLL “The youths in Nigeria should desist from being political thugs and being used as instruments of violence by politicians. It is high time to have a youth commission that is saddled with the affairs of the youth: youth empowerment, youth employment, development programs Oyetola, who used the occasion to outline some youth-friendly policies of his administration hinted that youths and women were engaged in capacity and life-building skills. The governor, however, appreciated NDI for supporting the programs which he noted would encourage constructive participation of youth and women in democracy in Nigeria. The  Delegation also had a separate interface with candidates of the Accord Party, Dr Akin Ogunbiyi; and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senator Ademola Adeleke. The contestants after signing the peace accord were enjoined to their appeal to their followers on the importance of peaceful and nonviolent conduct during elections. Earlier the NDI Country Director appreciated the campaign ambassador for the VNF campaign for his constant support when called upon and gave him the floor to speak. VNF National ambassador 2Baba Idibia appreciated Governor Oyetola and his administration for adopting and implementing the Osun Youth Agenda Policy document. 2baba stated that as the Chief Security Officer of the state, he was confident that new commitments and efforts will be made to make the July 16th election peaceful in Osun state.