The Excutive Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, has lauded a foremost indigenous oil palm entrepreneur and Managing Director of JB Farms Limited, Ajibola Bankole Adebutu, for choosing the state for a 10,000-hectare multi-million-naira integrated plantation in Ore area of the state. The governor, while planting the first palm oil tree during the inauguration ceremony, used the opportunity to call on more serious investors, saying the state would welcome them with an enabling environment. “This is a farm that we are projecting to stand on a total land area of 10,000 hectares and more and this is just the first one and I believe that it will be more than this. I am saying this because we are on a path to uncover the effects of having this farm,” the governor said. -Advertisement- He explained that Okitipupa Oil Palm, established by Chief Obafemi Awolowo, was in the process of revitalisation, but encumbered by some challenges, urging traditional rulers and other stakeholders to cooperate with the government, going forward. “However, it dawned on us that we could not own the farm. Then we realised that things were not going as planned, so we decided to channel our focus elsewhere. We must all come together to plan and re-strategise so as not to render Okitipupa Oil Palm Plc dormant.” He expressed appreciation to the farm owner for making the state his investment destination, saying: “Today, I am super-excited to be a part of this occasion, particularly because I will be planting the first seedling on this farm. I am really honoured to be a participant and I envision that this establishment will facilitate job creation. “As of today, we have given about 70,000 hectares to investors; about five or six of them.  We also recognise that the tree crops value chain is one of the foremost areas where we have comparative advantage. We are committed to improving and multiplying the production of three crops such as cocoa, oil palm, cashew, rubber and coffee. These strategies are also to improve the means of livelihood of the people of Ondo State,” he said. The state governor is optimistic the integrated plantation will bring rapid economic, social and employment opportunities through cultivation, production and processing of palm fruits into crude palm oil, vegetable oil, palm kernel oil and cake in a complete value chain. POLL Akin Olotu, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Agribusiness also commended the investor for a bold step in the oil palm investment in the state. “We all realise the importance of what is happening today, but I am bold to say that Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, has brought back the lost glory of Ondo State,” through ‘Red Gold project’ and many more agro-industrial projects facilitated into the state. He said the plantation and the mills would directly and indirectly employ no fewer than 40,000 workers with the potential to do more. “I also tell people that it is a pity that we cannot put this up in the heart of Ondo town so that people can see, but a lot has been done and accomplished, the governor has successfully repositioned Ondo State and I make this prophecy that the year is coming when the governor of Ondo State and even the Commissioner for Finance will not go for FEC meetings; they will just ask a director in the ministry to represent us because we would have grown the IGR tremendously.” He said of the major three sources of edible oil in the global market, oil palm is the most consumed. The state and the country, he maintained, have comparative advantages in oil palm production and processing. Adebutu, founder and Managing Director of the firm, commended the state for creating an enabling environment for investors, stating that there was no inducement or demand for any form of gratification from the government officials to facilitate the project. “We have been operating out of Ogun State for quite a while and we have been looking for opportunities to expand our operations. We reached out to one or two other states but maybe they saw us as small boys and they were not interested. But one fateful day last year, I had the opportunity to meet Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu. “And, I prepared all my speech and I sat in front of him and I gave the best of speech I have ever given in my life, and when I finished all my story, he said: ‘there is something wrong with your presentation,” my heart sank and he said, “you are the one who wants to come and invest in my state, I should be the one begging you and not you begging me.” Based on the investment projection, he disclosed that the 10,000-hectare plantation would be developed within five or six years and as projected, the firm intends to employ between 8,000 and 10,000 people working directly on the plantation. He added that when the whole plantation is cultivated a 60-tonne/hour mill would be added, and a turban power plant will be installed to use solid waste from the farm as the source of fuel. “Now, we have been here for about just over eight months and we have been able to clear just over 1,500 hectares of land, which we will start to plant by the beginning of June once the rains are steady.” Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), represented by Head, Perennial Crops, Abdul Razak, said JB Farms is the only indigenous oil palm firm in Nigeria that partners with the apex bank successfully. “I can boldly say in CBN, as of today, our greatest partner is JB Farms. We have partnered with them in other areas, especially in Ogun and Cross River States, where they cultivated 4,500 hectares while assessing CBN intervention funds. “Of course, the loans have been fully repaid, and I can tell you that they are doing passionately and wonderfully well. He said apart from employment, corporate social responsibilities like roads, schools, health would be collateral advantages to the host communities. The CBN representative said: “We can see what is happening in the South-South area where you have so much of such being done and the same thing is being done here.” He encouraged others to emulate JB Farms, saying, “If others can do such, certainly it will be very good not just for us but also for the nation at large. We at CBN are ready to partner with any company or any plantation farm that is ready to do similar to what JB Farms is doing.” It would be recalled that JB Farms started in 1998 with eight hectares of oil palm plantation in Iperu, Ogun State. From eight hectares, the firm has scaled up to a commercial farm with 4000 hectares of oil palm plantation in Odogbolu Local Government Area of Ogun State and 4,200 hectares in Oban, Cross Rivers State.