Earnipay, a revolutionary financial product that has the capacity to help employees in their time of need has reiterated its commitment to bring financial succour to individuals who may need money before their salaries are paid by the end of the month. Earnipay has significantly, doubled down on its bold moves to drive employee wellness through its innovative and flexible on-demand access to earned salaries and the new addition of financial education product; MINT and savings opportunities. Given that most employees when hamstrung financially resort to either borrowing, taking a loan, or requesting a salary advance and the attendant challenges that go with these problem-creating options that include exploitative interest rates, embarrassment from loan sharks and predatory payday lenders or going down the rabbit hole of further debts, and a plummeting of salary advance schemes, Earnipay enables employers to offer employees access to their earned salaries instantly at any time without making changes to their existing payment process nor any cost whatsoever. For as low as 250 naira only, employees are able withdraw up to 50 per cent of their daily earned salary or as accrued at the time of access, at any time of the month and at no interest to them. Earnipay founder and CEO, Nonso Onwuzulike said, “We are ensuring salary earners have a better control of their finances by developing a network of tools and an ecosystem that enables them to reduce the time to access money, and make better decisions on how they spend, save and invest. With Earnipay, Payday is any day”. He furthermore expressed his firm’s dedication towards ensuring financial wellness for all income earners in Nigeria while adding that the organisation has provided up to N100 million of flexible salary access to employees since it was launched in January 2022 and expects to provide their services to 200 thousand employees by the end of the year, thus positively contributing to Nigeria’s socio-economic agenda. “We are ready to go all the way with employers to improve the livelihood of their employees and ultimately facilitate a better employee-employer relationship”, he added. Employers need to build their reputation as businesses that care and the imperative to demonstrate this empathy is premised on the fact that the traditional payday structure has become largely ineffective in employee welfare and development. -Advertisement- POLL Earnipay empowers businesses to attract and retain top talent in an increasingly competitive employee marketplace, improve team’s productivity and eliminate the financial stress that holds back employees from performing optimally on their jobs without any disruption to payroll structure and systems.