LAGOS – After the defeats in the two international friendlies against Mexico and Ecuador, the Super Eagles on Sunday continued their preparations for the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers against the Leone Stars of Siera Leone and Sao Tome & Principles. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that 24 of the 27 invit­ed players trained in the Fed­eral Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Friendly matches against Mexico (in Dallas on May 28) and against Ecuador in New Jersey (June 2) kickstarted the preparations as the Super Ea­gles seek a 20th appearance at Africa’s flagship tournament, this time holding next year summer in Cote d’Ivoire. -Advertisement- With Head Coach José San­tos Peseiro taking full charge, skipper Ahmed Musa led the playing body that included goal­keepers Francis Uzoho, Ade­wale Adeyinka and Adebayo Adeleye, and defenders Olaolu­wa Aina, William Ekong, Zaidu Sanusi, Chidozie Awaziem, Oluwasemilogo Ajayi, Leon Balogun, Sani Faisal and Ken­neth Omeruo. There were also midfield­ers Alex Iwobi, Oghenekaro Etebo, Innocent Bonke and Frank Onyeka, and forwards Samuel Chukwueze, Moses Si­mon, Victor Osimhen, Cyriel Dessers, Ademola Lookman, Sadiq Umar, Terem Moffi and Emmanuel Dennis. As at lunch time on Sunday, only defenders Abdullahi She­hu and Calvin Bassey, and mid­fielder Joseph Ayodele-Aribo were being expected in camp. During breakfast and lunch periods, Peseiro was able to meet and familiarize with invit­ed players who were unable to make it to the United States for the friendlies, including skip­per Musa, defenders Sanusi and Balogun, midfielder Ete­bo and forwards Chukwueze, Umar and Lookman. He also met with defender Omeruo, midfielder Onyeka and forward Osimhen, as well as Israel-based goal-tender Adeleye, who were not invited to the friendlies in America but have been called for the AFCON fray. POLL The Super Eagles confront familiar foes Sierra Leone at the M.K.OAbiola National Stadium on Thursday evening, in one of the Day 1 matches of Group A of the qualification series. On Saturday, they will fly to Marrakech for a Day 2 game against São Tomé and Príncipe that will take place on Monday, June 13. Meanwhile, the Confedera­tion of African Football (CAF) has appointed Ivorian officials to take charge of Thursday’s encounter in Abuja, with Ibra­him Kalilou Traore as referee. His compatriots Adou Desire