People do not stumble into greatness; they become great by taking responsibility for their assignments. Winston Churchill called responsibility the price of greatness. The case of two servants of an ancient emperor exemplifies the role of responsibility in promotion and success. The emperor was angry with both servants—the chief butler and the chief baker. As a result, they were imprisoned. While in prison, they both had a dream and hidden in their dreams is the universal principle of responsibility and success. -Advertisement- Hear the chief butler explain his dream: “Behold, in my dream a vine was before me, and in the vine were three branches; it was as though it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and its clusters brought forth ripe grapes. Then the emperor’s cup was in my hand; and I took the grapes and pressed them into the emperor’s cup, and placed the cup in emperor’s hand.” Did you notice the specific words that the chief butler used? I took…I pressed…I placed. Action words. Because he took responsibility for his office, he was restored. POLL Restoration is the end result of accepting responsibility for one’s position. When you accept responsibility for the cup in your hand, the assignment your organisation has placed in your hand, it’s just a matter of time before you are lifted, restored, promoted and so on. Life will move you out of the dungeon and bring you back to your rightful place because responsible people are not meant for the dungeons; they are needed in the palaces and the C-suites. Then we come to the next servant, the chief baker. “I also was in my dream, and there were three white baskets on my head. In the uppermost basket were all kinds of baked goods for my emperor, and the birds ate them out of the basket on my head.” What did you notice about this servant? He allowed the birds to eat the food that belonged to his emperor. Wow! What a lazy servant. He failed to tend and guard his garden. How could you allow birds to eat the food meant for your emperor? Similarly, how could you allow competitors to enter your market segment and erode your market share without putting up a fight? How could you forget to submit that multimillion-dollar bid that you missed the deadline? What was the chief baker’s reward? He was hanged. Someone would say that life is not fair because one was restored and the other hanged. Another person that the chief butler was lucky or favoured. And yet another that the emperor was a wicked leader. But the bottom line, the underlying principle of success and even of luck or favour, is responsibility. Was it favour that restored the chief butler? No. Responsibility did! Did the emperor prefer him to the chief baker? No. He created his own success story through the principle of responsibility. Was life unfair to the chief baker that he was hanged? No. He got the reward for his irresponsible behaviour. From this parable, we see that the governing principle of the universe is responsibility. When we don’t understand this principle, we attribute success or failure to external factors. We forget that life favours no one; we reap what we sow. Did luck make Jeff Bezos one of the richest men in the world? Did luck help Serena Williams win twenty-three singles grand slam titles? Well, luck might have played a part, but nobody ever wins a tournament, comes out with a first-class, or builds a multibillion-dollar business on luck or favour alone. Responsibility is the governing principle of the universe. Our results follow our sense of duty and responsibility. Responsibility is the door we must pass through to favourable futures and opportunities. Responsible people find that life usually smiles at them at critical junctures with favourable opportunities. Some call it luck, others call it favour, but the fulcrum upon which luck or favour revolves is responsibility. How do I know so? When an irresponsible person is given a break in life, their lack of responsibility will destroy their chances. Based on the dreams of the two servants, people can be divided into two: those who take responsibility for their future and those who allow the birds to eat away their future. One Quick Test of Responsibility: Fruitfulness The first test of responsibility is to be fruitful. Fruitfulness is wired into nature and is a part of our DNA. In the workplace, fruitfulness deals with productivity. It can also be seen in making a profit over and above your cost of capital. It is ensuring that as an employee, you not only cover the cost of your salary every month but also make a profit for your employer. Profit is the language and lifeblood of business. Without it, there will be no capital accumulation to employ new people, replace depreciating equipment, and even pay your salaries in the future. If profit is the lifeblood of business, productivity is the access key to profitability. It is not enough to go to work every day, we must constantly ask ourselves: • Am I productive? • What is my contribution to the success of my company? • Is my organisation deriving value from my presence? • How can I be more fruitful or productive? • How can I make a difference today? No employer would retain an unproductive staff. An employer would only keep you because they are earning far more than they are paying you. When they start to earn less than what they are paying you, they will reconsider your employment. Therefore, be fruitful!