The House of Representatives on Thursday directed an inquiry into the level of contributions by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and its benefits to Nigeria and Nigerians to find out if they are proportionate to Nigeria’s huge contributions and sacrifices to the region over the years. The House as a result mandated its relevant committees to engage relevant government ministries and agencies to establish the true position of things and report back in six weeks for further legislative actions. The resolutions followed the adoption of a motion on matters of urgent public importance brought by Hon. Awaji Inombek Dagomie Abiante (PDP, Rivers), wherein he called attention to the invincible nature of ECOWAS supposed positive impacts on Nigeria and her citizenry. This was even as the Deputy House Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase berated the management of the ECOWAS Commission for engaging Nigerian workers on a casual basis as against international labour laws. Hon. Abiante in his presentation noted that “the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS: also known as CEDEAO in French) was established by the Treaty of Lagos in Lagos, Nigeria on May 28, 1975, with the main goal of promoting economic cooperation among member states to raise living standards and promote economic development.” “The regional political and economic union of fifteen countries called ECOWAS has its headquarters in Abuja, and its arms of governance include, the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. “In 16 years, Nigeria has contributed more than $1.177billion to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) as its Community Levy, and this is the highest contribution by any member State since its inception. “Nigeria has immensely contributed to the ECOWAS- power supply to member states, medical interventions and peacekeeping efforts in member states including the Gambia, Mali, Sierra Leone, Guinea Bissau, Liberia among others. -Advertisement- POLL “ECOWAS ‘Vision 2050’, a new regional perspective frame of reference for the next thirty years proclaims that ECOWAS must become a community of people, by placing more emphasis on Infrastructural development, integration, youths and women who are the region’s vives. “The ECOWAS ‘Vision 2050 if well implemented will ensure a secure, stable and peaceful region; a region endowed with strong institutions that comply with the rule of law and fundamental freedoms; a fully integrated and prosperous region; a region mobilized for transformation, inclusive and sustainable development. “Despite Nigeria’s larger-than-life financial contributions to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the Country and its citizen have not benefitted immensely. “There is a need to appraise the benefits and contributions of ECOWAS towards the Socio-economic development of Nigeria and Nigerians in the last ten years,” Abiante stressed. Also contributing to the motion, Deputy Speaker, Wase informed the House that a lot of ills against Nigerians are going on at the ECOWAS Commission which is situated in Abuja, Nigeria’s Capital. Wase said many Nigerians have been working in the Commission as casual staff for the past seven years without having their employment regularized. Wase who is the Deputy Speaker of the ECOWAS Parliament, also situated in Abuja, Nigeria said “the issue came to my attention two weeks ago and I’ve written officially attaching the list of the affected Nigerian workers to the Commission’s leadership.” “There’s nowhere in the world where people work as casual staff for more than six months, but Nigerians have been subjected to this unfair treatment at the ECOWAS Commission. And those who are permanent staff have not been promoted in the last seven years,” Wase said. The House, therefore, mandated the Committees on Inter-parliamentary Relations and Ecowas Parliament to appraise the benefits and contributions of ECOWAS towards the Socio-economic development of Nigeria and Nigerians in the last ten years to determine the justification of the Country’s financial contribution to the sub-regional organization (ECOWAS) and report back to the House within six (6) weeks for further legislative action. The Deputy Speaker also amended to include the Committee on Foreign Affairs as part of the assignment.