Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has approved the appointment of Oba Olugbenga Ojo as the Iralepo of Isinkan in the Akure South Local Government Area of the state. The appointment, according to the letter, took effect from June 21, 2022. Oba Ojo defeated other princes to emerge as the Iralepo of Isikan to replace the former monarch who joined his ancestors last year. However, the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi challenged the selection in a law court. He described Iralepo as a chief under his control. In his ruling, the court presided by Justice Segun Odusola held that Iralepo is a separate monarch from that Deji of Akure. Sequel to this, the government approved the appointment of Oba Ojo as the monarch of his kingdom. In a letter signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Princess Oladunni Odu, the state government congratulated the new Iralepo wishing him a long and peaceful reign. The letter entitled: Appointment As The Iralepo Of Isinkan In Akure South Local Government’, and addressed to Oba Olugbenga Ojo, reads in parts: ” I am pleased to inform you that the Ondo State Government, through the State Executive Council, has approved your appointment as the new Iralepo of Isinkan in Akure South Local Government of the state. -Advertisement- POLL The appointment is with effect from 21st June 2022.” Consequently, the community and the palace came alive as the natives and residents went into jubilation storming the palace. Speaking with newsmen after receiving the letter, Oba Ojo said: “I’m extremely grateful to God Almighty who made it possible for me to receive this appointment letter today. I’m also grateful to the state Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, and members of his cabinets, the Akure South Local Government chairman and staff and the entire people of Isinkan who stood by us since the commencement of the struggle. “We thank the Deji of Akure Kingdom for allowing peace to reign in the entire Akure land. I can assure you that the existing peace will continue alongside with developmental projects. “Let us all come together to develop Isinkan and Akure. We will cooperate with Akure South Local Government and the state government to develop our community, to employ our youths. “We have some people on the ground already who are willing to come and build industries on our land and this is the time for them to come around which will give more employment for our people.”