BENIN – The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Am­brose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma, has described as illogical and falsehood the management’s denial of mil­itarisation of the university campus. ASUU, in a statement titled, ‘AAU Is Not Milita­rised! – A Rejoinder’, and signed by Dr. Cyril Oziegbe Onogbosele and Dr. Odion William, the Chairperson and the Assistant Secretary, stated that the union was aware of a special release in the university’s News Bul­letin of June 2, 2022 edition with the caption, ‘Re-Strike in Ambrose Alli University: ASUU, Stakeholders Decry Militarisation of Campus by the Institution’s Man­agement: AAU is not mili­tarised!’ According to ASUU, “In the release signed by the Acting Registrar of the University, Mr. Ambrose E. Odiase, the university ad­ministration asserted inter alia, “In the past few days, the ASUU, AAU Chapter, has sustained a sensation­al campaign of calumny against the authorities of the university in its attempt to scuttle the resumption of academic activities an­nounced by the university management. -Advertisement- “The said release by the university administration tinted with illogicalities, blackmail and falsehood is provocative, insulting and embarrassing to the union. “It is contradictory for the university administra­tion to state that ‘AAU is not militarised!’ on one hand and admit that ‘the pres­ence of security personnel in the University is to keep the peace on campus, not otherwise’. “The question is: Was there any breach of peace or a threat to peace in the uni­versity before the deploy­ment of security personnel to campus? “The union is also aware of the orientation, training and rehearsals carried out by some of the security per­sonnel preparatory to their deployment to campus long before May 25, 2022. “Again, another question that the university needs to answer is: ‘Is the use of se­curity agents: Police, Civil Defence Corps, Vigilante, Hunters, etc. on campus at the same time the normal and refined way of main­taining peace and order in a modern university system? What has become of the uni­versity security system? POLL “To the union, it is hyp­ocritical for the university administration to attri­bute the deployment of all shades of security agents on campus to perceived and unsubstantiated threat from the union or individu­al members of the union,” ASUU stated.