The Nigeria Immigration Service has debunked insinuations in some sections of news media that it might not have followed the due process in the issuance of international travel particulars (the Nigerian Standard Passport) to one Mr. David Ukpo who is at the centre of an ongoing diplomatic mess involving a high-ranking Nigerian couple in the United Kingdom. Clearing the air on the issue, Mr. Isah Jere Idris, the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service made a total dismissal of the insinuation during an online chat with journalists Sunday evening, even as he boldly showcased the service under his watch as one of the top-rated in the world. Idris did not only clarify that the due procedure was followed in the particular issuance of travel document for the said Ukpo but also went ahead to state that all times, the NIS adheres strictly to its statutory standards in the discharge of its duties even in conformity with global best practices. The full statement as e-signed by eSigned by Amos OKPU an Assistant Comptroller General and the Public Relations Officer of the service on behalf of the Comptroller General reads as follows: “The attention of the Comptroller General of Immigration Isah Jere Idris has been drawn to some reports alleging that the issuance of a Nigerian Standard Passport to one Mr. David Ukpo Nwamini who has been mentioned in an ongoing investigation by the UK authorities on human trafficking case did not follow due process.Some aspects of the reports are suggesting that due diligence was not observed in the issuance of the said document to Mr. David Ukpo. “To the contrary, the Service has continued to demonstrate capacity and sophistication in the administration and issuance of the Passports to eligible persons including Mr. David in the most professional manner. It is essential to state that Nigeria is one of the first four countries in the world to deploy modern technological tools to run the electronic Passport platform as far back as 2007. Ever since then, significant improvements have been recorded including migration to the enhanced ePassport regime recently, a technology that has added some additional security features and options of Passport categories to applicants. “It is in the strength of the foregoing that one wonders about the validity of such claims that due process was not observed in the issuance of the Passport issued to Mr. David Ukpo Nwamini. Suffice it to be stated that the said Mr. David approached the application portal of the Service, applied and paid for the enhanced ePassport at the Gwagwalada Passport Office, FCT Abuja on the 2nd November 2021. All the necessary documents including National Identity Number (NIN) issued by NIMC, letter of introduction issued by Ebonyi State Government Liaison Office situated on Mississippi Maitama District Abuja, Birth Certificate issued by the National Population Commission and other relevant documents to support the application of Mr. David were presented for processing. “These documents were issued by competent offices and the necessary verifications were made to confirm their validity and correctness. Consequent upon this, therefore, the said Passport was issued to him having satisfied the basic requirements. -Advertisement- POLL “Therefore, the Comptroller General wishes to use this medium to state that all Passport applications, especially fresh ones, are usually subjected to stringent screening exercises before issuance. Mr. David’s application was not an exception. This is done not only to ensure that our Passports are issued to eligible persons but that the process is transparent enough to sustain the integrity of our travel documents.”