Stakeholders in the Education sector have convened in Gombe State to review the performance of the Education Management Information System (EMIS) so as to strengthen the quality of education in the country. Organized by the Federal Ministry of Education in collaboration with the Gombe State Ministry of Education, the four-day conference was held at the New Multipurpose Hall of the Gombe State University from 20th to 24th June 2022. At the close of the conference, the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu who was represented by the Chief Executive Officer and Registrar, Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Olarewanju, declared the review of the National Policy on EMIS and it’s implementation guidelines as apt. He said the review of the NEMIS Web and Mobile App, as well as the Online Data Capturing Tool for Tertiary Institutions and EMIS Data Visualization System developed by UNICEF, will go a long way in improving the quality of education. According to him, the development was to ensure the functioning and strengthening of EMIS as a reliable, accurate and accountable data shop in line with International Practicing Standards. Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, who was also represented by his Deputy, Manasseh Daniel Jatau, commended the Federal Government’s drive to reposition the education sector by putting in place a reliable and accurate source of data. He said, “The Launching of the 4th National Conference on Education Management System (EMIS) which from available records, is the first since the creation of Gombe State in October 1996”. He said it is really germane, apt, necessary and indeed inevitable, stressing that, “Basically, Annual School Census (ASC) which is the major source of data collection, analyses, report generation and dissemination for quality and efficient decision making by the relevant authority is to a large extent associated with the quality of data generated by EMiS. -Advertisement- POLL “I am delighted to observe that the National Conference on EMIS is an annual event and rotates among the states of the federation. This will bring awareness, unity and understanding of the situations of education in the different states or environments that you may find yourselves. This will ensure that the services you rendered are need-based, and relevant to the communities” ha said. He said the Inuwa Yahaya administration identified the importance of education and based on the level of education he met on the ground when he assumed office in May 2019, had to declare a state of emergency on education. Earlier, the Gombe State Commissioner of Education, Mr. Dauda Batari Zambuk, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Adamu Musa Kumo, appreciated the choice of Gombe for the conference and enjoined them to feel free and enjoy the hospitality. In their goodwill messages, the Representative of UNICEF Field Office Bauchi, Maryam Bukar Dikwa, Representative of UNESCO, Dr. Ngozi Amange, National Teachers Institute, Kaduna, Obiah Obuka, and many others, reiterated their support to the Federal Ministry of Education toward successful implementation of EMIS policies.