ABUJA – The Supreme Court on Friday struck out a suit filed by President Mu­hammad Buhari and the Attorney-General of the Federa­tion and Minister of Justice, Abu­bakar Malami SAN, challenging the constitutionality of section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act. The section provides that “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomina­tion of candidates for any elec­tion.” Specifically, President Buhari and the AGF filed a suit against the National Assembly, wherein they sought an interpretation of section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act, 2022. In the suit filed on April 29, 2022, marked: SC/CV/504/2022, the Plaintiffs are contending that the said Section 84(12) of the Elec­toral Act 2022 is in conflict with constitutional provisions. They noted that the Con­stitution has made provisions for qualifications and disqual­ifications for the offices of the President and Vice President, Governor and Deputy-Governor, Senate and House of Represen­tatives and House of Assembly, Ministers, Commissioners and Special Advisers. Buhari and Malami added that the same Constitution has equally “The qualifying factors for election into the office of Pres­ident, Vice President, Governor, Deputy Governor, Senate, House of Representatives, Houses of Assembly and Ministers.” The apex court had on May 26, reserved judgment on the suit after various counsel in the matter had adopted their briefs of argument. Meanwhile, delivering judg­ment on Friday, a 7-man panel of justices of the court, led by Musa Dattijo-Muhammad, unan­imously struck out the suit, in­sisting it was “an abuse of court process”. -Advertisement- POLL Justice Emma Agim, in a lead judgement, reasoned that Buhari, having earlier assented to section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act 2022, cannot turn around to approach the court to strike it down. “There is no provision in the constitution that vests the presi­dent the power to challenge the constitutionality or desirability of a legislation after he has as­sented or denied his assent. “In this case, the president gave his assent,” Agim stated. Justice Agim held that the suit was a ploy by the plaintiffs to get the court to validate the violation. “The president has no power to request or compel the National Assembly to amend any part of the Act of the National Assembly in which he has participated in its making,” the court said. Justice Agim added that the request by Buhari to the Nation­al Assembly to delete section 84(12) amounted to constitutional breach. “This suit cannot be enter­tained by this court under sec­tion 1(1) (a) of the Additional Ju­risdiction of the Supreme Court Act,” Justice Agim ruled. In the suit, Buhari and Mala­mi, also prayed the apex court to declare that, by the joint and or combined reading of Sections 65, 66, 106, 107, 131, 137, 147, 151, 177, 182, 192 and 196, of the Constitu­tion of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, (as amended), the provisions of Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act, 2022 which also ignores Section 84(3) of the same Act, is an additional qualifying and/or disqualifying factors for the National Assembly, House of Assembly, Gubernatorial and Presidential elections as en­shrined in the said constitution, hence unconstitutional, unlaw­ful, null and void.