ABUJA – The National Legal Adviser of Accord Party (AP), Maxwell Mgbudem, has criticised security agencies for the wanton destruction of lives and properties across the country. In a statement on Monday in Abuja, he said that “the security agencies have consistently failed to detect such ugly attacks before it happens,” regretting what he described as the arrogance with which the terrorists carry out their evil. Mgbudem explained that the inability of the intelligence community to rein in the activities of terrorists and other violent criminals shows “how human lives have lost their sacred value” in Nigeria. -Advertisement- He cited recent incidents in Sokoto State and the Lugbe area of Abuja, where a lady, Deborah and a man, Usman, were extra-judicially killed on allegations of blasphemy. Insisting that such incidents should not be heard of in a decent society, the National Vice Chairman of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), regretted that last Sunday’s attack on the St Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, which left about fifty worshipers dead, is another indication that the President, Muhammadu Buhari, is overwhelmed as the Chief Security Officer of the country. He said that “there is no doubt that Nigeria is currently at crossroads and requires concerted effort by every stakeholder to find a lasting solution. “Protection of lives and properties is the primary responsibility of the government. This is clearly stipulated in the 1999 Constitution, so any government that cannot guarantee this has failed in its basic obligation to the citizens,” Mgbudem stated. According to him, the situation portrays that the country is on the way to becoming a failed State, and must be reversed immediately, especially given the huge human emergency it will create across West Africa. POLL This is as he cautioned that if the government fails to take urgent steps to rein in terrorism and its sponsors, the county may be thrown into anarchy due to reprisal killings, which he said will ultimately bring the existence of Nigeria to an ugly end. While commiserating with the families and victims of the attack, Mgbudem challenged both the State and Federal Government to work in synergy with the security agencies to track down the perpetrators of the dastardly act, saying it is one too many to be swept under the carpet. To this end, he said the government’s refusal to take harsh measures against such incidents has emboldened the culprits to either believe there is no government or that the government is weak to bring them to book, hence they have sustained the nefarious activities. Mgbudem urged Nigerians to vote massively for the Accord candidates across the country, saying the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC) have no clue on how to address the security and economic challenges facing Nigeria. “The time calls for State and community Police, adding that the government of Accord will mark a departure from the status quo ante, which is threatening the peace and unity of Nigeria,” he insisted.