Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, has distributed a N109,846,000.00 as surplus to participants, policyholders, who did not make claims on their insurance during the 2020 financial year. This surplus amount was announced during the Surplus Distribution event held at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, and well attended by the participant (policyholders), Insurance Industry stakeholders, Brokers, Agents as well as the media. The surplus payment, which comes as a result of the Win-Win insurance model operated by Noor Takaful – an indigenous insurance company licensed by the National Insurance Commission in 2016, thrives on the pool of funds provided by the participants. Muhtar Bakare, the Chairman, Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, while speaking during the event, explained that out of the total sum of N109,846,000.00, the General Takaful participants are to get the sum of N74,121,000.00 while Family Takaful participants will receive N35,725,000.00. Bakare described the distribution as an affirmation of the efficacy of offering modern financial services to Nigerians who were previously excluded from the formal economy, stating that this would help them achieve reasonable economic stability in their lives and businesses. Bakare assured the participants that the company remains committed to proactively taking all the necessary steps, including raising adequate capital, prudent underwriting and putting in appropriate covenants required to cover their risks. “We have all the resources we need and the corporate governance structure to ensure that we continue to meet all our obligations as they fall due. It is pertinent to note that in 2021, we paid over N1.9 billion in claims, with a Claims Ratio of 22% — one of the best, if not the best, in the entire insurance industry”, he said. He then commended the regulator, NAICOM, for providing the right kind of oversight required to deepen, grow, and sustain the industry stating that their diligent approval processes, especially their insistence on prudence, probity, and best practice, have continued to help the company -Advertisement- POLL Aminu Tukur, the Vice-Chairman, Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, also speaking, stated that the surplus distribution comes as the redemption of its pledge to policyholders noting that Takaful insurance has become highly receptive among Nigerians over the last few years. Tukur assured stakeholders that the company would continue to provide innovation and leadership in the Takaful Insurance industry while maintaining the highest ethical and professional standards.