The Presidential Committee on the Repatriation, Returns and Resettlement of Displaced Persons in the North-East has ordered the repatriation of Nigerians displaced in the North-East who are still in Cameroon. The refugees are expected to arrive the Nigerian shores in a matter of days. The directive was given at the State House, Abuja, by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who is Chairman of the Committee, at a meeting of the Committee where the report of the Technical Working Group (TWG) on repatriation of Nigerians displaced from the North-East was presented by Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State, who is also the Vice Chairman of the Committee. Prior to the inauguration of the Presidential Committee, the National Commission For Refugees, Migrants, and IDPs (NCFRMI) in collaboration with other agencies had repatriated over 4000 displaced Nigerians from Cameroon before halting the operation. There are thousands of Nigerian refugees in the neighboring countries of Chad, Niger and Cameroon who are due for repatriation to their homes in Nigeria. Flowing from this, Osinbajo directed that, while the Presidential Committee reviewed the report of the TWG, the Refugees Commission should without further delay resume the repatriation of displaced Nigerians from the Republic of Cameroon it had previously commenced. He noted that the repatriation and resettlement of Nigerians displaced in Cameroon and other neighboring countries as a result of the insurgency in the North-East remains a priority, hence the Refugees Commission and other relevant agencies must ensure that the objective was achieved. Speaking with newsmen after the meeting, -Advertisement- POLL Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State, who presented the report of the Technical Working Group at the meeting, urged authorities to expedite action on the repatriation exercise saying “within the last few years, we have repatriated no fewer than 50, 000 people but we still have more than 200,000.’’ He looked forward to the presidential approval to facilitate funding and other logistics required for the re-establishment of the affected communities in Borno State, noting that the security situation has greatly improved. President Muhammadu Buhari, had in February, 2022 inaugurated the Presidential Committee on the Repatriation, Returns and Resettlement of Displaced Persons in the North-East, designating the Vice President as Chairman.