As if echoing the challenges dogging the continuity of the rotation of the presidency between the north and south, the governorship rotation initiative between the three senatorial zones introduced by Chief Ibori before exiting office of the governor after his eight (8) years tenure expired in 2007, is being threatened. It may be recalled that Ibori institutionalized the process in the state. Typical of political actors, spanners are often metaphorically thrown into the wheel of progress. But after all the horse-trading, the system had been sustained, albeit at a huge political cost to Ibori whom his Urhobo kith and kin are not happy with for not allowing them to enjoy the benefit intrinsic in the fact that they are the majority ethnic group in the state, and the majority in a democracy always carries the vote. That is assuming all Urhobos decide to vote based on the influence of ethnic sentiments. -Advertisement- It is by sheer grit that after him, and to the consternation of Urhobo and Ijaw nations, Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, then secretary of the state government, SSG, under Ibori, an Itsekiri by the tribe which is part of Delta south senatorial zone, mounted the saddle and led for eight years. Subsequently, in 2015, Ifeanyi Okowa, also a former SSG under Uduaghan’s watch and a senator, of lka ethnic group of Delta north zone, took over the rein of governance, where he has been holding sway for the past seven (7) years. As is common in politics, the transitions have not been rancor free. But whatever schisms ensued during the change of batons, a degeneration of the crisis was never allowed to persist. Hence ‘the big heart state’ has been fittingly tagged with the ‘one big political family’ appellation. That was the state of affairs until the recently concluded 2023 party primary elections for the PDP which commenced with the State House of Assembly, followed by the House of Representatives and Senate before culminating in the governorship primaries where the incumbent governor had a divergent view on who becomes the next governor in 2023 with other stakeholders such as ex-governor Ibori and Urhobo Progressive Union, UPU that supported a candidate that is not the governor’s choice. As governor Okowa has leveraged the power of incumbency to supplant the so-called Ibori political family after over 21 years running, with his own surrogate, Oborovwori, can it be said that things have fallen apart in Delta political family? And can the PDP that has led the state since 1999 be able to sustain its hold by producing the next governor in 2023 with a divided house? POLL That is the question that those making a song and dance of the growing internecine war within the PDP family in Delta state, (who appear to have awarded governor Okowa victory in the battle) must answer. That attitude in my view is tantamount to a gambler counting his money while still at the gambling table. Suffice it to say that the point that those gloating about the split in the PDP family seem to be missing, is that it is merely the battle that has been fought , lost and win ,with the war is still ahead. And the danger ahead of us is that the PDP may not win the war, as no military general, worth the rank, goes into a war on a limb. That is what it would amount to if the crisis within the PDP family is allowed to fester. Another existential reality which the PDP family members need to brace up for is that without a Ibori’s magnanimity in driving the rotation of governorship initiative between the three zones, the Urhobos being the majority tribe and in consonance with democracy grand norm ‘majority carries the vote’ would be producing the governor of the state in perpetuity as is currently the case in multiple states across the country. Such a political environment is usually prone to ethnic conflicts which was wracking the state at the point that Chief lbori , assumed its leadership. This intervention is a note of caution to those whose gaze is laser-focused on now, while discountenancing the likely consequences of today’s actions and inactions tomorrow, thereby imperiling the future of politics of equity, fairness, and justice that had become endemic in Delta state. Magnus Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former commissioner in Delta state government, sent this piece from Lagos Concluded