Ejike Okoye, a United States-based actor, is not a novice in the Nigerian film industry. In this interview with Daily Independent, Okoye, who has been acting professionally for the past 14 years and featured in a lot of Nollywood films both at home and abroad, shares his journey into the Nigerian film industry, among other issues. Excerpts -Advertisement- What made you to go into acting? I’ve always had a passion for acting. My journey into the film industry could be traced to my childhood days when I did too many stage plays in my church as a kid during my elementary school days. Also, I loved watching action films as a child. My childhood dream was to become a model or an actor. When I grew into an adult, it was no surprise that I went into it professionally. I’ve been in the Nollywood film industry for over 14 years now and I love what I do. What were your initial challenges and how were you able to surmount them? It was quite challenging at the beginning but like I said before, I was driven by impact, not money. I focused more on becoming famous by doing the best I could, sharpening my skill sets, networking and building relationships. To cut the long story short, I became famous before I started making money in the industry. Fame before money and not money before fame. What was your childhood dream? POLL My childhood dream was to be a model or an actor and am glad I am living out that dream. What do you enjoy most about acting? Doing what I like and making money from it too. Can you share your memorable moments on set? I have good and bad memorable moments in the industry. I have had uncountable good memories since I joined the industry. I can recall when we shot the movie “Odum” produced by Amaco Productions in Oguta, Imo State. That was my first time going to Oguta Lake. While we were on the boat going to a location, we passed where Ulasi River and Oguta Lake met, but couldn’t mix together. It appeared as if there was a thin line dividing the two waters. I learnt about Oguta Lake in elementary and secondary schools. Seeing it was something I don’t think I will ever forget. What are your worst moments? I had the worst day of my life when we shot the movie “Slaves” produced and directed by Chico Ejiro (now late) in Ezillo Town in Abakiliki. One of my best friends, Emeka Ugo, whom I introduced to the movie industry, lost his life in the process though he was on set when the incident happened. He was actually drowned in Ezillo River. Watching somebody drown, especially somebody close to you and you couldn’t do anything to save the situation, can be truly devastating. It was really a bad day for me. How many movies have you featured in so far? I’ve featured in over 100 movies. Of all the movies you featured in the past, which is your favourite? My favourite movies are Black Angel, The Cat, XYZA and Double Wahala. What is your take on Nollywood? Nollywood has impacted a lot of people greatly. It has changed a lot of lives positively. Over five million Nigerians are gainfully employed in Nollywood and the numbers keep growing. Nollywood has enlightened and educated a lot of people across the globe. People develop an interest in our culture because of Nollywood. My overall take on Nollywood is to make it bigger and better. What positive changes would you like to see in the sector? I would like to see better pay for actors and crew members, piracy issues being tackled for good and better working environments by building massive film villages at least in each geopolitical zone. I also recommend regular training for filmmakers, especially hands-on and field training. The issue of marketing needs to be visited. Practitioners should come together to devise a better marketing strategy for our movies. For instance, the marketing success of American films and television is largely due to the Motion Picture Export Association (MPEA), a consortium of American companies that includes Allied Artists, Universal and Warner Brothers. 50% of the revenues of these companies come from abroad. How do you handle criticism? No one is perfect except God. We, as human beings, are bound to make mistakes. So, I welcome constructive criticism because it is one of the valuable tools for me to rise and maintain performance standards. In life, we can’t control what others say or do but we can control ourselves and our reactions. If you are not acting, what else do you do? Taking care of my business, working out, vacationing and spending quality time with my lovely wife and kids. Where do you hope to be five years from now? I can’t say where I want to be five years from now but I have already set my goals. I would see how far I would go as the day unfolds. I pray that God will make a way for me to attain my goals.