EMMANUEL OBETA Direct mail marketing is a strategy used by marketers to engage prospects and customers’ offline by sending printed mailers, dimensional packages, perishable items, corporate swag, or other physical items to them, which in turn has formed a valuable way to connect with prospects, leads, and clients in a meaningful way. Direct mail marketing enjoys a response rate that is 30 times higher than the most powerful digital channel, email. It also has the power to boost ROI by 20% as part of an integrated campaign. The main argument for direct mail marketing has been that due to the explosion in digital marketing, so many people have found themselves almost overwhelmed with digital advertising messages such that there is the need for another approach of reaching out to the customers. According to a study by Edison nearly three-quarters of consumers complain of being overwhelmed by email advertising, with over one-quarter resorting to the usage of ad-blocking software to augment their digital experience, according to Statista. Direct mail campaign also taps into the positive psychology and anticipation of receiving a physical gift. It is also memorable and accentuates the feeling of the human touch and connectivity with people like the reception of a handwritten note or personalised item which is much more valuable than just receiving an indistinct or standardised corporate gift. -Advertisement- POLL For young people especially they can receive thousands of emails but very few direct mails so the personalization and feeling of human touch in these mails to these youngsters usually have a long-lasting impact. Accenture Interactive for instance confirmed this in their research which shows that 75% of U.S. consumers like it when companies personalize messaging and offers to them which makes them feel more relevant. Not many companies are engaging in direct mail marketing campaign these days which makes it a rarity, this causes it to gain prominence, stand out from the crowd as well as enjoy less competition. Direct mail offers limitless possibilities to the marketer to delight and entertain their customers and the recipients of these mails right from the sending platform or the approach adopted in sending the mail, the items delivered which can range from a variety of creatively-presented items: handwritten cards, innovative swag items, personalized gifts, sweets & treats, eGift cards, experience tickets, and more. The flexibility of direct mail makes it such that different age groups can be targeted with different contents, designs, packaging, gifts. The lifespan of direct mail is longer than that of an email or other digital marketing messages and channels. The average lifespan of an email is just a few seconds, while direct mail’s average lifespan is 17 days. Despite the fact that emails can be forwarded or shared they eventually go to just one person meanwhile direct mails go to a household. According to RetailWireReports 88% of key purchase decisions for retail, financial and automotive categories are discussed at home which gives direct mail an obvious advantage as they give recipients a reason to talk over the offer or discuss it at home before an eventual decision to buy or not to buy. Creating a Direct Mail Marketing Campaign The major elements and movable parts of planning a direct mail campaign according to Sendoso.com includes the campaign planning and design; sourcing and/or designing gift items, packing materials, and printed collateral; management of warehousing, tracking, shipment, delivery, response, and follow up; and demonstrating ROI after the send. In planning your campaign, the first thing to do is to define your audience. This will determine who the campaign is exactly targeting, their profile and why you are targeting them. This will ensure that your target audience will be ready and motivated to respond to your offer. This is the only way to ensure that your campaign will be successful as targeting an undefined audience is tantamount to failure. Focusing on these clearly defined customers not only saves you time but money also. The second thing you need to determine is the goal of the campaign and why is direct mail marketing the best approach in reaching these audiences. For instance, are you trying to upsell to current customers or is there a new innovation or product that you want to inform them about? The audience as well as the goal of the campaign will determine both the design, sourcing and the kinds of gifts that can be incorporated as part of the campaign. Sourcing and designing of the gift items are so critical because the gift item has to be something valued or treasured by the receivers and it must have a very strong correlation ship with your brand or campaign objective. Giving out a gift that has no supporting or reinforcement value for your brand or campaign objective is simply a wasted venture. The selection process for the gift is so essential because what may be appreciated by one person might be of no interest or value to the other person so the creativity involved in the selection and design of the gift item is often the deal clincher or breaker for the entire campaign. Incorporating a very clear call to action for your audience as well as adequate follow up once the packages or mails have been delivered are the next necessary actions to take to ensure the success of the direct mail campaign. Delivering the mails and the packages may not be enough to guarantee the kind of expected results from the campaign. Follow up not only ensures that the message and call to action remains fresh and indelible in their minds but also communicates a sense of value and worth to the recipients. The next step is to monitor and track the delivery of the packages as well as the total response to the campaign. Most of the time, direct mail marketing is not a stand-alone campaign but a part of a larger marketing campaign. Monitoring and tracking it will also involve how it affects the performance of the larger marketing campaign of which it is just a part of it. A new innovation in direct mail marketing is the utilization of a sending platform in the sending out of the direct mails which totally eliminates the manual process of direct mail marketing. The sending platform operates by automating the entire process of the direct mail marketing; sourcing and/or designing gift items, packing materials, and printed collateral; management of warehousing, tracking, shipment, delivery, response, and follow up; and demonstrating ROI after the send, thereby allowing the organization’s marketing teams to focus on their areas of excellence instead of manual sending, inventory, and tracking. A Sending Platform will also automatically track and report ROI so that future budgeting and campaign management efforts can improve organically. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com