… Fixes June 16 Arraignment A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory has issued a bench warrant for the arrest of an Abuja based lawyer, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul to compel him to stand trial for allegedly assaulting his estranged wife, Mrs Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe by using a plier to cut her ears. Justice Njideka Nwosu Iheme issued the warrant for Nzedebe’s arrest following his inability to appear in court for arraignment. -Advertisement- Police Prosecutor, Barrister Fidelis Ogbobe applied for a warrant of arrest.Ogbobe argued that on several occasions, the accused person had been served with the charge but he had not made any move to show any respect for the court or willingness to appear for his arraignment. The prosecutor, therefore, invoked the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) to apply for a warrant for his arrest.“My lord, Sections: 113 and 114 of ACJA confer power on the court to compel the appearance of a defendant or suspect of the crime. “We plead passionately for an arrest warrant to be issued against him.”Ruling on the application, Justice Iheme noted that “hearing notices have been issued severally on the accused and the registrar of court placed a phone call to him, but he has refused to appear. “Relying on Sections 113 and 114 of ACJA, I, therefore, grant the application and order that a warrant for his arrest be issued on him.” Accordingly, she adjourned till 16th day of June 2022 for the police to bring Mr. Nzedebe for arraignment. POLL The survivor, Mrs Rosaline Nwogo Nzedebe was in court with her counsel, Mrs. Uzoma Aneto, who held a watching brief. Following a vicious physical assault on his wife, the Nigerian Police preferred a – 6 count charge at the Abuja High Court against Mr. Nzedebe bordering on physical, emotional, verbal and psychological abuse. In the charge marked CR/104/2022 between the Commissioner of Police and Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul, he was charged under the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act 2015. The counts are, “That you, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul (M) of AMAC, Federal Housing Estate, behind Lugbe Plaza, FCT, Abuja on the 18th day of November 2015 at Plot No: 1050 CRD, Behind Lugbe Plaza, FHA in the Abuja Judicial Division, willfully inflicted physical on one Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe (F) by cutting part of her right ear with an iron plier and thereby committed an offence punishable under section2(1) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, Law of the Federation of Nigeria 2015. “That you, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul (M) of AMAC, Federal Housing Estate, behind Lugbe Plaza, FCT, Abuja on the 18th day of November 2015 at Plot No: 1050 CRD, Behind Lugbe Plaza, FHA in the Abuja Judicial Division, knowingly placed one Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe (F) in a state of fear of physical injury and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 4(1) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, Law of the Federation of Nigeria 2015. “That you, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul (M) of AMAC, Federal Housing Estate, behind Lugbe Plaza, FCT, Abuja on the 6th day of June 2015 at Plot No: 1050 CRD, Behind Lugbe Plaza, FHA in the Abuja Judicial Division, caused emotional, verbal and psychological abuse to one Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe (F) by brandishing a black axe purporting yourself to be a member of dreaded black axe confraternity capable of using it to cut her into pieces and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 14(1) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, Law of the Federation of Nigeria 2015. “That you, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul (M) of AMAC, Federal Housing Estate, behind Lugbe Plaza, FCT, Abuja on the 18th day of November 2015 at Plot No: 1050 CRD, Behind Lugbe Plaza, FHA in the Abuja Judicial Division, caused emotional, verbal and psychological abuse to one Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe (F) by your constant harassment and beating to her and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 14(1) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, Law of the Federation of Nigeria, 2015. “That you, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul (M) of AMAC, Federal Housing Estate, behind Lugbe Plaza, FCT, Abuja on the 18th day of November 2015 at Plot No: 1050 CRD, Behind Lugbe Plaza, FHA in the Abuja Judicial Division did batter your spouse, one Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe (F) by giving her several fists blows on her face and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 14(1) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, Law of the Federation of Nigeria, 2015. “That you, Mr. Nzedebe Chinonso Paul (M) of AMAC, Federal Housing Estate, behind Lugbe Plaza, FCT, Abuja on the 18th day of November, 2015 at Plot No: 1050 CRD, Behind Lugbe Plaza, FHA in the Abuja Judicial Division did batter your spouse, one Roseline Nwogo Nzedebe (F) by giving her several fist blows on her face and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 14(1) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, Law of the Federation of Nigeria, 2015.