The nation’s stock market has rallied for straight five months to outperformed its global counterparts on the strength of low interest and yields in the fixed income market, as impressive corporate earnings supported high dividend payout and yields. However, with the ongoing party primary elections that ushers in electioneering activities ahead of presidential election early next year, investors are trying to decipher how long the bull run will last. As investing public are waiting to see the presidential candidate of APC, as market players are desirous of a business oriented and reform-minded leader to succeed this conservative administration. With the look of things, the impact of raising MPR to 13% by 150 basis point will. raised the saving culture of the people by depositing more money into Bank because increase of deposit rate by Banks at the time discourage borrowing because of increase in the lending rate. This will discourage expansion by Manufacturing Industries which will increase un employment and may retard growth. The capital market will slow down as Investors want sale Equities and move funds to Fixed Income and Money Market. The Fixed Income instruments will rise that will attract more PFAs playing the market. -Advertisement- The increase of MPR will not moderate the inflation but reduce the negative returns which will encourage savings. It will increase the cost of borrowing which will increase cost of production that increase Inflation. Rate discourage growth and reduce expansion by Industries The ASI reach 54,000 basis point since 2008. A head of inflation with about 7%. Most of non-financial Institutions benefit more and Manufacturing Industries because of their ability to push cost to Consumers rising both Turn over , Profit before Tax and after Tax. Wema Bank raise because of the reconstruction of shares reduced four to new one. GUINNESS have demonstrated recovering from the slum restoring its passed glory when its was trading above #100 which is achievable before end of year same with NB . Their backward integration using Maize, Corn instead of relaying on Wheat help their situation. The Airtel Africa and Seplat their dual listing help their rising as Investors us price Arbitrage and means of taking their money outside the country because of the scarcity of FX. One can buy using naira export to London Stock Exchange to get Sterling Pounds. POLL Prescoe benefits from stopping export of Palm oil by Indonesia and Malaysia which give them the monopoly of the market. PZ and Cadbury benefits from inflation and ability to push cost to the Consumers who have no option. MTNN approval in principal by CBN of money transfer plus 5G issues raise hope of the Investors for better return. Fidson demonstrated its leadership in the health sectors which give confidence to Investors Q3 Investdata Master Class Theme: Profiting From Asset Pricing In An Uncertain Market, Rising Rates Environment 1. The State of the Market & 2022H2 Opportunities: Looking at The Fundamental Mix 2. Power of Price Action in identifying Opportunities in Any Market Cycle 3. State of the Economy & Negative Real Rate Of Return In the Fixed Income Market Takeaway from the master class A. Identifying profitable sectors and industries to hedge against inflation & down market B. Growing your wealth through commodity-backed assets on the NGX C. The power of double earnings on the share prices and performance of companies D. Trading companies’ earnings with technical tools for higher returns E. Why all you need to make money in equity trading is price F. The strength of NGX sectorial indexes in picking profitable trades G. 5 Hot Stocks to beat inflation and grow your portfolio Benefits i. Taking your trading to next level ii. Confidence to trade any market cycle iii. Set trading goals that will take processes, not financial goal of doubling money, or earning by 100% iv. Teach you how to handle your trading and decision making yourself v. Trading your plan as pathway to higher results and stronger bottom-lines Don’t miss this ultimate source of knowledge about the market, if you desire financial independence through profitable trading, investing, and wealth-building for the rest of the year and beyond. Date: July 2, 2022 Time: 9.am – 4pm Venue: ZOOM Fee: 50K Smart investors and traders know that highly volatile markets create exceptional opportunities, while novice and amateur traders can often have a different response to volatility, which leads to FEAR. Fear is the root cause of so many costly trading behaviors…hesitation to pull the trigger, incorrect position sizing, chasing the trend, and, market wave as a result of lack of trading plan and objective. If you want to be on the list of successful investors and traders in Q3 2022, send STOCK to 08028164085, 08179547605 now.