OWERRI – A non-governmental organization (NGO), “OfftheHook Foundation for Rural Dwellers, has called on government agencies, departments and public spirited individuals to intensify measures towards alleviating the plight of widows in society. Founder/CEO of the fFoundation and wife of the traditional ruler of Umueze Chokoneze autonomous community, Ezinihitte Mbaise Council Area, Imo State, Lady Chigbo Nwamara, made the call during a ceremony to mark the 2022 International Widows’ Day celebration organized the foundation in partnership with the MAHARA Foundation. The theme of the event was “Sustainable Solutions for Widows’ Financial Independence”. Nwamara lamented that many women in society are subjected to abject poverty upon the death of their husbands while some are denied access to their husbands’ property, evicted from their homes, ostracized and abused by relatives. “In most cases, their children who are also evicted are withdrawn from school and become vulnerable to abuse, especially in the case of girls,” she lamented. She explained that the Widow’s Day set aside by the United Nations was meant to seek ways to develop resources and policies that would empower widows and offer them the opportunity for education, work, healthcare and life free of violence and abuse which would enable them to create a better life for themselves and their children. At the ceremony, which featured skills acquisition, training in financial management, free medical outreach and lectures on solution for sustainable financial independence by Dr. Peace Amanze of the Alvan Ikoku Federal College of Education, Owerri (AIFCE), Nwamara said that the foundation founded in 2015 and gained United Nations ECOSOC Consultative status in 2019, had positively impacted on the lives and wellbeing of over 100,000 vulnerable aged people, women, widows and youths across the country. She disclosed that the NGO stages three major programmes annually comprising International Widows Day (June 23), International Old People’s Day (1st October) and Gift Outreach to the Needy (23 December), even as she sued for collaborative efforts to stamp out discrimination and ill treatment of widows and their children. -Advertisement- POLL “We cannot keep verbalizing our support and the call to action is here and needs to be now,” she stated. Speaking, the traditional ruler of Okpofe Community – HRH Eze Reginald JC Agunwamba, advised the widows not to see their condition as the end of the road but to always look unto God and remain prayerful for divine resolution of their challenges.