***Parents To Access Students’ Performance, Results Online ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has put plans in place to make education more accessible to residents through its e-education platforms in its schools across the Territory. Education Secretary, Hon. Sani Dahir El-Katuzu gave this hint during the FCT Administration’s Executive Committee meeting, held on Monday, June 27, 2022 and chaired by the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello. Hon. El-Katuzu said this plan was a part of the Education Secretariat’s presentation to the Executive Committee. According to him in a statement made available to newsmen by the Chief Press Secretary to the FCT Minister, Mr Anthony Ogunlelye stated that, when fully operational, this measure will enable students who are unable to attend classes physically, attend virtually while results could be accessed and students’ performance monitored online amongst other services. The statement reads: “It is not only making it possible for parents to check the results of their wards online but also making students who may not be physically available in the school due to some challenges to attend lessons from home.” “We want to operate an e-education whereby our lesson plans, our scheme of work and our lesson notes are all online so that we can supervise without having to physically visit the schools. These are all things that are in the pipeline. In fact, we have gone into the advanced stage of making these happen”. El-Katazu further explained that, “The e-attendance and most of these e-provisions we have made are in order to assist students who cannot physically be in school. -Advertisement- POLL “In fact, it was prompted by the COVID situation where our schools had to be closed down because of the COVID-19 pandemic. That is why we created avenues where students can attend lectures from their homes and that prompted the e-attendance, the smart schools and the rest”. Speaking on security in the FCT, the Senior Special Assistant on Security to the Honourable Minister, Ambassador Abu Salihu Mohammed, described the FCT as the most secured place in the country with security agencies working round the clock to keep it that way. The aide said although there are some pockets of challenges, especially at the border towns, adequate measures are in place to curtail criminal activities in those areas with the use of joint security patrols amongst other measures. He said: “Although there are some challenges along the fringes, the security agencies are doing their best to make sure that the situation along the fringes where we have pockets of kidnapping cases are resolved. We are also making efforts to conduct joint operations under the aegis of the G-7 alliance to tackle the situation along the fringes of the FCT”. He urged residents to remain calm, be security conscious and report any suspicious person or activities to security agencies immediately. The meeting was attended by the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola, Chief of Staff to the Minister, Malam Bashir Mai-Bornu and the heads of the various Secretariats, Departments and Agencies of the FCT Administration.