LAGOS – Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Unit, codenamed: Taskforce, says it has recorded more than 85 percent compliance by Okada riders since the June 1 enforcement commenced. Speaking at an event to witness the crushing of seized motorcycles by the Lagos State government, at the Task Force Ground, Alausa, Ikeja, on Friday, Chairman, Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Unit, Shola Jejeloye, said: There has been more than 85% compliance; 85% compliance in the sense that we don’t see Okadas on the road, on the express any longer. The number has drastically reduced.” Cautioning the riders that the government will continue to enforce the law, Jejeloye said: “I know for sure and I’m passing this information to them because they are watching us, they might be of the belief that the first one week of the enforcement will be thorough, and after one week, we are going to relax. -Advertisement- “Anyway, we will watch and see. But I’m passing this message to them that from next week, we will do more intense enforcement.” “Even those areas where we cannot get to this week, we are going to extend. You can see that this started on Wednesday. So another phase will start on Monday. These three first days of enforcement is just to test-run it, to check the number of compliance, then the sustainability plan is the next phase, which we are going to enter on Monday.” “So what should I say in essence is that there is no going back. Everybody knows there is no going back because it’s government’s policy. Government does not make mockery of their decisions.” Recalling that the enforcement came in force on February 1, 2020 by the state government, Jejeloye added: “Since then, we have been on it. it’s is just that people believe in violating the law, which I don’t think is good enough in a cosmopolitan city like this.” Also at the event, the state Commissioner for Transportation, Frederick Oladeinde, urged Lagos residents to remain calm and go about their normal businesses without fear of molestation. POLL “My message to Lagosians is that they should be calm, Lagosians should respect the traffic law,” he said.Assuring that the state government has provided alternative to Okada with the First and Last Mile Buses, Oladeinde said: “There is the First and Last Mile Buses. We are putting in money, we’re putting more high capacity buses on the road.” The commissioner urged the riders’ union to form cooperative societies in order to get the buses, which will be used as a source of livelihood, and alternative to Okada income. “Yesterday, we spoke to the Union, and we asked them to form a cooperative and that’s how we can give them First and Last Mile so that we can employ some of them. “For those who do not have skills, we do not want them in Lagos, and that’s why we have the enforcement agency to work around the clock just to make sure that people who do not have to be in Lagos are not in Lagos.” “We want people who have something to contribute to come to Lagos; people who have skills so that we can begin to develop the economic potential of Lagos state. So we don’t want anybody just coming into Lagos just because they can pick up Okada or they can sleep under the bridge. So this is going to be a resistance to them.” The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, at the event, said: “We are here this morning to show you what we have done with the okadas that have been seized.” Omotoso said that even before the pronouncement of the ban on okada by the government “okada has been ban in local government areas so people have been wondering what we’ve been doing with the okada that have been taken out of town. “For you to see what we’ve been doing with them, we invited you here today. I’m happy you can see that they have been crushed so that for anybody who has any doubt that this okada may return to town, such a doubt is not going to be realistic. “This is what is going to happen to them. Another thing that this is supposed to do is to send a signal a very strong signal to anyone who feels that despite the pronouncement of Mr Governor, he can come and do okada business in any part of Lagos.” Saying that those riding okada and those people patronizing them would be apprehended and made to face the law, Omotoso added: “In the first quarter of this year, about 5,000 have been crushed like this. Now, we have about 2,000 here and all of them would be crushed.”