LAGOS- The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has reacted to the recent raid of an Abuja property belonging to a military contractor for alleged money laundering by officials of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), urging the agency to intensify investigation into the case. Mr. Debo Adeniran, CACOL Chairman, in a statement signed by Tola Oresanwo, the group’s Director of Administration and Programmes at the weekend, noted that the recent report about the raid on an Abuja property was bound to generate a measure of public comments and interests due to the kind of society Nigeria had been turned into overtime, especially as it took place during a political period. Adeniran, however, stressed that crime had no other name, especially when it bothered financial impropriety, which had been responsible for the downward socio-economic situation in the country today. The group commended the sense of responsibility, promptness and due diligence with which the ICPC responded to the case. He stressed: “Although the commission has come out to say the investigation is still ongoing, facts available for the time being indicate that the property is owned by the owner of K Salam Construction Company, a military contractor. “From the raid, the commission recovered money and other items from the property namely: N175,706,500; $220,965; G-Wagon; 2022 editions of BMW and Mercedes Benz cars; customised mobile phones; several designer wrist watches, including three Rolexes, and some property documents. “Operatives of the commission also arrested the Managing Director of K Salam Construction Company Nigeria Limited, Mr. Kabiru Sallau. “We at CACOL would like to implore the anti-graft agency to intensify its investigation into the case involving this military contractor and come out to tell the Nigerian populace the gospel truth about it. -Advertisement- POLL “We would like to know if the company is truly associated with anyone currently serving or who has served in government. It is a known fact that impunity and the ability to engage in crime without being punished are largely responsible for the current sorry state the nation has found itself in. “We believe that it is the moral duty of all Nigerians to be well informed and acquainted in cases such as this. We have always posited that the issue of corruption is too weighty to be swept under the carpet, irrespective of whose ox is gored.”