Chinyere Ukor, the pioneer leader of Herbx International Company, a health and beauty company with headquarters in Malaysia, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about job creating capacity of the company, its forthcoming awards for deserving distributors among other issues. Excerpts: Can you talk about herbx international company? Herbx international company is a multilevel markrying company in Nigeria. Products marketed include herbx men plus and herbx women plus, herbx toothpaste, herbx shower gel, herbx relaxing shower gel, herbx turmeric cream, herbx latex coffee, and the beauty products include herbx perfume, intrinsic male and female perfume. -Advertisement- Our two major products are herbx men plus and herbx women plus. They are the flagship products and they have curetic and preventive properties, designed to cure and prevent over 100 diseases, including fibroid, hormonal imbalance, ovarian cyst, infections like the sexually transmitted infection, urinary tract infection, eye problem, ear problem and so many others like epilepsy, arthritis, rheumatism and host of others. They rebuild dead cells, rejuvenate dead cells, boost the immune system, and increase general wellbeing of people. Herbx Men Plus as the name implies is strictly for men while the herbx women plus is strictly for women. Can you speak about your forthcoming event where distributors are billed to receive awards? Herbx International event will be held on the 5th of June 2022 to mark one year anniversary of the company in Nigeria. POLL The company has presence on over 30 companies across the world. It is going to be one year of doing business in Nigeria. It will be happening in Lagos at St Leo Catholic Church hall at Toyin Street in Ikeja. The founder of the company will be there. The CEO of the company will be there, the marketing manager will be coming in from Malaysia. Awards will be given to deserving distributors and am one of the recipients. A raffle ticket to be purchased for N1,000 to enable participants win gifts like washing machines, gas cookers, cylinders and other home appliances. There will be business discussion on how to become an entrepreneur. So, much is open for Nigerians to benefit from because we have a wide range of products, the company is into agriculture, beauty products,, information technology, block chain. A lot of activities will be lined up and there will be fun for visitors and participants at the event. How has the presence of Herbx impacted on the lives of unemployed Nigerians within the one year of the company’s existence in Nigeria? Herbx international company has turned ordinary Nigerians into successful business owners. Those who could not afford to have N1,000 in their pockets prior to joining the company are now millionaires. Some of them joined the company without any capital. All they did was market the company’s herbal products like the male herbx plus and women herbx plus. These people are millionaires today. Some of them couldn’t pay their children’s school fees, house rents or even feed well, but they now have good stories to tell. Some of them joined in June last year. There are those who joined in September and October last year, today they are millionaires. The products have impacted on the health of Nigerians. There were people who had fertility issues but they have cheering stories to tell because they have become pregnant through the use of women herbal plus. The men also who had low sperm counts have overcome the challenges using herbal men plus. Some of them will be at the event on the 5th of this month to tell their stories. The products are very effective so it is easy to market. People are buying them and also introducing customers to the company. You can make money selling the products and even when you purchase the products the company still pays you. This company has impacted so much on the lives of Nigerians in the area of wealth creation and health wise, Nigerians have benefitted. I can confidently tell you that all the awardees that you will see on that day are millionaires. Another thing that will interest you is that some of these people didn’t even go to school. They don’t have certificates but today they are millionaires. Some of them that are not well lettered like I mentioned earlier, gained experiences by attending seminars and with that knowledge they marketed the products and because the products are good, they advertise themselves, people keep ordering because they get result after each use. We earn in dollars and whatever you earn they will pay you instantly as a backup fee and you can withdraw the money any time you want. The company does not owe anybody. This company has not only impacted on Nigerians but other African countries like Ruwanda, Cameroon, Togo, Ghana and a host of other countries beyond Africa. They are presently on tour of African countries. We are privileged to have them in Nigeria on the 5th of June and they are going to unveil more products. In how many states across Nigeria do you have presence? We have presence in almost all parts of the country apart from some northern states where we avoid because of insecurity. What would Nigerians be expecting on that day when the founder of herbx international and other representatives of the company will be in Nigeria from Malaysia? They will bring good news and open doors for more job opportunities for the people. I will also tell you that very soon some of us will qualify to travel to Malaysia through an all-expense paid trip. The beneficiaries will have an opportunity to visit all the other five companies in the conglomerate in Malaysia. The group has five other companies before herbx sprang up. They will give us the opportunity of becoming stockists for those who want to become major distributors. They are coming to help us grow our business and create job opportunities for us. Like I said they are going to unveil more products and that is more business opportunities for us. Do you need an office to be a distributor? You need an office but you can also operate without an office if you want to be a distributor with a capital of N65,000 for the starter pack. You don’t need an office to be a mini distributor. You need an office to be a major distributor like stockists. Those who want to start small can come on board without an office. Students can also engage in the business. They can start with N27,500. Their office is their phones, they can advertise on their phones. They can advertise online. It is not compulsory that you get an office. It can be done on a part time basis. The unemployment in the country is huge and our company has helped in so many ways to reduce the unemployment because a lot of people, especially the youths have taken advantage of the platform to get employed. We really provide employment for those who really want to work. Anyone who wants to work at the business development desk can do that with N24,750. If you don’t have the money to register but you are interested in working, you can attend our free seminar, learn about the business. If you can get those who are interested in the product, you can help them buy from the company and as you make purchases, you will get commission and that can help to get you registered. We have five packages and for any of these packages that you introduce to a customer, the company pays you commission instantly in dollars and you can cash it in naira. You can be the country leader in any country where you are and you can as well be a state leader in any state that you reside. You can also get a job by just advertising the product and when somebody places an order, you will come to the office to buy and earn commission. We have an office at Ajangbadi and you can also reach me through facebook, Chinyere Ukor. Apart from the herbx men plus and herbx women plus, new products are going to be unveiled in June this year and so you have an opportunity to start a business even without having any cash of your own.