The General Overseer of God’s Will Mission International, Archbishop Prof. Solomon Gbakara and members of the church joyfully celebrated the 25th anniversary of the church penultimate Sunday at the national headquarters, Km2 Usiefrun Road, Orhuwhorun Town near Warri, Delta State. Gbakara told the congregation and invited guests that God anointed him to spread the gospel of salvation, adding that the silver jubilee of the church would spur him to win more souls for Christ which is the main duty of the church. Gbakara whose theme of the anniversary: “Higher Glory” further said that God gave him the vision to establish God’s Will Mission 25 Years ago, adding that the church has grown with thousands of members and several branches in Delta, Bayelsa States and other parts of Nigeria. According to him “The church started in March 1997 at Usiefrun, and thereafter moved to No. 45 Orhuwhorun Road and to the present location at ‘The Miracle Ground’ Usiefrun Road, Orhuwhorun, in Udu Local Government Area”. Professor Gbakara said that as a minister of the gospel, he is a man with deep love for God and has wholeheartedly committed himself to the duty of spreading the gospel to rescue the lost souls to the Kingdom of God. The 25th anniversary was marked with ordination of 461 persons into the position of pastor, assistant pastor, elder, deacon, deaconess, and evangelist. “The beginning was small but with the vision of bringing God’s Light into people’s destinies has attracted many converts to the church. One of the initial challenges was bad road leading to the Miracle Ground, but when God’s light beamed on the area the Delta State Government was moved to construct the road and that created easy accessibility to the church. We are thanking God for His Grace, Mercies and goodness upon the church and members. As a church we passed through some difficulties or obstacles like every other ministries or organizations but God sustained us till this moment. The same God will continue to sustain us”. He disclosed that he has used the gospel to create opportunities for people to repent and come closer to God, adding that he has been spreading the message of love and peace to several towns and communities in Delta State and beyond. Archbishop Gbakara assured the congregation and believers of the gospel that God will bless, protect them if they steadfastly worship God in truth and spirit and win souls for Christ. POLL The one week anniversary celebration featured several anointed men of God who came to preach the message of peace and salvation, among them were Papa Ayo Oritsejafor, Bishop Simeon Okah, Archbishop Dr. God-Dowell Avwomakpa, Bishop Dr. Pius Odioko, Archbishop Prof. Simon Godknows Onibere, Bishop Dr. Agbor Bonnie Agbor-Eta (USA) Bishop Dr. Kingsley Enakirerhi and others. The cleric also prayed for the peace of our nation Nigeria and peaceful transition in our forthcoming elections 2023.