ABUJA – Ahead of the 2023 elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged the United Nations (UN) to ensure that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is truly and election umpire. The party, which also called for the UN support, urged the foreign body to closely monitor the 2023 general elections against any form of manipulation. The party acting Chairman, Amb. Umar Damagum, who made the appeal when he receive a team of Special Representatives of the United Nations (UN) Secretary-General, led by the Head of the UN Office in West Africa and the Sahel Region (UNOWAS), Ahmad Annadif, on Tuesday in Abuja, said, “we need your support to ensure that INEC is truly an election empire.” Damagum, who is the PDP Deputy National Chairman (North), said “UN development Organization is one of the organisations that ensure that things are done rightly and that is why it will play important role in the conduct of 2023 general elections “There are a lot of reforms that have taken place which will be put to test in this coming elections. “We hope with the signing of the new Electoral Act those reforms will alleviate some of our fears in the coming elections.” Damagum, who urged the APC to accept defeat and peacefully handover power, if it did not win the 2023 general elections, also urged the UN to see Nigeria as one of the uniting factors in the continent. He said: “We hope they will continue to see Nigeria as one of the uniting factors in the continent, so that we continue to lead by example. -Advertisement- POLL “We have been doing so since the coming of democracy in 1999 and we will continue to do so. “We will continue to do our part as opposition party. You also have to continue to do your part to ensure that thing are done rightly. “You can do that in advisory form or any other form in which you have been doing it.” On his part, the PDP Deputy National Chairman (South), Amb. Taofeek Arapaja, urged the UN to punish anyone, who may want to disrupt the 2023 general elections in Nigeria. He urged the UN to pay keen interest on issues of vote buying and conduct of security personnel during the 2023 general elections, noting that the recently conducted governorship election in Ekiti State was characterised with vote buying. He said: “A situation where people can cannot change the situation they do not like is what we do not want.” Earlier in his remarks, Annadif said they were on official visit to Nigeria, adding, “as you are all aware Nigeria has important role in the development and stability of the Africa and sahel region. “Nigeria has stability role in West Africa and Sahel region. That is why Nigeria is of concern to us. “We have met with politicians and key actors in Nigeria we have met with INEC and CSOs, IPAC, APC, diplomatic corps in Nigeria “The UN and all international communities hope and wish Nigeria conduct credible and peaceful election that would contribute to the stability of the region.”