LAGOS – The Society of Nigerian Archivists (SNA) has elected a Caretaker Committee to handle the affairs of the society until a new executive committee is constituted. The Caretaker Committee is headed by an experienced archivist, Grace Yemisi Oyebo, as the chairman, while the Secretary of the Committee is Grace Temilolu Ikenna. Other members of the committee are Rashidat Sade Alonge (Financial Secretary), and Dr. Stephen T. Olali (Co-ordinator, Publicity & Strategy). -Advertisement- SNA also planned to join the international community to observe the forthcoming Archives Week #IAW2022, which will take place from Monday, June 6 to Friday, June 10, 2022. According to a press release jointly signed by Oyebo and Ikenna, dated June 4, 2022, the SNA Caretaker Committee was inaugurated during the annual convention of the SNA tagged: “SNA LAGOS 2022” with the distinguished Keynote Speaker as Prof. Ayodeji Olukoju FNAL. The event, which took place from Thursday, May 26 to Friday, May 27, 2022, at the Arthur Mbanefo Digital Center, University of Lagos, Nigeria, was organized to promote the competencies of Archivists and other information professionals under the theme: “Mobilizing Nigerian Records and Archival Resources for Sustainable Development and National Integration.’’ Chairman of the Convention Committee, Dr. Kolawole Oseni, in his message to the members at the well-attended event, spoke on the need for all members to come together and project the Society of Nigerian Archivists to the world for better recognition. The SNA, the release said, used the opportunity to emphasise the roles of archivists and information professionals in mobilizing Nigerian records and archival resources for sustainable growth, development and national integration. POLL It was added in the release that the society is anticipating a new paradigm shift in the coming years for true dynamism, growth, innovation and consequently national development. Oyebo was quoted to have said that, “my plan is to move the society forward and ensure that Nigerians understand the roles of archivists in offices, education institutions, establishments, financial institutions, agencies, corporate organisations and others. “People don’t understand the works of archivists, but we must know that we need to keep records; both soft and hard for future purposes and immediate usage. “We have members in many places, so we want all of us to come together so that we can plan our activities and protect the interest of our members,” she said, adding that the committee members would work round the clock to make things happen in the society. Oyebo further said that in lieu of the new paradigm shift, the Caretaker Committee and Archivists in Nigeria planned to observe the forthcoming Archives Week #IAW2022 which will take place from Monday 6 to Friday 10 June 2022, and join the international community to celebrate the fourth International Archives Day that will be observed all over the world. “The International Archives Day will take place by 9th June, 2022 with the theme for this year as “# ArchivesAreYou.” “Therefore, the SNA is inviting all archival and records management professionals and organizations to join us in a virtual symposium for a meaningful conversation by using these hashtags (#ArchivesAreYou and #IAW2022) to talk about what it means to be an archivist and what archival records truly reflects. “Essentially, access to public records in Nigeria will be promoted as stipulated under Part II, Sub-Section 27 of the National Archives of Nigeria Act, (1992), that: “…Members of the public shall have free access to public archives in the National Archives to which there had been free access when the archives were in the custody of the public office from which they had been transferred and; access to archives voluntarily deposited by a private body or by an individual shall be regulated by the conditions agreed between the depositor and the Director,” the release read. However, in preparation for the International Archives Day (IAD) celebration by June 9, 2022, the new SNA Caretaker Committee has put into consideration the following communique arising from the Convention; that the Society of Nigerian Archivists is poised to reposition Archivists and Archival practice in Nigeria for greater performance and progress towards national integration for heritage preservation and progress. “The Federal Government of Nigeria should endeavour to enforce the Freedom of Information Act, and ensure its full implementation without the encumbrances often experienced by Archivists in accessing and retrieving public and private records of archival significance in Nigeria nationwide. “The National Archives of Nigeria should be funded adequately with improved budgetary allocation annually. The full implementation of the National Archives Act of 1992 and repositioning the National Archives under The Presidency as obtainable in some countries, for the effective administration of the National Heritage,” the release read. The Society of Nigerian Archivists (SNA) was incorporated by the Corporate Affairs Commission under Part C of the Companies and Allied Matters Decree, 1990. The Incorporated Trustees were F.O Babalola (then President) and M.E Oriaki (as Secretary). Other members of the executives were Mr J.C Enwere, Mr E.E Ezomo, B.N. Fejokwu, J.E.N Nwaguru and Dr. Yusuf Bala Usman. A certificate of registration (No. 7125) was issued to the Society dated March 24, 1993, as reported by the then Secretary- Abiola A. Abioye in 1995. But, as part of its objectives, the SNA was established to bring together Archivists, Record Managers, Historians and Professionals in Evidence Management, Heritage Management and Information Management in Nigeria.