I was at a loss as to what should be the kernel of today’s column due to a nagging toothache that took me out of circulation for the greater part of the week. It all began in Okpekpe, a suburb of Au­chi in Edo State on Friday night to cover the 8th edition of the Okpekpe International 10km Road Race. Like a joke, by the following morning, the right side of my face had swollen to an extent that I have to seek medical attention. Unfortunately, being a weekend, there was no dentist at both the Au­chi Polytechnic clinic and the Auchi General Hospital. The physician that attended to me recommended antibi­otics and Ibuprofen just to relief me of the pain, but with a firm instruc­tion that I see a dentist on Monday. That I did at the Ikeja General Hos­pital where the tooth was extracted immediately. For three days, I was at home nursing the pain. As at Thursday evening, when most times, I would be rounding off the column for the week, I was still at a loss as to what to write on. My mind dwelled on the cri­sis in basketball after FIBA ‘eject­ed’ (ejection is a basketball term meaning being kicked out of a tournament) the women’s nation­al team, D’Tigress, from the World Cup in Australia this September. I told myself what is more to write since we knew that this would be the first implication of this not well thought-out decision to with­draw from international scene for two year on a mere flimsy excuse of leadership crisis in the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). -Advertisement- I had written that this was a self-inflicted crisis the moment sports ministry announced the with­drawal. My stand was that we need not go through that route as it would achieve nothing. Let’s wait and see. I also thought of x-raying the new Super Eagles coach, Jose Paseiro. But, will I do justice to the man con­sidering that this was his first inter­action with the team. I concluded that I would not be fair to him should I decide to do a critique. So, I dropped that idea. But, while just scrolling my Face­book or going through my twitter, I cannot recall exactly, I came across a post by D’Tigrees player, Ezinne Kalu, who had tweeted, “I don’t think I will ever wear the Green and White again.” This tweet didn’t make much impression on me initially, but as I opened my car door about to exit the office few minutes after 9.pm, it dawned on me the implica­tion of FIBA throwing Nigeria out of the World Cup on the players. It was heart rendering ruminating the tweet in my mind. And this headline dropped into my heart, ‘Who Will Comfort D’Tigress’? I made up my mind at that in­stance to devote this column not to basketball, but to the D’Tigress players, whose hope of playing at the World Cup came crashing because some people refused to consider the players’ interests who had sacrificed all in polishing the image of this country positively through sports. What occupied my mind as I was driving home that Thursday night was who would comfort these girls or what would comfort them? What compensation would be enough to take away the pains of not playing at the highest level of basketball? I cannot fathom any form of compen­sation. POLL Government’s action just showed how inhuman they are when taking decision. The interest of the people, the players in this instance, does not matter. What matters is theirs, be­cause this crisis is all about ego and nothing else. In Western Europe, this decision is enough to get a govern­ment out of power. But here, we are even justifying the decision. Ezinne’s tweet simply gave an in­sight into the minds of the players who never believed that the govern­ment would ever take such an un­sportsmanlike decision. The tweet gives me an insight into how the ladies value wearing the Green White shirt. She must have come to the conclusion after FIBA threw out Nigeria that it’s all over with the national team, since missing the World Cup, Nigeria is automatically out of the running for the 2024 Olympics basketball event in Paris. Their joy, their celebration after winning a game is not about allowances or winning bonuses. If it is, many of them won’t even come near the team. But, their joy is rais­ing the country’s flag at such interna­tional event. While many countries rue missing qualifying for the World Cup, we have just thrown it away. Meaning, we don’t value it. I remem­ber vividly when Nigeria D’Tigers beat China on their home court to qualify for the 2020 Olympics basket­ball event. A Nigerian diplomat who came into the players dressing room while celebrating, said, “A three-year intense diplomacy can never give the country what this victory gave Nige­ria all over China tonight.” We seem not to appreciate what the positive gains the country reaps from sports, even realising that for the first time, these girls would win medals in Australia, but we’ve thrown such opportunity over board. When are we going to build a team capable of doing the country proud again? Time will tell. I know there will be those who will attack me on the premise of not taking into consideration the inter­est of indigenous players who have been out of competition for about four years on the premise of crisis in basketball. But, I hasten to ask: Was it not those loyal to previous board be­fore Kida that got a court injunction stopping him (Kida) from organising the Premier League. When was the injunction vacated? Just before the election? What of Zenith Women’s League that ran its course? What of the Division Two league sponsored by Total? Why is the government not asking the whereabouts of the $2.2 million Kwese sponsorship fund for the Premier League paid the previ­ous board shortly before Kida came on board? For the umpteenth time, I will state that having reported basket­ball for over three decades in the country, it is a farce for the Sports Ministry to tell us that two years would be enough for it to develop the sport. It will not even be enough to set up programmes needed to develop the game. Where are the facilities? Where are the coaches? Where are the medical personnel – sports doctors physiotherapists, sports psychologists-nutritionist, legal personnel? Government’s move was just to get Kida out of the scene, hoping this would pacify all warring groups. But, the government has failed to put into consideration FIBA, who I am sure will insist on the return of Kida’s board before Nigeria will be readmitted into the Internation­al scene. At that time, it will be that we have only cut our nose to spite our face. What an embarrassment to the country, if we will be made to eat our vomit!