UMUAHIA  – Vice Chancellor of Abia State University, Uturu, Prof. Onye­buchi Ogbulu has restated the commitment of the institution to maintain and impact quali­ty learning to produce quality graduates so as to compete with their counterparts in other parts of the world. Prof. Ogbulu gave the as­surance, weekend, during the Induction of 160 Medical Lab­oratory Scientists Graduates of the university held at the Faculty of Law Auditorium, Umuahia Campus, reminded the graduands on the need to remain good ambassadors of the university. The Vice Chancellor con­gratulated the Batch 2019/2020 graduands on the successful completion of their studies in­spite of the obvious challenges. He thanked Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for his contin­ued support to the university as well as parents who made sac­rifices to ensure their success. Also speaking, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Registrar, Medical Laboratory Council of Nigeria, Dr. Tosan Irabor, represented by the Di­rector, Medical Laboratory Sci­ence Regulatory and Discipline, Dr. Uche Imo, commended the university for being one of the best in training Medical Labo­ratory Scientists and charged the graduands to strictly follow the ethical standard guiding the profession. In their remarks, the Provost College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Prof Candy Ahuama, and the Dean, Faulty of Labora­tory Science, Dr Okezie Okamg­ba, said the graduates had been well trained to bring more posi­tive changes in the medical lab­oratory science practice. Delivering a lecture on the topic, ‘The Contemporary Med­ical Laboratory Scientist: Chal­lenges and Prospects’, the Induc­tion Lecturer, Prof. Lawrence Chigbu, described the Medical Laboratory Science as crucial component, especially in the time of outbreak of pandemic. Speaking to Sunday INDE­PENDENT, father of one of the graduands, Miss Ihuoma Maureen Ucheji, Barrister Mo­ris Ucheji, expressed happiness on the successful graduation of his daughter. -Advertisement- POLL “I am happy that I have trained out somebody to go into the field of Medical Lab­oratory Science. It has been a thing of joy. It has been tough, but God has been able to see us through in the past five years. It has not been all that easy.”