Babajide Sanwo-Olu Must Hear This) Well dressed for work on Monday October 28, 2019, I set out for a Paint Manufacturers Association Coating Show 2019 appointment in Ikeja. Like other commuters on wheels, I was heading for Ikeja, in pains, courtesy of the traditional Lagos arduous traffic. Suddenly, along Charity/ Oshodi axis, about 10 am, a fellow in mufti, jumped into my lane, in front of three other vehicles that were ahead of me, used them to slow me down, passed them on and directed me to park along the corridor, between the express way and the service lane. I parked, wondering what was amiss. And within seconds, in a gangster manner, he jumped into the front seat beside me and asked for my vehicle particulars. With full confidence, I made for my papers. And as I was doing this, he opened the automatic door lock and let in his two uniformed colleagues. Can you imagine this kind of intimidation, this kind of distraction, early in the morning when my brain was engaged in building up a robust engagement I was going to have with chieftains of the nation’s industry? It turned that he was not interested in my vehicle papers. Said he: ‘They are not interested in your papers. They are contravening you for traffic offence’. ‘Which traffic offence?’ I asked. He couldn’t offer an answer. I wondered why he was referring to his colleagues as ‘they’. Perhaps he was one of these touts police at check points hired to do dirty jobs for them, a decoy strategy. None of the two policemen was an Inspector of Police which the law demands for a check point to be legal. I gave them a good fight. He made for my ignition key; I resisted and told him he had no grounds whosoever to do so. How could I allow a stranger who threw at me trumped up charges and one whose identity was questionable to take over my car, a duly registered car with up-to-date papers? He continued: ‘You are proving stubborn. I will tow this car to the station if you don’t cooperate.’ ‘You will do no such thing,’ I told him firmly and to let him know that I knew my rights. I told him ‘I am a newspaper editor a pastor. That did the magic. He abruptly told his colleagues “Let us let him go”. They let me go after succeeding in making me go late for my appointment. Another instance – LGA towing van operatives Again, on Monday May 30, 2022, a few metres from Orile Bus-Stop, coming from Lagos, about 3.30 pm, this time with operatives of local government (this is if they truly are). There were two of them, in a wobbly towing van, donning the traditional lemon and yellow traffic vest. I was coming from a business engagement in Ikoyi, which had worn me out, heading for Mile 2/Festac axis, like every other vehicle. Suddenly, I saw this rickety towing van swerved, in their usual gangster manner, to my front and screeching to a stop. I almost collided with the van. The duo jumped out of the van and tried in vain to force me to park banging at my car window. A broad day display of hooliganism. POLL I knew I had committed no offence and so challenged them with all confidence. And they had to back off. I wonder when tow van operators have become traffic officers – tow van operatives not accompanied by LASTMA or police, apprehending motorists! Nawao for Lagos. To be on wheels now in Lagos is like driving in a war zone. You have this type of scenarios across the country every day. They constitute obstacles to business operations. We can recall a number of commercial bus conductors and drivers have lost their lives for not parting with ‘regular due’ which the police use touts to collect. This is of public knowledge. Do we care? Must we continue this way? If we do, how can we step up our ranking in respect of ease of doing business? Nigeria is ranked 131 among 190 economies in the ease of doing business, according to the latest World Bank annual ratings. The rank of Nigeria improved to 131 in 2019 from 146 in 2018.