LAGOS  – The President, Advocacy for Maritime Development Association of Nigeria (AMDAN), Oluwasegun Alabi has said that legislations are required to improve policies that would revolutionise the country’s maritime sector. Alabi said this at a round table discussion organised by the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON). He said the mission of the Advocacy Association was to further improve the industry for the good of stakeholders. He said: “I’m also a strong ANLCA member and a trucker too with a distinguished record. I formed the association to actualise standard, improved and functional methods of doing business in the industry”. The AMDAN chief, who addressed various issues affecting the maritime sector, indicated that policies guiding the effecient running of the ports must be sustainable. He further stated that legislations on the ownership and operation of freight forwarding companies must be instituted, while adding that freighters have to understand their limits. “Nigerian laws have to be amended such that foreigners won’t have undue advantage over their Nigerian counterparts in Port business. “As it is, foreigners have upper hands in port businesses in Nigeria and this must change not by speech making but in changing certain policies through lagislations that would empower the locals”, Alabi argued. -Advertisement- POLL According to him, that was why he established AMDAN, whose membership he believes would grow with time. On the Apapa gridlock, he commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) on the effecient implemention of the Electronic Truck call-up system (ETO). “I personally drove my car to Apapa on Thursday. It would have been impossible in the past. The traffic was light and movement was easy, this is ETO working. Introduction of the ETO system has helped in regulating traffic in Apapa”. “Before now the cost of freighting goods from Apapa to Ikeja you will pay as much as N600,000 to N700,000, but as at today the cost of freighting goods from Apapa to Ikeja has reduced to N250,000. ‘The price of trucking has come down. Eto has succeeded, all we need to do is to give it perfection.’ he added.