BENIN – As part of the healing pro­cess, with a view to avert a possible crushing de­feat in the forthcoming elections, similar to what the par­ty suffered in the just-concluded Ekiti State governorship election, leaders of the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have decided to close ranks and forge a united front. Luckily, the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, is behind the fresh moves to unite the feuding factions in the state as a guarantee of electoral victory. Though the peace search might still be in its infancy, pundits have, however, predicted a good out­come, if the process is allowed to run its full course. They have also hailed the state governor who, by his position as the leader of the party, for taking the bull by the horn to initiate a round table discussion involving all the aggrieved factions, stress­ing that the move is a welcome one and urging the other side to embrace the move, for the sake of making the PDP great again. Gathering at the Benin secre­tariat of the party from across the senatorial districts of the state, the PDP leaders, looking genu­inely sober as a result of recent developments in the party, ap­peared finally ready to give peace a chance. The prime mover of the peace search, Governor Obaseki, was himself in a reconciliatory mode. Both in his utterances and dis­positions at the reconciliatory meeting, it was obvious the gover­nor’s sole agenda was to promote “genuine reconciliation and forge a united front”. Repeatedly in his address to the party leaders and members who were present at the peace parley, the governor refrained from blam­ing any side for the crisis rocking the party and instead harped on why the feuding factions must sheath the swords and embrace peace. As a way of ensuring that the reconciliation did not suffer a setback, the party stakeholders, political observers say, should developed a time-tested way of resolving disputes in a family manner. -Advertisement- POLL Based on findings, the PDP in the Ekiti election, performed woefully due to the lack of unity among the party faithful. The Ekiti episode was a signal that there was an urgent need for the PDP to rebrand, reinvent and reconnect with the youths if it would still want to be relevant in a fast-changing political envi­ronment. The Edo PDP stakeholders should not get complacent and re­move their eyes from the bigger picture, the opposition party is gearing to “grab” back power if the PDP fails to put its house in order. It would be tantamount to a “catastrophe of an unimaginable proportion” if the party concedes ground to the APC in both the forthcoming state and national assembly elections. The PDP family in the state would shout for joy to have the full complement of the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, state party chairman, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, the two PDP Senators and Chief Dan Orbih, among others, leading the party’s campaign during the presidential and National Assem­bly elections to ultimately sweep the polls, leaving the APC high and dry. Indeed, if the PDP succeeds in patching the internal strife and goes into the 2023 general elections as a united front, the opposition APC will be wondering what exactly hit it. Meanwhile, let me sound a note of warning that the weapon for winning an opponent is, most of­ten times, provided by the opponent himself. According to Karl Marx, every System contains its own seed of self-destruction. Every solution at, some point, becomes the new prob­lem if there is no consistent and concerted effort to adapt to chang­ing realities on ground. Some analysts say that Mr God­win Obaseki’s incursion to the PDP, which appears to be a solution for the PDP to bounce back to limelight at the time, has suddenly become the new problem of the party. Though this school of thought believes that Mr Godwin Obaseki’s coming on board the PDP was the solution that saved the PDP from pining into extinction as the party was ebbing as at the time, others are of the opinion that he, Obaseki is the present malaise of the party. This assertion, however, is now a puzzle sort of. The Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has been engulfed in prolonged inter­nal disputes over which faction controls the structure of the par­ty which enabled Godwin Obaseki become the governor of the State. Analysts believed that trou­ble started immediately after the state Governorship elections when Obaseki, who emerged vic­torious at the polls, made several attempt to “hijack the party struc­ture” from the supposed original owners that gave him victory, that is, the party executives ,to replace them with what he calls the “har­monised executives.” Today, there exists, in Edo State, “Old PDP” and “New PDP” mem­bers both with daggers drawn for the soul of the party. This was exactly how the par­ty found itself in a bizarre state of mind as they headed for a con­vention that threw up two different delegates lists resulting in an acri­monious parallel primaries. It is an undeniable fact, but argu­ably true that PDP is not new to factional struggle within its ranks. It was during the era of Chief Tony Anenih, then as national leader of the party. There were Anenih’s camp, the Ogbemudia’s faction, etc. But, be that as it were however, they have always found a way out of every of their internal squab­bles with the national leader, Chief Tony Anenih, being a formidable rallying point and providing lead­ership which had seen the party winning electoral victories for so many years. For now, such rallying point has to be the state governor, H.E. God­win Obaseki in his capacity as the leader of the party as spelt out by the party’s convention Similarly, the state party chair­man, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, as the symbolic father of the party, in collaboration with other stakehold­ers of party are also expected to support the governor in the obvi­oustask in the spirit of the prover­bial sayings that “one hand cannot lift a load from the ground to the head”. Hon Aziegbemi has not in any way shied away from playing the fatherly role as demonstrated in and out of party functions, and again, as a father, more sacrifice is still needed so as to get to the promised land, where unity, which is topmost on the list of what the party needs most, resides.