Dimeji Lawal, Shoot­ing Stars Sports Club of Ibadan General Manager, has called for thorough in­vestigations to the attack on a journalist, Adepoju Tobi, by fans suspected to be those of the Oluyole Warriors. In the attack that attract­ed wide condemnation, the former international said he would never encourage violence and exonerated the current board of the former Nigerian champions from the attack, saying the inci­dent remains condemnable. Lawal regretted that some people were dragging him into the matter, explain­ing that he would never be associated with hooligan­ism no matter the outcome of matches. -Advertisement- “The only defense is that I will never instigate, encour­age or partake in violence no matter how the result of a match goes. “People who know me or are close to me, will tell you that I will never en­courage or partake in any act of football hooliganism. For me football remains a game, not a do or die affair. I was only lucky to escape because some angry fans are beginning to insinuate match fixing. “Tobi to me is more like a brother, we actually met earlier in day after the pre match meeting in which I offered him some drinks but we both agreed we will be together after the match. “Whoever is trying to bring me into this, reasons are best known to them, but God will never allowed darkness over light. The case must be thoroughly in­vestigated and truth finding must be done. “It’s so sad and unethical to try to mob anyone over the results of any game.I have even tried to reach Tobi on phone to check on his wellbeing but couldn’t reach him. I repeat my chairman nor myself will never encouraged or sup­port any act of violence. God will be the judge in all this.” POLL Recall that a disturbing video and photos l emerged on social media where Tobi Adepoju was attacked by fans of Shooting Stars of Ibadan recently. The ugly scene occurred after the Nigerian Profes­sional Football League match-day 31 clash between Shooting Stars, and visiting Remo Stars, which ended 1-1. After losing their last away game 3-1 in Owerri against Heartland, fans of Shooting Stars were expect­ing their players to soar in Ibadan against Remo Stars of Ikenne.