LAGOS  – Konga, one of Nigeria’s leading composite e-commerce giant, has promised huge savings for shoppers as it flags off the maiden edition of the much-anticipated Mid-Year Shopping Festival. A month-long mega discount sale, Konga Mid-Year Shopping Festival kicks off on Wednesday, June 1 through Thursday, June 30, 2022, online at www.konga.com and offline in every Konga store nationwide. A lot is in store for shoppers across board throughout the duration of the festival. Here are a few key facts to know about the Konga Mid-Year Shopping Festival and what to look forward to: -Advertisement- Konga Mid-Year Shopping Festival is an annual promotion. This edition, the maiden version, will celebrate a few key events in the month of June, including Nigeria’s Democracy Day, Father’s Day and Konga’s 10th Anniversary. It is a time to save money while grabbing the very best deals and other exciting offers exclusively from Konga’s huge inventory Prices will crash to unbelievable levels across multiple product categories including Computing, Electronics, Mobile, Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), Home & Kitchen Appliances, Wine & Spirits, Fashion, etc. Not only that, but prospective travellers will also be treated to best prices and special deals on summer flight packages to major destinations around the world via Konga Travel. If you do not have a KongaPay account, now is the best time to get one. KongaPay users will enjoy sweet discounts and mouthwatering bonuses on daily transactions, airtime and data recharge, among others during the Mid-Year Shopping Festival POLL There is also a mouthwatering extra 10% discount off all purchases made with your Access Bank cards or OPay virtual cards use. Attractive bulk deals for heavy shoppers, business owners, corporate/religious organizations, cooperatives and educational institutions, among others. App-only deals for Konga App users, early bird discounts, special deals for walk-in customers to Konga stores and free delivery for Konga Prime subscribers. Shoppers can count on swift delivery of all orders placed online or via Konga stores through KXpress, Konga’s logistics subsidiary. Konga Mid-Year Shopping Festival will run all through the month of June 2022.