AKURE – The College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, Ondo State, has called on the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu to order take-off of the institution’s university status immediately. In a letter dated June 22, 2022 jointly signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the union, Comrades Dr. Adetokunboh Adepoju and Dr. Joel Edafe respectively, and addressed to the Minister of Education, the concerned lecturers also asked the minister to set in motion the appointment of the Vice Chancellor for the institution. They expressed concern over delay in the take-off of the Transition Implementation Committee of the University, which they said has generated apprehension and tension in institution community and the people of the state. The Minister was urged to reject any controversial recommendation for the extension or renewal of the tenure of Principal Officers for the College. Appreciating President Muhammadu Buhari, members of National Assembly, the minister and other stakeholders who made the approval of upgrading of institution to a university possible, the lecturers described the feat as one of cogent dividends of democracy a people-oriented government could give its citizenry. The statement reads in parts: “Our Union wishes to reiterate our profound appreciation to his Excellency, President  Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, the Honourable Minister of Education. Mallam Adamu Adamu and the distinguished leadership and members of the National Assembly for the long awaited upgrade of Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo to Adeyemi Federal University of Education, Ondo. We are also highly appreciative of the passage and the assenting of the enabling Act. “This obviously, is one of the numerous laudable dividends of democracy bequeathed to the Nigeria‘s Teacher Education Sector by the present administration. “The assent of Mr. President to this Act and the subsequent gazetting were greeted with loud ovation within the College, Ondo community, Ondo State, and the alumni across the globe. -Advertisement- POLL However, the Union has observed with serious concern, the unexplained delay in the take-off of the Transition Implementation Committee of the University. “This delay has become a subject of palpable apprehension among staff, students and members of the host community. “Some measure of tension is also brewing as a result of the delay. The Union vehemently resist the continuation of the institution as a College of Education. “In view of the foregoing, the Union hereby pleads with the Honourable Minister to consider and attend to the following: immediate constitution and mobilization of the Transition hnplementation Committee for Adeyemi Federal University of Education; facilitation of enabling conditions for the immediate take-off of the Adeyemi Federal University of Education. “We urge you sir to reject of any controversial recommendation for the extension or renewal of the tenure of Principal Officers for the College. “We pray for the immediate appointment of a Vice Chancellor that has the requisite qualifications, acumen and attitude to drive a University of Education; and assisting in any other way that will enhance and promote the laudable vision of Adeyemi Federal University of Education.”