***As Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro (Vida Modelo) Commends The Leadership Of Department Of Foreign Affairs Africa, Youth House, Abuja ASABA – The Founder/CEO, La Vida Foundation Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro (Vida Modelo) has Commended the leadership of Embassy of DENMARK And Spain on her recently appointment as African Youth Ambassador To Embassy of DENMARK And Spain as she assumed office, pledges capacity and competence in the areas of her assigned roles, responsibilities to young Africans globally. The media learnt this from Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro today being on Sunday, 26th day of June, 2022 in a press statement made available to newsmen in Asaba, Delta State capital which was personally signed by her promises to promote effective and efficient representation of African Youths. Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro attended Florentine Nursery And Primary School, Warri, Delta State. She proceeded to Our Lady’s High School Warri, Delta State after her First School Leaving Certificate (FSLC)]. She bagged her ‘O’ Certificate at Liberation Academy, Benin City, Edo State (NECO) and thereafter bagged her Diploma in Modeling and Style at Ole Groupo, Spain (Espańa). As part of her more quest for quality education while in Spain, she had certificate in Certificado En Produceion y Escritura De Guiones Spain (Espańa), that Spanish Certificate in Script Writing And Film Production. And Certificate in Career Readiness Skill and Business Acceleration. While in Nigeria, she attended National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) where she bagged her Bachelor’s of Science(B.Sc) Degree in Tourism Studies. She had Certificate in Paralegal Training with FIDA Nigeria. -Advertisement- POLL Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro has very good career history as the Founder / CEO, Vida Modelo Multimedia, Founder / CEO, La Vida Foundation(A non-governmental Organization) working in the thematic areas of anti-human trafficking; organization that fights against human trafficking, sensitizes, educates and also empowers the girl child and female gender at the grassroots level or populace. The foundation also carters for general humanitarian services and others. The newly inaugurated African Youth Ambassador To Embassy of DENMARK And Spain Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro popularly known as Vida Modelo is a Film Producer / Actress at Nollywood film industry, a TV / Red Carpet Host, Girl child counselor, Ambassador for sexual offence, domestic violence and child’s right, Ambassador Vsonet Education, Delta State youth coordinator l, African Women leadership Organisation (AWLO). The letter of appointment to Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro as African Youth Ambassador to Embassy of DENMARK And Spain was signed by Dr. Abdullahi, the Confidential Secretary, Department of Foreign Affairs, Africa Youth House, Abuja, appointment issued to Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro amongst other Youth leaders in Nigerian across different States of the Federation. The appointment which took effect from 20th June, 2022 saw the inauguration of the globally recognized, Youths, women Leader, mobilizer, development worker, and Multi-media practitioner amongst other seasoned Youth advocates within and across the Nigerian Federation, Africa and the rest of the World. The auspicious event on African Youth Ambassadors inauguration took place on Friday, 25th of June, 2022 at the Africa Youth House, Abuja, Multi-purpose Hall. Ambassador Favour .J. Obakoro has sustained her fight against human trafficking in Delta State, Nigeria, Africa and globally as a seasoned, articulate, and intelligent young woman. She promised while thanking the Embassy Community to show competence, capacity and experience as she had assumed office as the African Youth Ambassador to Embassy of DENMARK And Spain to promote African heritage and support in repositioning her younger generations. She also promised to ensure that she maintains the confidence repose on her by the Embassy Community and promote effective and efficient representation of African Youths in the Embassy’s Community; working in synergy with the Embassy and African Youths through bilateral relations to create opportunities, programs and engagement that will be of great advantages to African Youths in general. She has assured the embassy of her competence and ability to deliver in her new appointment, assigned position; taken cognisance of global standards on Youths mentorship, accountability, bilateral relations, model the Community’s good standards and germane reputation amongst other responsibilities at the African Youth House in Embassy of DENMARK And Spain Abuja The illustrious daughter, Amb. Favour .J. Obakoro also thanked the Embassy on her appointment as the African Youth Ambassador to Embassy DENMARK And Spain. The inauguration on the appointment was held in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja was graced by various dignitaries , friends and well wishers.