The Chancellor of Gregory University Uturu (GUU) and gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Prof Gregory Ibe, has expressed joy at the release of the Prelate of Methodist Church, Rt Rev Samuel Kalu Uche and two others by kidnappers. The university don in a statement made available to newsmen in Umuahia stated that the news of the abduction of the Head of the Methodist Church in Nigeria devastated him, stressing that the news cut short of the celebration of his victory as APGA’s governorship candidate. He said, “When the news broke on Sunday of the kidnap of the Prelate, who happens to be my revered senior at the Ihube High School, it became a killjoy development that doused celebrations of my victory at the just concluded guber primary election of APGA. -Advertisement- “Therefore, my joy knows no bounds hearing of his release in good health”. According to Prof Ibe, the issue of insecurity especially around the Isuikwuato and Umunneochi axis has become a nagging problem that must be urgently addressed to curb the ever-increasing frequency of kidnapping. The proprietor of the Gregory University therefore tasked the Federal and Abia State governments as well as governments in the Southeast geopolitical zone to formally incorporate local vigilante groups in their security infrastructure. He pledged to declare state of emergency on security if elected governor in the 2023 general elections. “Increasingly insecurity is becoming an issue of great concern, especially within the Isuikwuato Umunneochi axis of our state. It is a menace that has the potential of threatening our economy and the education sector seriously if left unchecked. POLL “I therefore want to enjoin the governments of the Southeast particularly to formally incorporate local vigilante groups in their security architecture in order to check this ugly trend”, he advised. It will be recalled that news of the unfortunate abduction of the Prelate of the Methodist Church and two others while on a journey from Okigwe to Umunneochi broke on Sunday. They were however released after the payment of a huge sum of N100M as ransom.