LAGOS – New executive members of Imo Descendants Association of Orile Imo in Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State, were at the weekend inaugurated to steer the ship of the association. The registered association consisting of eminent sons and daughters of the Town along with the newly inaugurated executive members were charged to serve as worthy ambassadors of the Town by demonstrating the virtues of honesty, good moral standing, hard work, humility and love for humanity. The royal fathers, including; Chief Suraju Olanrewaju, Agbogan of Imo land, Baale of Jesutedo village, Baale of Baajila village, the Chief imam of Nawarudeen mosque, Orile Imo and the Vicar in charge of St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Orile Imo, admonished the new executive members to work as a team, cooperating with one another and ensuring that sons and daughters of Imo kingdom are drawn home to contribute their quota in the development of the ancient town. Honourable Chief Olubode Oni, a former member of the House of Representatives in the second republic, expressed joy at the inauguration of the new executives, describing it as the attainment of a new milestone for a Town that has grown in leaps and bounds having two bearded crowns both in Orile Imo and Owode-Egba. Explaining further, Chief Oni said, “Owode-Egba is our kith and kin that should be embraced and integrated into our progressive journeys, and we should strive to ensure that the bond of brotherhood between us is strengthened at every given opportunity.” In his own contribution, High Chief Asiwaju Olakunle Olalekan, Asiwaju, Orile Imo, and South West Patron of PCRC, advised the newly inaugurated executives to unite, because in unity they will stand. On his part, Reverend Tunde Lemo encouraged Imo Descendants’ Association to make sure that the development of Imo kingdom is their watch word. Members of the board of trustees of the association who are present at event includes; Alhaji Nurudeen Oyedele, Rev. (Dr.) Tunde Lemo, Professor Femi Fatade and Chief Reuben Sogaolu.