The National President of Nigeria Borehole Drillers Association (AWDROP), Engineer Michael Ale has decried the comment credited to the Lagos State Commissioner for Health regarding suggesting that water from boreholes in the state are unsafe for human consumption. While responding to Professor Akin Abayomi’s claim on water crisis in Lagos,Ale  said that failure of the government to properly manage the water sector and the borehole industry was responsible for unsafe drinking water in the state. Ale ,in a press statement made available to journalists on Sunday ,said failure to provide productive and responsive leadership in virtually all sectors on the part of the government, has been responsible for the unsafe drinking water from the boreholes in the state. According to him “the alarm being raised over unsafe drinking water in Lagos is an indication of a failed government’s system. Nobody should be blamed but the Governmen The Health Commissioner who cautioned that Lagosians must beware of such water, also called on experts and relevant stakeholders to come to the aide of the state government, adding that the government was ready to partner with others in its quest to provide safe drinking water to all Lagosians. Though, the Water Expert acknowledged  that the Commissioner might be saying the obvious,he however blamed the governments long term abandonment of professionalism in the sector as the major cause . Ale ,who is equally an expert in Water, Sanitation and hygiene. (WASH) said: “Yes, l  agree with the Commissioner’s submission, long term abandonment of professionalism is playing out in the borehole drilling industry. But professionally handled borehole are safe for consumption.” “The fact is all water are at their raw state and unsafe until it is declared safe by the practitioner,  laboratory scientists. So no need to fear, we should just abide by professional practices, if we don’t want to have long threatening disease”. -Advertisement- POLL Ale, therefore advised Lagos State Government “to have  proper water security and Governance structure. Then allocate enough budget for water resources management, train more professionals in the sector and educate people on water quality, among other precautionary measures. While urging government at all levels to wake up to their responsibility especially in the areas of managing development oriented sectors such as the water sector, he however, allayed the fears of the Lagos State government that all water from the boreholes in the state are unsafe for drinking, clarifying that professionally handled boreholes have safe drinking waters. The water expert said his association, which comprises professional borehole drillers, can assist the Lagos State’s Ministry of Health in training practitioners who will provide professional services in the area in focus: “what our association can do is to partner with the Minsitry of health in organizing programmes through which we will train practitioners in drilling industry in professional practice and also set code of practice for Lagos drilling operations.” The water and development expert  added that as professionals, his association has wherewithal to solve the unsafe water issues once and for all: ” We have the template to make things work in Lagos State. We should be invited to make our presentation”, he advised,