In this interview with Chibuike Chukwu, Dr. Ukpai Iro Ukpai, a businessmen and frontline governorship aspirant on the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Abia State, said if elected he would give priority to wealth creation in the state through the deployment of technology. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpts. When did you get into politics? I ventured into politics earlier than 2015, I had stints with the PDP and then Wole Soyinka’s party. But I will say my active participation in politics started when I joined the APC prior to the election of 2015. -Advertisement- You want to govern Abia State, what informed or motivated you to embark on this journey? Abia State is in big shit, as Americans do say, in terms of governance. Abia State is a major problem to the federation called Nigeria. Abia State lags behind other states in Nigeria and anybody from Abia who God has blessed with resources or capacity will want to tell you the truth and the truth is that many of us feel ashamed with the kind of governance we have received from the PDP over the years. It is so bad that Abia State will presently be ranked 37th among the Nigerian states. If there is 36th rank, Abia shouldn’t occupy that. Most people know that Abia has performed far below our God-giving potentials. So having been in politics actively since 2015, I come to realize that Abia State needs people who fear God, who love the people, and Abia State needs the people who have the capability to handle to governance. It is no more tenable that we should abandon the state to be governed by people who have no business being in government and that is why I am offering and presenting myself for the challenge this time around. These and many more all aimed at changing Abia State are the reasons I am coming out to vie for this position. There has been this talk, and perhaps rightly too, that since 1999, Abia State has been bereft of quality leadership; what will you do differently to change this narrative if elected? If you want to govern the people and affect their lives in a good way, you must love them. If you don’t love the people, don’t go to ask for power to govern them. I believe that one of the things which has been lacking among those who have come to govern Abia State is that they love themselves; they don’t love the people. I am coming because I have two things; two things are in my heart, I love the people and I love Abians. I also love God. I hate to see Abians suffer the way they have been suffering in the hands of the PDP. I love God to the extent that I am ashamed that the state called ‘God’s Own State’ looks like God’s forsaken state. I am offering myself to be used by God to return the glory of Abia State; that is why my political structure is called ‘Ebube Abia Organisation’. We must return the glory of God to Abia State; we must bring together people and organisations that fear God like the Christian community, the Muslim community in order to make sure that God is honoured again and the altar of the most high God is erected high to take its place in the heart of Abia State. So, two things I have said, love for the people and love for God; that is what I will do differently and that is what is lacking. I am not coming out so that I will plunder the vaults of Abia; I am not coming out so that I will make myself richer than any other person; I am coming out to serve; I am coming out to realize the dreams of Abia; I am coming out to make sure that jobs are created for the youths; I am coming out so that Abia State will be rightly placed among the comity of states with development as a result of enormous resources; I am coming out to make sure that we deploy technology to create wealth and secure the future of our people. That is why I am running and that is what the people of Abia want. What is your agenda for Abians which they will hold you accountable for if elected? POLL I have a three-point agenda that is at the core of my manifesto. They are the three pillars of my manifesto. I want Abians to remember me as someone who came to governance from May 2023 and created wealth; wealth for Abians and made sure that our revenue rose from the position of 24th ; we are below 24th or at 24 by the National Bureau of Statistics records, and that is not handsome at all. We need to move into that position where Ogun and Lagos states are. That is the place Abians will be proud to be, so I am going to get Abians running. We are going to get wealth created and our revenue base is going to increase. By the time we clock four years, Abia State will be a competitor state; Abia State will be the production hub for Africa; Abia State is going to be the envy of many states. Take that to the bank because I and my team are going to do that. Hold me accountable that I created wealth, I was a productive governor; I was a governor that made sure that Abia State climb to among the first three in the country in internally generated revenue. We will reduce debt very well in order to make sure that Abia State will be able to handle capital projects. We will take loans and enter into partnerships but we are not going to take such for unproductive ventures; we will not go into unproductive borrowing: we will only go into borrowing for such things that will create more wealth for our people and ensure productions. Three things like I have said that will form the pillars; we will have a digital economy and a digital society, and raising our IGR. These are going to underscore our process of creating the wealth. We are going to ensure massive creation of jobs for our people. We are going to have what I call wholesome security. It is not only about security of lives and property; we will secure the health of our people, we will ensure food security; we will secure the quality education of our people. We have crimes here and there because there is no security of health, education and food; people are very hungry. Also because those areas we have not secured, we have all sorts of things; infant mortality is high, adult mortality is high. The population of Abia and indeed Nigeria is growing higher and all we have to do is to make sure that our people stop living below the poverty line. These pillars are going to underpin all that we are going to do. That does not mean we are not going to build roads and provide portable water, they all will come from those pillars I have mentioned but there are the basics; schools will work and infrastructures will be provided but we are going to focus on creating wealth for our people. Recently you left APC, the party that berthed your political career, for the NNPP, citing certain things that did not go down well; can you let us into the reasons? I have been in politics before 2015. But it was in 2015 that I started actively with political career and I began under the APC. You may say why from the APC? It is because I started from the grassroots; I am a grassroots politician. I so worked myself to make sure that the party was built; then along the line, we started having this factionalisation in the Abia APC. It got so serious to the extent that the two factions have not been able to agree and the national body of the APC has not been able to reconcile them even into the election year, and I find that as working against my aspiration and working against what Abians want now. Abians are looking for a party that will be able to give the fight to the PDP in order to rescue the state. So the APC does not look like the party I will continue to stay in order to do what Abians want, which is rescue and redemption of the state. I didn’t fine APC the platform that will deliver the state, so that is why I had to leave. So how rooted is the NNPP in Abia to challenge the PDP for the governorship of the state? New Nigeria Peoples Party is the fastest growing organization in the country and NNPP is not going to be the third force; NNPP is going to be the first force in Nigeria. PDP and APC are going to the background and NNPP is going to take the first position. Later you will find out that my prediction came to pass. As for Abia State, NNPP is a breath of fresh air; we are going to breath fresh air and with that breath of fresh air comes the anointing, an anointing that will redeem and rescue Abia State. How can you assess the President Buhari-led APC government now in its last year? If I will be frank to you, there are areas that President Muhammadu Buhari has done quite well. He has done very well in infrastructure; he has done very well in making sure that agriculture is thriving, he has done very well in looking after the poor people across the length and breadth of Nigeria. You can recall the many programmes that the Vice President has been coming around to carry out. In security, he has done what he is able to do though we are still battling it. If you ask me, the issue of security in this country requires us to go beyond the box and probably throw the box away and find solutions from wherever. And one of the things that many of us have recommended is to restructure the federation so that some of the things that are seemingly intractable or difficult to do like the policing can be handled at a lower stage. That has been an area that has been a problem to the government of President Buhari. I will not score him complete failure like I said because he has done well in some areas.