ABUJA – Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Youth Wing has vowed to roar like lion and cow other opposition Youth groups to submission, assuring that the party’s presidential flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will eventually secure the Support of 120 million youth voters. Speaking at the party’s National Secretariat on Wednesday in Abuja, during the inauguration of a Task Force to oversee the Registration and Revalidation Youth-Led and Youth/Student Focused Support Groups, APC National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel said he will personally mobilize Nigerian youths to support. According to him, the imperative for inclusiveness and participation of the youth cannot be overemphasized, hence the need for youths in faraway locations to rally with one voice, structure and give the same level of support as those who are in Abuja. “To ensure our success and ensure a proper structure for all the youth and students support groups is put in place, I have assembled these respected voices and party loyalists as members of APC Youth Wing National Special Task Force on Revalidation and Registration of APC Youth-led and Youth-focused support groups. “This taskforce has been mandated to coordinate the registration and revalidation exercise of ALL youth/student-focused and youth-led support groups into a recognizable structure strongly aligned with the objectives and strategic imperatives of the National Working Committee, led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu “The revalidation of the affiliated youth/student support groups according to him will be opened for a period of one month starting from Friday Ist of July through 31st of July would also enable effective coordination, disciplined harmonization of activities in alignment with the party’s goals, aid provision and accountability, as well as efficient management and enhanced operations. “To streamline the submission process and enable easy access, sorting, and verification, interested groups would be able to register digitally and submit all relevant documents and information required for the revalidation exercise from the comfort of their homes at www.youngprogessives.ng/supportgroups. This way, groups across the country can participate in the process virtually, thus avoiding the additional burden or cost of facilitating the logistics of physical movement of personnel and sensitive data”. The Taskforce has as Co-Chairs, the former KWARA State Commissioner for Information and former President of the Pan African Youth Council Mr. Ben Duntoye. Hon Jamaldeen Kabir, the Deputy National Youth Leader of the APC I’d his Deputy. -Advertisement- POLL Others are Ms. Rinsola Abiola (Former Member of the APC BOT), Hon Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim (Federal Commissioner/CEO, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons), H.E Ambassador Ginika Tor (Federal Commissioner, Federal Character Commission), Zubair Aliyu (North Central Zonal Youth Leader), Jason Baba Kwaghe (North-East Zonal Youth Leader), Abdulhamid Umar Mohd (North-West Zonal Youth Leader), Comr. Ebimobowei Oyas (South-South Zonal Youth Leader), Hon. Ikenna Anyalewechi (South-East Zonal Youth Leader), and Hon Lawal Kolade Paff (South-West Zonal Youth Leader). Others are Hon. Sesan Daini (Chairman Igbogbo Baiyeku Local Government), Kelechi Ekugo (Chief of Staff to the Minister of State, Mines and Steel), Ogban Isetu Ogban (SSA to the Governor of Cross River State), Aminu Shehu Uba (Special Assistant to Senator Orji Uzor Kalu), Irinoye Olabisi Omolayo (Senior Legislative Aide to the Deputy Senate President), Mohammed Salisu BUHARI (Agriwatts Nigeria Limited), Abisoye Fagbade (CEO Sodium Group), Mohammed Saidu Etsu, Khadijat Kareem, Michael Amosun, Esther Eddy and Ms. Amaka Lawrence. To partake in the revalidation exercise, all affiliated youth support groups will be required to provide the following information, among others, for verification by the committee on theregistration portal: National Office Address for National Organizations, and Zonal/State address for among other documents.