KELVIN ONYEKACHUKWU, IGONIKO ODUMA A young man simply identified as Endurance Oweiye Kalaepele has been reportedly shot dead by soldiers attached to Forcado Terminal in Ogulagha Community, Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State. Daily Independent gathered that the incident which occurred on Monday, June 27, 2022, has created tension in the community. Sources said, “A 27-year-old man was allegedly shot twice by the military men while he was picking snails with his team of snail hunters on Monday about 11:00 p.m. When contacted, the Youth President of the Ogulagha Community, Thank God Iyaragba, said, “The deceased was with six others hunting for snails late Monday night when he was allegedly shot by military men. “Around 10:00 p.m. yesterday, Monday, June 27, 2022, six of the community boys went to the bush behind Forcadoes Terminal, the Pipeline bush, for snail picking, but were intercepted on their way back by the military men. “One of the boys, Endurance, tried to run out of fear, but was shot twice at close range. Consequently, the infuriated youths of the community went on rampage, destroying company vehicles and property. They have also taken over the major roads in the community to express their anger.” As at the time of filing this report, the Army are yet to arrive the scene or react to the incident. When contacted for comment, the State Police Public Relation Officer, DSP Edafe Bright, could not confirm if anyone had died, but said, “There was protest in Ogulagha Community; we don’t know what led to the protest yet. But the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and his men have restored sanity there. There is peace in the community now. When details about what happened there come I will let you know,” the PPRO said. -Advertisement- POLL In another development, the Bayelsa State Police Command, on Tuesday, confirmed that two persons were hit by stray bullets allegedly shot indiscriminately by some men in military camouflage during a clash with some policemen at the Edepie-Etegwe Roundabout in Yenagoa, on Monday. A statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Asinim Butswat, identified the two victims as Ariwei Taralayefa and Omonopeno Oturu, who were treated at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Yenagoa. It stated that the military personnel also brutalised a member of the Bayelsa State Volunteers, but did not disclose his identity. According to the command, trouble started when the soldiers, who were dressed in mufti, took offence for being stopped by some police officers for driving against traffic at the roundabout, and advised them to turn and take the proper lane. It was gathered the military and Police authorities were investigating the incident for possible identification of the men involved.