….Charges Committee to Probe the Cause of Bureaucratic Bickering Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila on Wednesday inaugurated the Ad-hoc Committee on the duplication of functions by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the federal government, charging the committee to investigate and bring out the root cause of bickering among such establishments. In an opening remark, Gbajabiamila said it is a special occasion being the inauguration of the House Ad-hoc Committee to investigate the duplication of functions of agencies of the federal government in Nigeria at the National Assembly. He further said that an organization’s vision and mission must of necessity be derived from the mandate and functions enunciated by its establishment Act or any instrument that establishes it. Uncertainty, Gbaja noted sets in “when there are multiple agencies carrying out the same functions, leading to bickering, suspicion, and eventually duplication of efforts and waste of hard-earned government resources and time.” He also said: “Governments in the past have put in place measures to ensure effective and efficient service delivery by agencies of government, such as SERVICOM, but this could not achieve much without a clearly defined mandate.” “The mandate of the Committee is to Investigate duplication of duties, overlapping functions and counter-productivity of established Ministries, Departments, Agencies, Boards and Corporations in the country to ascertain the root cause of regular bickering among some established Departments, Agencies, Boards and Parastatals in the country; and also establish areas of mergers, synergies, and justification of the existence of some of the established Ministries, Departments, Agencies, Boards and Corporations,” he added. Gbajabiamila stressed that the House of Representatives is not out to witch-hunt any individual or organization, but is propelled by the desire to ensure good governance and in the exercise of our legislative oversight powers as enshrined in Sections 88 and 89 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). -Advertisement- POLL “The Committee is expected to come up with solutions to the apparent continuous conflict of functions and avoidable bickering among established Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA’s), resulting in ineffectiveness, inefficiency and redundancy in the government workforce, He said.” The Committee is urged to engage relevant stakeholders and members of the public with a view to resolving the areas of conflict among the MDA’s, which may require amending some laws and/or outright repeal, as the case may be. Gbajabiamila also encouraged the Committee to use the cordial and productive working relationship between the Executive and the 9th National Assembly to carry out its task of resolving issues of duplication of duties and bickering among MDA’s of the Federal Government. The Speaker, therefore, urged MDAs and other critical stakeholders to work with the Committee to complete its mandate in accordance with its terms of reference. Earlier in an opening speech, the Chairman of the Ad-hoc Committee Hon. Victor Mela Danzaria said the duplication of government agencies had led to policy inconsistencies. He assured Nigerians that the Ad-hoc Committee will carry out a detailed investigation into the activities of these government agencies. Some chief executive officers of some of the invited agencies sent in their goodwill messages to the committee assuring them of cooperation in availing it of vital documents to aid the task.