Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq has done well for Ilesha Baruba community and its people, according to the Emir of the ancient town Prof. Halidu Abubakar. The traditional ruler said this was why Ilesha Baruba community in Baruten local government area of Kwara State mulled the idea of naming the newly completed ringroad in the community after the Governor who constructed the first asphalted road in the axis. Speaking with newsmen during the Governor’s inspection of the road, Prof Abubakar said the intervention of AbdulRazaq’s administration on the road has brought tremendous change to the community. “We cannot thank His Excellency enough. We are extremely happy. Before now, you can’t pass the road like this and within three months this road was constructed. You can see the drainage all through. So, we are extremely grateful. Like everybody else, we would not mind if His Excellency will do more for us. He has done so much for us. May Allah continue bless him,” he said. Prof Abubakar said the decision to name the road AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq Ring Road was in appreciation of the governor’s efforts to ease transportation challenges in the community. “There is no doubt that if he is going to contest elections 10 times in Ilesha Baruba he is going to win 20 times,” the Emir declared. AbdulRazaq, for his part, said the administration is determined to make significant impact in the lives of the people and their communities irrespective of their locations across Kwara State. “This is a major town in Kwara State and the policy of our government is that every senatorial district and every local government must feel the impact of the government. Ilesha Baruba is hosting the campus of Kwara State University; so we are making sure that there is proper infrastructure to accommodate such investment which is still ongoing,” he said. -Advertisement- POLL AbdulRazaq said the administration is embarking on several projects in Ilesha Baruba and across Baruten local government in the areas of road infrastructure, healthcare, education, communications, among others. The administration will soon unveil the first radio station in the Kwara North senatorial district, thereby making information dissemination very easy.