***As Police Kill One Kidnapper, Two Robbery Suspects BENIN – A Catholic Priest, Rev. Father Christopher Odia who was kidnapped by gunmen in the early hours of Sunday at Ikabigbo community in Etsako West local government of Edo state has been killed by his abductors. Rev Father Odia who is the parish priest of St Michael Catholic church, lkabigbo was kidnapped in his rectory while coming out to officiate the early morning Sunday mass. The police in a statement signed by ASP Jenniger U. Iwegbu, Deputy Police Public Relation Officer, for the Edo state Commissioner of Police, while confirming the kidnap and killing of the Catholic Priest stated that a combined Team of Police Tactical Teams, Jattu Divisional Police operatives and the local Vigilante team, led by the Divisional Police Officer on receiving the news of the kidnapped Rev Father, went into the forest with a view to rescue him. According to the police statement, “In fustration, the kidnapped Rev Father Christopher Odia was killed by his abductors, while a Hunter identified as Mr Nurudeen was also shot dead in the process. “The Superior fire power of the Police personnel who went on the trail of the kidnappers decimated one of them while other gang members escaped with various gun shot injuries. “Intensive bush combing is ongoing towards ensuring that those who escaped are arrested and made to face justice. “The Commissioner of Police CP Abutu Yaro fdc,commiserate with the Catholic community in Edo state and Nigeria as he urged the general public to remain calm and go about their lawful businesses as security strategy has been put in place to ensure the arrest of the fleeing gang members. -Advertisement- POLL “He further encouraged Edo state people not to relent in providing the police with prompt and useful information”, statement added. In another incident, two suspected armed robbers were also in the early hours of Sunday killed by men of Nigeria police of the Edo State command. The suspects, according to police report, were killed during one of their operations in Benin city, Edo State capital. It was gathered that the gang of armed robbers had invaded Rubec Oil and Gas Station off Murtala Muhammed Way in the early hours of Sunday during which the people in the area immediately put across a distress call to the police. The report had it that the police without wasting much time stormed the area and trailed the robbers to a different location where they were robbing other victims. According to the police, the robbers opened fire when they sighted our men, and we retaliated, leading to the death of two of the suspects whose identities are unknown at the time of this report.