Ajaokuta, alleged corruption scam, Sani Abacha, family members, Anthony Ani, etc. The Chinese also had something to do with troubled Ajaokuta Steel project and Delta Steel project Aladja – Chinese experts inspected these projects and the enabling agreement was signed. On May 12, 1997 during the visit of Li Peng, former Premier of the state Council but the project was plunged in the mire by alleged corruption scam in which late Sani Abacha, some of his family members, Anthony Ani, former Minister of Finance and Bashir Dalhatu, former Power and Steel Minister, were involved. Discussion between Nigeria and China on the rehabilitation of the Nigerian Railways commenced during the Murtala Muhammed/Obasanjo regime of 1975-1979 when deliberate efforts were made to deepen relations between Nigeria and China . The Chinese side was enthusiastic to complete the job having just completed the TANZAM Railway project in East Africa . But subsequent discussions failed because of the alleged greed and corruption practices of some Nigeria leaders who wanted kick-backs the Chinese would not give. Information, culture, youths and sports, Sino-African relations stepped up That the Nigerian railways suffered over three decades of neglect is now history. It was against this background that the Abacha regime came in with CCECC. The contract for the project was signed December 9, 1995 with a price tag of US$528.60 million. The contract was for rehabilitation which involved supply of coaches, locomotives, wagons and guard vans, as well as restructuring of rail lines. Unfortunately, the job was not completed on target date because Nigerian contractors did not supply track materials within the stipulated period. The indication though was that over 80 per cent of the job had been completed by September 1998. But the government statement did not say whether this additional task would be undertaken by CCECC. Information, culture, youths and sports Relations in respect of information took some time to have a foothold because the Chinese Government, steeped in its revered communist tradition, did not think it necessary to establish a ministry of information as it is found in Nigeria and other parts of the world. Theirs was, and still is, propaganda galore. The Xinhua (New China) News Agency, founded in 1937, started it all and has now been joined by a robust network of television stations and China Radio International. Xinhua News Agency has its African headquarters in Nairobi Kenya , a bureau in Lagos and China Radio International broadcast latest developments in China to the world. The 1980s witnessed a litany of cultural exchanges such as the Anhui Acrobatic Troupe from China which Nigeria hosted in early 1980, the Nigerian Basket Ball team which undertook a two-week tour of China as answer to the acrobatic troupe challenge, so to speak, and a series of Chinese acrobatic troupes performances at the National Theatre, Lagos in 1983 and 1985. -Advertisement- POLL Regarding sports, it would be recalled that China was instrumental to the development of table tennis (ping pong), volley and badminton in Nigeria either through the attachment of appropriate coaches to the National Sports Council or conducting relevant courses for Nigerian sports men and women in China. Thus Nigeria-China relations have come a long way. It dates back to the 1950s and was formalized in 1971. Overview of Sino-African Relations China’s contact with Africa dates back to centuries. There are ancient records of friendly contacts between Chinese and African peoples. Historical records confirm Africa exchanged some of their products with the Chinese during the period leading up to the 2nd Century. Such evidence includes traces of Chinese silk discovered among the remains of an Egyptian mummy excavated over 3000 years. According to Muekaila, the People’s Republic of China came into being at a time when Africa and most of today’s developing world was still under the yoke of colonialism. Long before China began to show interest, Beijing ’s view of the world was more in consonance with that of the former Soviet Union according to which the world was divided into two camps: the forces of socialism and those of imperialism. But as decolonization set in and the vogue became drive for self-determination, competing views between China and the Soviet Union emerged, unleashing a struggle for influence on the continent. But this stand soon changed as Chinese leaders reassessed their views recognizing the newly independent countries and the developing world as an important force in world affairs. A series of event followed: China and India in 1954 agreed on Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence, which were later adopted by 29 Asian and African countries at the Bandung Conference of 1955. The conference called for economic and cultural co-operation with the South, self-determination and human rights, and addressed the question of people in dependent countries. The Conference enhanced the unity and co-operation of the Asian and African countries, inspired the people in the colonies to struggle for national liberation and played a significant role in promoting the anti-imperialist and anti-colonial struggle of the Asian and African people. To be continued next week Thursday.