LAGOS – Residents of Idowu-Egba Com­munity in Alimosho Local Government of Lagos State on Tuesday took to the streets to protest non-supply of electric­ity to the area. The protesting residents displayed placards, some of which read, “No Pre-paid me­ter, no payment,”, “Stop exploit­ing us,” “No power, no bill,” “It is our right to have power,” “IKDC, this injustice is too much, stop it, “Give us a new transformer,” and many others. Speaking during the protest, a member of the community’s Local Community Develop­ment Association, Mr. Oziegbe Algbe, said that the communi­ty has had issues with power supply over the years, adding that the transformer was not able to serve the community effectively. -Advertisement- He disclosed that the com­munity bought the transform­er over 20 years ago but Ikeja Electric has refused to charge or upgrade it. He disclosed that the com­munity has written a series of letters demanding a new trans­former for the area, adding that all these fell on deaf ears. He stated that the distri­bution company started ra­tioning power in the area with promise to supply power for two days and they would be off for two days. He averred that for the company would not supply power on the days it prom­ised. Oziegbe said supply to the area has been very infrequent and businesses in the area were closing down and ten­ants were also leaving. POLL He stated that the commu­nity paid for pre-paid meters to the Ikeja Electric supply a few two years ago but is now asking those who are yet to get theirs to pay additional money. He said, “Those who paid N48,300 for a single phase pre-paid meter are now be­ing asked to pay N63,300 and those that paid N89, 000 for three phase meters are being asked to pay N117,000. This is unfair.” Also speaking on the is­sue, Mr. Adewale Balogun, the leader of the community, said that the power company has treated the community unfairly over the past eight years, adding that company disconnected power supply to the community without notice. He added that the power company has deliberately refused to supply them with pre-paid meters two years af­ter they paid for the devices. However, Mr. Dozie Onuo­ra, the vice chairman of the community, called on the pow­er company to resolve the is­sues and supply power to the community, adding that life was becoming unbearable for the residents because of poor power situation.