ABUJA – Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chekwas Okorie, on Friday expressed confidence in carting away a minimum of 15 million votes in the upcoming general elections. Okorie, who spoke to newsmen after the party’s national convention in Abuja, also dismissed reports that APGA was an underdog against the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “APGA is not an underdog in the 2023 elections but is starting with a block vote of 15 million. That’s a base number and we’re increasing that number,” he added. -Advertisement- The medical doctor turned politician disclosed that “APGA is already a mass movement and 2023 will not be like any other in the past.” On his agenda, if elected President, he said that his administration will “focus on restructuring Nigeria and making self-determination of ethnic nationalities a critical pillar of my government.” He explained that “Nigeria is failing because it is structured to fail. Models of China, US, UK cannot work in Nigeria because Nigeria is structured to fail. “I will restructure the police command structure. Where in the world is a country as verse as Nigeria run on a single-central police structure? “My administration will also introduce state and community policing and make every Nigerian stakeholder in the Nigeria project.” POLL This is as he further expressed hope of a national assembly not dominated by only one political party, insisting that APGA will create a coalition government that will ensure synergy among all parts of the country. Okorie emerged APGA’s standard-bearer with a total vote of 471, followed by the runner-up, Freedom Okwuchukwu who recorded a total of 290, with a delegation from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) certifying 13 invalid votes cast. Okorie left APGA in 2012 and formed the United Progressive Party (UPP), following a leadership crisis within the party. His return to the party followed a recent visit by the Edozie Njoku-led leadership to him in Enugu.