LAGOS – The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), on Monday, urged all candidates who registered for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry (DE) but have not linked their e-mail addresses with their profiles to visit any Board’s approved CBT centres to do so without delay. The Board, in its weekly bulletin, emphasised that the process is entirely free. It should be recalled that during the 2022 UTME/DE Registration Exercise, the Board stopped candidates from linking their email addresses to the registration portal. -Advertisement- The Board explains, “The exclusion of e-mail address at that stage in the process was to prevent candidates from being exploited by nefarious examinationsyndicates whose agents were hovering around the registration centres offering to assist candidates in creating their e-mailaddresses at a fee thereby gainingunauthorised access to their critical details. “With the examination completed, it has now become imperative for candidates to link their e-mail addresses with their profiles to complete their registration process to facilitate the printing of their results. “To do this, all a candidate needs to do is to visit any accredited CBT centres to get the linkage done after which the e-mail becomes part and parcel of the candidates’ completed profiles.“In essence, the required linkage of email addresses with candidates’ respective profiles is to afford them the opportunity of completing the creation of their profiles and enable them to check or print their results from their respective profilesonce the linkage is effected. The Board added that it had initially enabled the link to be done via SMS by candidates from the comfort of their homes but suspended the process to further enhance the functionality ofthe process through the wholesale automation of the platform. JAMB advised candidates not to give their email passwords to anybody, not even JAMB officials. As the Board continues to sanitise its processes, it will hold any candidate responsible for any infringement committed by an apprehended fraudster who is found with his/her password. POLL The release added, “The Board has made the process not only free but also user-friendly to attest to its avowed commitment to put a stop to the rampant and unconscionable exploitation of candidates.”