The People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCo), a non-governmental organisation has agitated for the nomination of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State as the right running mate for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the party. The group in a statement issued by Dr Emeka Kalu, its National Coordinator to the office of the National Chairman of the party and made available to newsmen said that as the aspirant with the second leading votes in the just concluded presidential primaries of the party in Abuja, Wike deserved the position. The group also said that the governor’s strength and capacity would in no small measure pave the ways for PDP to win massively in the South-South geo-political zone of the country. Kalu insisted that Wike was such a leader capable of galvanising block votes for the party, considering the degree of support and popularity he enjoys from the referred zone including the South East. Kalu explained that PDP required a running mate that commands greater portions of political relevance in the country, arguing that this would enable the party to achieve the desired end of winning the 2023 presidential election slated for February 25, 2023. The letter added: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) has raised Bola Tinubu’s hands as her presidential flag bearer, following the conduct of the party primaries and for PDP to be able to assemble votes and make headway, a strong and capacity running mate has to be considered. “As we all know, Gov. Wike is one of the committed leaders that have truly worked and nursed the party to this peak and his being chosen to fly the flag with Atiku Abubakar will give the party an edge of emerging victorious in 2023.” The group emphasised that it’s only the level of commitment the party leaders make in convincing and reaching out to Nigerians on manifestoes and visions for the nation that can make any political party win elections, insisting that the choice of Wike would create wider chances of victory for the party. POLL Kalu declared that the 2023 general elections called for proper and painstaking handlings for the PDP to avoid making the wrong choice and described Tinubu as a force to reckon with.