ABUJA – In order to improve technical and vocational education training in the nation, Dr. Bukola Dosunmu, the founder of Toddlers Haven Educational Foundation, has urged the Federal Government to create a National Skill Policy. Dosunmu made the known during the Thef-ABWANTNU Launching and Public Advocacy Lectures on Technical and Vocational Education Training held in Gwagwalada Area Council on Tuesday in Abuja. Dosunmu organized a public talk with the title “Building a mindset for maintaining TVET in Nigeria.” to celebrate her 50th birthday. She added that the foundation purposefully chose the day of her birthday in order to raise awareness of the value of vocational education among the residents of Gwagwalada and among her friends and associates. According to her: “Dosunmu, who expressed concerned over lack of a National Skill Policy in the country, however, said that the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) was doing a lot in that direction. ” The Federal Government needs to do more in the area of funding technical and vocational education training. Government needs to also do more in supporting NBTE to ensure that Nigeria has a National Skills Policy. ” There is no National Skill Policy for Nigeria and we know that NBTE is doing a lot with government regarding this. -Advertisement- POLL ” If we have a skills policy is going to dictate and flowdown to every sector that has one thing or the other to do. ” National Education Development Council has a role to play but then a policy frame above is going to guide whatever they are going to do.” Dosunmu emphasised the need for the government to provide an enabling environment to support organisations, the private sector and the employer’s of labour. According to her, the Sectors Skills Councils need a lot of support in terms of developing the National Occupational Standard and many other things. ” So, we have to get to the roots of the policies to see how it will be able to impact on every programmes that we are doing in the educational system in Nigeria. ” The general perception of the society towards vocational education is not something that you can just knock on their doors and get them together.” Earlier, the Executive Secretary of NBTE, Prof. Idris Bugaje, said the next generation need education and skills development that should go beyond increasing basic literacy rates. Represented by Mrs Hajara Abdulkadir of NBTE office Kaduna, Bugaje, said skills development would assure dynamic, multifaceted knowledge-building at higher and tertiary levels, including Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). ” There is a need to change our approaches, attitudes and priorities concerning TVET. We must nurture a highly educated and skilled population that can imbibe technology and build infrastructure that is indispensable for progress and wages an effective war on mass unemployment.” He said that the National Skill Qualification Frame work (NSQF) was approved by the Federal Executive Council in 2012 and in 2017 was launched marking a turning point in Federal Governments Skill Development Policy. ” The NSQF is a FGN approved system for the development, classification and the recognition of skills knowledge, understanding of competencies acquired by individuals , irrespective of where and how the training or skill was acquired.” Also, the Special Guest of Honour and Vice Chancellor, University of Abuja, Prof. Abdul-Rashid Na’Allah, urged the Federal Government to increase investment on Technical and vocational education by establishing more Technical Colleges, Schools and institutes in the country. Na’Allah who was represented by Dr Matthew Dada, Director, Centre for Community Development of the university, Na’Allah said access to technical education was still limited in the country. According to him, it is until when people can access this technical colleges that they can enroll.