Now that you know what responsibility is from our previous articles, I’d like to explore some attributes of responsible people and workers. In today’s article, I will cover the twin attributes of Vision and Ownership mindset. a. Vision Responsible people know what is expected of them, when and how. To deliver on their task, they start with the vision. Vision says, “How do you want your work to look like at the end of the day?” What do you want the results to look like? Vision is a mental dress rehearsal. It is rehearsing your day before you begin it. It is deciding the what, when, and how of your day before you enter it. And the better mentally prepared you are, the more likely you will be in control of your day. Vision is like an architect’s blueprint for an expanse of land. Your work is like that expanse; vision is the blueprint that tells you what the end product would look like. Imagine people going to a field to build without a blueprint? There will be chaos! Energy will be dissipated in arguments, people will pull in different directions, and the project will be abandoned midway. Vision is necessary to bring direction and order and channel one’s energy toward building an enduring edifice. Should vision be long-term or short-term? I believe it should be a combination of both. You can begin with a long-term vision and break it down into short-term goals. So, how would you like your work to look in another five years? Two years? One year? Next quarter? Next month? Today? POLL Always start your day with a plan! Responsible workers have a plan of action. They begin their day with clarity, conviction and commitment. Clarity is about knowing what you want to achieve; conviction is believing that you can achieve them, while commitment is thrusting yourself into your task until you accomplish them. b. Ownership Mindset Responsible people have an ownership mindset. They see themselves as owners of their workspaces. They know that they are not just employees but shareholders and critical stakeholders of their organisations. When your organisation employed you, it took a risk on you. Owning your job and discharging your duties effectively is your obligation to your organisation for taking a risk on you. Without developing an ownership mindset, you will never be fully committed to your work. If the business you are in were your business, how would you behave? If it were your father’s business, how would you act? If you knew that you were being prepared to take over the business, what level of commitment would you give? One question I ask participants every time I teach this concept is this: if you were to start your own business, would you employ your kind of person? If your staff puts in your current level of commitment, would you be happy with that person? -Advertisement- That’s what ownership is all about. When you develop this mindset, you work as if it were your own business. You know that life is testing you before promoting you; if you cannot commit to another person’s business, life will not give you your own breakthroughs. I often remind participants in my classes that you work in an organisation, but you work for yourself. This slight change makes all the difference. You might not be fully committed when you think you are working for someone. But if you believe that you are working for yourself in an organisation, it makes all the difference. Such people know that life would always reward them for their efforts, whether from their organisations or not. Therefore, their commitment to their tasks is exceptional. They work as if they own the business. The story is told of an elderly carpenter who was about to retire. He told his master that he was about to retire. But the master asked him for one last favour—to build a house. But because his heart was no longer in it, he used shoddy materials. When he finished and handed over the key to the employer, the employer thanked him, gave the key back, and said, “This is my gift to you.” He was shocked! If only he knew that he was building his own house, he would have used the most expensive materials and done a great job. And so it is with us; we randomly build our lives and then turn back and blame society. If only we knew that we were building our futures with every action we take, we would act differently. Owners have a way of looking at their businesses: they take a long-term view of the business, see the whole picture, take the initiative, make sacrifices for the business to succeed, and go the extra mile to deliver on expectations. Develop that mindset. It pays! This article is an excerpt from Chapter Four of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.