One of the aspirants, who contested the Oyo Central Senatorial District primary under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Engineer Faozey Oladotun Nurudeen has declared that he won the primary, but cheated and was denied the party ticket for the senatorial district. Faozey made this announcement when he met with his supporters in Ibadan on Tuesday. It could be recalled that Nurudeen had on Saturday scored 300, the highest votes in the primary election of APC held in the Moniya area of Ibadan. -Advertisement- But it was gathered that the electoral committee refused to announce Nurudeen who scored the highest number of votes as the winner for the reason best known to them. Faozey had on Monday called on the leadership of APC to declare him the winner of the election, but, however, he said he has been cheated and denied the ticket in the party, but, however, revealed that he will announce his next line of action soon. He said that even though APC denied him the ticket, he will still contest and win in the general elections in another political party. Faozey told his supporters that he will announce the political party where he will realise his ambition soon. POLL He appealed to his loyalists to be patient with him, as his next strategic plans are imminent. Faozey said that even though he was cheated and rigged out of a contest under APC, his loyalists should still be patient with him and wait for his next decision. According to him, “I really appreciate you all for supporting me, since the beginning of my intention to run, and to the primary, that was recently conducted, if not because of your support I cannot reach this stage in my political career. “Hence, as we all know that we have been denied and cheated of the true democracy and we have not been allowed to contest in the party, (APC), but you all should know that we will contest in the 2023 general elections and we’ll win. “I want you all to be patient with me as different strategic plans are underway, but we will keep it, and we’ll not show them yet. Hence, I want you all not to fear, that we will soon unveil them to you”.