The Anambra State Governor, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo has said that prophesies made in good faith should be communicated to the target rather than making a public show of it. In any case, he continued, a man of God as much as he has a license to prophesy should be fair in his judgment of people in authority. These were contained in a statement he wrote as a response to a Catholic Priest, and proprietor of Adoration Ministry Uke in the state,  Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Obinna popularly known as Ebube Monso which went viral on social media. In the prophecy, Fr. Obinma had claimed to have seen Government House Awka attacked by unknown “Fulani herdsmen with tribal marks” with Soludo escaping in a pool of blood. The Cleric also criticized the state of environmental sanitation l and insecurity. In his response, Soludo said his life is in the hands of God who has control of the life of everybody and people’s life destinies assuring that God who gave him the task of governing the Anambra State will see him through. Soludo who wrote that he tried to call the Cleric on the phone but could not get him said that as much as his Catholic background forbids him from replying to the message of men of God, prophecies should be made with responsibility. He said: “As an orthodox Catholic, I was brought up not to join issues with any man of God. I have been in the public arena for two decades and I appreciate comments and criticisms from the citizens including the men of God. POLL “I have been in the public arena for two decades and I appreciate comments and criticisms from the citizens including the men of God. I welcome your comments, advice and even criticisms. Such help us to do better— as we are certainly not perfect! This would be the first time I am responding to any comments from a man of God. And I do so with the utmost respect and good faith. “Certainly as a priest, you have monopoly power of the pulpit but I also believe that such a monopoly demands a responsibility on your part to exercise caution and maturity in how you use such power”. Soludo wondered why God has not revealed to Fr. Obinma before he was attacked at a campaign and three policemen killed or revealed the identities of unknown gunmen ravaging the State so they can be tracked. He also faulted the Rev Fr.’s criticisms on refuse taking over the state chiding him for not acknowledging the sorry state he met the state and how much work he has put in cleaning the state. He said: “We find your comments to be in bad faith because you failed to acknowledge that we met a far worse situation nor acknowledge the ongoing efforts— which many acknowledge. I flagged off the cleaning of Onitsha and Okpoko and photos of me on top of refuse dump that closed Ochanga and as high as the traffic light adorned the social media”. Soludo also faulted his comments on insecurity in the state because he failed to acknowledge the humongous efforts being made to confront the monster which even residents in Anambra acknowledged. He said he expected the Cleric to be part of the solution of Anambra State and not part of the cause.