Nigeria’s renewable energy sector recently received a boost on account of the partnership between the Standard Organization of Nigeria and donor partners in the country. Through its Lighting Africa Project, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) has installed a solar laboratory which it recently handed over to the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) at a ceremony in SON laboratory complex, Ogba, Lagos. IFC Senior Country Manager, Karim Shah lauded the partnership among the Nigerian government, SON, IFC and FCDO which led to the establishment of the solar laboratory. According to him, everyone all share the ambition to develop the renewable energy market and capitalize a market base approach to adopt first grid solar electrification technology with a specific focus on high quality stand-alone systems. Universal access to clean and affordable electricity remains key to reducing poverty and sustainable solutions need be targeted at countries where access to renewable energy is low. He further disclosed that approximately 760 million people are leaving without electricity or have access to them while hundreds and millions more leave with insufficient and unreliable access to electricity. More than one billion people gain access to electricity globally over the last decade, adding that the economic impact of Covid-19 made electricity services unaffordable to 30 million more people. The majority of these unavailability is located in Africa, he stated. Speaking, Director General SON, Mallam Farouk Salim said with the commissioning of SON Laboratories, challenges in the renewable energy sector are being tackled, calling on all stakeholders to patronize the facilities for quality products in the sector as well as meeting the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and growing Nigeria’s economy. He also appealed to International Organisations, relevant MDAs as well as business leaders in the renewable energy (RE) sector to put hands on deck to ensuring diligent implementation of the standards and optimal utilization of the laboratory facilities for the overall benefit of all. Mr. Ben Llewellyn-Jones expressed delight over what have been achieved so far and commitment to supporting SON help Nigeria get access to global energy. He said significant strides have been made to enable access and utilization of good energy resources such as good solar. POLL “To recognize an important issue in the sector, UK government supports and shows its commitment to the Nigerian government and hence the adoption to international recognized standards of products and how these standards need to be adopted as international standards by the Nigerian government for standard way of selling products in Nigeria”, he stated. According to him, quality is important and needs to be enforced to improve the RE sector and eliminate poor quality products hence UK government also commissioned setting up quality test laboratory that meets international standards to support standards enforcement and improve surveillance activities by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria. He said the laboratory was the first of its kind in West Africa that would help the enforcement of quality standards. As for the Chairman of Renewable Energy Manufacturers Association, Dr.Segun Adaju saidthe launching of the laboratory would deepen investment and consumers’ confidence in the sector. He regretted that the members of the association have relied on lightening Africa Project approved manufacturers list for importation. He urged SON to embark on an aggressive awareness campaign to educate users on how to support SON to flush out bad elements in the sector, stating that the association has adopted self-regulatory approach.