LAGOS – Sule Ayinla Babs Babajide, a member of the Society of Nigerian Artists and Teachers’ Registration Council of Nigeria, has called on politicians and those seeking election into political offices in the country to fulfill their electoral promises to the masses, especially as the 2023 elections approach. Babajide made the call in Lagos at the weekend during an Exhibition of Paintings and Installations titled: “Orunmila: A Sundry Collection of Artworks,” at the National Museum, Onikan, Lagos. The graduate of Fine Arts, with specialization in Painting from the University of Ife, who is also a teacher at the International School, University of Lagos, told journalists that “His vision is to see a country where indigenous arts occupy a pride of place, not only in the hearts of the people, but also contribute significantly to the economic growth and development of the nation.” Babajide, whose arts paints contemporary issues, including banditry, noted that he decided to expose the menace through his painting because, according to him, “The issue has been a very serious thing in Nigeria. I exposed banditry in my paintings so that the people will know what is going on in the country.” Lamenting that today, Nigerians are scared of travelling, especially to the northern part of the country, the artist said: “Recently, it is coming to the Western part of the country. Kidnapping is becoming like a business venture.” While calling for the arrest and prosecution of the bandits, Babajide said: “The government should arrest the bandits and bring them to book for peace to return to the country.” While also exposing politicians in his work, Babajide called for a leader that has the fear of God and the interest of the people. He charged politicians, who he portrayed in his art work, to fulfill their promises, adding: “Stop deceiving citizens but try and fulfill your electoral promises. Do not embezzle money and do not deceive people but fulfill your electoral promises.” -Advertisement- POLL To the masses, the artist advised them to get their PVCs and vote for the right candidates that can provide all their needs. The lamented that the gods, being depicted in his work, “Are angry mainly because the politicians, who consulted them for supernatural power, after electoral victory, abandon them.” Also at the event, a Director in the Lagos State Water Corporation Idowu Adenekan, advised Nigerians to redirect their attention to arts as many youths do not see the importance and relevance of the field. Adenekan, who said that arts is one area upon which a lot of social vices can be corrected, implored the government and those in authority to encourage the study of arts and other fields that have been ignored. According to him, “This remains the only means to bring about the sustainability of our culture, our heritage and it will enhance the solidification of Nigeria’s s historical record, both locally and internationally.”On the state of security in the country, Adenekan said that a lot of messages have been sent in the course of the paintings on how the bandits should be challenged in order to checkmate their activities.