Chelsea have been linked with both Matthijs de Ligt and Kaliou Koulibaly in this summer’s transfer window. Whilst both options are considered to be enough to fill the void left by Antonio Rudiger in the left centre-back position, it is likely that the Blues will opt for just one. Chelsea are also linked with a move for Sevilla’s Jules Kounde who will occupy the right-sided end of the centre-back pairing. Despite handing in a transfer request amid Chelsea’s interest in him, a move for de Ligt has not been a walk in the park. Juventus value the 22-year-old at more than £100million as per his release clause. Finances have historically not been much of an issue for the Blues in the Roman Abramovich era but with their new, data-savvy owner Todd Boehly, we are yet to see how far he is willing to go. Spending £100million on a defender is probably on the extreme end of valuations. For a 22-year-old, it would be an expensive gamble for Boehly. A price of £40million for a vastly experienced, skilled and powerful defender is a much more attainable option – and one of those just might be available. Chelsea are looking into a possible move for Napoli’s Kalidou Koulibaly. According to Corriere della Sera, Koulibaly’s agent is expected to meet with Chelsea representatives in London as an alternative to de Ligt. The Mirror reports that Koulibaly could move to Chelsea for £40million. Considering Todd Boehly’s reported transfer window budget of £200 million, this would be the obvious route for the Blues to take. In a time when Tuchel’s team is desperate for at least two new centre-backs, as well as an entire squad rebuild, £100million for de Ligt is just not feasible. There are other advantages to having the 31-year-old Senegalese player at Chelsea. Fan favourite and Chelsea academy graduate Levi Colwill can find a straight route into the first team. Every young defender would benefit in learning from an experienced player. Colwill had a stellar season on loan with Huddersfield, and is now expected to find his way into the first team. It may not be next season or the season after, but when it’s time, the Blues will need him to step up and take the place of Koulibaly. Having de Ligt ahead of Colwill in the pecking order may not bode well for assurance of opportunities. With just a three-year age gap, the pair will eventually end up fighting for their position. Is this something Colwill will be willing to do? Chelsea lost the likes of Tino Livramento and Marc Guehi in one window from their academy as they both wanted first-team football. They cannot afford to lose Colwill too.