Until recently when the erstwhile Vice President of Nigeria and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the 2023 Presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, (Turaki Adamawa), began to attract my attention in a very edifying and ennobling manner, I had almost concluded that President Muhammadu Buhari had no challenger within and outside the All Progressives Congress, APC enclave. At the risk of alienating himself from his regional political constituency, Atiku, as he is popularly called, who is better appreciated as a child of events and circumstances, has espoused a large vision of a new Nigeria. Even as he does not like celebrating birthdays, the way and manner his 75th birthday anniversary was marked a few years back by Nigerians, especially PDP governors, was enthralling. Atiku has had to say many great things about Nigeria in recent times. “No section of the Nigerian State can claim correctly that its people are better served by the current structure of the federation within the context of the past 55 years of a “failed unitary federalism”, he boldly proclaimed. Atiku, one of the most respected and consistent national voices, especially in the current political dispensation, has also said that state actors and other politicians who insist that Nigeria cannot be and who equate every demand for restructuring with secession may actually be setting the stage for unsavoury outcomes. -Advertisement- Not known for political passivity, Atiku seems to be the perfect riposte to the devotees of unitary federalism, tribalism, bigotry and cabalism which is the hallmark of the Buhari-led Federal Government. By consistently driving his message for a new Nigeria to all corners of the country without fear or favour, he undoubtedly stands out from the maddening crowd of lewd politicians whose stock-in-trade is self interest or outright regression. It is against this backdrop that the prevailing yearnings and calls by several groups of Nigerians and even individuals for him to be elected the next president of the country in 2023 can be better appreciated. Even before his struggle to emerge as the next Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a consensus had already been built around him as the next president of Nigeria given his sterling leadership qualities and the abysmal failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to deliver on his campaign promises to the electorate. Yes, Buhari is the incumbent president. But there has never been an insurgent denunciation and condemnation of a sitting president like what is happening to Buhari in recent years. In 2015, there was an elite conspiracy against Dr. Goodluck Jonathan because he stood against his party’s internal agreement for political power to shift to the Muslim-dominated political North, the South having held on to power for more than 13 years (excluding the Yar’Adua years). Jonathan’s political ‘harakiri’ created the opportunity for the formation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by strange bedfellows whose only common denominator was the capturing of political power from the PDP, a house which was already divided against itself. But the depredations of the hunter are not always the result of any fundamental blood lust. Perhaps he is only, more often than not, merely lacking in imagination. And so, the greatest political tragedy of the twenty-first century Nigeria is the capturing of political power by a group that calls itself “progressives” but lacking a formidable structure and the imagination to provide comfort for the people. This government is yet to show Nigerians enviable leadership for more than seven years in the saddle. Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the national leader of the APC has always been mouthing attenuations anywhere he goes that they are “progressives” without giving a thought to the fact that their government is the most retrogressive since the foundation of the country. It is difficult to imagine that it is the same Tinubu who gave a world-class leadership to Lagos State between 1999 and 2007 who is also the national leader of the APC, a party under whose watch Nigerians are dying of poverty and hunger and gnashing of teeth all over the place. The tragedy is that the so-called progressives are ironically led by the most tacit representative of the reactionary faction of the Nigerian ruling class, that apostle of feudal revival who wants the country to remain in mediaeval servitude. For all you may care to know, Buhari rode to power in 2015 on the crest of INTEGRITY. It was bandied all over the place that he was incorruptible. That was his only credential to assume leadership of the most populous black nation on the face of the earth. It was not because he possessed the intellectual power or imaginative prowess to turn things around. Not at all! Even the myth of INTEGRITY has long been demystified by developments since the past six and a half years. POLL Despite allegations and proofs of massive corruption within his very cabinet, only those who took time to study Lord E. E. Dalberg Acton’s theory of the corrupting influence of power would appreciate that “power corrupts absolute, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.” It is assumed, according to Lord Acton, that the office sanctifies the holder of it. But leaders or holders of power should also be aware of the venality of office and moral rectitude with which they are to be judged. Yet, Buhari has failed woefully.