ABUJA – Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a fresh survey by Anvarie Tech and ResearcherNG and Bincika Insights, has shown that 40% of the Nigerian population do not believe elections are free and fair. The findings were part of a survey entitled ‘The State of Freedom in Nigeria Report To understand citizens’ perceptions of freedom of expression and trust in public institutions the results of which was made available to journalists at media roundtable discussion on Nigerians perception of expression and political participation. According to a report presented by Farida Adamu, Senior Program Manager of ResearcherNG, 71% of Nigerians lack trust in the a s e 0 a judiciary, 65% lack trust in anti-corruption agencies, and 40% do not believe elections are free and fair. “Anvarie Tech and ResearcherNG and Bincika Insights, conducted a survey with 1861 respondents across the 6 geopolitical regions in Nigeria between November 15 and December 10, 2021. “The survey funded by the Washington DC-based National Endowment for Democracy sought to find out citizens’ views on Freedom of Expression, Political Participation, Rule of Law and Corruption with a focus on their trust in independent government institutions. Here are some of the key findings from the survey: Rule of Law and Corruption: “Citizen perceptions on access to justice indicate a lack of trust in the judicial system as 71.2% of respondents disagree that the Judicial system is fair and treats everyone equally while only 28.8% agree that the judicial system is fair. “Access to justice must be seen as impartial and objective by guaranteeing that individuals and groups will have access to justice in the country and consequently enhance the protection of rights enshrined in the Constitution. “In response to whether or not the legislature holds the government accountable, a majority of the respondents 56.8% disagree while 43.2% of respondents agree. The principle of separation of powers and checks and balances is a theoretical framework meant to help and ensure that leaders and operators of various institutions of government do not allow their selfish interests to override public interest and the common good. -Advertisement- POLL “65.2%, a majority of respondents disagree that government institutions established to tackle corruption are independent and effective while 34.8% agree that government institutions are independent and effective. “Across the six geopolitical regions in Nigeria, the survey indicates that perceptions of freedom of speech and the negative implications of exercising freedom of speech are balanced. §0.4% of respondents agree that citizens are free to criticize the government without fear, while 49.6% disagree with this statement “Major cities in Nigeria, including Lagos and Abuja, following the #EndSARS Protests in October 2020, banned all forms of “ street demonstrations, protests, and processions”. However, 59% of respondents agree that citizens have the freedom to participate in demonstrations, while 41% of the respondents who participated in the survey disagree. “Citizens’ perception of the ability of the media to report critically about government institutions and officials without fear indicates that 51.4% of respondents agree that the media can report critically about government institutions and officials without fear, while 48.6% of respondents disagree. “Section 40 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 provides as follows, ‘every person shall be entitled to assembly freely and associate with other persons, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his interests. © A majority of respondents, 69.3%, agree that Nigerian citizens are free to organize political groups, while about 30.7% of respondents disagree “The survey sought to establish whether or not respondents were confident in the electoral process. 60.2% agree that citizens can choose government leaders in free and fair elections, while 39.8% disagree. The decline in trust for the government that was witnessed immediately after the 2007 general election in Nigeria, led voters and indeed the majority of Nigerians to demand electoral reform” reads the survey in parts.