LAGOS – The President, Mandilas International Trade Centre (MITC), Lagos Trade Fair Complex, and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Amano Investments West Africa Limited, Chief Anthony Amaechi Okeke, has been confirmed as the chief unveiler of the latest a book titled Sagacity Of A Digital Revolution. This latest cerebral product of multi-author Remmy Nweke is slated for public presentation at the side event of the 2022 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum on Internet Governance for Development (IG4D) on Thursday, June 9 at the prestigious Welcome Centre Hotels, International Airport Road, Lagos. The event will be held under the chairmanship of Engr. Ikechukwu Nnamani as organised by ITREALMS Media Group. Confirming the development, the author and Lead Consulting Strategist at DigitalSENSE Africa cum Group Executive Editor of ITREALMS Media group, Mr. Remmy Nweke, said that the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta is expected to deliver a keynote at 2022 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum (NDSF) on the theme, 5G: Enthroning Internet Governance for Digital Economy. The panel of the book unveiling, he also said, would include the chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria, Engr. Gbenga Adebayo and President, African Health Journalists Association; a key figure in the African Federation of Science Journalists (AFSJ) as well as the Principal Consultant/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) InterPares Media Limited. He pointed out that the 2022 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum on Internet Governance for Development is the annual digital rights forum by ITREALMS with this year’s theme being: ‘5G: Enthroning Internet Governance for Digital Economy’ while the public presentation of the book: Sagacity of a digital revolution; comes as a sideline event meant to enrich the knowledge base of the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) industry and is authored by Remmy Nweke, a multiple-award-winning journalist. According to Nweke, Chief Okeke is the Ezekwueche of the Aguleri Kingdom in Anambra State and holds B.Sc in Business Administration from the University of Lagos (UNILAG) where he also served as a former Public Relations Officer of DLI Students Union. POLL Currently, he is the Social Director, NdigboAmaka Progressive Markets Association; an umbrella body of some 58 major markets in Lagos State and also the Coordinator, Soludo Support Group (SSG), Lagos State Chapter as well as the Convener cum Sponsor, Anambra Men & Women for Soludo. Chief Okeke is equally versed in business and has over 25 years in both local and international business; his experience was brought to bear in the management of Mandilas International Trade Centre which under his watch has been embellished with several reforms which moved the market to enviable heights and were severally rewarded with awards, especially as the best-organised trading centre across Lagos State. Notable is that MITC led by Okeke was recently proclaimed the best-secured market in Lagos. He was also recognized, especially for the Enforcement of COVID-19 Prevention Measures in the market. His leadership skill as the Vice President saw to his being one of the representatives of the Aguleri Welfare Association (AWA) Lagos branch, at the Association of Anambra State Development Unions (AASDU-Lagos) which comprises over 180 towns in Anambra State, among others.