The Kaduna Inland Dry Port (KIDP) is set to commence operation as Nigeria’s first Domestic Export Warehouse (DEW) to promote the export of made-in-Nigeria goods and agricultural produce. Rotimi Raimi -Hassan, the Port General Manager, has disclosed this at a media Harley held in Lagos State. He said the facility was ready to be launched while listing support infrastructures already put in place for seamless and efficient operation. According to him, KIDP is set for commissioning to pilot the DEW services as the most equipped facility in Nigeria with a modern laboratory to check the quality of exports that would be processed through the dry port. He added that about 10 trucks are ready for deployment and that KIDP has judiciously utilised the Export Expansion Facility Grant from Federal Government under the office of the Vice President to achieve hitch-free logistics. On storage and durability of perishable goods, Raimi-Hassan said a Cold room with a capacity for 50 tons of cargo has been put in place that could serve as a reefer point to keep export cargoes preserved at the required temperature to meet market demands The warehouse, according to him, has four thousand square meters to do aggregation, consolidation and complete packaging of all types of export within the KIDP facility He commended the Federal Government, Kaduna State Government,  CEO of Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) and other government agencies for their support towards the success of the DEW project -Advertisement- POLL “I can tell you that we are ready to make DEW a success and will continue to improve in ensuring that whatever leaves our port meets international standards. Aside from being linked to rail, our dry port has installed a weighbridge for the accurate weight of cargoes too. “We are working to bring the full port experience to Kaduna in all ramifications except the berthing of ships. KIDP is equipped with Close Circuit Television (CCTV) for enhanced security and monitoring of all activities within and around the dry port area ” Arrangements have also been made for exporters to have their cargoes processed for direct shipment. What I mean is that from Kaduna Dry Port, the cargoes are loaded into ships without any stoppage, reexamination or delay in transit. The Federal Government has approved an inter-agency arrangement involving all relevant government regulatory and enforcement agencies to implement this “The other privileges like ETO for improved traffic situation and Nigeria Customs Service Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System (NICIS) 2 are some of the technology-aided platforms to improve trade that we are embracing too,” Raimi-Hassan said. The GM added that aside from job creation, the port is demonstrating the ability to generate reliable data for trade and will greatly Improve Nigeria’s participation in the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement.