ABUJA – Operatives of the In­telligence Response Team (IRT) of the Nigeria Police Force led by their Commander, DCP Olatunji Disu, have arrested four accomplices and logistics suppliers of wanted Bandits Kingpins, Alhaji Nashama and Adamu Sukabe, who am­bushed and killed about 38 Po­lice Mobile Force (PMF) and carted away their weapons, in Kusu Forest, Zamfara State. The suspects who are responsible for the reign of terror in the North Western part of the country including Zamfara, Kaduna, Katsina and Niger states were arrest­ed in a Kaduna Hotel, when they came to the city to repair their broken down operation­al vehicles (Two White Toyota Hilux). A top security source who pleaded strict condition of an­onymity, told Daily Indepen­dent, exclusively that, the four Bandits accomplices were ar­rested based on painstaking intelligence gathering by Op­eratives of the IRT on the 10th of May, 2022 in Kaduna state. The suspects whose names were given as Namadi Musa, Tukur S. Fawa, Tasiu Abuba­kar, and Suleiman Haruna hail from Maijanido Village, Birnin Magaji Local Govern­ment Area of Zamfara State together with their gang lead­ers. Narrating the story, the source said, “The suspects serve as logistics suppliers to the Bandits kingpins, Alhaji Nashama and Adamu Suk­abe who operate from their hideout in Kusu and Gusami Forrest, in Zamfara state. “Alhaji Nashama and Ada­mu Sukabe are the most want­ed Bandits in the North West region who are responsible for the gruesome murder of about 38 Police Mobile Force in Zamfara state in 2018. “These vicious criminal kingpins operate with very sophisticated weapons such as AK-47 Rifles, GPMG and RPG Rocket Launchers with over 50 gang members. They are the ones terrorising and rustling cattle in these areas.” However, the source fur­ther disclosed that their ac­complices who also ran er­rands for them were arrested when they came to Kaduna city to repair their two oper­ational vehicles. POLL “They had to lodge in a hotel when the repair was not finished on time. Our informants who knew one of them in Zamfara to be an accomplice of the bandits Kingpins tipped the opera­tives who followed the lead and got two of them arrest­ed in the hotel. Those two were used as bait to arrest the other two who were sent with two other vehicles for maintenance.” Daily Independent in­vestigation revealed that bandit’s kingpins and their accomplices now prefer to use Toyota Hilux as their operational vehicles while disguising as security oper­atives to beat security check point on the road.