Manchester United remain hopeful Christian Eriksen will choose to be a part of their squad for next season. The Old Trafford club presented Eriksen with a contract offer earlier this month and are currently waiting for his response. There were reports on Sunday Eriksen had turned down this offer, but these were premature and he has yet to make a final decision. Instead there is growing confident at United he has been persuaded by their new manager Erik ten Hag and will accept the club’s offer. There is an expectation Eriksen will inform them of whatever he decides during the next week, and United believe they have made him the most lucrative and attractive offer. United are long-term admirers of Eriksen, and approached him in the summer of 2019 when wanted to leave Tottenham, but he turned them down as he was determined to move to Italy, which he did in January 2020 by joining Inter Milan. Aware he was available on a free transfer, and still aged only 30-years-old, United thought this was too good an opportunity to try to sign him again this summer. Eriksen is not seen as an alternative to the Dutch midfielder Frenkie de Jong, who United are currently trying to sign from Barcelona. Ten Hag wants both players to bring greater ball retention and composure to United’s struggling midfield. -Advertisement- POLL They are aware Eriksen has other offers, including staying at Brentford, who he played for last season, but his former club Tottenham’s initial interest appears to have faded. After collapsing with a heart problem while playing for Denmark at Euro 2020 last summer Eriksen made his comeback at Brentford in February last season. He made a total of 11 appearances for the west London club, and scored one goal. He quickly rediscovered his best form, and since February, only Manchester City’s Kevin De Bruyne and Arsenal’s Martin Odegaard have created more chances in the Premier League. United are aware they face serious competition from Brentford, which is an unusual position for them to be in, as the west London club gave Eriksen his chance this year, staying with them allows him not to disrupt his family and continue to live in the capital, and he has an affinity with the club’s manager and fellow Dane Thomas Frank. However, Eriksen will be aware of the bigger stage, and bigger contract, on offer at Old Trafford, which United hope will be enough to secure his signature.