ABUJA – Salihu Mohd. Lukman, member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Commit­tee (NWC) has cautioned President Muhammadu Buhari of the poten­tial danger of choosing his succes­sor and its ramifications on unity of both party and the country. Lukman also warned that the decision made by Buhari to person­ally handpick the candidate of APC ahead of June 6-8 special conven­tion may rubbish what is left of the president’s image and diminish, if not damage the party’s democratic credentials ahead of the 2023 general election. Recall that President Muham­madu Buhari while addressing APC governors during a consulta­ Abuja, stressed the need for the governors to accommotive meeting on Tuesday in date his decision to nominate his successor without any interference just as they did in choosing their own succes­sors. ­ -Advertisement- Buhari had premised the decision on the need to pro­duce a party that is “strong and united to improve APC electoral fortunes”. He noted that the party has allowed “first term governors who have served credibly well to seek re-election and the privilege of promoting suc­cessors that are capable of driving their visions”. He had also sought recip­rocal action on the part of the governors to pick a successor who would fly the flag of APC for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. In an open letter by Luk­man, which he addressed to the president, the party chief­tain wondered if leaders, party men and women would trust the president’s judgment on the matter. In so doing, Lukman said party men and women would then reduce themselves to mere spectators in a matter that could potentially damage the president’s reputation and unity of the party. POLL Lukman said decision to solely pick the party’s candi­date will endanger the coun­try’s democracy, adding that as a party of change, it is important for leaders to car­ry ordinary members of the APC along in taking decision. “The big worry is wheth­er loyal party leaders and members should just reduce themselves to being ordinary observers when very sensitive issues with very high poten­tial to diminish and damage Your Excellency’s revered status in the country is being considered. “Noting that the current phenomena of poor rela­tions between predecessors and successor governors are largely a product of poorly instituted political succession arrangement in the country, which is impulsive and im­posing, it will be highly risky to adopt the same succession framework as it can erode all your lifelong achievements as someone who contributed a lot to strengthen Nigerian democracy. “As President of the Fed­eral Republic and leader of APC, you have continued to provide that measured leader­ship, which has been largely responsible for our electoral victories since 2015. More than anytime, at this point, when you will not be on the ballot in 2023, your measured leadership will be much more required to guarantee us sus­tained electoral victory. “Noting that today the PDP is more desperate now to re­turn to power, our party must do everything possible to take the upper moral standing. Al­ready, the PDP has oriented its 2023 campaigns based on lies and deceits. “As a party, APC must be able to demonstrate much more sensitivity to the chal­lenges of national unity by ensuring that the eventual standard bearer for the 2023 presidential election embod­ies commitment to equity and justice as the underlying principles sustaining the cor­porate existence of Nigeria as a united country. “This is not just about rep­resentation in terms of where the candidate comes from but mainly about the negotiation framework leading to the eventual selection of the can­didate. In the case of the PDP, negotiation was limited to monetary transactions with the less than 1000 delegates who eventually elected Alh. Atiku Abubakar as the pres­idential candidate of the PDP. “With all the limitation im­posed by the current Electoral Act, the delegates at the APC convention who will be elect­ing our presidential candidate will not be less than 4000. For a party with more than 40 mil­lion members, this is a far cry and will be weak in terms of being democratically account­able in terms of decisions of delegates reflecting expecta­tions party members. “Once the choice of dele­gates correlates with expecta­tions of over 40 million party members, invariably, it will most likely equate with the expectations of majority of Nigerians. “It is important therefore to caution our party that we must keep faith with basic tenets of democracy as our major campaign message to Nigerians for the 2023 elec­tions”, he warned, adding that the “temptation for lead­ers to choose their successors is democratically risky and very costly.” “If in 2013/2014, Your Ex­cellency, could submit your­self to internal democratic process, it is important that your successor also follows the same process.’ He urged President Bu­hari to do everything to en­sure that at the June 6, 2022 APC national convention, the party “guarantees level playing field for all aspiring presidential candidates of our party. Any recommen­dation to the contrary will be inimical and injurious to the electoral fortunes of our great party, APC”.