ABUJA – APC Governors and political leaders from the northern states have unanimously endorsed the clamour for power to shift southwards, urging compatriots who are running from the zone to drop their ambition. In a joint statement they issued the governors said the decision is a national imperative They therefore urged Buhari to give the privilege to one of their formidable members from South Nigeria so as to sustain the unity of the country.It is their opinion that rotation of power to the south is an obligation that must not be allowed to be determined by what happens in another party. -Advertisement- ” Today we met to review the political situation and to further support our Party in providing progressive leadership amidst our national challenges. “During our discussions, we welcomed President Muhammadu Buhari’s invitation to governors and other stakeholders to contribute to the emergence of a strong presidential candidate for the APC. “After careful deliberation, we wish to state our firm conviction that after eight years in office of President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the APC for the 2023 elections should be one of our teeming members from the southern states of Nigeria. “It is a question of honour for the APC, an obligation that is not in anyway affected by the decisions taken by another political party. “We affirm that upholding this principle is in the interest of building a stronger, more united and more progressive country. POLL “We therefore wish to strongly recommend to President Muhammadu Buhari that the search for a successor as the APC’s presidential candidate be limited to our compatriots from the southern states. “We appeal to all aspirants from the northern states to withdraw in the national interest and allow only the aspirants from the south to proceed to the primaries. “We are delighted by the decision of our esteemed colleague, His Excellency, Governor Abubakar Badaru to contribute to this patriotic quest by withdrawing his presidential aspiration. “The APC has a duty to ensure that the 2023 elections offer a nation-building moment, reaffirming that a democratic pathway to power exists for all who value cooperation and build national platforms. “This moment calls for the most sober and inclusive approach to selecting our party’s candidate, and we call on all APC leaders to fulfil their responsibility in this regard. All APC Governors from the north endorsed the statement, They include Aminu Bello Masari Governor of Katsina StateAbubakar Sani Bello Governor of Niger StateAbdullahi A. Sule Governor of Nasarawa StateProf. B.G. Umara Zulum Governor of Borno StateNasir Ahmad El-Rufai Governor of Kaduna StateMuhammad Inuwa Yahaya Governor of Gombe StateBello M. Matawalle Governor of Zamfara StateSimon Bako Lalong Governor of Plateau StateSenatorAliyu Wamakko Former Governor of Sokoto StateDr. A.U. Ganduje Governor of Kano StateSenatorAbubakar Atiku Bagudu Governor of Kebbi State.