Oluwafeyikemi Amosu, the founder of Women in Business Network as well as Ideraconsult, a jewelry outfit, in this interaction with VICTORIA OJUGBANA, speaks on her passion to see women thrive in their various business operations and what the authorities need to do to help them. Excerpts: What do you do at Women in Business Network? At Women in Business Network, we work with startups to build realistic vision boards, viable business plans and help position women’s businesses for growth through trainings, workshops and funding, like grants and loans. Together, with fellow women, we can support and build the Women in Business Network (WBN). I also own Ideraconsult, a jewelry out. My friends and business associates call me Jewelrypreneur. Holistically, I have trained over 1,000 individuals in a single physical event in the last two years, trained over 250 women in business, worked with 68 business women, organized and still organising several workshops online, both onsite and internationally, foundered a paid-growing women community of over 150 businesses. I would humbly say that I am a gifted business knowledgepreneur. -Advertisement- So, of these two things you just mentioned, which of them holds a stronger passion for you and why? My stronger passion is the Women in Business Network and the reason is quite clear as I will explain them to you. You see, the underrepresentation of women in business is a missed opportunity, from both a social and economic standpoint. Women represent the largest market opportunity, not just in Nigeria alone but in most countries of the world and they control about $20 trillion in annual spending. You will discover that when we invest in women, their communities, states, and countries will the beneficiaries as they will prosper. This in turn will generate a multiplier effect and set a positive example for the next generation of girls. It’s been proven that when women earn an income, they plough back 90 per cent of that same income into their communities and the larger society. So, what do you hope to achieve with the Women in Business Network? My vision is to build our community into a 5000-strong network of female-led businesses, with each business generating an estimated annual turnover of N15 million at a minimum. I have a passion for helping women who are in business to succeed and get it right from the start, instead of wasting money, time, and energy trying to get it right, over and over again. Our focus is to support female-led businesses in building thriving businesses that create job opportunities and economic prosperity for our society. POLL You say you design uncommon values for women. Could you please shed more light on that? “The reason most people never reach their goals is that they don’t define them, or ever seriously consider them as believable or achievable. Winners can tell you where they are going, what they plan to do along the way, and who will be sharing the adventure with them. ” (Denis Waitley). I position most start-ups and small businesses to have clarity from the start, grow, gain visibility, and make them operate strategically to attract investors and partners who fund them and professionally train them. I also do not leave them in the dark; I encourage, pray, push, and assist them to succeed at every opportunity. So, what does it take to become a member of the Women In Business Network? With just a token of N3,000 quarterly membership dues, you get to become part of us, or by you paying N10,000 annually, that way, instead of paying N12,000, you save yourself N2,000. Or you join the VIP membership with an annual fee of N50,000. You can chat me up via ideraokupe@ gmail.com. Looking back, can you say that what you are doing is truly impacting the lives of these women positively? Yes, I will say with all honesty that our work is impacting women in our community in the following ways: we facilitate connections by increasing access to local and global networks and markets; we help entrepreneurs embrace diversity in their hiring culture, and thought; And we also increase support for women’s entrepreneurial growth in the face of changing technology and business environments. It will be to my joy and fulfillment to see many of them financially independent, see their businesses, especially those that attend training programmes and participated in the community, to excel, and in return volunteer to be mentors to other upcoming women. You said you have a membership of 150 women. How do you source or get your members? Most women join our community by attending our trainings, as well as through impactful referrals that come as a result of evident testimonials, through the social media, and also from the consistency in what our organization stands for. Women managing women is a no-mean-task. What is the challenge you face in managing these women and why did you choose to undertake such a task? I am inspired and motivated by the following quote – “I want to see more women see leadership and innovation and being creators as a space that is welcoming to them.” – Afua Osei, the founder of She Leads Africa. The main challenge is in seeing a woman trying to give up when she hasn’t even allowed all the options to bear fruit or produce the result. Being in the dark without our help or a clear direction isn’t a good place. I was there. I didn’t like it and wouldn’t want another woman to experience it either. What is your assessment of the economic situation in the country and how is it affecting businesses, especially as it relates to women? The top three challenges businesses are facing are: Limited access to funding; Lack of role models and limited mentorship; and lastly, Limited access to training and equipment. The country at the moment is not in a favourable state, which has affected so many things that affect business and women in business. We are achieving so much more at a higher rate now than before. What is your view of the loan facility system in Nigeria? Women run 30 per cent of all registered businesses worldwide, yet only 10 per cent of female entrepreneurs have access to the capital they need to grow. Though that fraction is small, but it has been able to cushion and support business women who have good structures and opportunities and know what the loan facility is for. This is the growth that creates jobs, reduces poverty, and increases economic opportunity. Do you think the government is doing enough to encourage women in business? If so, how, and if not, which areas do you think they need to buckle up on? Nigeria’s poor infrastructure is well-documented—only half of Nigerians have access to reliable electricity, as if that’s not enough, frequent blackouts force businesses to run on diesel generators to keep the lights on. We need greater and more efficient public expenditure. On the other hand, significant national policies are clearing away obstacles that once kept digital financial services out of the reach for many, but tough challenges remain. To help realise the full potentials of digital financial services, policymakers and business leaders will need to invest in the right payment infrastructure, build regulatory standards, and customer activation strategies to ensure continued progress towards the promise of financial inclusion and ease of doing business initiatives, especially for female-led businesses. Quoting the CBN Governor; “Females have benefitted hugely from the bank’s intervention programs. Specifically, out of N134.67 billion disbursed to 37,273 AGSMEIS beneficiaries as of January 2022, 33 per cent (N44.1 billion) went to 12,511 female beneficiaries. Similarly, out of N349.51 billion disbursed to 712,442 total beneficiaries under the TCF, 45 per cent, which is N159.21 billion, went to 330,128 female beneficiaries. “The MSME Development Fund (MSMEDF) was designed to allocate at least 60 per cent of the fund to women and women-owned enterprises, of which 60.3 per cent of the 229,579 beneficiaries are women. Furthermore, out of the 211,306 financial statements currently registered in the collateral registry, 92,091, representing 43.6 per cent, were female borrowers.” They have started so many projects to support women in business, but they still need to invest more money to train and effectively distribute funds in terms of grants and resources to all women at the grassroots or start-up level.