Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, is the governorship candidate of the Accord Party in Osun state. In this interview with select journalists in Osogbo, he speaks on why he defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (APC), his chances in the July 16, 2022 governorship election and his plans for the people if elected. Excerpts: What was the appeal that lured you into Accord party, considering it is very young in the state and what was the reception like since joining the party? Accord isn’t a new party. Let us correct that. However, it has record of performance. In the last governorship election in the state, it came 3rd. What is the appeal? If you look at my antecedents in politics, you will see that it’s been peaceful all through. I am a man of peace. There is nothing that is worth dying for. My ambition is not worthy of the blood of animal, how much more that of human beings. If you look at the party I am coming from, it’s all about violence, money, corruption. Whatever negative thing you can think of, you will find it there. Initially I endured it, but I asked myself, if you are dealing with people that never change, both at the state and national levels, and God has helped me this far, what do I do? That was why I decided to separate myself from them, after all, we have 15 registered political parties in the state. There is no semblance of democracy in the party I am coming from. I am happier where I am now. Accord is about the cleanest party, in all ramifications. In accord, there is no crisis, no division. Coming into Accord has given me the voice, recognition and popularity. People now know that Akin Ogunbiyi and Accord are one and the same thing. My reputation goes beyond Osun, and I didn’t earn the reputation through politics, I earned the reputation through what I have been contributing to the Nigerian economy in my little way. Thank God, lots of people are giving me support. Meanwhile, there are people who believe that if they don’t rule Osun, heavens will fall. So, I looked far and wide before settling down with Accord because it has no issue of factionalisation and or leadership tussle. It is the cleanest amongst all the parties in the State. As for the response of the party members and the generality of the people of Osun, it’s been wonderful. We had a declaration some weeks back which was strategic and symbolic. During the open declaration, over 100,000 new members registered with the party. What are your chances against the two popular parties (PDP and APC) in the coming elections?. When you say the popular parties, it is all fallacy. People no longer recognise parties but individuals. The people are getting wiser by the day. They are looking for individuals with capacity, competence and empathy who ultimately deliver. You talked about the governor who has been in government for the past 12 years, please tell me one single significant thing that he has been able to successfully achieve. What tangible improvements has he brought to education, healthcare, infrastructure, industrialisation and agriculture. They say Osun is the home of culture, tell me what exactly has he achieved in that sector. What has he done to promote youth development? Today, the only sector sustaining the economy of the state is the civil service. He is still owing salaries. Last May when he claimed he has paid all civil servants, many of them carried placards. Did you see what happened during his declaration at Ife? They all carried placards saying if you could have money to organise this jamboree, please pay us our money. The civil service is the only sector that sustains everybody. Osun is not meant to be a civil service state, when we have arrays of what can generate income for us. The human capital in Osun is capable of generating growth and development. Unfortunately, we don’t have a government that is thinking of positively making use of that goldmine. There is agriculture. What did the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo use to sustain the economy of the Western Region. It was purely agriculture. He also gave everybody free education which I benefited from. He built hospitals and higher institutions. His signature achievement is still there, Cocoa House, the first skyscraper in the country which was built from agriculture. Today, we have lazy people ruling us. They don’t want to think. Anything about productivity is not their business. They just want to collect, and when they don’t get, they want to borrow without even getting the citizens informed and involved. Why do you think the people of Osun should hand over their destinies to you for the next four years? You can only give what you have. I am a tested and trusted leader of men and resources. I am a successful entrepreneur. I also have empathy. I was trained in the best school in Nigeria and the developed world. I know how to start from nothing and build up to something of great value. I know how to manage resources and pull talents together in order to achieve beneficial results. I have the capacity and competence to turn Osun around. I have been to the best universities in the world. I didn’t go to study only management, I went there for leadership training. I was in Oxford, Harvard and Yale, all for leadership training. The one in Yale, we were 27 in the class, I was the only African in that class. I will set Osun state on the path of sustainable development. There will definitely be a paradigm shift on which will ensure productive transformation. I will be the champion of productive development not political grandstanding. We will ensure the industrialisation of Osun state. Citizens livelihood will be substantially improved and government system will work. I will generate and promote entrepreneurship, youth development, sports and skills acquisition. Osun under my leadership will become a liveable and prosperous state. POLL The complexities of civil Service like rule of law, bureaucracy, corruption etc., how are you going to manage that? The Civil Service isn’t productive, and it’s not their own making. When you are not sure your salaries are coming at the end of the month, when you are not sure how much you are going to earn at the end of the month, what would be the motivation for you? Out of five days, the average civil servant manages to go to work for two days, why? Because he has to sort out himself. Somebody earning N30,000 a month and not even sure of the N30,000 at the end of the month, may be he will be paid N10,000 at the end of the month, how would he survive when he has bills to pay, children in higher institutions. Even the school fees in Osun state owned higher institution are exorbitant. So, for me to demand for productivity from them, I must be ready to train and retrain them. For those sensitive areas like finance, education, because we must bring in investment both foreign and local, we will give these areas the necessary attention. There is also corruption, the best way to kill corruption is by going through rule of law. I will work with the state legislature to pass relevant executive orders. I will declare my assets and ensure transparency and accountability. When I do this, it is natural that others will follow. The character of a leader is essential and necessary in shaping overall outlook. Leadership must be deliberate, measurable and disciplined. It must set the tone. I will be a beacon of honour, integrity who will be caring and supportive. I will motivate people to do great things. What is your blue print on education, agriculture, health etc? I am very proud to say I have my manifesto which we have not had in this state in the last 16 years. My manifesto has been published in flyers for everybody to see, digest and take note of. I will implement it to the letter. Key areas of focus are education, industrialization, agriculture, youths and sports, health and empowerment. Of course I will give free and compulsory primary education. How about secondary education? It’s stage by stage. I can’t promise people and not be able to deliver on the promises. With the kind of education, we have now in Osun state, where is the future for our children? Four out of five school age children are out of school. The others are in private schools because the government has neglected primary education. Statutorily, primary education is the function of local government, they have refused to conduct local government elections so how will they fund that tier of government? Like Aiyedire local government, my local government, the administrator who is the appointee of the governor cannot talk. He is given about 6/7 million Naira in a month. We have not had local government election in the last 20 years. I will ensure elections are conducted. When the elections are done, the winning chairmen can be directly responsible to the people. This is how we can guarantee even development. I will conduct the elections immediately. If election was to be conducted this week, based on your campaign so far, can Accord Party turn the tide? -Advertisement- I was telling some people earlier that I wish election will be next week. Be rest assured that we are winning this election, no doubt about that. Forget about PDP and APC. The people are tired of them. Both have doubled the woes of our people. There is nothing else they can give. We are all victims of their laziness and lack of purpose. The electorate has become wiser now. I appreciate INEC for the wonderful job done so far. But I also pray that they will ensure that all the materials that will be used including BVA are functioning well. It is important that the materials must work perfectly. This is the last election before the general election. I beg and appeal to INEC to ensure that the election is free, fair and transparent.