YENAGOA – The Senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District, Seriake Dickson, has commended the Nigerian media for its critical role in promoting and defending democratic governance in the country. He recalled that the media played a frontline role in the campaign against military juntas which eventually culminated in democratic governance in 1999. Dickson, who made the remarks while being conferred with an award of honour by the Senate Press Corps in Abuja, on Friday, stressed that the media did not just act as a midwife for the nation’s democracy but had been working assiduously with its operators to ensure its growth and development. According to him, the political class is delighted that the media is active in deepening democratic governance in the country. He called for effective collaboration between the political elites and the media, cautioning that democracy must not be abandoned to politicians alone. Dickson, who is the immediate past governor of Bayelsa, also observed that the legislature was at the heart of the process of deepening democracy without which there would be no democracy. The senator said, “We (the politicians) are aware of our duty to collaborate with you (the media) at all times because the task of deepening, and protecting our democracy cannot be left to Politicians, the political parties, and even on the citizens of our country alone. “In this task of deepening our democracy, the legislature is at the heart of the nation’s democracy because without the legislature, we don’t have a democracy anymore and we appreciate all Senators, and indeed all of us who are operatives of our nation’s Democracy, the role that the Nigerian media continues to play, previously, now and in the future. -Advertisement- POLL “The media fought in the days of the military, played a key role, a leading role in ushering in our nation’s democracy, and we are also grateful that the media did not just act as a midwife of our nation’s democracy and abandoned the fledgling baby of our nation’s Democracy to its operatives. “The media has behaved as dutiful nurses working with all other operators to nurture and deepen our Democracy. And we appreciate the work that the Nigerian media has been doing and will continue to do. And we encourage you to fulfil your constitutional duties of informing, educating the Nigerian People, and also holding elected leaders to account, that you have been doing.”