LAGOS – Selected HealthTech startups are billed to pitch to investors at the maiden edition of the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA) Webinar to hold on June 14, 2022. A statement on Thursday, signed by Moses Braimah NHEA Director, Marketing, Communication and Strategy said that the webinar is part of the pre-event activities to kick off the eighth edition of the annual NHEA award ceremony. The webinar theme is the same as this year’s edition of NHEA 2022 – Innovative Healthcare Services in the Era of Change. Dr. Egbe Osifo-Dawodu, Principal Partner Anadach Group, spoke on the webinar “Post COVID, the healthcare system worldwide has undergone a paradigm shift and Healthcare organizations have been forced to innovate to stay in business. New and Updated methods of delivery of healthcare services are also commonplace. This webinar aims to showcase how Innovation has improved healthcare delivery.” Dr. Wale Alabi, NHEA Project Director says it took a while coming but we are happy that this NHEA pre-event webinar has finally belted. It will be a great platform to interact, integrate and collaborate with our young and upcoming innovative geeks into the values and benefits of the Award.” The webinar is expected to present an opportunity for HealthTech promoters to pitch to industry stakeholders in the audience, as well as an opportunity to solicit real-time feedback, and advice and connect with stakeholders in the health tech ecosystem to encourage further collaboration. NHEA has sent a call for pitches and the screening process will be done by Anadach and Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR). NHEA is an initiative of Global Health Projects & Resources in collaboration with Anadach Group. The award is an annual event aimed at celebrating individuals and organisations that have contributed to the development of the healthcare sector through innovative, efficient, and qualitative healthcare delivery services that have significantly impacted the health and wellbeing of Nigerian citizens at home and abroad.