LAGOS – Ethiopian Airlines has unveiled plans to commence thrice weekly operations to Chennai, India. The airline in a statement said that the flight services to Chennai would commence on Thursday, June 2, 2022. Chennai will join the vast Ethiopian network as a fourth destination in India after New Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. -Advertisement- The statement hinted that Ethiopian started its service to India with a debut flight to New Delhi in 1966, just 20 years after the airline was founded, stressing that it pioneered the air transport linkage between Africa and India. Recently, Ethiopian marked its 50th year anniversary of uninterrupted service to Mumbai, the commercial capital of India. The airline said the flights to Chennai would be operated using Boeing B737-8 aircraft. Mr. Mesfin Tase, Ethiopian Airlines Group Chief Executive Officer said the airline was excited that it is getting closer to its customers with its signature service and global connectivity options. “We have been connecting Asia and Africa for 55 years now facilitating trade between the two continents. The addition of Chennai as a fourth passenger destination in India is a testimony of our resilience and unwavering commitment to serve our customers in India and the continent at large. We will continue to serve India with enhanced frequency and more destinations in the future,” he added. POLL Chennai is a modern cosmopolitan city and the most prominent cultural, economic and educational centre of South India. Ethiopian has been serving India without any interruption even during the pandemic cementing the longstanding bilateral relationship between the two countries. India is one of Ethiopian Airlines key destinations in the Asian continent and Ethiopian currently flies to three passenger and five cargo destinations with its enhanced services and modern fleet. In line with the airlines commitment to serve its customers in India, it has been growing its service frequency and destinations since it first commenced operation to the country. Besides the opening of a new route to Chennai, Ethiopian Airlines’ flight frequency to the cities of Mumbai and New Delhi will increase to double daily and ten weekly flights, respectively, as of July 2022.