Alhaji Yusuff Adebayo has been installed as the Mogaji Imam Alagunfon in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The position is both spiritual and traditional head of the entire descendants and family of Alagunfon worldwide. The new Mogaji is a bonafide grandson of Imam Sulayman Alagunfon, the fifth Imam of Ibadanland. The installation ceremony and presentation of the certificate to the new Mogaji were done at an event held at the family mosque of Alagunfon compound, located in the Agbeni area of Ibadan. Among those who attended the ceremony included; Alhaja Afusat Alagunfon; Alh. Lawal Alagunfon; Mrs. Lateefat Oladokun (Alagunfon); Alh. Adam Alagunfon; Alh. Isiaka Olayiwola; Ust. Hamid Alagunfon; Alh. Murtada Alagunfon; Alh. Tunde Aninoloju (Alagunfon); Mr. Moshood Adesuoye (Alagunfon); Mrs. Alirat Akako Alagunfon; Mrs. Nafisat Alagunfon, Alh. Sulaiman Adekola. Adebayo who is a retired civil servant, in his inaugural speech, thanked the entire family and especially his kinsmen, for their support and belief in him to take the mantle of leadership of the respected family of Alagunfon which is a strong pillar of Islam in the Agbeni area. According to him, “I am very happy to finally ascend the throne of our ancestors who were prominent actors in the Islamization of Ibadan and Yorubaland at large. I thank every member of the family for their support and for the confidence reposed in me by selecting me as their new Mogaji and Imam. “I know this is going to be a great task that requires a lot of sacrifices and commitment; I am ready to take up the responsibility in order to build upon the legacies of our forefathers, not only in our Agbeni area but also throughout Ibadan and Yorubaland”. -Advertisement- POLL The new Mogaji also reiterated his readiness to foster unity and love among the members of the family and called for cooperation from everyone. Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Isiaka Olayiwola Alagunfon congratulate the new Mogaji and described him as a leader worthy of emulation. He also urged all members of the family to cooperate with the new Mogaji and asked Allah to be with the entire family. One of the dignitaries in attendance, Alhaji Adiamo extolls the virtues of the new Mogaji and describes his ascension to the throne of his ancestors as the beginning of many good things to come into the whole family.