Defending Wimbledon champion Novak Djokovic will face South Korea’s Kwon Soon-woo in the opening round as he bids to retain his crown at the All England Club. Friday’s draw was largely kind to the world No. 3 — the first seed here in Wimbledon due to the absences of Daniil Medvedev and Alexander Zverev — but there is a mouthwatering potential clash against rising star Carlos Alcaraz in the quarterfinals. No. 2 seed Rafael Nadal, fresh off his 22nd grand slam victory at the French Open, will play Argentina’s Francisco Cerúndolo in the opening round and has a tricky potential fourth round match against Marin Cilic to contend with. In the projected quarterfinals, there is also the chance for a rematch against talented Canadian star Felix Auger Aliassime, who recently pushed Nadal all the way in a five-set epic in the fourth round at Roland Garros. Last year’s runner-up Matteo Berrettini is projected to face Stefanos Tsitsipas in the quarterfinals, while third seed Casper Ruud could play Poland’s Hubert Hurkacz, who recently claimed the grass court title in Halle. Home favorite Andy Murray, twice a winner here, was handed a favorable first-round draw against Australia’s James Duckworth, who is yet to win a match on the ATP Tour this season and last week lost to world No. 277 Paul Jubb in qualifying for Queen’s Club. Murray has been struggling with an abdominal injury suffered in his final defeat to Berrettini in Stuttgart and which subsequently forced him to pull out of Queen’s, but the former world No. 1 recently said he believed he could still play “great tennis.” In the women’s draw, world No. 1 Iga Swiatek will play Croatian qualifier Jana Fett in the opening round as she bids to win her first Wimbledon title. The Pole has been the standout player on the WTA Tour this season after winning six titles, including the French Open, but grass is undoubtedly her least favorite surface. -Advertisement- POLL Swiatek has never made it past the fourth round at SW19 and could potentially face American Jessica Pegula in the quarterfinals, a player whose best Wimbledon showing was the second round last year. Last year’s runner-up Karolína Pliskova is projected to face world No. 4 Paula Badosa in the quarterfinals, while world No. 2 Anett Kontaveit could come up against Maria Sakkari. Serena Williams, who recently played her first matches in almost a year, has been drawn against world No. 113 Harmony Tan in the opening round. The 23-time grand slam champion, who injured her leg in the first round of Wimbledon last year, reached the doubles semifinals in Eastbourne last week playing alongside Ons Jabeur, but the pair were forced to retire after the Tunisian suffered an injury. British star Emma Raducanu, who enjoyed her breakout performance at Wimbledon last year, has been handed a tricky draw against world No. 46 Alison van Uytvanck, who last week won a second-tier grass event in Italy. Raducanu has been struggling with injury coming into Wimbledon and has registered limited playing time on grass, withdrawing from the Nottingham Open and subsequently missing the Eastbourne International. The Wimbledon main draws begin on Monday, June 27.