According to Tuttosport, Torino sporting director Davide Vagnati has offered defender Gleison Bremer to Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur. The Brazilian centre-back has reportedly agreed to personal terms with Inter Milan, who are yet to reach a consensus on a transfer fee with the Granata. Bremer is a hot property in the transfer market following a stellar Serie A season with Torino, which ended with him being named the defender of the season. The 25-year-old became a regular starter from the 2019/20 season after arriving from Atletico Mineiro in 2018. The Brazilian defender has made 110 appearances for Torino, scoring 13 times and assisting five goals. Bremer still has two years left on his contract with the Serie A club, but the time now seems right for him to take the next step in his career. Inter Milan are considered favourites to sign the defender with personal terms agreed, but other interested parties are monitoring the situation as well. Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur have both been on the lookout for central defenders this summer and Bremer has been among their targets. And the 25-year-old has now been offered to the London duo. The Blues were considering signing the Brazilian to replace Antonio Rudiger, who has moved to Real Madrid on a free transfer. Andreas Christensen has left as well, with a move to Barcelona in the pipeline. Chelsea had reportedly tabled an offer to sign the Brazilian defender almost a fortnight ago. On the other hand, at Tottenham, Antonio Conte wants a left-footed centre-bac. And Spurs have thus been linked with multiple players. But their advancements were reportedly turned down earlier this month. Torino have still offered the 25-year-old defender to Chelsea and Tottenham in the hope that they will offer a better transfer fee than Inter Milan. The Nerazzurri are reportedly offering a transfer fee between €30 million and €35 million, potentially reaching €40 million given how the current market functions. Names of Federico Dimarco and Cesare Casadei have been mooted in a potential player-plus-cash deal, but it is unlikely that such a move will work out. -Advertisement- POLL Arsenal had also enquired about Bremer, but as per Tuttosport, Inter are the favourites to eventually complete the move. The Serie A giants are reportedly waiting for Milan Skriniar’s move to Paris Saint-Germain to materialise before finalising details of a move for the Brazilian. So Chelsea and Tottenham might have an uphill task in the pursuit of the 25-year-old Brazilian defender.