YENAGOA – The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr Simbi Wabote, said on Tuesday that Bayelsa State was the only state in the country without a petroleum products depot. He stated this in a keynote address he presented at a one-day “Nigerian Content Sensitization Programme for Law Enforcement Agencies” organized by the NCDMB at its headquarters in Yenagoa with the theme, “Deploying Multi-Institutional Approach to Nigerian Content Enforcement in the Oil and Gas Industry.” Wabote while highlighting ongoing projects executed by the agency under its 10-year strategic roadmap to achieve 70 per cent local content by 2027, said that the board was collaborating with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited to build a petroleum products depot on the Brass Island in Bayelsa. “Bayelsa State is the only state in this country without any petroleum products depot. So, in collaboration with the NNPC, we are building petroleum products depot in Brass Island” he said. According to him, the board was also working on building a shipyard in Brass area in collaboration with the Nigerian Liquefied National Gas (NLNG), adding that the project was getting to field design stage. The NCDMB boss also clarified that contrary to the impression in some quarters, the award of contracts in the oil and gas sector was not part of the board’s mandate but regulation of the process of award of such contracts. -Advertisement- POLL Wabote further said, “One thing that is important within this (Local Content) Act is that we are not responsible for contracts award in the oil and gas sector. That is the responsibility of NNPC and its joint venture partners. We regulate the process that leads them to award of contracts. I think this is very important.” In his remarks, the Head of Legal Services, NCDMB, Naboth Onyesoh, said the board was resolved to strengthen its synergy with various law enforcement agencies and sister organisations to leverage expertise and partnership to accelerate local content compliance in the industry. According to him, the workshop which first edition was held in 2020 in Abuja, was aimed at intimating stakeholders on some of the challenges in enforcing compliance with the NOGICD Act and engender the spirit of collaboration for integrated approach to the enforcement of Nigerian content requirements in the industry. Onyesoh added, “For all intents and purposes therefore, NCDMB recognises the kinetic power of collaboration and the impetus it generates for the attainment of its mandate. “Hence, in the board’s 10-year strategy roadmap, which is formulated to drive Nigerian content growth to 70 per cent by 2027, compliance is one of the five key pillars.” The workshop was attended by representatives of the law enforcement agencies and other stakeholders including the Armed Forces, Police, Customs, Immigration, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC), the judiciary and academia, among others. Also, seven presentations were made on various sub-themes by the representatives of the EFCC, ICPC and some directors of the NCDMB, including a panel discussion on “Multi-Stakeholders Enforcement of the NOGICD Act: Legal Issues and Challenges.”