EJIKEME OMENAZU, SAMSON NWAFOR LAGOS /ABAKALIKI – Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa Cam­paign Organisation (MSO2023), under the platform of New Nigeria Group (NNG), has said that it has taken the loss of their principal, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) pres­idential primary in good faith. It would be recalled that Mazi Ohuabunwa, a renowned pharmacist, polled only one vote in the PDP primary, which was won by former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. -Advertisement- Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, the Deputy Director, Con­tact and Mobilisation, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa Campaign Organisation (MSO2023), Middle Belt Region, in a statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Saturday, said the New Nigeria Group (NNG), the Middle Belt Region chapter, although felt bad about the outcome of the PDP presidential primary, but had to accepted it in good faith as that was the decision of the delegates. Odeh, also the National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF) as well as the Founding Secretary, Mid­dle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC), recalled that Ohu­abunwa had been advocating and pontificating for a very long time on how Nigeria, a once great and united nation that was brought to her knees as a result of inept leadership, could rise and become a glob­ally competitive nation that works for all irrespective of class. He lamented that his advices were never taken by the coun­try’s leadership so he decided to throw his hat in the ring and to achieve this he went round the 36 states and Abuja in search of likeminded Nigerians. Similarly, a group, the New Nigeria Group, on Saturday, restated its confidence in the Peoples Democratic Party pres­idential aspirant, Pharmacist Sam Ohuabunwa’s vision of building new Nigeria. A press statement signed by the Director General of the NNG, Dr. John Kome, the group commended the gallant perfor­mance of Ohuabunwa in the just concluded People’s Demo­cratic presidential primary. POLL The DG, who hailed Ohu­abunwa’s vision for Nigeria, recalled that it was only Ohu­abunwa who had a policy doc­ument on how to confront the four demons afflicting Nigeria, which according to him, are: poverty, corruption, injustice and insecurity. According to Kome, NNG believes in Ohuabunwa’s vi­sion. The statement reads, “The New Nigeria Group (NNG) congratulates its convener and PDP presidential aspirant, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, on his gallant performance at the just concluded PDP presidential primaries despite not clinching the ticket to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 general elections. “Mazi Sam has proved to be a bold contender who, in spite of parochial sentiments and pecuniary inducements that pervaded the primaries, was a resonant lone voice for birthing a globally competitive, prosper­ous, just and secure new Nige­ria that will work for all.”