Where Excellence Begins Great people know that excellence starts from little things. The attitude they bring doing little things affects their commitment to great things. Unfortunately, ordinary people wait for big breaks before becoming committed to excellence. They discover, albeit too late, that when their so-called big breaks come, they are unprepared for it. Imagine a leader who was unprepared for the position he was entrusted with because of party affiliations. The most likely outcome would be a series of executive mishaps and disastrous decisions that would plunge the nation into the abyss of darkness. Those who cannot demonstrate excellence in little things will not demonstrate excellence in big things. As Aristotle discovered, “We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, therefore, is not an act but a habit.” Excellence is a habit, a lifestyle. Excellence starts from little things. Your life is the sum total of your moments which are created by the little things you do every day, like the little things you say in a meeting, your ability to notice subtle changes in customer demands and respond on time, and the ability to be punctual, and so on. Excellent people know that the little things they do every day help them strengthen their “excellent muscles” and prepare them for their big breaks so that when the breaks come, they are ready to demonstrate excellence on the big stage. It is like a dress rehearsal. The better prepared we are, the better our performance on the stage of life. We become like David. He was ready to take on Goliath on the biggest stage of his life because he had killed the lion and the bear while tending the sheep. We, too, are ready to shine on our biggest stage because we are prepared. Excellence and Skill There is a direct relationship between excellence and skill. Think of the most successful people you know, and you will find out that the common thread that binds them together is that they are skilful people. Choose any field, and you will see that the globally known names are exceptionally good at what they do. Nobody ever achieves prominence with mediocrity. What is skill? Skill is a learned ability honed by practice that delivers outstanding results. From this simple definition, we see three things about skill: -Advertisement- POLL • It is a learned ability. Nobody was born skilful. People are born with raw talent, but talent is not the same as skill. Talent refined through practice is skill. People do not become successful just because of natural talent. Instead, they become successful because they put in the work to develop their talents into skills. • It develops through practice and hard work. Years of discipline is what makes talent look effortless as skill. Therefore, there is no skill you cannot develop and no knowledge you cannot acquire to succeed in life if you are willing to put in the time and effort. Just as practice converts talent to skill, the absence of training and discipline leads to wasted genius. • It delivers outstanding results. Every time we see skilful people at work, we are left in awe and wonder because they make the complex look simple and the difficult look easy. They produce results that amaze their supporters and confuse their opponents and competitors. We may not like them for some personal reasons, but we cannot deny their results. Think Usain Bolt. Michael Jordan. Ben Carson. Take Cristiano Ronaldo, for example. The debate on which player is the greatest of all time between him and Messi would be an age-long debate. It is such a polarizing debate. Whether you like him or not, you cannot deny his achievements. He has the most international goals in history with 117 as at 7 June, 2022. Some of his records on the UEFA.com website includes: • Most UEFA club competition goals: 137 • Most goals in a UEFA Champions League season: 17 (2013/14) • Most goals in UEFA Champions League knockout stages: 67 • Only player to score in 11 straight UEFA Champions League games • Most appearances in UEFA.com users’ Team of the Year: 15 (2004, 2007–2020) (Source: UEFA.com) He is a testament that hard work would trump talent every time. Someone would definitely break some or all his records, but that individual must be dedicated to the sport irrespective of his natural talents. You, too, must have the dedication to excellence to succeed in your place of work. Why? If you are average, you are one challenge or downturn away from losing your job. The only way to truly command respect in your organisation is to be known as someone excellent at something. Of course, you need not become excellent at everything; you only need to excel at something your organisation cannot do without. Successful people are skilful people. They discharge their duties no matter how little with a measure of skill that makes them stand out. This article is an excerpt from Chapter Five of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.