LAGOS – Re-engineering the public service with citizens’ participation in governance as a major objective is required for optimum performance. Sam Egube, Lagos State Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, made the observation in his paper presented at the Annual Public Lecture of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management in Nigeria, Delta State branch, in Asaba at the weekend. At the presentation, themed: Re-engineering the public service for optimal performance, ”Egube argued that public service anywhere in the world plays a very significant role in transforming government’s policies and programmes into reality. He said that in most countries, including Nigeria, the performance of the public service in discharging its role cannot be separated from the level of development experienced in the country. Egube noted that a lot still needs to be done in the form of reforms in the public service to achieve optimum performance. He mentioned three important roles of the public service to include: Provision of services to the people, improving the revenues of state through public services and taxes and thirdly, policy design, regulation and enforcement. The public service, the commissioner said, is mainly conscious and well known for its regulatory and enforcement roles much more than for its role to provide service to the citizens with excellence and empathy. A lot of the public service performance is by observing expenditure levels and how it is shared or deployed rather than focusing on the performance on the revenue side through citizens’ inclusion in taxes and service. -Advertisement- POLL Egube argued that consumption through expenditure tracking is less challenging than how the country is resourced through production, investments and services (revenues), adding that the quality of leaders and personnel required to distribute resources is uniquely different from those required to generate the required resources for development. He affirmed that Nigeria has huge potential to compete globally as an economic power-house, given both her natural and human resources. He, however, argued that it is the average quality of the human resource that gives meaning to the natural resource, adding: “You may own a natural resource but not control it if indeed the people or citizens are not skilled enough or organised to do so.” Egube said that while it may be true that discrimination leaves an undesirable feeling in the human mind, performance however, discriminates. This discrimination, he noted, can be seen clearly in the economic and social development outcomes seen in countries like Singapore and South Korea, which he used as case studies. He said that in the past 30 years, both Singapore and South Korea have increased their GDP per capita five times compared to Nigeria’s two times on a purchasing power parity basis. He demonstrated through charts that the economic outcomes can be linked to citizens’ participation in the respective countries as demonstrated by the UN E-participation index, the tax revenues to GDP ratios and the percentage of eligible voters participating in respective elections. “Singapore came a long way from a challenging context in the 60s to become a thriving diversified economy, while South Korea came from a challenging context to become the 4th largest economy in Asia. In all, the public service must be organised to attract increased citizens’ participation while operating an active performance management system. “This can be achieved by improving how the public service harnesses two way communication and preferences with the people through digitization of government systems and service footprint, encouraging an atmosphere of transparency and accountability leading to a robust consequence management mechanism that installs trust.”