Prince Adewole Adebayo is the Social Democratic Party, SDP presidential aspirant. In this interview, he explains what Nigerians must look out for before electing who directs the affairs of the country for the next four years. There was voter apathy during the last general elections, what would you advise as to voter education? What we need first is truth. We tell a lot of convenient lies. The people who steal elections are not illiterates. They are not people in the rural areas. Our poverty is not the cause. The first person was most likely to steal a vote are party officials, they are well to do. You will see a national chairman of the political party who has all kinds of bulletproof vehicles donated to him by people gunning for election. in any of the parties, it’s the governor who funds the party and gives them dollars and everything. Are you saying a typical national chairman, national secretary, auditor, all these people in the party organizing secretary are illiterate and poor?, no. Now the next set of people are delegates, the typical delegates are not really that poor. So many of them are statutory delegates, some of them are former governors and senators and all of that. So, it is just that they are dishonest people. It is as simple as that. They are greedy disloyal to the country or they don’t understand or they don’t believe in democracy. It’s just a business for them. The person you see in the rural areas you say he is hungry. If they can be hungry for four years, they can be hungry for one day. If a person is hungry for four years, after the last election, and then how much will they collect in one day? So I think it’s just a general lack of commitment to it. However hungry people are when it’s time for Ramadan they fast, even the poorest still fast. Among the other faith, some do seven, or ten days of fasting and on top of that, they use their money to go to religious locations for prayers, nobody pays them they go there. And when they are leaving some religious beliefs, they still drop some offerings or zakat or something. I think what we should do is to make people in Nigeria understand that this governmental system we are running is equally as important and that you can make sacrifices for it as you make sacrifices for all other things in your life, including your religion and making the sacrifice for your children. So, however poor a woman is, as a mother, she will feed her children first and she can go to bed hungry. So if they value the country and the government system and they see it as salvation to our happiness on this earth, I don’t know about heaven because that one is in the hand of God. But on this earth, the government is God of this earth. That’s why we are here because it is a government that will determine whether you get killed in your house and take you to your house or not, whether you live in safety and comfort or not. whether your children are in school and how much you have to pay in school, whether you have a job after school and you can live a life of comfort or you are jobless and poverty of crime. So, the government has a role to play and you cannot be saying God should punish politicians, God should reward them, God should question them. If you are collecting money from them, when you tell God to punish some people, you cannot tell God the limit of the punishment and how many people will be included. So, if you collect N5000 from the person who stole it because you want to vote for them or you collect $1,000 or more or less from a politician because you are a delegate, you cannot say when you get over N80bn missing that God punishes the N80bn thief when part of the money has come to your hand. I have heard people say “collect the money and vote your conscience”. You don’t have a conscience once you collect the money. There is no conscience left because if you are a receiver of stolen goods, you are a thief. You can not say let me be the receiver of the stolen goods, keep it and tell the police I saw the thief walk by, the thief will say I kept part of it with you. So I think that we should talk but more importantly, in order to have people believe in this system, those who run the system should be credible and that’s what I said to my fellow politicians. Those who say Nigerians are too poor to vote right. No, in spite of how poor they are, they are making a lot of decisions right. For most mothers, you go to them and say this is N1m that I want to buy your child, they will say never, carry your money and will even shout at you. So they value their families. There are people who will live in very poor families, you can not lure them out with money they will tell you, no, my family is my family. You cannot see a very poor person who has a particular religion and say if I pay you a lot of money, will you leave your religion? They will say God forbid, I will not. So, this means that they believe in those systems, so they are not induced out of those systems easily. So it is for us to build a political system where people can believe in leaders such that they know that this leader is there for them. We need political leaders who can show absolute transparency, absolute selflessness, and absolute commitment that when people see they know that this person is in this politics. The reason why people want to take it to cut is that they believe that you are there for yourself and that has to stop. There have been allegations of delegates receiving money in exchange for votes. What are the consequences of these or who emerges as the party’s flagbearer? POLL Yeah, it’s unfortunate. If you want to fix the problems of Nigeria, or the people at the top to fix them or you want other people to fix them, because you are not interested in fixing the, then you are hypocritical. I want to be president. Studying what the president does I have done over the years because I have studied documents about how processes work. In a country like Nigeria, I have seen serious life and death decision, good or bad decisions, and serious consequences following such decisions. If you are going to be president of Nigeria, you have to think about 3000 or so decisions a week for four years. And if you have two terms. you will take for 8 years. So, if the president gets 90% of those decisions right, will you not say he has tried?. But that leaves you with 300 errors every week, each of which can cost lives, each of which can ruin fortunes, and each of which can cause chaos. So in that situation, you want to improve on it and see that the president gets 99% right. If God is with him, he is prayerful, he is honest, he is sincere, and he is very careful. If he is a person whose heart bleeds for the country and it works very hard and is naturally talented. He can get 99% right. So I will be working towards that when I am the president without wasting time or delay. My covenant with God is to have 99.9% of my decisions right. Nigeria appears to have competent people with wonderful ideas, especially during campaigns on how they are going to transform lives when they get into office but change once they get into office. The issue is this. If the president or governor or a legislator gets 99% of their decisions right, you will know that this person is actually a very good person. But if you get 99% of your decisions right, I will take 3000 decisions every week. You must make 30 mistakes a week which means that the president makes like five mistakes a day which can cost lives. It could be that he forgot to approve payment to the hospital. It could be that you have appointed the wrong person who stole a lot of money. It could be that he didn’t secure infrastructure, a rail line as a result, lives were lost, people are kidnapped, and that one error can cost lives. Can this philosophy of yours happen here in Nigeria? Yes, it can happen immediately. For example, who knew those young boys and young girls who grew up in Lagos could stand in front of the police, army and even teargas, some even lose their lives in the process and others still came back the next day. So I think that Nigerian politicians tend to run away from responsibilities and say that people are not ready. people are ready only that the people are too smart that they don’t want to be fooled. If anybody is saying people are not ready where were you in 2014, 2015, when people were trekking miles just to listen to candidate Muhammadu Buhari, people were in tears as if it was a rock star, there would be rallies in Bauchi, people would walk all the way from Jalingo, no transport, they would still find their way there. If he is coming at 5 pm people would be there by 5 am. Recently I went to Kano to try to consult my political supporters and something happened, I was supposed to be in Kano by 11 am, I missed my flight and I didn’t get to Kano until 5 pm and they were there men, women, boys and girls. And that day, if I was an unserious person, my life changed that okay, so, in this country, people can still leave their families and stay in the sun and stood by the roadside from morning till late at night because of something called politics, because somebody is trying to be president of Nigeria who they have never met but believes in what he is saying and they want to come and hear more. So that shows me that if I don’t misbehave if I don’t join the gang of the unserious people if I don’t become a looter If I don’t become a dishonest, disloyal person. if I continue to become patriotic, they will believe over time. They would convince more people. So you think that this 2023 the game will change. The game will change. There are two factors to consider if the media follows issues, and not money, if they don’t give dedicated coverage to criminals who are trying to run away from the law and they pay you money and you show them live when they are fighting with the law enforcement and that’s where it makes it money issue. That’s what makes a headline because you give somebody a dedicated coverage and even if they are defecating on the street and talking rubbish and insulting the opponents, you carry it live, no editorial discretion, because they pay your money and if another party or group of politicians are somewhere discussing life-changing policies, you will not cover it. I know that the media is expensive. But there is a period in the life of a nation, especially at this critical period where every liberty we have is at stake where even the liberty and right of the press are at stake, where the economic continuity of the republic is at stake. This is where the media comes in, analysing issues, and monitoring people who are talking wise things that you can learn from it. So that’s why the media has to drop its commercial attitude on many occasions to see that leaders of the country who are aspiring to lead can be interrogated, even If you don’t like them, come out interrogate them. Anywhere in the world where somebody declares that I want to be president, the media follows the person, questions the person, researches the person’s background, confront the person at every juncture. If you don’t do that, you deny the voters the right to know them including the right to reject them and if on the other hand they manage to come in. You have unknown entities in public spaces that they would have been sworn in before you start to discover that, oh, this is who this person is. -Advertisement- Beyond the elections, how do we as Nigerians begin to promote good neighbourliness among ourselves? We need to do that, but we need first to give the truth a tight hug We need to hug the truth tightly. we need to get used to it. you have to be truthful to yourself. There is no way you can escape the fact that the person who will be president next year will be a Nigerian. And if he is not a good citizen now, he will not be a good citizen later and if he is trying to bribe you with money so that you will not examine his suitability, you accept that money or you do not care. Then you are like a person who has a dirty linen and refuses to go and wash the linen and say just leave it on the bed like that. when you come back from work it’s on that dirty linen you are going to lie on like that. We cannot be ruminating about how we have destroyed our opportunities in the past. we have a chance now and if you keep playing around it and talking all sorts of excuses like zoning and you do not understand that if you pick any random Nigerian of average intelligence if he is truthful, patriotic and committed and beautiful and does not have any of the pediatric needs that our leaders have wanting more toys, wanting more enjoyment. If we can have a president who is 70 years old, and he is not carried away by I need to buy cars, I need to build houses, I need to keep money somewhere, I need to wear a jersey which I have never worn before. My wife has to dress in gold and all of that and my friends have to be rewarded with public money you would have a good country. The countries that you see that are doing well and we admire and our young people are running to and our professionals are running there when you interact with their leaders, many of them are not as smart as school teachers in Kaduna or in Sokoto or in Lagos or Abakaliki. It is just that they are honest. There is nothing that tells you that Joe Biden is smarter than a governor in Nigeria. It is just that the man has spent forty-something years in public service and he still has only one house and in Washington, DC until he moved into the White House. I knew where he sleeps every night. After work, he boards the train and goes back to wellington his home town and sleeps. Sometimes, he goes to Chalton and goes and sleeps there. If you look at the first republic, many of our leaders were school teachers, journalists, young lawyers and all of that. When they were killed or when they died or left office, they had no money, had nothing. Nobody around them was rich. Their best friends had no money. Their family had no money. So look at my own leader Aminu Kano who is my political leader that I followed, look at his children and grandchildren, he didn’t leave them with anything ,they are not dead, they are flourishing but they are not living in wanton wealth. So if you address this pediatric, arrest where our leaders don’t grow up that even a governor goes to Dubai and his eyes are popping everywhere looking for toys, houses and other things. I see our leaders in London at the airport, carrying bags like merchants, buying all sorts of things. These people have pediatric arrests. they refuse to grow up beyond their teenage years. So you see a governor of a far-flung state. He visits Abuja, he passes through here he sees a house. He wants to buy two because no one is ever going to come back there. You see, people are burying dollars until the day themselves die, they become dust, the dollar they buried become dust. So this mental disease that we don’t want to arrest is where our problem lies and it is now shifting down to the common person. while the common person doesn’t realise that in a good Nigeria even without adding more to what we have now, an average Nigerian can have the government spend N25m to N30m on him regularly.