An educational technologist and former Secretary of the Congress for Progressives Change, Lagos State, Tope Balogun, has secured Lagos Action Alliance (AA) Governorship ticket and promised to unseat the incumbent Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the 2023 general elections. Balogun emphasized that he would also be competing favourably with other aspirants and that he would do so without going through godfathers but through the masses. According to the AA Governorship candidate, the masses have long been trapped and it is a privilege to be chosen to represent their common interest. Declaring his part of his agenda, he said that he would address adequately the issue of discrimination, provide 150,000 jobs to solve unemployment and provide 24 minivans for fire service emergencies able to mitigate the destruction. He said: “I am competing favourably and that I why I am not going through the route of godfathers but through the route of the masses in the upcoming 2023 general elections. “The masses have long been trapped upon and it is a privilege that we can elect people that can represent our common interest. The problem of our community is we the masses. Democracy and politics are a game of numbers. It is we who give them the chance. Speaking during his endorsement on Sunday, in Lagos, Balogun said that he is offering himself to represent the mass rightly and that he would stand head to head with those mismanaging the resources of Lagos State. Balogun noted that having good governance is not rocket science but the only thing that makes it hard is that people fail to do the right thing at the right time. POLL “I want to stand head to head with those mismanaging our resources and those waiting to mismanage it as well. The resources of Lagos State will be judiciously managed to solve the problems of the masses. I am going to push forward the principle of equity. “My message to APC is for them to tidy their books of account and governance so that during the handing over they will not miss out anything,” he added.