Kehinde Ogunkanmi, the chief officer of Basira, a peer-to-peer market where you can trade your digital currencies and assets, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, asserted that crytocurrencies are the future of the world’s financial system and urged Nigerians to embrace the blockchain. Excerpts: Tell us about the company? Basira is a peer-to-peer market where you can trade your digital currencies and assets. -Advertisement- You can go to Basira with your bitcoin, etherium and other digital currencies and trade with other people. What motivated you to start the company? The motivation came when I wanted to buy bitcoin and other digital assets and the existing platforms where not easily assessable and secure and I thought that I could establish a platform that is secure and where people can easily trade their digital currencies and other assets. When did you start the company? We started this year POLL And how has it been? We are pushing the company through and doing well. What is the acceptance level of digital currencies in Nigeria; it appears that many Nigerians do not understand the whole thing? Digital currencies are the future of the financial system; we are at the early stage of digital currencies and people are yet to understand and accept them because they are new to them. They are widely understood and accepted as a means of exchange in the developed world. However, more Nigerians will come to understand and accept digital currencies and to acquire and use them. Why should more Nigerians adopt digital currencies and use them? Nigerians should embrace digital currencies because they make payments easier; it is done on an open ledger. It is transparent and cheaper. Conventional banking transactions take time and are costly; but on the blockchain, they are fast and cheaper. How can people who are not tech savvy take part in blockchain activities? You do not need to be tech savvy to take part in blockchain activities; on Basira it is easy to interface; so far you can use your phone, navigate on Basira. How has the cost to access the Internet affected your business? It has not really impacted our business. However, we want the government to make it cheaper and easier for people to access the Internet. The value of bitcon and other digital assets has plummeted in the past months; how has this affected the company? We are not trading in digital assets; we only provide a platform for people to trade their assets.