SYLVESTER ENOGHASE As a responsible organisation that is aware of the responsibilities and obligations attached with becoming market leaders in the construction sector, BUA Group has untiringly been harnessing local resources, investing in human capital development, setting up efficient industries and giving back to communities through various social impact / intervention programs. In one of such untiring efforts are its efforts toward the healing of COVID-19 Pandemic’s economic scars within its areas of operation. -Advertisement- In fact, the responsibility has place it on the pedestal of going heightening its cement production to heal increasing local cement demands scars which the pandemic has left of on Nigerians in its areas of operation. Without iota of exaggeration, the COVID-19 pandemic-induced losses for both economic output and employment is already leaving its scars on people, and it is speculated by experts that it will be significant in coming years, as the nation’s economy is likely to endure greater losses because it had relatively less access to vaccines and the pandemic-support packages to cushion the production cost of the manufacturing industries were smaller. As gathered by Daily Independent in its investigations, Nigeria needs over N2.1trillion ($5billion) investment in its cement sector, for instance, to meet local cement demands as well as crash the price of cements in the country, and this is why BUA Group through its cement manufacturing company has not relented its efforts to ensure that there is no lacuna in local demands by Nigerians in the Cement market. Recall that the current market price for a 50kg bag is about N4,000 which is considered expensive considering that the price jumped by more than N1,500 in the last two years. Against the foregoing background, experts were unanimously of the view that demands outweigh supply, hence, leading to hike in price. POLL While BUA, Dangote, and Lafarge, the three key players in cement manufacturers in the country, have ramped up production in recent times, analysts argued that their efforts still falls below the required demands, adding that the nation’s economy Needs over N2.1trillion Investment to meet local cement demands as well as crash prices of the products across consumer markets. According to Dr, Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), Nigeria has one of the lowest per capita consumption of cement in the world even as it trailed Ghana, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Egypt, among others, on African continent. Yusuf emphasised that the per capita consumption of cement in Nigeria is about 123kg per person, which is less than two and a half bags of cement, whereas Ghana is about 5 bags per person. “This means there is still an underproduction in Nigeria because, the consumption and demand last year was about 30million tonnes whereas, the country should be aiming for 60 to 70 million tonnes per annum”, he said. He stressed that 650kg per person is the world average requirement, which is 13 bags per person, hence, making Nigeria, one of the least in terms of per capita consumption of cement. To meet up the country’s demands he, however, argued that, using official Naira exchange rate of N420 to a dollar as at the weekend, Nigeria needs to woo about N2.1trillion ($5billion) investments to its cement sector. This translates to about additional 10 cement production lines as each cement facility costs about N210billion($500million). Unarguably buttressing the foregoing analytical findings at the official visit by Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the minister of Information and Culture to BUA Cement Plc(Sokoto Plant) in Sokoto State recently, called for more investors and investment into the cement sector of the economy to meet demand. While appreciating the ways in which BUA cement compay was able to leverage conducive businesses atmosphere created by the current administration to attract more investors into the country, the minister asserted, “The demand for cement is so high and until we are able to ramp up supply, we will not be able to have a reasonable price. “ It takes a minimum of $500million to have a Cement Line. So, it’s very expensive to set up”. He added, “The future is to invite more investors to take advantage of the conducive environment created by the current administration. “The issue of tax holiday, the ban on importation of cement, government’s divestment from the cement industry and of course backward integration policy, among others, I believe, will help investors make returns easily because, if you made $500million investment on a cement Line, it takes 4 to 5 years gestation period before you can even start producing. Probably, it will take 10 years to make a break through. And that is why the tax incentive of the Federal Government is so key and critical in making Investors come into this venture.” The BUA cement plant in sokoto, he stressed, is beneficiaries of the conducive business environment created by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, under the auspices of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), which has implemented over 150 reforms since 2016, as well as the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020(CAMA 2020) – Nigeria’s most significant business legislation in three decades. “The result of this favourable business environment is the birth of new businesses such as the 5 Million tonnes per annum (mtpa) BUA Cement here in Sokoto; the $2.5 billion Dangote Fertilizer Plant that will produce 3 million tonnes of Urea every year; the 650,000 barrels per day oil refinery due to open later this year; the Lekki Deep Sea Port, one of the most modern sea ports in West Africa and the 5,000 barrels per day Modular Refinery in Ibigwe, Imo State,” he pointed out. Mr. Yusuf Binji, Managing Director/CEO, BUA Cement Plc, while speaking on the moves to bridge cement shortage said: “the per capital consumption of cement in Nigeria is about 123kg per person, which is less than two and a half bags of cement, Ghana is about 5 bags per person, so, there consumption is very high. That is where Nigeria should be as a country. That means there is still an underproduction in Nigeria because, last year, the consumption and demand was about 30million tonnes and we should be like 60 To 70 million tonnes, even countries like Senegal, Ivory Coast, Egypt are far above Nigeria in terms of per capital consumption. “We have factors of demands and supply that do influence the price and definitely Nigeria still have a very low per capital consumption of cement compared to Ghana.” Cement business, he said, is capital intensive, adding that, “… But we must invest in Nigeria to make her grow. As I have said, our consumption which 2 and a half bag per person is among the lowest in the world. The world average is 650kg per person which is 13 bags per person. So, if we are to get to that level, you need about 10 more of this (BUA Sokoto) facility in Nigeria and that is where we should be.” To address the demand shortfall, he said, his cement company is targeting 17million tonnes per annum by 2023, believing that, “as the supply increases, the factors of demands and supply will play and you will see the benefits coming down to the people. “Right now, the margins made by retailers are very high and this shouldn’t be the case. It should get to the people just a little above the factory price which I said, is a 30 per cent lower. “So, that is going to have an impact on the pricing. Now the demand is very high, exceeding supply and people are making a lot of margin based on this.” “The BUA Cement plan to increase its production capacity from the current 11million metric tonnes of cement per annum to 17million is to ensure its cement product is readily available across the nook and crannies of the country”. Stressing that BUA Cement remains the largest cement producer in the North West, South South and South East of the country and the largest private employer of labour in the North-West, he added that, BUA Cement (Sokoto plant) is primarily engaged in the business of quarrying, extracting, processing and dealing in limestone as well as the manufacture and supply of cement. He equally disclosed that there are 443 permanent staff and that, together with all other ancillary jobs, the company generates about 10,000 direct and indirect jobs in the country. Stating that the firm’s Sokoto plant is the first cement plant in Nigeria to use Liquefied Natural Gas to generate 50MW of power, thereby, replacing coal in its kiln, he added that, this has made the plant environmentally friendly to also curb climate change. 