Professor Olalekan Olafuyi, a professor of Petroleum Engineering and 2021/22 Chairman of Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Nigeria Council, in this interview with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, speaks on global energy transition and other issues in the country’s oil and gas sector. Excerpts; Tell us your outlook for the energy sector in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa In the short term, Africa must maximise opportunities created by the availability of gas as a transition fuel at least in the next 30 years to create jobs and generate capital for the adoption of cleaner forms of energy. In the long-term, Africa’s energy should be purely renewables powered, driven by advancements in hydrogen energy technology, solar, battery storage, and wind power. What do you think is the capacity of NOCs in Nigeria and Africa to contribute to economic growth and nation-building? Such models as having been defined by PIA have the potential of building a strong economy for Nigeria and Africa in a wider scope. This is what Saudi Arabia has achieved with Aramco and it is doable. How do you think COVID-19 and the Nigeria Petroleum Industry Act caused a re-evaluation of investment priorities in the petroleum sector? -Advertisement- POLL Every coin has two sides. COVID-19 had a positive side to it where the industry was able to run with a completely indigenous workforce and this has proved to us that indeed Nigeria has developed the capacity to run the industry. Now any investor could be confident that they could venture into business with locally available competencies without any need for expatriates which are relatively higher labor costs. On the PIA, it has re-established the confidence the industry has in the government for a sustainable and competitive oil and gas industry and as we all know, investment interest deepens with confidence. What has been SPE’s recommended approach to cutting costs, avoiding layoffs during the crisis, and reinventing the energy workforce? SPE has not been an advocate of layoffs. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to this, but it depends on the organization and the circumstances. SPE advocates for and promotes the efficiency of her members and believes cost-cutting in form of layoffs should be avoided unless it is seen by all parties as the only solution. What are the prospects for SPENC to support the power generation and utility sector in Nigeria? As a professional organization and a stakeholder in the energy ecosystem, SPE will continue to push those ideas and opinions that drive best practices through our conferences, workshops, and other channels of presenting our positions. We recently hosted a summit in Port Harcourt, attended by policy-makers, Power Sector companies, regulators, where a roadmap was drafted and presented to the Government in respect of solving Nigeria’s power sector challenges. How has SPE Nigeria Council been able to develop particularly strong expertise in the oil and gas sector? As a body, SPE offers platforms for interactions between Professionals drawn across various sectors, such as Academia, Industry, regulators, and policymakers. These sorts of interactions have seen members developing their expertise, drawn from the learning across these sectors. Individual members of SPENC have contributed immensely to the oil and gas industry in Nigeria. The forerunners of PIA (Petroleum Industry Act), such as Late Dr. Emmanuel Egbogah came from SPE. What differentiates SPE from its industry peers? The extent of dissemination of technical knowledge and availability of technical materials to SPE members makes us stand out in the delivery of our day-to-day tasks. The quality of the leadership and soft skills that are acquired through SPE volunteerism compare to no other not-for-profit institution in Nigeria. In addition, SPE has a mission of capturing and disseminating technical knowledge for the benefit of all members.