Cristiano Ronaldo is not interested in joining Inter Miami and has snubbed a move to David Beckham’s MLS outfit. Ronaldo’s future at Old Trafford has come under fresh scrutiny with the 37-year-old said to have serious concerns over United’s progress in the transfer marker this summer. The striker is said to have already confided to members of his close circle that he could leave in the coming months with his agent Jorge Mendes reportedly meeting with new Chelsea owner Todd Boehly where a possible move to Stamford Bridge was discussed. A return to Sporting CP could also be on the table with the Portuguese giants eager to offer him a return to the club where he made his senior debut at 16. According to The Daily Star, Beckham has ‘explored the chances’ of his MLS side signing Ronaldo this summer. But the report adds Ronaldo has snubbed the offer with United also adamant he is not for sale this summer. Ronaldo re-joined United last summer and finished the season as the club’s top scorer with 24 goals. While he said to have concerns over the club’s ambition in the summer having also failed to qualify for next season’s Champions League, United remain adamant he will remain at Old Trafford. -Advertisement- POLL A senior club source told the Manchester Evening News: ‘Cristiano is not for sale. We want and fully expect him to be with us next season.’ Ronaldo insisted last month that he was ‘happy’ at Manchester United and excited to work under new boss Erik ten Hag. ‘I was and still am very happy to be here, and what I have to say to the fans is they are amazing,’ Ronaldo said. ‘Even when we lost games, they always support us, they always are with us. The supporters are always in my heart and it’s the people that we all should respect because they are always on our side. ‘For me, the most important thing is to try to win the games and try to win some championship or some cup but I believe that Manchester will be where they belong. As I say before, sometimes it takes time but I still believe. ‘What I know about him [Ten Hag] is he did a fantastic job for Ajax, that he’s an experienced coach. But we need to give him time. ‘Things need to change the way he wants. I hope we have success, of course, because, if you have success, all of Manchester is going to have success as well. I wish him the best. ‘We are happy and excited, not only as players, but the supporters as well. I wish him the best and let’s believe that, next year, we are going to win trophies.’