ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Monday warned plot owners in Apo-Dutse pantaker to develop their plot within one month or risk revocation of their plots. Just as the administration demolished over 150 illegal shanties and shops at Apo-Dutse pantaker. The Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the minister of FCT, Comrade Ikharo Attah said the administration spent the state resources to cleanup the market and most of the plot owners have not taken possession of their plots. According to him, “We returned back to Apo-Dutse pantaker market after spending several days to remove the illegalities on the plots of land and we return back for a mop up exercise but somehow we are not too please that most of the allottees have not taken over their land, the Minister of FCT Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, is very bitter and unhappy, because most of the allottees have not taken over their land. “The administration is spending state resources to do the cleanup exercise in terms of buying diesel and paying personnel allowances, servicing the machines etc. What we are hearing is that some of the allottees is speculating with their land and this cannot continue and is unacceptable. -Advertisement- POLL “People who have gotten land in this place and are waiting for us to clear it should immediately report to Development Control, within the next one month. Not just fencing the land but also getting building plan approval and building on it. They should not leave the land vacant for too long, people are going to in here, we will be recommending to the FCT Minister and pleading with him that if in the next one month we do not see meaningful development in terms of fencing and ground breaking for structures, we will be left with no another option than to revoke the land. “The only way you can get them to move out of here is for the plot owners to take over their plots and start development. As long as the plot owners are speculating then pantaker and miscreants will take over their plots”. Speaking on allocation of alternative land to the Association of scrap dealer, Apo-Dutse pantaker market, he noted that the Minister is considering it and they should be patient. But he warned them against operating with babanbola because it paint them in bad light. Meanwhile, the Chairman Association of Scrap Dealer, Apo-Dutse pantaker market, Anas  Ismail, while fielding questions from journalists said his people are not regrouping rather they are packing their things. He said they have already written to the Minister to please give them more time to pack their things. Also, Bala Haruna, Secretary General Apo Dutse pantaker market collaborated with what their Chairman said he said nobody came back, that they are dealing with so many things which include cars and others and it will take them some time to pack them. He also appealed to the Minister to consider their request of allocating a land to do their business. He also revealed they are over 10,000 scrap dealers in the market.