LAGOS – Chief Engr. Bob Joseph Youssou, National President of Nigeria Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transport Senior Staff Association(NMNO/WTSSA),  has called on the Nigerian Seafarers to be up and doing, saying that no Captain sails on a voyage without first plotting his or her chart. Youssou made this call in Lagos during the 2nd annual seafarers’ colloquium organized by NMNO/WTSSA in conjunction with the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria(MWUN). Youssou who expressed profound gratitude to organizations and individuals whose enormous contributions and support made the occasion with the theme:’ Nigeria COC, It’s Global Acceptability, Challenges and Way Forward,’ a reality, said this year’s  International  Day of Seafarers also with the theme: ‘Your Voyage-Then and Now, Share Your Journey,’ was a symbolic and key to the colloquium vision and concept, as it had to do with taking stock of the journey so far. “In view of the foregoing, we discovered that if we are able to discuss pertinent issues affecting Nigerian Seafarers and come up with a communiqué on the way forward, which will be transmitted to relevant authorities to use as a working document, this will go a long way to proffering solutions towards ameliorating the challenges faced by Nigerian seafarers.” Youssou also commended the International Transport Workers Federation (ITF), the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria(TCU), Nigeria Labour Congress(NLC); Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency(NIMASA), and all the planning and organising committee members headed by Engr. Wale George. He said: “It gladdens my heart today as I look through the hall seeing Officers, Ratings; Cadets as well as Maritime students in one accord ashore just like we do on board, to profer solutions to challenges adherent to our voyages in discharging of our professional duties as Seafarers over the years. “The idea of organising an annual colloquium to commemorate International Day of Seafarers was born out of the desire to ensure that Nigerian Seafarers come under one umbrella annually, to take stock of our stewardship-where we were yesterday, today and what is required of us to do in order to be at the preferred destination in future like other established maritime nations of the world. “We all are aware that no Captain sail on a voyage without first of all plotting his or her chart.” -Advertisement- POLL Photo caption: 