The African Democratic Congress (ADC) candidate for Ika Federal Constituency Seat in Delta State, Bishop Obiajulu Obi Obiajulu, has urged the citizens and electorates in the constituency to have a change of mindset, work to resist vote buying by politicians and not to sell their votes, rather key into his political agenda, manifestos to make Ika Nation great. Obiajulu made this remark when he visited the party members and electorates in different Federal political wards in Ika South, and Ika North East Local Government Areas of the state as Youths pledged support to his candidacy. While speaking to the mammoth crowd of supporters at Abavo Community, Obiajulu stated that his mission and vision is to give effective and efficient representation to the people of Ika nation if elected to represent the people in the Federal House of Representatives, Abuja in 2023. According to him, “changing the mindset of the masses towards selling their votes during elections comes with the constant reminder and renewals of the mind on the perils it poses to the future”. Obiajulu who bemoaned the evils inherent in vote-buying or selling by politicians and the electorates, appealed for the support of the masses, grassroots populace, and electorates to vote for him to emerge the winner, restating his commitment to bringing the needed positive change, human capital and infrastructural development in the area. He said: “The notion of politicking in deep pocket styles has to be brought to an end. The masses today, all believe in feasting on candidates vying for political posts has given them a fair share of the national cake. This niche has eaten deep into the system and destroyed credible candidacy who are willing to restructure the economy and better the system of the nation”. “Selling votes and conscience to deep pockets will only mark the path for constant embezzlement of public funds putting the populace at the mercies of poverty. I want to advise, that if we want a better society let us desist from such activities and vote credible candidates into power irrespective of the political party (ies) we all belong. Therefore, choose wisely. ADC will not fail”. -Advertisement- POLL Responding to Ika Federal Constituency Seat ADC’s Candidate, Bishop Obiajulu Obi Obiajulu’s appeal to the party leadership, members, masses and electorates during the visit to his constituents, both Youths and Women in the localities pledged their support to his candidacy and promised to work for his victory, emergence in the forthcoming general elections in Delta State, Nigeria. Speaking at the grand reception of Bishop Obiajulu Obi Obiajulu, some of the party leaders, ADC members, and electorates noted that, “ADC candidate is known as a grassroots planner, that Ika people will work to enthrone him as their Representative knowing that as a Young promising, vibrant politician, and devout Christian with the masses at heart, that Bishop Obiajulu Obi Obiajulu will work towards bringing the benefit from the dividends of democracy to eighty per cent citizens of in Nations in the Federal Constituency.