UMUAHIA – One of the governorship aspirants in the just concluded gubernatorial primary in Abia State Mayor Lucky Igbokwe, has pledged to support the winner of the primary in the state, Professor Uche Ikonne to win the governorship seat. Igbokwe who came second during the PDP primary in the state said he is throwing his weight behind the PDP’s candidate because he wants the state to move forward and record resounding progress under Ikonne. Mayor Igbokwe made the pledge while addressing a mammoth crowd of his supporters Wednesday at Umuawa Alocha Community Primary School Umuahia. He thanked his supporters for their steadfast loyalty and unwavering support and debunked the rumour that he had abandoned them, explaining that “Without you, we couldn’t have created much impact”. “We want to stress that the Ekweremekwe Campaign Team gave the contest for the ticket of our party the best shot with the backing of my ardent supporters who strongly believe in my capacity to offer selfless service to the good people of Abia”, he declared. According to him, “We put up a formidable fight even though the process was dogged by controversies over the three-man delegate list”, adding that his decision to seek election was borne out of his passion to drive change and inspire the youths to a greater height and bring about a new normal. He also denied allegations that he was sponsored by a political god-father with a vested interest in the outcome of the contest, saying that the decision to join the race was entirely his and that he bankrolled his campaign. His words: “It should be noted that in the build-up to the PDP governorship primary, I had my Ekweremekwe Campaign Organisation moving round the 17 LGAs and engaging with stakeholders and potential delegates on how to salvage the God’s Own State. We pushed the message of abiding hope for the future and the ‘freedom from fear’ which I presented to seek their support.” POLL Igbokwe observed that that he had promised to return Abia to God and the people if elected governor, pointing out that he was ready to deploy his international connections to help return the state to the “glorious years of Dr. Michael Okpara”. He however, opined that following the outcome of the PDP primaries, a lot of alignments and re-alignments of political forces had been going on, hence his decision to support the party’s flag bearer and urged his supporters to transfer their support to the PDP governorship candidate, Professor Uche Ikonne.