All Progressives Congress (APC), Ogun State Chapter has denied reaching any agreement with loyalists of former governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, to share appointments in the Governor Dapo Abiodun-led administration. This was contained in a statement signed by Tunde Oladunjoye, the APC State Publicity Secretary, and made available to newsmen on Thursday in the state. Oladunjoye said that the group of people being referred to had defected from the APC to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) since 2019 and there couldn’t have been any agreement to share positions or appointments in a government they didn’t support or voted for. He, therefore, called on members of his party to discountenance the power-sharing formula rumour making the round. The statement reads in parts: “The attention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been drawn to a story planted in an online medium by some so-called loyalists of the immediate past governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, insinuating that an imaginary peace accord between him and Governor Abiodun was proposed. “We want to alert members of the general public, especially members of our dear party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), that contrary to the fake news, there was no proposed “agreement for power-sharing” with anyone or group by the APC in Ogun State. There could not have been any agreement or sharing formula with people or groups that, from all intents, purposes, actions and utterances; are not members of our party. “It is well known that this set of disloyal politicians not only resigned their membership of the APC in the build-up of the 2019 governorship election, which was clearly won by the present Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, but their touted return to the APC was also mere talk as their actions had consistently shown. “These serial complainants and endemic petitioners are, in their usual character, aim to blackmail the leader of our party and the Governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, in a desperate attempt to continuously cause confusion and possibly reap from where they did not sow. That is why they have been churning out serial falsehoods. -Advertisement- POLL “Confirmed intelligence reports have always pointed to the fact that members of the embattled Amosun group have always been hand-in-gloves with members of the opposition parties, especially the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “It is therefore not unexpected that they want to return to the PDP, which they actually worked for in 2019. It is on record that the Amosun group, after defecting to the  Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in 2019, went ahead and signed an MOU dated 7th March 2019 with the PDP. It is this expired MOU that the insatiable Amosun group simply wants to renew. “We urge our members not to be misled or distracted by the antics of these sore losers who are still sulking, three years after losing the March 2019 governorship election. Our focus as a party is to support our government to continue to deliver the dividends of democracy to the good people of Ogun State and to win the forthcoming general elections overwhelmingly.”