It is such a welcome relief that the crowded political space by a del­uge of contenders for the office of president of Nigeria is panning out nicely as the main opposition par­ty, PDP had concluded its presidential primaries over a weak ago and the APC is about now rounding up. It is also gratifying that no lives were lost as the PDP exercise was less rancorous than anticipated. Commendably, and by all indications, the candidates who failed to win may not end up in court as Atiku Abubakar is adjudged to have won, fair and square towering with 371 which is about 134 votes above his closest rival , Nyesom Wike’s score of 271. Unlike what transpired at state gov­ernments level, where state governors more or less unilaterally drew up del­egates lists which they changed at the twinkling of an eye to suit their whims and caprices, delegates lists for electing the presidential flag bearer of PDP was transparent, and made available to all the presidential candidates in a timely and timeous fashion . With the exception of Ebonyi state ,where the presidential aspirant from the state, Anyim Pius Anyim raised alarm about not having access to the list of delegates, PDP convention is gen­erally adjudged to have been organized to the satisfaction of those who chased their dreams to the end. While the PDP has crossed what l would like to term the political rubicon by successfully concluding its prima­ries for its candidates for 2023 general elections from state house of assem­bly, House of Representatives , senate gubernatorial to its presidential flag bearer, its rival, APC was still until 6th June trapped in the vortex of internal political Armageddon, for lack of a bet­ter nomenclature to characterize the ongoing storming over its choice of a presidential flag bearer. After passing through the mandato­ry screening for integrity and probity which was supposed to hold on the 23rd day of May , but was postponed and later held over the past couple of days , the destiny of the remaining thirteen(13) candidates of the final 23 from the stable of the ruling party at the center, APC, that are now cleared to contest for the office of the president of the federal republic of Nigeria, are hanging in the balance pending when president Mohammadu Buhari dis­closes his mystery candidate which he pleaded with the powerful APC gover­nors forum during his meeting with them on Tuesday, 31 May to grant him the liberty to recommend – a privilege that he noted the governors have been enjoying by choosing their successors. The wait would hopefully end after the convention holding this week, so that the winning candidates and their par­ties can start to focus more on how they would solve the mounting obstacles on the path to progress and prosperity for Nigerians. Now ,three factors have been ad­duced as the trigger for the unusual large number of contenders for the 2022/23 presidential ticket which was in excess of 40 until the PDP deftly con­cluded its political recruitment exercise last weekend, thereby initially pruning the unwieldy crowd to APC’s 25 , then 23 after two were disqualified and later 13 who will slug it out during their pri­maries holding 6th and 7th June, after another ten (10) aspirants were dropped by Odigie Oyegun led committee. The first reason every Tom , Dick and Harry exercised their rights to becoming president of Nigeria is the taciturnity of president Mohamma­du Buhari , who unprecedentedly an­nounced that he had in mind a candi­date that would succeed him. But the identity of whom he has been keeping to his chest , thus throwing APC pres­idential hopefuls into a frenzy, as most party chieftains who believe they have done president Buhari a favor or two have literally thrown their hats into the ring. The second factor is the effect of the electoral reforms embedded in the elec­toral act 2022 which promises to make elections more transparent such that votes would count going forward hence the avalanche of ‘wannabe’ presidents who are buoyed by the fidelity intrinsic in the new provisions in the electoral statute. POLL And the third is the initial prevari­cations by both the ruling and main op­position parties to dishonor the 1994/5 gentleman agreement for rotation of the presidency between the north and south which has been observed since 1999 when multi party democracy re­turned to Nigeria after a long military interregnum. The last minute resolve to keep the faith with rotation of presi­dency arrangement by the APC result­ing in some northern presidential aspi­rants dropping their 2023 presidential ambition has further helped to reduce the crowded presidential stage. But the rules of the game got switched by the PDP in the middle of the game and in consonance with the presumed changing political dynamics in the country which has rendered ro­tation of presidency in the eyes of the party less critical , compared to rescu­ing the country from what it termed the ruinous policies of the incumbent gov­ernment that has polarized our country unprecedentedly and imperiled lives and properties monumentally. On the flip side , in the interest of equity and fidelity, eleven (11) of APC governors from the north, have resolved to push for the 2023 presidency to be zoned to the south, and possibly to the lgbos since that is the only ethnic nationality yet to get a short it. Although , politicians from the lgbo nation which by straight line calcula­tions,(all things being equal) are sup­posed to be the zone from which both the ruling and main opposition parties , APC and PDP should have sourced their Presiden­tialcandidates,(basedonthegentleman agreement to rotate the presidency be­tween the three major ethnic groups in the north and south of Nigeria ) a plethora of aspirants showed up. But the emergence of lgbo candi­dates on the presidential dais which was somewhat late in happening, and who are, in any case of light weight, had justified my observation in a previous media Intervention in which l had made a case that there is a dearth of presidential ‘materials’ from lgbo land. As such, l made the following rec­ommendation in an article which l wrote and published way back on 21 October 2021 on both traditional and online media platforms titled “Nige­rian Presidency 2023: Where Are The Igbo Candidates?” The excerpt below encapsulates my thoughts about the lgbo dilemma a year ago . -Advertisement- “In my view, a partnership with Atiku Abubakar as a pathway to Aso Rock Villa remains the most viable trajectory for an Igbo man/woman to become president of Nigeria in 2027 on the PDP platform. That is because, Atiku Abubakar is liberal, broad-mind­ed, business savvy, and has links by marriage to all the three major ethnic groups-Hausa/Fulani, Yoruba, and Igbo in Nigeria. It implies that Atiku Abubakar’s presidency would likely be more inclusive than the nepotistic-a trademark of the current government in power that is fueling the current gale of separatism.” I then threw more light on the issue by stating that: “The point being made here is that under Atiku Abubakar’s watch as pres­ident, separatism would be consigned to the dustbin as inclusiveness becomes a major plank in government policy. With inclusiveness becoming a centre point of public policy in Nigeria, seces­sionist tendencies would die a natural death in the manner that Niger delta militancy ceased after the late president Umaru Yar’adua took strategic steps to stabilize the volatile region via his offer of Amnesty to former militants after meeting some of their demands.” I further pointed out that “The exis­tential reality in Nigeria’s current po­litical equation is that the Igbos need help to actualize their quest for the pres­idency of Nigeria. As Atilla, the Hun advised, “choose your enemies wisely and your friends carefully.” And then l offered the following advise . “It should be obvious to the average Igbo that they can not ascend the throne in Aso Rock Villa by themself. And they must accept that their mastery of busi­ness can not overnight translate into the political savviness that is required for someone of Igbo extraction to be­come the number 1 citizen presiding over our country in Aso Rock Villa seat of power from 2023.” I could not conclude the referenced piece, without making a recommenda­tion, and offering the following advise which has remained valid : “So an alli­ance with the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar whose political for­tune has been built since the time that he first contested against the late MKO Abiola in Social Democratic Party, SDP primaries held in 1992, remains the most viable political catapult that can propel the Igbo nation into Aso Rock Villa, after Alex Ekwueme’s partner­ship with Shehu Shagari for the pres­idency” True to my projections into the fu­ture ,the lgbos have now been edged out of the presidential contest through su­perior political brinksmanship in the PDP, and they might have concluded that in the PDP, they are like a step child whose future is not so bright in the fam­ily he/she finds his/herself. The APC may be on the verge of throwing the easterners the much sought opportu­nity for one of their own to preside over Nigeria in Aso Rock Villa. While the they can justifiably be dis­appointed with the set back in the PDP, they should not give in or give up until their mission for someone from their ethnic stock is accomplished perhaps in 2027 under PDP or leveraging APC vehicle to become president in 2023, if the ruling party is fair enough in its on­goingpresidentialprimariestoconcede the ticket to the lgbos. Again, it needs being reiterated that in my article published widely in the mass media on 17 May, 2022 with the title “Becoming President of Nigeria, 2023 And Its Surprises, l made a strong case for the presidency to return to the south. I took same stance in my new book with similar title: Becoming Pres­ident of Nigeria . A Citizen’s Guide where l made a case for an lgbo presi­dent in 2023 in four (4) of the twelve (12) chapters of the tome. But in light of the fact that presiden­cy is never given on a platter of gold, did the lgbo actually invest enough vigor and political brinksmanship in seeking to become president of Nigeria as the eventual winner of the PDP contest, Atiku Abubakar, Turaki of Adama­wa, did? Cognizant of the fact that the lgbo’s brightest chance of realizing its dreams of becoming president of Ni­geria in 2023, Peter Obi at the eleventh (11th) hour dramatically dumped the PDP and moved to the Labor Party , LP to pursue his ambition, it is left to readers to figure it out if by Obi’s some­what erratic action , he did not , perhaps inadvertently shoot the lgbo nation in the foot. The fact should also not be lost by observers is that, whereas Aminu Tambuwal collapsed his campaign into Atiku Abubakar’s to boost the latter’s fortunes, the southern candidates- Nyesom Wike, Udom Emmanuel and Anyim Pius Anyim, etc did not see any reason to consolidate their votes. And l hope our brothers and sisters from the land of the rising Sun will learn to be proactive enough to commence bar­gaining with the winner of the presi­dential contest, Atiku Abubakar by aligning with him in the forth coming general elections in order to secure a strategic role for the lgbo nation as Alex Ekwueme of blessed memory did and became Vice President to former pres­ident Shehu Shagari , also of blessed memory from 1979 to 1983.