The unabated insecurity ravaging the length and breadth of the country is giving the Christian Women Fellowship International (CWFI), a non-denominational women’s organization some concerns, lamenting the inactions of the authorities to salvage the situation. The women’s Christian organization founded by Archbishop Margaret Idahosa of the Church of God Mission International also lamented the death of the late Gospel Singer, Osinachi Nwachuku and decried domestic violence in all ramifications and called for prayers for the repose of her soul. Speaking to journalists at the end of the organization’s Leaders Retreat’ in Benin city, the Edo State capital at the weekend, National Vice President of CWFI, Rev. Mrs Nnenna Godson, expressed worry over the menace of insecurity, describing the situation as awesome. She lamented that so many women have been turned into windows while so many of their children have been killed either on battlefields or by bandits, and kidnappers and urged the government at all levels to find a lasting solution to calamity. “As women, we are embittered, we are worried. You can’t go anywhere you want to go because of insecurity. We are worried and we have called God to intervene. We are still praying and we believe God will do it for us”, she said. In her speech, CWFI Board Member, in charge of Skills Acquisition, Rev. Mrs Ereda-Idahosa Ajayi, disclosed that over three million women have benefitted from the organization’s micro-credit loans and skills empowerment since its inception. She disclosed that over N13 million loans have been granted to women while hundreds of other women are being empowered with skills every year. Rev. Mrs Ajayi explained that besides empowerment, CWFI “takes on enlightenment and education of women physically, financially and spiritually”. -Advertisement- POLL Coach Nayo Ugoh, Executive Director of Human Capital Management and Services, Chicason Group of Companies, on her part, said the company is partnering with CWFI as it strongly believes in women empowerment and upliftment. To this end, according to her, Chicason Group of Companies will support 200 women with kiosks, aprons, and other items. The National President of CWFI, Rev. Mrs Julie Akhimien, in her speech earlier, disclosed that the organization was founded in 1974 with a focus on Christ and to uphold the dignity of womanhood, pointing out that the group has impacted not only women but men and children as well. She also said that CWFI will hold its annual convention in Benin city from August 1st to 7th 2022, adding that the theme of this year’s convention is “Focusing on Christ For Anointing Increase” during which the women will gather to seek the face of God through prayers and give testimonies of the goodness of God.