Sule Lamido, former Governor of Jigawa State has described Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State as an asset to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and a leader who has etched his name in glory owning to his performance as the chief executive of the oil-rich state. Lamido who spoke on Wednesday in an interview with Vanguard said Governor Wike is “the natural heir” to the Presidential seat after Atiku Abubakar, the party’s candidate in the 2023 general elections. Describing Wike as a huge treasure for PDP and one of the best materials said Wike will be the next president if the party wins in the 2023 presidential election. Lamido, however, counselled Wike to be wary of those around him, noting that none of them has the capacity to make him realize his ambition. He said: “Wike is a huge treasure for the PDP and one of the best materials. If we win (in 2023), he is the natural heir to the throne because he has the quality, the aura, the charm, the charisma and the age. “I have been saying this: PDP is a family. There was a primary election and there were expectations but some of them were not met. So, it is natural for one to react. I can understand that. “Governor Wike is somebody who is very forceful, who has done so well as a governor of PDP in his own state and who has been very supportive of the PDP. “But again, he was made by the PDP. He is somebody we must make sure we preserve and we must rescue him from his own anger.” -Advertisement- POLL “He has the right to be angry for having not achieved his own personal interest or ambition but again that is what leadership entails. He is a party man and the party is not his enemy. “The party is his home, is own group, his own support and therefore whatever might have been the failure of him to achieve his interest, should not be taken too seriously at a personal level. “Wike is now like as a boiling pot. There is so much anger in him because people around him will not allow him to see clearly. People around him who he thinks are his own friends are his biggest enemies. It is a fact and he will see it later on and that is why they are putting more logs under the fire. By now they should be withdrawing all the logs under the fire, to allow the pot to cool down. The PDP chieftain said that whatever support the government gives to PDP today is the party’s right, adding that “it is the party that made him” and not the other way round.