Earlier in Nigeria’s democracy, there was an increase in women’s participation in politics, especially those who wanted to contest for the presidential seat. However, as the race for the 2023 presidential election kicks off, experts are concerned that no single woman is on the presidential ballot of any of the political parties in the contest. ROLAND OGBONNAYA, TOMI FALADE and JOY ANIGBOGU write In the run-off to the 2019 presidential election, a couple of women showed interest in the number one job. Some of them include Olufumilayo Adesanya-Davis, a Professor of Language and Communication Arts at the Rivers State University of Education and Oluremi Comfort Sonaiya, who made her first attempt on the platform of the KOWA Party. There was also Dr. Elishama Rosemary Ideh, a cleric on the platform of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) and Adeline Iwuagwu-Emihe, an American- trained political administrator, who ran on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) alongside Atiku Abubakar and others, as well as Eunice Atuejide, 39, the founder of the National Interest Party (NIP). Warming up for the 2023 presidential election, some few other women signified interest, but never picked the forms or made it to the parties’ primaries. Some of these female aspirants are Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi of the Social Democratic Party (SDP); Uju Ohanenye, the first female presidential aspirant under the All Progressives Congress (APC); Carol Nwosu of the African Action Congress (AAC); Ibinabo Joy Dokubo, also of the APC; Patience Key of the People’s Redemption Party; Olivia Diana Teriela, of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP); and Angela Johnson of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). With this, political analysts posit that this is the worst performance of women in the electoral process since 2015 and wondered why fewer women are participating in the governorship and presidential elections, why the apathy? According to Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, a Nigerian lawyer and civil rights activist, the decline in women’s representation in Nigeria is a result of political, social, economic and legal reasons. She said these and other reasons exist as to why women were not visible in the last primaries and the low percentage of female aspirants in the 2015 and 2019 elections, though there was a decline in 2022. Dr. Akiyode-Afolabi, who is the founding Director of Women Advocates Research and Documentation Center (WARDC), a non-governmental maternal and reproductive health advocacy organisation with the major objective to promote women’s rights, human rights, governance and rule of law, said that since nothing was done in particular to ensure increase, “we can only get what we have and not more as long as political parties and the legal processes remain the same. -Advertisement- POLL “This year has witnessed more religious and political short-changing of women, there has been serious backlash from religious terrain more than ever before canceling women emancipation, attempt to address this through gender bills were resisted by the legislative arm and political system. Therefore, we cannot expect a miracle in 2023. We should salute women who still made it despite all odds. “We have cultural inhibition affecting women’s participation in politics. Remember what our President said about his wife belonging to the other room. Also, the violent nature of male politicians led to ‘Natachia Akpoti’ in Kogi State that was brutalised for daring to compete against Governor Yahaya Bello scuttled that ambition. Of course, several women suffer the same but kept mute,” Dr. Akiyode-Afolabi stressed. Eunice Abimbola Abogun, the Executive Director, Child Parenthood Initiative (CPI), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), which promotes good governance, told Saturday INDEPENDENT that “the idea about women participation in politics and the fact that there will be no woman on the presidential ballot in 2023 is not a good narrative for this country. It is clear evidence that as a country we are not ready to give women a chance. The men are not ready and I will say that even the women are not completely ready as well, and why do I say that? With so many biases, and stereotypes that stand in the way of women’s participation in politics. “If you look at it from the angle of finances, so much money is involved just to purchase the form. That makes it tough for a lot of women to emerge as candidates for their parties. N100 million to purchase a form, even with a 50 percent waiver, how many women can afford that? Apart from that monetary aspect, I want to say that if the party managers want to be fair, I expect that they can come out and say they are allocating certain positions to women. “If they say that they are giving women waivers, how do you expect that the men who have paid the complete fee will allow the women who got waivers to take the positions? I see that as part of a deception to show that they are trying to promote women. They know that they are not really sincere about the much-talked-about promotion of women. If the party managers are sincere, let them decide on the quota to give to women so that women can come out and have a fair contest,” Mrs. Abogun said. Vice President of Evolving Women In Politics (EWIP), Chief Mrs. Raliat Abdulsalam shares Mrs. Abogun’s position, adding that “women have the knowledge, intellectual capability and ability to handle leadership roles, but in most cases, lack the financial capability to sustain these roles. We have intrinsic value as women, and we are able to multitask, which is why many women are better at doing things. Women also give attention to details. “Even if breaking the bias is considered competition, it is a healthy one, not to undermine the value of men but to give women the confidence to get to where they need to go and be the best of themselves. The recently rejected bills, especially for 35 percent affirmative action are very annoying because the men formed the committee to promote the bills. It was naturally assumed the bills would sail through automatically. “These rejected bills have denied women the exposure to the political world, and since women make up a larger percentage of the country’s population, they should also partake in its lawmaking. If women are given positions to occupy, it would enhance healthy competition to bring out the best,” Abdulsalam stated. For Dr. Joe Odumakin, human and political rights activist, the absence of women in the 2023 presidential electoral cycle is a major setback to the women’s rights promotion, projection and protection organisations and interest groups. She said that what has happened has further depleted “our ranks and impact as women’s rights activists that have laboured tirelessly for women’s political emancipation and participation. We are trying to change the tide of an enshrined African patriarchal system with our interventions and advocacy, we will not relent. “Expectedly, we are likely going to have a setback in having quick acceptance and passage of women’s rights protection bills at the National Assembly as the importance of political will needed to secure the passage of such bills cannot be overemphasised. A society where women are active players in the top political arena is bound to be more progressive and peaceful than others. “We are further challenged to spur our women through public engagement and enlightenment, workshops and seminars to massively participate in politics and contest for presidential elections by 2027 as we have a woman as the gubernatorial candidate of the ruling party in Adamawa State for the 2023 election which is unprecedented and highly commendable by women’s rights advocates,” Dr. Odumakin emphasised. Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani), Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), and Chairman Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), emphasised that women are marginalised in facets of life not just politics in cultural representation, political inclusion, socio-economic capacity, education attainment and domestic burdens, stressing that “the inequalities to a large extent trigger the existing glaring gender gaps in political structures and processes. These inequalities to a large extent trigger the existing glaring gender gaps in political structures and processes including low numbers of women in political party decision-making structures.” Justice Uhuegbu, a human rights lawyer and the National President, Association for Good Governance and a presidential aspirant in the 2003 general election admitted that 2023 is the first time that it is happening that no woman will be on the presidential ballot 2023. In 2019, I was the Vice Presidential candidate and the presidential candidate was a woman, Dr. Hajia Rabia Cengiz, under the National Action Council (NAC). “Unfortunately in 2023, we have not seen any female presidential candidate. One of them who aspired under the APC, unfortunately, stepped down for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for whatever reason we are not aware of. Not much has been heard about those of them who aspired to other political parties. I think that two things may have been responsible. “Recall that in March this year, the National Assembly tried to pass one of the bills sponsored by a Senator to give women a quota in governance, but that bill didn’t see the light of the day. That is one factor that may have watered down their interests. Secondly, there is the issue of the moneti­sation of the electoral process. “If you saw what happened at the presidential primary elec­tions of the two major political parties where dollars were flying like bread labels. How many peo­ple in Nigeria can boast of having a million naira with the kind of situation that we find ourselves in, let alone consider buying a firm for N100 million as in APC and N40 million as sold by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). These are some of the factors that I think dwindled the interest of women in politics,” he added. A social scientist and analyst, Mr. Ebisike George explained that the disenfranchisement of Nigerian women from political activities, discussions and per­mutations has been witnessed more by the patriarchal APC and other political parties and the leadership cabal which has sent a clear message that has rather reduced women interest to pur­sue political office. “The electoral process simply put has not been fair to the women, how many of the current political parties have women flag bearers or have them as deputies”? The political analysts ex­pressed more concern at the women’s apathy despite the wa­vers given to them by the parties. Dr. Akiode-Abiola agreed but said the ruling All Progressives Congress declared free nomina­tion forms for women aspirants for all elective offices in the 2023 general election on its platform, “but the female aspirants are to pay the prescribed fees for expression of interest forms. The PDP also gave a rebate but in reality, this hasn’t worked for women. Political parties are the key gateway for women’s effec­tive participation in elections but due to the current reality that the party leadership is dominated by men, women lack party backing and support and experience ac­tive exclusion, discrimination and open hostility. “Effective political partici­pation goes beyond acquiring nomination forms; the fact that women lack the necessary finan­cial resources to effectively partic­ipate in electoral processes as can­didates is also a hindering factor. The amount of money required to run for election is often large, and women generally do not have these resources. Money is required for campaign expenses (such as handouts to voters, con­tributions to formal and informal community projects, payments to campaign teams, transport and entertainment). “What should be expected is to set aside some quota, we can break even without political party ensuring deliberate steps and tak­ing positive action in this regard. It must be intentional support or women will be shut out and the hope will become bleak as elec­tions go by. But most importantly is our ability to also come togeth­er to resist the oppression in the political space. Women have been labeled for anti-party when they attempt to raise their voices. They are cowed and bowed”. Making Political Process Fa­vourable/Convenient For Women The way to fast-track and ensure increased women’s par­ticipation in politics, respon­dents like Akiode-Afolabi said is through the implementation of legislative policies such as the 35% affirmative action for women in political leadership, temporary special measures such as reserved seat quotas for women, legislated candidate quotas, increase in the compo­sition of the National and State Houses of Assemblies, increased representation of women in party leadership and more appointive positions for women. Such Gender Quotas, they said have served as a temporary special measure, and led to the increase of women in political representation in other African countries like Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Egypt, Morocco and Tanzania. These countries have successfully implemented elector­al quotas to incorporate a larger number of women in legislatures and to achieve the global mini­mum of 30% and desired target of 50% for women’s representa­tion. For women to participate and regain trust in the electoral system, it is suggested that the government of the day has to be intentional about issues con­cerning women and amend the constitution to give women a level playing field. The refusal of the National Assembly to include five key gender bills in the Constitu­tional review early in 2022 showed that the government is not ready for women. “One of the bills, the affirma­tive action bill seeks to amend section 223 of the Constitution, to ensure women occupy at least 35 percent in appointive positions. Another bill, which was rejected is on ministerial or commission­er nomination, which seeks to amend sections 147 and 192, so that at least 35 percent of nomi­nees are women while the last is the reserved seat, among others, amend sections 48, 49, and 91 of the Constitution to create ad­ditional 37, 74 and 108 seats for women at the Senate, House of Representatives and state House of Assemblies. If these bills are passed, it will restore faith in the electoral process. Lastly, the media has a role to play in sup­porting women’s participation in politics.