DAMATURU – Alhaji Lawan Usman Hassan, the Special Assistant to Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in the company of other supporters, has stated that nobody is talking about inheritance once the capacity to deliver is there. Hassan made the statement today in Damaturu during a seminar organized by a political group tagged Zone “A” Youth Solidarity for Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan with the theme ‘Solidarity in support of Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, President of the Senate, Federal Republic of Nigeria’. According to him, “legislative job entails skill which is learnt and unnecessary changing of those skilled in the field is tantamount to divorcing effectively from lawmaking”. A quick review of the issues raised against the President of the Senate and distinguished Senator indicates that “they are lousy, spurious and illogical”. Hassan further revealed that “it must be accepted that Lawan is the most suitable well deserved representative of good people of Yobe North Senatorial District who voted without regret and performed credibly beyond expectations”. He further said, people are convenient for choosing Lawan who inspired them with developmental projects he facilitated spread across the entire state. “In 2022, the President of the sponsored a 4-weeks training for 1000 Youths across the state in GSM phone repairs, software and other entrepreneurial development. “The training took place simultaneously in Gashua, Damaturu and Potiskum towns. At the end, the trainees were given starter kits which greatly benefited the communities in addition to the Senate appointment of aides also not restricted to his Senatorial District but spread across the state. He has appointed one Special Assistant each from Potiskum, Fika, Fune, Gujba and Gulani local government areas respectively. -Advertisement- POLL “It is untrue to say that other parts of the State have been neglected”. He called on the Youths to work hard to separate the chaff from the grain and should not allow themselves be carried away by cheap political propagandists. As a leaders of tomorrow, they should shun the temptation of sowing the seeds of discord,” he added. The Lawan aide thanked the organisers of the programme for giving him the opportunity to express his thought at the forum.