According to Radio Radio, Italian giants AS Roma and SS Lazio are set to battle it out for Tottenham Hotspur outcast Tanguy Ndombele in the summer transfer window. The Frenchman was Tottenham’s record signing when he made his way to North London from Olympique Lyonnais in the summer of 2019. Ndombele scored on his debut but failed to build on his early promise at Spurs. He struggled with injuries and form and was loaned out to Lyon last season. Following the arrival of Rodrigo Bentancur last January, Tottenham now possesses enough depth in midfield and can afford to cut loose non-performing assets. Given Ndombele’s track record at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, he does not appear to have a future at the club.  A move to Serie A would be a welcome break for Ndombele. The pace of the Italian game is easier to adapt to than that of the Premier League. More so, the lack of a physical aspect to the game in Italy should give him more time on the ball to work his magic. A player with limitless potential, there is little reason to believe that he cannot rediscover his mojo under the right guidance.  A move to Roma will reunite him with former Tottenham boss Jose Mourinho. The duo had several issues on and off the field while in North London but Mourinho to his credit does appear to rate the 25-year-old and might be open to the idea of putting the past behind. This curious love-hate relationship could prove to be another hurdle in the Frenchman’s plans for a resurgence. POLL A move to Lazio, however, would be akin to a fresh start. He will add to a dynamic midfield that already contains the likes of Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, Luis Alberto, Danilo Cataldi and Lucas Leiva, among others. However, with Milinkovic-Savic linked with a summer exit, he could be seen as a replacement for the Serbian. Whether Sarri-Ball is the catalyst that will rekindle Ndombele’s flame remains to be seen. There is no love lost between Roma and Lazio, and it should prove to be a fascinating contest should both teams fight tooth and nail for Ndombele. The player’s stint at Tottenham appears to be coming to an end, and he will be well served to begin afresh in Serie A. Whether it be Roma or Lazio, the Serie A would be getting themselves an uncut diamond.