Ahead of the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to pick the flag bearer for the 2023 presidential election, South-West aspirants on Sunday streamlined their option of consensus to three aspirants. Sunday Independent had earlier reported that the Southwest aspirants met on Saturday at the Abuja home of former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, around 8 pm to discuss on unity and reach a possible consensus ahead of the primary election. In the meeting which later started around 10pm and ended around 1am on Sunday morning saw the leadership of the South-West zone urging four aspirants to step down to give a better chance to the zone during the election. -Advertisement- Pesidential aspirants at the meeting are Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; APC stalwart, Bola Tinubu; Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State; former Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun; Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Ajayi Boroffice; a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole; and Lagos cleric, Pastor Tunde Bakare. Others at the meeting are governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun) and Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo). Some ministers of South-West extraction are also expected to attend the parley. It was gathered that Senator Ajayi Boroffice, Tunde Bakare and Dimeji Bankole were categorically urged to step down due to their limited campaign activities for the top office. Senator Ibikunle Amosun was also asked to step down. According to a top source, APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State have been chosen as the three standing aspirants from the South-West. The source added that the meeting will continue on Sunday afternoon, or much later, depending on how events unfold. POLL This development comes hours after President Muhammadu Buhari supported the rotation of power to the South in the 2023 general elections. The President stated this while speaking in at a dinner with All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirants at the Aso Rock Villa.