Peter Ayeni ,the Chief Executive Officer of Strich, a company dedicated to helping small businesses manage their finances effectively, in this interview with IKECH NZEAKO, listed how his company is small business to manage their finances effectively. Excerpts: hat led you to establish the company? It started in 2017 when my aunt started a business and it collapsed within six months. -Advertisement- The business folded up because its finances were not properly managed. My aunt did not know her exact sales and expenditures; and in Nigeria people see failure in ventures as being caused by forces that do not want one to make progress in life. This is not the case; businesses fail because we not institute proper accounting; in other countries, they have solutions that help them to manage the accounts of their businesses. So, we decided to build a simple android application that small and medium enterprises (SMEs), market women and men and anyone that sells something can use to record sales, accept payments, expenditures, like a simple point of sale. When did you start the business? POLL We started in 2021. And how has it fared? The first version of the product that we rolled out was an online product; it was a website and we called it web application and we had 102 SMEs on the application. But, when we came into Adanian Labs we have to design and build a full-fledged a mobile application that SMEs can use to manage and track their businesses. How will you assess the business so far? It has been good so far; many businesses have been using the app and we are doing great. How will you describe doing business in Nigeria? Doing business in Nigeria for us is good because we deal with small businesses and they control a huge chunk of the gross domestic product of the country. The solution will help many businesses in to country to effectively manage their businesses and this will increase the number of businesses that survive in the marketplace. This will lead to increase in the number of people who are employed and increase in productivity and capacity. How has the application been accepted by businesses in the country? The acceptance level has been good and we are looking to many businesses to sign up. It gives great benefits to small and medium businesses. Old customers on the web application will migrate to the new mobile application. They can use it anywhere, in the bus, at home in the office; they can open their phones, laptops or any device and access it. What should government to make the environment easier for businesses to thrive? The government should improve infrastructure and reduce that that small business pay. What is your advice to younger people? They should be determined in whatever venture they want to do.