The Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) has begun the 2022 nationwide National Personnel Audit of all basic education institutions in the country. Executive Secretary of UBEC, Dr Hamid Bobboyi who made this known said the exercise commenced in the southern part of the country on 6th June 2022 to end on 25th June 2022 while it will take off in all the northern states and the Federal Capital Territory on 4th July 2022 and come to a close 23rd July 2022. Speaking in Abuja, the UBEC boss said, “during the exercise, our enumerators will visit all basic education institutions in the country: public, private, approved, unapproved, registered and unregistered. ” They are going there to collect basic information on schools and personnel. It is necessary to emphasise that the exercise has no ulterior motive. The data being collected will assist the country to plan effectively towards expanding access to quality education and promoting gender parity at basic and other levels of education.” Bobboyi said the exercise, which will see to the headcount of teachers, pupils, non-teaching personnel and others in early childhood education, primary schools and junior secondary schools, will cost about N2 billion. “This is a census, you have to send enumerators to every school in the federation. It is something we pegged at N2 billion. We are working under it. The bulk of it goes to personnel because you have to maintain the people, those in difficult terrains, to access these places you have to hire boats and others. ” There are so many challenges, but at the moment, N2 billion is the figure we are using,” he said. While saying since the introduction of the UBE programme, a lot of ground has been covered, Bobboyi said the lack of relevant and updated data that the exercise will address, remains a major problem in the basic education sector. POLL “The absence of credible data had remained a major challenge in basic education implementation for a long time. School data is supposed to flow up from the school level but our schools lack the facility and the personnel to generate and transmit data. As a result of this planning had relied on estimates and, sometimes, incomplete data. ” The Commission attempted to address this challenge by conducting personnel audits in schools. The 2006 and 2010 exercises were limited in scope as they dealt with only public schools. A more comprehensive exercise was conducted in 2018, extending to cover both public and private institutions. “The data generated from the exercise was generally accepted as credible. However, this was only truly valid for the period when the data was collected. If it is to continue to be useful as a planning tool, it has to be regularly updated. “The 2022 personnel audit should therefore be seen in the light of updating the basic education database created in 2022,” he stated.