Abuja natives under the auspices of Coalition of FCT Concerned Youths has urged the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, to heed to court order by inaugurating the newly elected Area Council Chairmen. The Convener of the coalition, Mr Joshua Yohanna, made the call at a news conference on Thursday in Abuja, while reacting to court Judgment which directed the minister to swear in the chairmen. The FCT High Court sitting in Kubwa district under Justice Mohammed Ibrahim, on Thursday ordered immediate swearing-in of the newly elected chairmen and their councillors. Ibrahim set aside the judgment given in favour of tenure elongation for the immediate past Chairmen and their councillors. Reacting to the judgment, Yohanna, emphasised the need for the FCT minister to immediately direct the Chief Judge of the FCTA to administer the oath of office and swear in the chairmen and councillors-elect. He described the judgment as courageous, adding that it had once again proved that judiciary remained the last hope of the common man. “Based on the foregoing, and according to the orders of the court, we are calling on the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, to immediately, without hesitation, direct that the Chief Judge of the FCT administers their oath of office and subsequently swear them. “This has become expedient, based on the fact that the area councils are already lagging in terms of administration and good governance, as a result of the vacuum created by this impasse. POLL “We strongly believe that the minister is a man of integrity, character, and good conscience, and will keep his word, more so quickly.” He congratulated the new chairmen and councillors and urged them to hit the ground running, and work hard for the development of the FCT and the interest of the people, to enhance their lives and well-being. Yohanna said the coalition would continue to remain a formidable and active voice in promoting good governance and human rights and justice in the administration of the FCT. “We also urge all our members, to be magnanimous in victory, while maintaining peace and goodwill.God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. (NAN)