Following the purported rumour that President Goodluck Jonathan wants to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adamu Mohammed Bulkachuwa, a senator representing Bauchi North District has said Jonathan should feel insulted being “rumoured” to be contesting for the presidential ticket again. Bulkachuwa made this statement on Wednesday While speaking on Arise TV about issues surrounding the ruling party’s readiness ahead of its convention starting on Monday, June 6 to 8. The Bauchi North Senator, however, said it is laughable that there is a rumour about Jonathan aspiring for the APC presidential ticket despite being groomed politically by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) up till he became president. -Advertisement- Daily Independent had earlier reported that Jonathan was not on the list of the presidential aspirants screened by the Oyegun-led screening committee on May 30 and 31, though he had been linked with the party’s presidential ticket. It could be recalled that Jonathan rejected the form procured for him by some groups but continued to be linked to the APC ticket even as his membership in the party became a subject of public discourse. Speaking on the programme, he said, “I have to laugh because anybody that has been spreading this wild rumour about Goodluck Jonathan contesting the election under APC, I think this is the most bizarre thing I have ever heard. And if I were his relative or if I were him (Goodluck Jonathan), I would feel insulted. “How could I have served as president under a party that groomed me from the chairman of a local government to deputy governor, governor, vice president, and to the position of the president, then abandon that party for the sake of what? “What has he forgotten in the Villa that he wants to go back and take? I would feel insulted about all that rumour. In any case,  I am very happy that this thing has turned out to be absolutely baseless. So, we should put it aside and make it a non-issue.” POLL However, the verdict of the Federal High Court in Yenagoa which cleared Jonathan to contest another term added to the speculations regarding his political relationship with the APC. Jonathan is reportedly currently in Milan, Italy, attending a high-level advisory board meeting of the European Corporate Council on Africa and the Middle East (ECAM Council).