ABUJA – As politicians jostle to occupy elective offices in the next dispensation, members of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), have vowed to mobilise votes for any aspirant that would uphold their interest. President of NUP, Comrade Godwin Abumisi, who spoke to newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja, said gone were the days when politicians would just come and woo senior citizens for elective offices and ignore their plight soon after winning elections. He said the union was still understudying the aspirants with a view to assessing those that would religiously incorporate the payment of pension as at when due into their programmes. -Advertisement- According to Abumisi, having such persons who are retirees friendly in power would guarantee a sense of belonging, respect and improved welfare for our members. The NUP also clamoured for the sustenance of the Pensions Transition Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) because they have a resulted oriented policy which has made pension administration easy and hitch-free. “We pensioners are keenly and curiously watching the political space and the ongoing aggressive campaigns being embarked upon by the various aspirants vying for different positions under different political parties. “Certainly the pensioners shall pitch their tent with the Presidential/Gubernatorial aspirants who are committed and more disposed to their cause and plight by massively casting their votes for them in order to secure their tomorrow. “We are still watching them and for the first time in Nigeria, we are going to make sure anybody who will not be disposed favourably to Pensioners in Nigeria is going to fail in the elections. A time has come when the politicians will stop taking us for granted.” POLL Abumisi, who commended the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) for bringing succour and smiles to Nigerian pensioners through their various policies and interventions which he disclosed has brought noticeable less agitation and outcry, maintained that PTAD could not be “held responsible for the delay of monthly pensions or any related payments as misconceived by the misinformed general public. According to him, the introduction of PTAD’s ‘I Am Alive’ application software designed to routinely check the status of aliveness of pensioners and remove death cases from the database and payroll, has eliminated the rigorous physical verification exercise but most importantly, saved the Federal Government billions of naira. The NUP President however decried the “pathetic” plight and unfortunate living conditions of state pensioners, especially those in states where the governors were unwilling to pay their legitimate entitlements. “Even though I salute many state governors who are prompt in paying monthly pensions to our state pensioners, it is on records that the majority of the state pensioners have not received a dime of their gratuity since retirement between five – 10 years. “More worrisome, almost all the state governors choose not to review the monthly pensions of their retirees as provided in sections 173(3) and 210(3) of the 1999 constitution as amended. “With all sense of respect and responsibility I call on the state Governors as a matter of national emergency to immediately set up a committee jointly with our state council’s across the country to work out modalities on how state Governors will liquidate all the outstanding entitlements that had accrued over the years.”