LAGOS – The Global Initiatives for Good Governance (GIGG), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) has said that Sen. Ike Ekweremadu and family followed the due process in seeking kidney transplant for their ailing child. Dr. Emeka Kalu, the Director-General, GIGG, stated that the Ekweremadus did not illegally export the purported organ donor, David Ukpo to London as widely claimed by some persons in the media. Kalu explained that Ekweremadu’s application to the visa section of British High Commission in Abuja testified to the fact that due process was followed, stressing that it also certified that David was up to 21 years, which is the age of consent in the United Kingdom. He explained that as a constitutional lawyer, there was no way a renowned Senator like Ekweremadu would illegitimately flew someone to London against the person’s consent, especially in an act likely to endanger his political reputation and then land him in jail. Kalu emphaissed that Ekweremadu understood how the law works and would not in any way do anything short of the laid down procedures to avoid regrets in the end, stressing that the NGO was of the view that Ekweremadu family did nothing wrong by consulting David for a medical assistance of which the purpose of his trip to London was clearly made to him and he consented to. He added: “From the pocket of information gathered, we were briefed that David’s elder brother who deals in phone accessories in Lagos and one of his uncles were aware of David’s trip for organ donation. The allegation that David is 15 years old is false and a calculated attempt to blackmail a respected Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “David was advised by his people to raise alarm and report to the appropriate authority to enable him be granted an asylum by UK Government. So, those peddling false news against Senator Ekweremadu family are his political enemies who see his prominence in the society as a threat to them. “The Metropolitan Police arrested the Senator and his wife simply in response to David’s under age claims, which the UK Court is in a position to clear the coast on July 7, 2022. Where the burden lies is on the predication of age of consent and David’s passport proved that he was born on October 12, 2000, which is a clear indication that he is of the age of consent.” -Advertisement- POLL The group noted that it did not expect Ekweremadu to consult an animal or reptiles for assistance, but a human being as guided in law to get his daughter’s health challenges resolved. The group stated that David was in a position to reject the offer when he was first consulted, but he consented to donate one of his organs for monetary value reward, maintaining that organ donation was legal provided consent and due process were followed. Kalu emphasised that David only raised the alarm to secure asylum when his organ did not match the patient’s for a transplant. In this regard, the group insisted that Ekweremadu was free to have done what he did by applying for a medical relief on his daughter health crisis in line with the provisions of the Law. The group regretted that lack of medical infrastructure and other basic amenities in the country were responsible for most of the challenges the country was facing in the health sector and others.