Hundreds of members of the pan-Yoruba organisation, Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) stormed Ado-Ekiti to honour one of their leaders and Coordinator, Prince Adeniyi Adedipe who was conferred with the Asiwaju Oodua of Ekiti State by the National Secretariat of the group. The OPC members were led to Ekiti by its National President, Prince Ogboni Asibote. The programme inauguration of the OPC’s new executive said the ruling party remains the best vehicle that can convey Nigerians to the promised Speaking to journalists shortly after the conferment, Adedipe who thanked OPC members for honouring him with their presence also expressed deep appreciation to the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the June 18, 2022 poll, Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO). Adedipe said the ruling party has been according to the party recognition and that accounted for why the national body of OPC, led by its National President, Prince Ogboni Asibote, mobilised to Ekiti to support APC. The Ekiti OPC  chief was conferred with the Asiwaju Oodua title by the National President of OPC while seven other eminent sons and daughters of the Ekiti were also honoured at the colourful event. Amongst them were the leaders of the driver’s unions, Rotimi Olanbuwoninu,(RTEAN) and Osho Farotimi (NURTW). He described Oyebanji as an astute and highly experienced individual, who has the qualities to galvanise the democracy dividends to the people and consolidate on the gains already laid by Governor Kayode Fayemi. He said: “Biodun Oyebanji is my Inlaw and the OPC all over Nigeria is mobilising for him to be able to win this election. POLL “It is not just that I am supporting him for being my Inlaw, but I know that he is competent and highly experienced to meet the yearnings of the people. “The APC remains the only vehicle that can bring development. It is the only vehicle that can bring peace and stamp out poverty from our land. “The OPC was doing this because of the recognition we have been getting from the APC, no party can do that . So, we are determined to mobilise support for him”. He charged all his members across the state to begin aggressive mobilisation for Oyebanji, for the APC’s victory to be resounding in the poll. In his remarks, Osibote condemned the gruesome killings of innocent worshippers in Owo, Ondo State. He disclosed that the leadership of the body had interfaced with the governors of the region to partner the body to be able to work with other security personnel to maintain the security of lives and property. He said: “The OPC is for Yoruba and it was formed to protect the interest of Yoruba. But politicians are causing a lot of problems for us. Those in government knew what was happening. They wanted to destabilise the organisation for their own selfish interest by dividing us. -Advertisement- “But we can’t allow our people to be killed, we are going to help. The government must engage us, but they should let us know their agenda. Nobody has the interest of Yoruba more than us. “We have seen the governors of Ekiti and Ondo States and we have recommended what they needed to do to curb these senseless attacks. It is now left to them to take appropriate steps. Our government must be on their feet”, Osibote.