The European Union will ban financiers from providing insurance to Russian oil tankers in a move to stop the Kremlin finding alternative buyers for its fossil fuels. The move was confirmed on Friday after diplomats approved a sixth package of EU sanctions that bars the majority of oil imports from Russia. It followed weeks of fraught negotiations as leaders seeking to slash Moscow’s oil revenue while it attacks Ukraine tried to win over sceptics, especially Hungary, fearing an economic crisis at home. -Advertisement- Although a compromise deal will allow countries including Hungary to keep using Russian pipelines, shipments by sea will be banned, and officials hope that imports will fall by about 90 per cent. After a six-month transition period, companies in the EU will be banned from insuring or financing oil shipments to third countries, the European Commission said. “This will make it particularly difficult for Russia to continue exporting its crude oil and petroleum products to the rest of the world since EU operators are important providers of such services,” it said. The UK government has not confirmed or denied reports that London’s vast insurance market will follow suit. An EU official said sanctions in general were being co-ordinated with western partners. Although a compromise deal will allow countries including Hungary to keep using Russian pipelines, shipments by sea will be banned, and officials hope that imports will fall by about 90 per cent. POLL After a six-month transition period, companies in the EU will be banned from insuring or financing oil shipments to third countries, the European Commission said. “This will make it particularly difficult for Russia to continue exporting its crude oil and petroleum products to the rest of the world since EU operators are important providers of such services,” it said. The UK government has not confirmed or denied reports that London’s vast insurance market will follow suit. An EU official said sanctions in general were being co-ordinated with western partners.