LAGOS  – Following their arrival in New Jersey from Dallas on Sunday, three-time African champions, Ni­geria have stepped up prepara­tions for their friendly match with Ecuador on Thursday evening, as well as next month’s AFCON 2023 qualifying match­es against Sierra Leone and Mauritius. A rampant Mexican side were lucky to win a game of two halves at the AT&T Stadi­um in Dallas on Saturday, with the Super Eagles showing great spirit and creating a number of chances in the second half after settling down to the pres­tige friendly, following long-haul flights into the United States from across the world. “We were unhappy to have lost to Mexico because everyone worked very hard. The issues of long travel and little time to adapt to the new zone affected us all in the first half, but we created a raft of chances in the second half and were unlucky to have lost. -Advertisement- “Nevertheless, we have tak­en on board a lot of lessons from the game and they will be quite useful in subsequent matches,” captain William Ekong told thenff.com in New Jersey on Monday evening. Ekong heaped plaudits on the four home-based profession­als who were given opportuni­ties in the second half, saying they were tireless and showed composure and confidence against the El Tri. “Everyone has been great here with good attitude and response at training. However, I must specially commend the team mates from the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) who have shown poise, pace and power and also com­mitment; they have no doubt raised the NPFL’s profile with their attitude and perfor­mance.” Defender Sani Faisal, mid­fielder Chiamaka Madu and forwards Victor Mbaoma and Ishaq Rafiu came into the fray in the second period. Having divested themselves of procession and environmen­tal issues (long-haul travels and time zone body reaction), the Super Eagles filed out for full training session at the Mont­clair State University pitch on Monday, with most of the play­ers showing the usual enthu­siasm, energy and sharpness. POLL Monday’s session was ac­cented on close control, space management and clinical fin­ishing, as Coach José Peseiro supervised proceedings along­side his assistants. Only defender Olaoluwa Aina, who suffered a knock during the team’s first training session in Dallas, and midfield­er Innocent Bonke, who copped a knock in Saturday’s game against the Mexicans, stayed out of the grueling session to do light recovery training of their own. The Super Eagles will file out against Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on Thursday evening, as from 8pm ET (1am on June 3 in Ni­geria). However, Peseiro said his crew is not losing focus on the AFCON 2023 qualifying games, with the Super Eagles due to take on the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone at the M.K.O Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on Thursday, June 9 before flying to Saint Pierre to take on Mauritius on Monday, June 13.