LAGOS – Lagos State is set to host the maiden edition of the National Transport Technology Conference and Exhibition at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos between Tuesday, 7th and Wednesday, 8th June, 2022. The event which is organised by the National Transport Commissioners’ Forum under the aegis of the Federal Ministry of Transportation is aimed at achieving a greener and efficient transportation system in Nigeria. Explaining the activities earmarked for the event, the host Commissioner for Transportation in Lagos State, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde stated that the event under the Chairmanship of the Hon. Minister of State, Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki will mark a pivotal change in Transportation in Nigeria as it will provide a platform to exchange ideas and solutions to the challenges plaguing the sector. -Advertisement- He also revealed that the event will feature exhibitions from stakeholders in the different modes of transportation with their various technological innovations as well as a plenary session to discuss the theme of the event. He added that the event will be concluded with an Award and Gala night where participants will be awarded for their contribution to the sector. For the plenary session, Oladeinde highlighted some of the panelists to include; Hon. Muhammed Abdullahi, Minister of Environment, Eng. Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of Power, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Lagos State, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, Director General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Capt Rabiu Yadudu, Managing Director, Federal Aviation Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), and the Secretary General, African Shipowners Association (ASA) as the moderator of the panel. The transport Commissioner further stated that his Transport Commissioner counterparts across Nigerian will be present at the event, adding that the Lagos State Government is happy to host the National event and share its wealth of experience in tackling challenges in the transport sector. He assured the State Government will remain committed to developing an effective and efficient Transportation system suitable for the Smart City goal.