LAGOS  – It was a harvest of applause from the management of Septlat Energy PLC, shareholders, business leaders, family and friends for Dr. Ambrosie Bryant Chukwueloka (A.B.C) Orjiako as he bows out from service after 13-year Tenure Orjiako , the pioneer and immediate past Chairman and co-founder of Septlat Energy PLC, a leading Nigerian independent oil and gas company listed on the London and Nigerian stock exchanges with a strategic focus in the Niger Delta, retired from the board of the company after the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on May 18, 2022. At an event hosted by the company in his honour, accolades poured as he was unanimously described to be a worthy servant in his 13 years of service as the board chairman of the leading energy company. Mr Basil Omiyi , the new Chairman of Seplat Energy Plc, while speaking during the cutting of cake and unveiling of book written in honour of Orjiako said: “The vast depth of experience and his detailed knowledge of Seplat Energy PLC of Dr. ABC Orjiako will be invaluable as we continue to evolve and mature the company”. Austin Avuru, co-founder and Ex CEO of the Seplat, while applauding Orjiako at the event said: “I must say that this relationship between me and ABC was so complementary. “I came to the party as the technical person. I have quite a lot of technical experience. By 2009 when we were talking about this I already had some 29 years of experience in the industry. “I had done 12 years in NNPC, another ten years working for an independent company, and I had run platform petroleum up to that point for eight years. So, I had a lot of experience.” Monsieur Jean-Francois Henin said: “It was a little bit more than 15 years ago, that the young gentleman who came from Nigeria and introduced by BN Paribas at the time and this gentleman was proposing to create, I think the first private joint venture in the oil business between a French Company and Nigerians operators. That was the start of the idea, the creation of Seplat.” -Advertisement- POLL In the same vein, Xavier Rolet, Ex CEO, London Stock Exchange and former Independent Non-Executive Director, Seplat Energy, said: “I think the company owes Dr. Orjiako a huge debt of gratitude in terms of getting the first dual listing of a Nigerian company on the London Stock Exchange and, of course, the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “But first, I admire all entrepreneurs, and he has been successful beyond the energy field. He is a successful health care entrepreneur who has harvested in many ventures.” Speaking on what culminated into Seplat being listed in Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, Oscar N Onyema, the NSE Group CEO eulogised Orjiako as he said: “When we engaged with various oil and gas players in 2013/2014 to get them to list, Seplat indicated that they would do that. What was interesting about the Seplat listing is that it was a dual listing and the first of its kind in Nigeria, between Lagos and London, as an IPO and equity listing.