IBADAN – A major stakeholder and one of the aspirants of Oyo Central Senatorial District in All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State Oladotun Nurudeen Faozey, has defected to the Accord Party for reasons he described as ‘undemocratic’ principles of the APC in the state. Faozey, a strong contender for the Oyo Central Senatorial ticket in a statement earlier today through his campaign organization, announced his resignation from the party. According to the statement, “This is to inform all and sundry of my membership resignation from the All Progressives Congress (APC). “True representation must reflect real democracy. The past couple of weeks have been filled with decision-making meetings, to abide by the principles of democracy and stand for what is right for the people and by the people. “When we started this journey, it was indeed to bring adequate representation to the good people of Oyo Central Senatorial District. This, we intended to achieve on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “During this sojourn, together, we made an impact by reaching out to our people in all 11 local Government Areas of Oyo Central. We enjoyed huge support, evident in the numbers that stood with us in solidarity in every local government we visited. The reason was simple; they believed in the quality of the representation we’ll deliver. “However, the primaries of the APC was not truly representational of the choice of the people. This will not deter us, this will not stop us. “Our resolution is simple. We are driven by the quest to deliver good governance to the people regardless of the political party or platform and for this, we have now chosen the Accord Party to deliver this task. -Advertisement- POLL “We’ll continue to fight to bring the quality of governance you truly deserve, in Healthcare, Education, Agricultural revolution, Industrialisation, Innovative and Emerging Technologies, Job creation and Security. “Again, we thank you all for your unflinching support and we encourage you to hold the faith, victory is assured.”