The new Director-General of Project Development Agency (PRODA), Dr Peter Ogbobe has expressed his determination to bring back the lost glory of the Agency. Dr Ogbobe who stated this while speaking with newsmen shortly after he was received by the staff of the Agency at the PRODA office in Emene, Enugu State on Tuesday described the Agency as the pride of the East, hence the need to bring back its lost glory and make PRODA great again. The staff and union members of the Agency as well as traditional dancers turned out in their large numbers to welcome the new DG at PRthe ODA office in the state. Dr Ogbobe who lamented over the leadership crisis that engulfed PRODA before his appointment assured to restore peace and unity to the Agency. On what he will do differently as the new DG, he vowed to inculcate research culture into the mind of staff because according to him “ as you can see, it seems they have lost the touch of research as they are just doing what they want to do. “Bringing back the research culture becomes necessary because if you are not into research, it will be difficult to become DG of any institute as I believe we are all potential DGs. “So we must re-orient the mind of our staff to think towards research because we need funds to build the institute and if you can not write good research grant, you cannot attract funding. “We will explore all avenues to get funding apart from the one coming from the government as we will partner with other countries to achieve this,” he said POLL He thereby enjoyed the staff converting all their petition skill to research skills saying “what we need now is how to move forward and make PRODA great again and not about petition writing. Dr Ogbobe who lamented over the series of petition written in the part said “ let the era of writing petition be a thing of the past as I believe that my stepping in here today will be a new beginning in the history of PRODA l,” he said He cautioned them against backbiting that can lead to crisis @Let my assumption of duty today bring an end to all the crisis in PRODA as I assure to bring peace and end all war in PRODA. “We must work together and suppprt each other. I promise to be a good leader and you should be a good followers too. Don’t pull your fellow staff down, don’t destroy PRODA because it’s our home,” he said. It could be recalled that PRODA, an agency under the Ministry of Science and Technology, Enugu State, have been engulfed with crisis over series of allegations against his former DG which led to his exit from the Agency.