Over 600 members of the leading Muslim organisation in Nigeria christened Nasrul-Lahi-l-Fatih (NASFAT) have arrived Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State for a three-day 7th biennial Women’s conference. The conference with the theme: ’Intentional Parenting: The How’s of Raising Resilient Muslim Children Against All Odds” is billed to hold from June 30 to July 2, 2022. Delegates from the six geopolitical zones and 36 states of the federation, including Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT)  would converge on the popular Afe Babalola Event Centre to brainstorm and address the challenge of parenting in the 21st century. Briefing journalists in Ado-Ekiti, the NASFAT’s National Women Affairs Secretary, Mrs Suweebah  Kupolati, said that the organisation with over One Million Naira membership identified unemployment and poor technological innovation for the upsurge of crime in the country. NASFAT charged the federal government to make a huge investments in job creation and technological innovation to tackle cases of Kidnapping, killings and drug abuse being perpetrated by youths. Outlining the successes recorded by the Muslim body Kupolati said: “We have given out about N380 million to different groups and populace to alleviate poverty. We gave out N70m during Covid to help Nigerians. We also have scholarships to sponsor youth for university education and for medical treatment of poor Nigerians”. Kupolati described NASFAT as a pace-setting Islamic charity and faith-based organization that promotes Health, Education, livelihood and good governance among Nigerians. NASFAT called on the government to rethink and adopt the right policies to bail the nation out of the present security quagmire. -Advertisement- POLL “Women and children are always at the receiving end of drug abuse, kidnapping and killings and we should all be worried. The faith-based body said this in Ado Ekiti, on Thursday, at the opening of its three-day 7th biennial Women’s conference with the theme: ‘’Intentional Parenting: The How’s of Raising Resilient Muslim Children Against All Odds”. “We all know that this government had done well in the area of insecurity, but the bulk of this problem is a result of unemployment. Government must provide jobs for our youths to reduce drug abuse and kidnapping. “NASFAT has been partnering government to empower our youth. Those who are self-employed are being given money to expand their businesses.  We have a Zakat charity foundation that we use to organise skill acquisition for them.  We donated over N5m to widows across various locations last year”. Kupolati stated that the body backed the proposal by Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu that Close Circuit Television Cameras (CCTV) should be installed at all religious centres, to ward off senseless attacks. “NASFAT is totally in support of CCTVs being planted in faith-based areas. The government shouldn’t just stop at that, they should do the same in public places to safeguard the lives and property of our citizens”. Tracing the evolution of the organisation, Kupolati said  NASFAT was established in 1995, NASFAT has been conducting its services and programmes in Nigeria, the US, Canada UK and some West African countries over the last 27 years and has been contributing positively to the peace, growth and development of our country”. “We want our women to be awake to their responsibilities and the need to make a conscious effort to mentor, support and sponsor our children’s ideas. For the development of good families, the mother plays a vital role. “Part of the pre-conference activities are Health Screening of delegates, delegates’ Charity Visit to Government Orphanage Homes to make donations, Sightseeing Ikogosi Warm Springs Resort, Ikogosi and Walk Against Domestic Violence. The objective of the walk is to reiterate our commitment and support to ending domestic and family violence in our communities. “We are also using the conference to drive our fundraising campaign with a target of N4.6billion to fund the proposed NASFAT Mother and Child Hospital to provide outstanding healthcare services for every member of the family”, she stated.