Comrade Festus Alenkhe, Chairman, Edo State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), has called on journalists in the State to enlist in the Edo State Traffic Mayor, a voluntary arm of the Edo State Traffic Management Agency (EDSTMA) so as to assist the agency in traffic control in order to reduce traffic congestions across the state. Comrade Alenkhe made the call when members of the Edo State Traffic Mayor paid a courtesy visit to the union’s exco at the council secretariat in Benin City. Alenkhe said Edo journalists’ enlistment into the traffic mayor will go a long way to assist the agency in traffic control and by so doing reduce the stress on commuters as a result of traffic congestions in the metropolis in particular and the State in general. While calling on the journalists in the state to consider their enlistment into the Traffic Mayoras humanitarian service the Edo NUJ boss urged any Journalist who is interested in the voluntary duty to reach out to Comrade Andy Egbon, Secretary of the council for registration. According to him, “you will be trained by the agency in collaboration with the Nigeria Red Cross so that besides traffic control, you will also be knowledgable in the area of accident management. Comrade Alenkhe thanked the traffic mayor for the good work they are rendering to members of the public. “Your work is very important. I want to appreciate the activities of Road Safety, Special Marshal and Red Cross across the state. “Your work is encouraging and I thank you for helping EDSTMA to ease their job.” Earlier, the President of Edo State Traffic Mayor, Mr. Onimhanwo Emmanuel appreciated Edo journalists for the good work they are doing in the dissemination of information to the public. -Advertisement- POLL “When we received the news that our friend, who happens to be the producer of Crime Watch , a popular tv programme on Edo Broadcasting Service (EBS) , Comrade Festus Alenkhe, is now the Chairman of Edo State Nigeria Union of Journalists, (NUJ), we were filled with joy hence we decided to come to say congratulations. “We know this man, Festus Alenkhe as a competent individual who has been doing his work which he knows how to do best. “We are here to express our sincere appreciation to this man, and to show our gratitude to him for being there for the less privileged in the society who do not have the money to do investigation for their loved ones who are victims of one crime or the other. He is the only one we see in the forest, in the rain, in the sun and with this, people are so happy with him for promoting and uplifting the entire society. “ EDSMA Mayor is a voluntary organization put together by the Managing Director of EDSMA in 2018. We came in to see how we can help EDSTMA to drive the project of assistance in the area of traffic control across Edo State. “We are also in NUJ to see how some of your members can join us with a view to collaborating with EDSTMA in traffic control so as to help in reducing traffic congestion in the state through selfless service to humanity as good citizens of this country and we are glad for the acceptance and look forward to welcoming you”. Alenkhe was later decorated as EDSTMA MAYOR Ambassador by the president.