…Records $10m Transactions In 3 Years LAGOS – Infinox Capital, a globally recognised FX and Contracts for Differences (CFD) broker has hinted that it will continue to spread the awareness of forex trading until every home in the country participates in a venture that will boost their way of life. Country Manager Infinox Capital, Mr Oluwaseun Oyeleke, stated this while speaking on the success already recorded by the company in just three years of existence in Nigeria as he said that since setting its footprint in Nigeria, the company has recorded $10 million in transactions. He said that the company is looking at organising its mega seminars in major cities in the country after it recorded resounding success in places like Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Enugu and Uyo to spread the awareness of trading in forex. He noted that the firm, which has its spread across 15 countries globally, has been in business since 2009 and only came to Nigeria three years ago, has made it possible for the Nigerian unemployed population to earn a good living if they learn and trade with Infinox Capital. Oyeleke said, “Nigerian market is still a baby in the Forex industry, this is an industry that we have close to $7 trillion every day. So as much as we hear about forex a lot in Nigeria, we are still very tiny in the Forex markets because a lot of Nigerians don’t really understand how this whole thing works, so we are here to provide education to educate people on how these are done properly. “In deposits, as of 2019, we were around $1 million in transactions, and as we speak, we are relatively between $8 million to $10 million in transactions.” He noted that his firm trades CFDs on forex, indices, cryptocurrencies, equities, commodities, and futures and is regulated by the Securities Commission of Bahamas (SCB), Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA), and Financial Services Commission (FSC) which is a global authority and stamp of approval to ensure they guarantee customers funds. -Advertisement- POLL On the Nigerian market, Oyeleke added, “CFD trading in Nigeria has seen triple-digit growth in the last five years. Nigeria is the fastest-growing CFD or forex nation in Africa. The number of Nigerian forex traders is estimated to be at 800,000 to 1,000,000. With approximately 25 per cent of these active traders, with trade volumes estimated between 10 to 20 billion per month.” On his part, the Marketing Manager Infinox Capital, Mr Petrus Okegbu, noted that the firm in its bid to ensure minimal losses of their clients’ constantly does training and sends daily and weekly insights and trends on tradable assets. Okegbu said, “We regularly give market updates, once you are on our platform, every morning and weekly, we give you an update on how we feel each asset can go. So, you read it and you feel that you get information that crypto is going to fall, you take a decision, and also if there are indications an asset would add in price, you can take advantage. We try to make sure our clients are knowledgeable on what’s going to happen and make informed decisions.”