LAGOS – The 2023 elections will witness more children of notable politicians gunning for elective offices than in previous years, thus signaling the emergence of new political dynasties. With Nigeria’s economy distressed, politics now seems a major lucrative business for many politically influential families. Whether in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) or the opposition Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP), political of­fice holders are not only seeking more time in office but are also installing members of their immediate families, especial­ly children, creating paths for them to continue holding sway in the political space. -Advertisement- Though the scions of nota­ble politicians have rights to contest elective offices, some analysts insist that it is a means devised by the politicians to per­petuate themselves in power, and that they prevent free and fair electoral exercises as they desperately manipulate the pro­cess to achieve their goal. Some political watchers also argue that politicians take their children on board to en­sure they retain their source of income and influence. Sunday Independent takes a look at some of the heirs to emerging political dynasties in the country. One of them is Mohammed Abacha, son of the late dicta­tor, General Sani Abacha. Mo­hammed won the Kano gover­norship ticket on the platform of the PDP, having scored 736 votes against his closest rival, Ja’afar Sani-Bello, who scored 710 votes. Similarly, Mustapha Lami­do, the son of former governor of Jigawa State, SuleLamido, emerged the governorship candidate of the opposition PDP in the state.Lamido defeat­ed his opponent, Sale Shehu, a former Minister for Works by 829 to zero votes, to secure the governorship ticket of the PDP. POLL In Kaduna State, Bello, the son of Governor Nasir El-Ru­fai, was in the race to repre­sent Kaduna North Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. Bello won the ticket of the APC. Still in Kaduna, Sadiq, son of the convener of Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Prof. AngoAbdullahi, won the Sab­onGari Federal Constituency. Sadiq, who was one of those abducted by terrorists who attacked the Abuja-Kadu­na bound train in Kaduna on March 28, is still in the custody of his kidnappers. In Oyo State Idris Abiola-Aji­mobi, son of late former Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, emerged as the APC candidate for Ibadan South-West II State Constituency. His opponents at the prima­ry had stepped down to pave the way for Ajimobi as the par­ty’s flag bearer ahead of the 2023 general election. Also in Oyo State, son of the late former governor, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, won the APC ticket for Ogbomoso North, South and Oriire Fed­eral Constituency. Olamijuwonlo, a former chairman of Ogbomoso North Local Government Area se­cured all the 150 votes to clinch the ticket of the APC. In Ekiti, Joju Fayose, son of former governor, Ayodele Fayose, won the ticket for Ek­iti Central Federal Constitu­ency 1 on the PDP platform. Joju scored 69 votes to defeat Deji Adeosun, who polled nine votes. In Kano State, son of Gover­nor Abdullahi Ganduje, Umar Ganduje, secured the APC tick­et for House of Representatives, Dawakin Tofa, Rimin Gado, and Tofa Federal Constituency. Junaidu Yakubu, an aspi­rant for the seat in the APC, had withdrawn from the contest, to pave the way for Ganduje’s son. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’ daughter, Marilyn Okowa-Dar­amola, secured the PDP’s tick­et for Ika North East House of Assembly seat in Delta State.The governor’s daughter had been returned unopposed in the primary election for the seat.