Some traditional rulers in Ekiti State have described the standard-bearer of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the June 18, 2022, governorship poll,  Engineer  Segun Oni as a performer and a promise keeper. The monarchs gave the commendation when the SDP candidate pay a courtesy call at their palaces in furtherance of the party’s electioneering campaigns across the towns and villages of the local council. Oni who led his campaign trail to the traditional rulers and people of Omuooke, Araromi Ugheshi, Kota, Ilasa, Ikun, Omuo Obadore, and Isinbode urged them to vote for SDP, saying the party will progress and develop every part of the state. -Advertisement- Oni who had lamented the lack of electricity in Ekiti East Local Government Area of the state noted that the situation is negatively affecting the economic activities of the people in the area, and promised to reconnect the area to the national grid within six months, if elected governor. He expressed regret that most of the projects he initiated during his first term have been abandoned or outrightly jettisoned, pledged to reintroduce such and come up with people-oriented programmes and policies. Oni said ” we want to offer the government that will bring a new lease of life to our people. I understand that there is no electricity in this area in the last ten year, this will be addressed within the first six months of government. We brought 33KVA here during our first to boost electricity. “Also, during our government then, we set in motion the process of establishing a trailer park in Omuooke and a yam market in Ilasa Ekiti to aid exportation of the food crop, all of these were done to boost the economy of this area and provide employment opportunities for our people, the projects have since been abandoned and while others were totally jettisoned. “This is the reason why development has eluded this area, but we will make necessary effort to bring them back come up with other new projects to better the lots of our people. POLL “Like we did the last time we were in government,  we will provide water, that is why we put in place then pumping stations in Ilasa and Isinbode. “We will also ensure free education and free meals for our school children. The progress of Ekiti is everybody’s responsibility. “I want to enjoin you all to come out on the day of election to vote and also protect your votes at your respective polling units. A vote for SDP and the white horse is a vote for progress”. Responding, Olomuooke, Oba Adebayo Otitoju Valentine who prayed for Oni said he had identified major challenges facing the area urging him to fulfill his promises when he gets there. “We know your antecedents and you are not a  stranger to us. You always fulfill promises. You were instrumental to the freedom we are enjoying now and we are building on it”. Also speaking, the Alahan of Ahan Ayegunle, Oba Durojaye Jegede Mathew demanded the construction of a good road to his community, the establishment of primary and secondary schools, provision of potable water, electricity, youth empowerment and appointment for the sons and daughters of the community.