The apex Ijaw socio-cultural organisation, Ijaw National Congress (INC), has condemned in very strong terms the unprovoked Sunday’s attack and brutal killing of innocent worshippers by gunmen at the Saint Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. The INC President, Professor Benjamin Okaba, in a statement issued on Tuesday, described the attack as “callous, despicable, reprehensible and dastardly, which all sane people who value the sanctity of human life should condemn.” He said that the organised carnage in Owo had further exposed the parlous security architecture operated by the Federal Government, adding that “citizens everywhere now live in trepidation as their safety can no longer be guaranteed by a government they elected.” Okabe said, “The gruesome killing of worshippers in broad daylight, mostly women and children, by the blood-thirsty and depraved gunmen, signposts the intractable insecurity challenges facing the Nigerian state. “The unabating threat to lives and property in the country has continued to assume a more frightening dimension in geometrical proportions, putting the unity of the country at risk. “The wanton killings in Owo have brought to the fore once more the need for a restructured Nigeria to give the constituent nationalities full autonomy over the protection of their lives and property and the management of their resources. “This is the minimum that can guarantee the corporate existence of Nigeria to avoid the growing agitations for secession. There is no doubt Nigeria is fast becoming a failed state.” He extended condolences of the INC leadership and Ijaw people to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, the government and good people of Ondo State, and the Catholic Church over the dastardly mayhem. POLL The Ijaw leader also commiserated with the bereaved families of the victims and prayed to Almighty God to comfort them while granting eternal repose to the souls of the departed. Okabe stated that given the failed promises of the Federal Government to protect lives and property, all Ijaw communities must be extra-vigilant and security conscious and take proactive steps to ensure that their bushes and environments were rid of unsuspecting miscreants and strange bedfellows in the name of engaging in mercantilism. He further said, “We also urge governors of the Niger Delta states to be alert and alive to their responsibilities in the wake of the unspeakable violent attack in Ondo State. “Despite the ongoing frenzy of political activities for the 2023 general election, we call on governours of the Niger Delta states to put their ears to the ground, to nip any such tendencies in the bud before the explosion.” While cautioning all communities and the Niger Delta, in general, to be extra-security conscious and be sensitive about the activities of intruders, Okabe warned that those who make the region’s hospitality for weakness or stupidity are doing so at their peril.