P/HARCOURT  – The Director General, Standards Organization of Nigeria, SON, Mallam Farouk Salim, said Standards Organization of Nigeria, SON, an agency of the Federal Government of Nigeria will remain committed to standards, safety and security of Nigerians in products importation, exportation and consumption in line with its statutory mandate. The Director General made the disclosure last week at a one day sensitization programme for stakeholders on SON activities and mandate held in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital. Salim, stated that SON was willing and ready to collaborate with all relevant stakeholders with a view to improving lives and standard of living of Nigerians, even as he promised that SON as a responsible agency of government was willing to adjust or remove her charges if all stakeholders were ready to collaborate and adhere to standards. “SON generated seven billion naira last year 2021, into the federal coffers and has witnessed full stakeholders cooperation especially in Port Harcourt. Ports. “ Continuing, he regretted that over 80 per cent of products that enter into Nigeria come through the Lagos Ports yet SON was not allowed into the ports to carry out her statutory mandate of products inspection. The Director General frowned at the SON inability to access Customs Niciss 11 portal for products profiling and evaluation as to ascertain standards before clearance. The SON boss stated that its operations have improved in Lagos though the agency is outside looking into activities inside unless customs deemed it necessary to call SON for inspection. He insisted that SON is not making things difficult for anybody but to work with concerned stakeholders to ensure the total eradication of fake and unwholesome products in the society. -Advertisement- POLL In his remarks, secretary of the board, Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria, CRFNN, Chief Kingsley Offor, said: ” There is need for SON to penetrate the rural areas with a view to protect and sustain standards of products.” Adding, ” SON has taken the right step aimed to stress the urgency of standards and its adherence to stakeholders and Nigerians at large.” Offor, posited, ” Buying substandard products is not good for health and the Nigerian economy.” He insisted on the need for cooperation saying there is need for more collaboration and Synergy aimed to ascertain standards compliance and habits.” However, he commended the Standards Organization of Nigeria for the sensitization programme and called for its sustainability.