The Port Harcourt Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has said its operatives were rudely intercepted from arresting the Rivers State governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 general elections, Siminialayi Fubara, a suspect under the watch-list of the Commission. The anti-graft agency alleged that thugs who breached the security of the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, Rivers State on Tuesday night blocked the operatives from carrying out their lawful duty of arresting Fubara who has been declared wanted for graft by the Commission. In a statement by the Head, Media and Publicity of the Commission, Wilson Uwajeren said “the armed thugs assaulted operatives of the Commission who demonstrated commendable restraint under extreme provocation. The Commission condemns the blatant attempt to obstruct justice, warning that its civility should not be taken for granted”. The drama took place at the Port Harcourt International Airport as the plane carrying Fubara and other PDP chieftains who had accompanied him to Abuja to receive the Certificate of Return as the PDP governorship candidate, touched down at the Airport. Sources said that as the operatives moved to effect the arrest, some youths believed to be his supporters allegedly resisted the officials and attacked them. Details of the attack were still scanty as of the time of filing this report, but witnesses at the airport said some of the EFCC operatives sustained some degrees of injuries. It will be recalled that the EFCC had before now declared Fubara, the immediate past Accountant General of Rivers state and three other top state government officials wanted over alleged N117 billion fraud. After the drama at the Port Harcourt Airport, Fubara who won the state PDP governorship primary on May 25 proceeded to the state party secretariat where he addressed party supporters and stakeholders. POLL The state commissioner of police, CP Friday Eboka said he was not aware of the incident, saying that the Airport was not under his jurisdiction. “At the Airport? Well, I am not aware. The Airport is not under me. The Airport and seaport have their own commissioners of police,” Eboka stated.