WARRI – Dr Fred Latimore Oghenesivbe Esq the Executive Assistant Communication to Governor Okowa of Delta State has opined that the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, desires a trustworthy, incorruptible, competent, wise, good listener, problem solver, intelligent and experienced politician to be by his side as Vice President, to solve the multifaceted socioeconomic problems and infrastructure deficit flowing from the abysmal performance of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in the past seven years and still counting. This idea according to him is fundamental because in considering his running mate, Alhaji Abubakar, must of a necessity permanently look at the direction of the platinum governor of Delta State, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, for so many reasons. The above qualities are inherent in Okowa, who is a seasoned technocratic, competent administrator and detribalised Democrat. He reiterated that Governor Okowa is a prudent manager of scarce resources, a focused and pragmatic leader, a founding member of PDP, who has never left the party under any circumstances, he have the capacity and ability to deal with complex issues of party politics, electioneering and governance. -Advertisement- Dr Fred Latimore the Governor Aide explained that Okowa’s track records in Delta State is worthy of emulation by the incoming Unifier Governor, Rt Hon Sheriff Francis Oborevwori. He pointed out saying : ” Okowa was nicknamed “The Roadmaster” by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, because of his monumental achievements in road infrastructure; constructed and rehabilitated over 3,000 kilometres of roads and 2,600 kilometre of bridges across Delta State within seven years and still counting.” The Mouth piece of the Governor emphasized that the Okowa administration built the best state Secretariat in Nigeria, and by extension sub sahara Africa, a gigantic international stadium named after soccer star, Stephen Keshi, established three Universities, Technical College in each local government area, upgraded Asaba International Airport which today is one of the busiest commercial hubs in domestic flight operations in the country. He disclosed that Delta State health policy under governor Okowa is about the best in Nigeria, adding that Delta State was the first to implement the health insurance policy under the Delta State Contributory Health Scheme, renovated and equipped all state hospitals complemented by the establishment of Sickle Cell Centres in the three senatorial districts by 05 Initiative, a pet project of Her Excellency, the Wife of Governor Okowa, Dame Edith Okowa. Latimore emphasized that Governor Okowa’s ingenuity and visionary leadership created wealth and jobs for over 10,000 youth through the Yagep, Step, Rysa and Project Gest human capacity development and skills acquisition programmes. POLL He maintained that the Okowa model and template of development has been applauded by the World Bank, Central Bank of Nigeria, Federal Government of Nigeria, Tony Elumelu Foundation and special agencies of the United Nations. Thus he routed; “Okowa as Vice President to Atiku Abubakar shall be of great benefit for PDP national government because he will replicate these laudable programmes subject to Mr President’s approval, for the benefit of millions of unemployed Nigerian youth, skilled and unskilled, occasioned by the poor management of the nation’s resources by APC national government in the past seven years and still counting.” He contended that the Atiku/Okowa synergy will facilitate the growth of the nation’s economy, repayment of the huge debts incurred by Buhari administration, create job and wealth for Nigerians, solve the acute problems of disunity, insecurity, religious and ethnic conflicts, bring about an era of prosperity and economic boom, as well as speedy and sustained growth of our great party, PDP. Explaining further, he continued: “The combined capacities of President Atiku and Vice President Okowa, shall facilitate peace and conflicts resolutions, sustain peace building, efficient management of the nation’s resources for sustainable economic growth and prosperity for Nigeria and Nigerians. “ Dr Fred Latimore in his statement reaffirmed that Governor Okowa has been tested and trusted as far as internal party politics is concerned. He stressed that Okowa’s integrity, ability to get things done without blemish, speed of work, organisational sagacity and inestimable intellectual acumen had in the past two decades helped to sustain unity and progress within the party at state and national levels, and also helped to deepened the nation’s democracy. He remarked that the Governor of Delta State, Okowa, excelled in all PDP national and regional assignments including the 2019 presidential primary in Port Harcourt, largely acknowledged as the best well organised party presidential primary in the history of internal party politics in Nigeria. He noted without mincing words that Governor Okowa’s skills are multidimensional, superlative and result oriented an attribute that are already known as his trade mark. He further posited that Governor Okowa’s vast knowledge of state and national politics as well as deep understanding of economic issues and how to turn around failures into huge success within a reasonable time singled him out as the best running mate for our amiable presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Turaki Adamawa. Acçording to the Governor’s Aide ,It is safe to assert that Atiku administration, PDP and the country stand to gain substantially if governor Okowa, who is also the incumbent Chairman of South-South Governors Forum, is picked by our great party as the running mate for PDP Presidential candidate in this electioneering dispensation in the political and leadership history of Nigeria. Okowa he rightly noted carries unspeakable amazing grace of God. This uncommon divine spiritual aura will bring about luck and landslide victory in 2023. His positive aura and super charisma blends with the personality and aristocratic dignity of Alhaji Atiku in this milestone journey. He insisted that the Atiku/Okowa ticket is a perfect deal, that will bring luck and prosperity to Nigeria. Finally, he said: ” lt is fair to also state that Okowa is reliable, dependable, patriotic, physically fit and in excellent health condition to work long hours needed to reposition Nigeria, and return the country to her original status of a prosperous nation, the giant of Africa.” “Look no further, Atiku/Okowa ticket is the real deal”, Fred Latimore concluded.