The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Anambra State Health Insurance Agency (ASHIA) Dr. Simeon Beluonwu Onyemaechi says government will in the next 4 weeks establish what he mentioned as ASHIA Drug Stores where ASHIA enrollees can access very subsidized medications. Onyemaechi who stated this during an exclusive interview with our correspondent in his office at Awka, maintained that the governor Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo seeks to achieve Universal Health Coverage for Ndi-Anambra through health insurance schemes. He said that the drug stores would be managed by ASHIA pharmacists at designated public facilities to ensure that when a hospital can not cope because of the rising cost of drugs, ASHIA enrollees will be referred to ASHIA drug stores where they can get full value for the money they paid as premiums. He also said that the government had tried the composite mechanism of allowing hospitals to render services and provide drugs but since the inflation rate in the country is taking a serious toll on the healthcare providers, ASHIA has taken the responsibility of providing the drugs at whatever cost for the benefit of her enrollees. The ASHIA boss further disclosed that from July 4th this year ASHIA would use the platforms of broadcast stations to obtain feedback as well as market the state health insurance scheme, adding that the aim was to ensure quality assurance, serve as a redress mechanism and also spread the gospel of the state health insurance scheme as the target remained that within the next 4 years ASHIA would have fully entrenched itself. Onyemaechi equally pointed out that at the national level there is National Health Insurance Act which he said makes it mandatory for every Nigerian to be enrolled in the scheme, stressing that it is now an offence not to have health insurance. The medical expert noted that the Anambra State is a critical stakeholder in discussing implementation strategies of the new National Health Insurance Law for it to be domesticated in the state upon implementation. -Advertisement- POLL According to him, ASHIA has engaged all stakeholders in the state to enable her to achieve her goals in a more efficient manner and to also ensure that the quality of healthcare is optimal as the governor Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that Ndi-Anambra got the very best of healthcare services through the state health insurance scheme. Onyemaechi told our correspondent that the governor has charged the health insurance agency to redouble her efforts to ensure that those who are yet to be covered in the scheme were covered in order to actualise the governor’s goal of universal health coverage for every segment of the society. 