LAGOS – The Board of Fellows (BOF) of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) 4th Mid-Year Meeting has commenced Tuesday, June 28 and would end  Wednesday  29 (today) at the NAF Conference Centre in Abuja. According to the BOF) of PSN, the focus of their  meeting is to empower and inspire the self-esteem of its fellows across the country. Themed “Harnessing the Potentials of Fellows of Professional Associations in Nigeria for National Development, The Pharmacists Perspective”, the lecture series aims to re-energise, re-invigorate, and boost the confidence of fellows to actively participate in national development. In his address at a media parley in Lagos, the Chairman of the BOF/PSN, Dr Joel Adagadzu, said the BOF is determined to work closely with the support of stakeholders in finding appropriate remedies that will reactivate them so that they can fully assume their expected position as role models for pharmacists and other professionals. With the 4th series of the public lecture, Adagadzu added, “We expect that fellows of the PSN will trail the blaze and be at the forefront of the rescue mission for our country from the stormy waters. “Their involvement will impact positively in the quest to achieve medicines and vaccines security and self-sufficiency in Nigeria and other spheres of national development.” He noted that SAN Joe-Kyari Gadzama will be the speaker for the public lecture. According to the chairman, “Chief Joe-Kyari Gadzama is one of the beacons of light for the legal profession in Nigeria. We are opening our doors to members of the public to come and listen to this erudite scholar on an issue we consider germane”. He, however, emphasised that pharmacists play significant roles in the country’s pharmaceutical industry and its healthcare system. -Advertisement- POLL Hence, he urged the government to fine-tune its policies to ensure the nation’s precarious pharmaceutical industry in return for the regular support and lifeline the industry provides for pharmacists. Meanwhile, the BOF is still pursuing its campaigns against drug and substance abuse, which is its flagship project. Adagadzu further bemoaned that millions of Nigerian youths including some adults are hooked on these illicit products. “Unless everyone recognises the danger, we stand to face severe consequences as a nation,” emphasising that their Endowment Fund aims at promoting excellence in pharmacy education and research. The Endowment Fund is worth N100m. Beneficiaries include the best graduating pharmacy students and those engaged in pharmaceutical research and development. One of the high points of the Mid-Year Meeting is to honour some prominent Nigerians for their outstanding contributions to national development and their support of the growth of pharmacy.