LAGOS  – With insurance industry loses of over $40billion to fraud annually, according to FBI report, experts have said that insurance fraud could be curbed through what they term enhanced identity verification. Describing Insurance fraud as one of the most common types of fraud, they noted that the schemes perpetrated against insurance companies are vast, ranging from simply issuing a fake claim to more complex type of enrolling and issuing claims on thousands of fictitious identities and/or unwitting victims. Globally including Nigeria, insurance companies are faced with these challenges mostly accelerated by the pandemic due to the fact that these companies rely mostly on digital contacts to authenticate the identities of their customers and claims. In Nigeria, for instance, over N40billion claims was filed as a result of Lekki Endsars protest of 20th October, 2020 which was accelerated by a nationwide protest, a chunk of it was discovered to be fraudulent claims report. Although there is no authentic data as to ascertain how many of these fraudulent practices are recorded and verified, Daily Independent investigation revealed that insurance firms in Nigeria have been contained with the menaces over the years. The new challenges accelerated by the pandemic, has forced insurance firms to increasingly rely on digital-first and digital-only environments to authenticate the identities of their customers and claims. Identity and fraud payment experts at GIACT outlines sample insurance fraud schemes and how insurance companies can strengthen and streamline digital identity verification Insurance Fraud Landscape. The report estimated that fraudulent claims make up 10per cent of all underwriting losses among property and casualty (P&C) insurers citing that U.S. P&C firms payout billions every year, the dollar figure that fraud extracts from these insurance fraud schemes is remarkably high. -Advertisement- POLL According to consumer accounts, insurance fraud was responsible for nearly $80billion in losses in 2021, adding that insurance fraud not only means higher operating costs and losses for insurance companies, but also higher premiums for consumers. The team noted that a part of the reason for insurance fraud’s prevalence is the manifold ways in which insurance companies are exposed to fraud. Common insurance fraud schemes, according to experts, include inflating and “padding” claims, staging accidents or submitting false claims, to stealing identities or creating synthetic identities and submitting claims insisting that most insurance companies are well aware that fraud is an issue. The survey reports that insurers admittedly believe at least 18per cent of claims contain some “element of fraud, inflation or misrepresentation.” They noted that validating that a customer is who they say they are represents both a challenge as well as an opportunity but that proper customer authentication can drive lower costs in the form of less payouts for fraudulent claims and better user experience by creating a simultaneously safer and faster, more dynamic onboarding journey can curtail the levels of damage. Authenticating the true identity of a customer, the report noted asking: are you who you say you are? – has become more difficult than ever to get right.