Julius Abure is a lawyer and National Chairman of the Labour Party. In this interview with Francis Onoiribholo in Benin, Abure calls on Nigerians to rise up and take their destiny in their own hands by electing Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, who represents the most credible alternative to the APC and PDP, which Nigerians have been hoping for. Excerpt: With the emergence of Peter Obi as LP presidential candidate, how far do you think the party can go in the 2023 polls? Our target, our journey, is to win the pres­idential election in 2023. The facts are very clear: power belongs to the people. Democracy is government of the people, for the people, and by the people. To that extent, I categorically state without any fear of contradiction that the people are tired of the PDP and they are equal­ly tired of the APC as a result of maladmin­istration, mismanagement of the economy, insecurity, hunger, and poverty. And the peo­ple have come to the realization that they need an alternative party to be in government that will give them good governance, harness the resources of the country, both human and ma­terial, and reposition the country for growth and development. The masses and the people of Nigeria are already seeing the Labour Par­ty as that credible, reliable, and dependable alternative. I am therefore convinced beyond any reasonable doubt that we will not only go far in the 2023 general election but we shall win that election. From the North to the South, we shall have the winning and the current ruling class will be shocked. -Advertisement- The LP is throwing itself into a sea where financial sharks (PDP, APC and their candidates) would probably dictate the pace, how will the LP cope with its financial inadequacy? Well, against the view that the Labour Party has never been in government and has no ac­cess to stolen funds, you will agree with me that those whom you have said are financial sharks, like you have described them, are sharks. They have had access to our common patrimony, government funds, both at the state and federal levels. I therefore agree with you that they have stolen funds to be able to maneuver themselves into power but I think that the end has come. You can only manipulate a people for a while. Bob Marley said you can cheat the people sometimes but you cannot cheat them all the time. The people are aware that it is their own money that have been stolen and that have also been used against them, therefore, the people are ready to collect the money and then do the right thing. I am therefore convinced that in­spite of the fact that they have their financial muscle, financial muscle will not dictate the pace in 2023. I am therefore very sure that with our good will, with the little resources Labour Party will be having with his candidate, that we are going to deploy and spend judiciously in terms of putting this resources in provision of logistics and doing the needful, the people will vote for Labour Party en masse. It has been observed that, going by past voting patterns, the odds appear to favour the North or Northern candidates, how can the LP overcome this drawback. Well, I usually don’t like emphasizing what divide us in the country, you will agree with me that the country is already polarized along ethnic lines, along tribal line, along religious lines and that is also orchestrated by those who are in power. I ordinarily don’t like emphasizing those dichotomies, those cleavages that divide our country. I will rath­er want to discuss issues that will further unite the country but since you have asked the question, it is pertinent to put it this way: that for 2023, I don’t see tribalism playing any role. Today Katsina State produced the Pres­ident of Nigeria but the life of the people in Katsina State has not changed, in fact their situation is even worse as we speak. Katsina State, as we speak, has no security – Boko Haram, unknown gunmen have ravaged Katsina State. The President is from Katsina State and Katsina State is in the Northwest of Nigeria and the Northwest has witnessed the worst kind of security situation in the country than when a Southerner or any oth­er person from other geopolitical zones were president of the country. But having said this, I want to state clearly that northern votes may not follow the usual pattern this time around. I say so because we already have two Northern presidential candidates, Atiku has clinched the ticket of the PDP, Kwankwaso clinched the ticket of the NNPP and that will tell you clearly that Northern votes have already been divided. What is even more, Kano and other large states that have the majority of registered voters also have non-indigenes who are from that state, the Yorubas in Kano, the Igbos in Kano. Therefore, I want to believe the 2023 general election will not follow that same pattern that we have seen over time. What is even more, Nigerians will be looking at the pedigree of the person that is on board. Look at their antecedents, look at their past perfor­mance and a whole of other variables will be put in place. The North has realized and have seen that it is not about North and South, it is not about your brother becoming president that matters, it is about performance and who is passionate about the growth and develop­ment of the country, not just in the North but also in the South. POLL In the presidential election cam­paign, the LP has the task of formulating a sellable message to Nigerians if it would make significant impact. What would that message be? At this stage, we will have to sit with the Presidential Candi­date to be able to craft messages that we will use to sell our party and sell the candidate but I need to put it very clearly that La­bour Party as a Party is already a brand, it is a brand name. All over the world we know what La­bour Party stands for in terms of idiology, in terms of programme and in terms of its manifesto. It is only Labour Party that have a distinct manifesto from oth­ers and I want to say that it is already a brand that is selling. The problems that we have had over the past few years is a result of proactive leadership to man the affairs of the party in order to promote and give the requisite confidence that the people will need to be able to join the par­ty. So it’s already a brand that is selling but we appreciate the fact that we must reduce it to specific in terms of messages that will be carried in the 2023 election that will sell further to the generali­ty of the people but for me, it’s already very clear that the issue of insecurity is already one, the issue of hunger, poverty, unem­ployment, education, healthcare all of these are the revolving is­sues in Nigeria and I think that we will be able to craft our mes­sage around these. And for Peter Obi, our presidential candidate, you know, it has been his cardi­nal point that Nigeria under his watch will be converted from a consuming state to a productive state. What is your message to Nigerians? My general message to the Nigerian people is that they must rise to the occasion, take their destiny in their own hands. We have provided an alternative platform to Nige­rians. Initially, Nigerians ar­gued that there was no viable, veritable opposition and today Labour Party has become the main opposition party because we see no difference between APC and PDP, it is the same thing, it is those who are in PDP that navigated to APC and today you can see them navi­gating forward and backward. So, for us in Labour Party we have provided the alternative, we have given the ticket to a credible candidate because the track record of our Pres­idential Candidate, Peter Obi speaks for itself. His anteced­ents when he was governor of Anambra State, his anteced­ents when he was in the bank, even his antecedents in terms of his businesses, his anteced­ents in terms of his personal life, of his character – all this speaks volumes. So, we have played our parts by giving this credible alternative to the peo­ple and we expect the people to play their part in the 2023 gen­eral election, to vote out those who are stealing their money, those who have no idea how to turn the country around.