He clocked the landmark age of 70 February 2, 2022. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. It has been a long walk which has taken him from his birth and home place Ikare in Ondo State through Jesse Town, Oghareki, Sapele, Benin, Warri, Agbarho, Ekrerhavwen, Ughelli, Abraka, etc. Patrick Siaka Momoh was born into the Owalukare Royal Family of Ikare, Ondo State, Southwest Nigeria, February 2, 1952. His parents, who are now late, were self-employed – the mother, a trader and the father a successful cocoa farmer. Euromonitor Highlights Top Global Consumer Trends 2022 Green Africa Unveils Gfuture, Sets To Train Hundreds Of… Siaka Momoh had the benefit of living away from his parents and outside the Southwest his Yoruba ethnic geopolitical zone. He was fostered by his father’s friend’s son, Chief F. Omo Okotete, of the Urhobo ethnic group, a school teacher and headmaster who is now late, and so had, early in his life, access to the discipline that teachers are known for. Siaka Momoh had seen his parents at work. He had watched mummy doing tie and dye (local textile production) and trading. His mother, an industrious woman who died in her mid eighties, was deeply involved in inter-state trading. Shortly after secondary school education in 1969, Siaka Momoh got a job with Nigerian Breweries Limited (now Nigeria Breweries Plc), the foremost beer manufacturing company in Nigeria. Chief Okotete, his foster parent, left paid employment to set up his own business. Siaka Momoh had to join him as number two man after a 4-year stint with the Nigerian Breweries. Yours sincerely therefore had the singular opportunity of running a small business early enough in his life. Metropolitan Business Consultancy Services Limited, the company, was involved in poultry farming, rubber processing and export and importation of wearing apparels. Siaka Momoh left the company in 1977 for his university education. He graduated from the University of Lagos in 1983 with a Second Class Upper Division degree in Mass Communication, worked briefly as a teacher in Ibeshe, Ikorodu Lagos before starting his journalism career in Vanguard newspapers, one of the several national newspapers in Nigeria. POLL After a six-year stint with Vanguard, he switched to marketing when Satellite TV Receiving System made its debut in Nigeria in 1990. He worked with MFP Limited and Miras Communications Limited, both in Lagos, in senior management positions. He was in this sector up to 1996 after which he had a stint in commodity warehousing and freight forwarding management at Development Resources Limited, also in Lagos. Siaka Momoh is an alumnus of the Enterprise Development Centre of Pan Atlantic University (Lagos Business School) and holds a Masters degree in International Relations and Strategic Studies (MIRSS) of the Lagos State University. He has undergone many other certification courses over the years in and outside Nigeria. Siaka is widely travelled across Nigeria and across the globe traversing Europe, U.S. Brazil and Africa. In 2001, Siaka left Development Resources Limited to run Beat Network Limited, a marketing company whose core business is sales and servicing of satellite TV Receiving System. In 2002, Siaka Momoh had a spiritual leading to go back to the job he was trained for, that is journalism. This spiritual leading was followed almost immediately by a chance meeting with Frank Aigbogun, publisher of Business Day, who asked him to come on board the Business Day ship. He therefore joined BusinessDAY Media Limited that year where he was Industry Editor and member Editorial Board. The Industry Desk in BusinessDay covers the Real Sector of the economy – manufacturing, trade matters, Research and Development, solid minerals, etc. Siaka has won a chain of awards for himself and for BusinessDay since he came on board the ship. These include The Entrepreneur Journalist of the Year of the Nigerian Institute of Entrepreneurs, African SMME Journalist of the year (1st Runner Up) 2004, organised by Stellenbosch University Business School, Cape Town South Africa, The Most SME-Friendly Newspaper Award organised by Nigerian Association of Small