Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, Rivers State Command, has reiterated the determination to end illegal oil bunkering in the State. Abu Tambuwal,the Commandant, NSCDC, Rivers State Command, who made this known during the activities marking Civil Defence Day, at the Marine Exhibit Jetty in Ogbogoro, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, decried the environmental degradation pipeline vandalism has caused. PHACCIMA President, Elechi, Others Excited Over Qatar Airline In… RIWAMA Boss Warns Against Open Defecation, Indiscriminate… Deputy Commandant Ethel Dike Rep of Commandant Abu Tambuwal said the World Civil Defence Day was declared as a global holiday by the International Civil Defence Organization (ICDO) in 1990 and honours the significance of Civil Defence and the personnel who have sacrificed their lives for it. To this end the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has been effective in the protection of critical National assets and the fight against oil theft in the country. Speaking at the event to mark the celebration this year, the Commandant Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Rivers State Command, Abu Tambuwal who was emphatic of the determination of the command to stop pipeline vandalism and all forms of oil theft in the State, observed with displeasure the negative effects of bunkering activities on the aquatic life and farm lands. Commandant Tambuwal who was represented by Deputy Commandant Ethel Dike, noted the importance of legislation for the benefit of volunteers during emergency situations. “The protection of lives during disasters be it man made or Natural and the provision of peaceful atmosphere for citizens to engage in lawful business is the goal of every good governance.” POLL “In marking this year’s World Civil Defence Day, the Rivers State Command of NSCDC has intensified its fight against vandals of the nation assets by arresting not fewer than fifty suspected oil thieves.” Professor Onyeche Obinna, the National President National Association of Surface Tank Oil and Gas Retailers of Nigeria, (NASTOGRN) also described oil theft as a sabotage of the Nation’s economy. Professor Obinna, who is also a traditional ruler, promised to mobilise the traditional institution and the youths to uncover illegal refineries within their domain. “We are calling on all traditional rulers devoid of political sentiment and all youth leaders and CDC Chairmen in Rivers State to stand up and defend their territory.” “The aquatic life is gone; the ecosystem has been so depleted. I want to wish you well and to send our goodwill message to all the Nations of the world, marking World Civil Defence Day. I congratulate Nigeria Security Civil Defence Corps.”