LAGOS  – LEKOIL has announced that it has entered into a convertible facility agreement (the “CFA”) and option agreement with Savannah Energy Investments Limited in order to support the company’s restructuring. Savannah Investments will support LEKOIL’s proposed restructuring by providing a GBP 0.9 million loan to LEKOIL. The CFA is repayable on Wednesday 2 March 2022 and bears interest at 5% per annum. NANTA Kicks Against Fare Fixing By Airlines, Plans 46th AGM In… Safe Birth Initiative: How Coca-Cola Is Bringing Mother , Child… In the event of non-payment by LEKOIL, Savannah Investments may elect to convert the outstanding amount into 177.1 million new ordinary shares of Lekoil Limited (“Ordinary Shares”) at a price of 0.5 pence per share, it said Savannah Investments has also entered into arrangements with LEKOIL and certain of its service providers who have agreed to their unpaid fees being settled by way of the issue of 22.9 million new Ordinary Shares at 0.5 pence per share (the “Tripartite Agreements”). Savannah Investments has the right to acquire these shares pursuant to the Tripartite Agreements and a further announcement will be made once these shares have been issued. In the event that Savannah Investments exercises its rights to purchase the abovementioned 22.9 million Ordinary Shares and converts the CFA into 177.1 million new Ordinary Shares, Savannah Investments’ holding is expected to represent approximately 25.2% of the fully diluted share capital of LEKOIL. The Company has also signed an Option Agreement with Savannah Investments granting it, subject to approval of the Company’s shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting (the “EGM”) to be called in March 2022, an option to be assigned the intercompany debt owed to the Company by Mayfair Assets & Trusts Limited (the “Mayfair Loan”), its associated security related to OPL 310 and all rights and benefits of the Company with respect to the same. A US$1 million payment is payable by Savannah Investments to LEKOIL upon such assignment. A summary of the Option Agreement, the expected date for the EGM and full details of the OPL 310 asset are provided below. POLL Pursuant to the Option Agreement, it is intended that the Company would be paid deferred consideration in the event that Savannah Investments obtains a working interest in OPL 310 and the same is developed. Such deferred consideration is structured as a royalty (capped at US$50 million) of 0.5% on crude oil sales attributable to Savannah Investment’s actual participating interest in OPL 310 (the royalty capped at a 17.14% participating interest).