The continued contributions of women in society have ensured progress, stability, and long-term development of nations, as the world celebrated annually International Women’s Day to commemorate the cultural, political, and socioeconomic achievements of women around the world for their selfless and tremendous contributions to uplift the society, while drawing attention to the fact that so much still needs to be done to challenge gender inequalities. One of the women in leadership, Mrs Modupe Aregbe, the Vice-Chairman Oshodi/Isolo Local Government speaks with Bolatito Adebola on what her government, under chairmanship of Hon. Kehinde Oloyede are doing to protect the female gender and her support for girl-child education in their constituencies. What does International Women’s Day mean to you? It is a day to celebrate the achievement of women socially, politically, economically and it doesn’t necessarily mean we celebrate women that are known or successful; we recognise the struggles of women and pay attention to women’s rights and gender equality. Rivers Suffering From Governance Crisis — Dakuku Peterside Leo Stan@66: Africa’s Technology Miracle Child Comes Full Circle… What would be your legacy as the vice-chairman which many girl-child and women will forever remember? I’m an advocate for girl-child education, I’m not a feminist but I’m strongly striving for and believe in gender equality. For women in politics like you, how can you galvanise change in society and break bias according to this year’s theme? Politicians are meant to be change agents as we hold positions of authority and we can initiate change through programmes designed by us, bills to be passed into law etc. Most especially, our own acts should portray the difference we want to see in the society As a mother of two lovely girls, how can girl-child education be realised this year? POLL First and foremost we have to work on keeping the girl-child safe in the school environment,  educate teachers to be aware of gender equality, educate parents on treating children equally irrespective of gender and finally try to reduce the obstacles that keep girl child out of school as much as possible. What are your dreams as a woman in politics? Initiate change within the community; be at the centre of implementation of laws that cause positive difference in the lives of women and especially children. How do you intend to make a difference? To care about other people is the greatest way to make a difference, Being compassionate, making people and the world better and being as transparent and accountable as possible.