Ademola Adebisi, the Executive Director, Value Reorientation for Community Enhancement (VARCE) and Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) facilitator for United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) in Osun State and expert spoke to CHIOMA UMEHA on the challenges of eradicating the unwholesome practice of mutilating girls and women in the country. Excerpts: What is the scope of your work? Does it cover violence against child (VAC), Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and child abuse, hawking, rape and brutalisation? Yes, our major focus in our organisation is on children, so it covers the issues of violence against children and women and young people.  We work on child abuse, rape and other issues that concern the well-being of women and girls. How long have you been working around these areas in Osun? Holistically, it has been about 10 years we began to work around violence against women, while this is the sixth year that I have been working around FGM. Assess Osun State’s efforts in eliminating FGM, violence against the child and other forms of abuse? Osun state has tried their best, but their best has not been enough. The government has not done enough, because we have different laws that protect girls and women but, there is slow implementation of these laws.  For instance, the State recently passed the VAPP law, thereby domesticating the law. But, that is not my concern as a stakeholder; our concern is that we are still lagging behind when it comes to implementation. We have different laws that are supposed to protect girls and women, but they are not being implemented; that is just the issue. Most of the time even the Ministry of Justice tends to look for a law that was supposed to be at their fingertips.  So they are looking for it, they don’t know the content of the law, the law enforcement agency doesn’t even have an idea what is in the law so this has been our big issue. POLL What is the health, physical and emotional problems associated with FGM? We have lot of complications that are associated with FGM, and violence against women and girls. For FGM, sometimes, children and young girls that are mutilated die along the line, those who survive face dire consequences. FGM makes the girls and women inactive or unproductive to economic development of the state. This is because a girl that has been mutilated and is passing through trauma of mutilation will not come out to add to the economy of the state. Similarly, a lady that is hardworking and supposed to contribute immensely to the development of the State would become unproductive after being raped and the society is discriminating and stigmatising her. Recently, the United Nations called for care and treatment of girls that have gone through FGM, noting that it would cost the world about 4.9 billion dollars to treat them on yearly basis. So that means protection is cheaper than providing treatment.  Providing treatment is more expensive than protection.  This is really costing us a lot, it is a big cost to the state, it is a big cost to the government, and it is a big cost to the society as well as to the development of our society as well as a setback. And until we all stand up to say, let stop violence against women and let’s stop FGM, we may be going backward on daily basis. How effective is the Child Right Law since it was domesticated in the State? Is it being enforced or what are the issues on the full implementation of the law? Well, the State has domesticated the Child Right Law since 2006 or there about, but the law is not being well implemented. Before you can say any law is a law and is working, it must be at the reach of everybody, everybody should be able to have access to it and everybody should be able to know the content of the law.  So the law is just there, we are still having issues of child abuse in this State, we have had a lot of issues and nothing happened. We have had issues on child molestation, nothing happened. We have been to court several times, the only thing that comes out of most court cases is the threat to lives of people that want to stand for the girls. So the government needs to do more. It is not about the law, if it is the law this State has so many laws that can protect every girl child and woman in the state, but it is not about the law, but it is about the implementation of the law. So what is the government doing, our law is not implemented?   The highest implementation of any of the laws on protection of girls and children in Osun may be around 20 percent and so 20 percent is nothing. Until we can implement it to 99 percent, then we say yes, we have a law that is protecting girls and women until then, I don’t think we have a law. Why do FGM and other forms of violence against child persist in Osun State and what are the challenges in eradicating the practice of violence against Child and women? One major challenge is ignorance and culture. And culture is endemic so it is so difficult for us to discard culture. Recently, I was speaking with some set of people on this issue and they said FGM and other harmful practices are their culture.  Then, I reminded them that there was a time in this part of the world when we walked or trekked from Osun to Lagos. Why didn’t we keep that culture and still be walking from here to Lagos; why did we stop? Why do we board big vehicles, big cars and take private jets because we want to go to Lagos?  So the problem is culture and it is endemic and these people are still keeping this culture and that has been the issue. They still believe in their culture, and majorly it is ignorance that has been keeping us on this pedestrian. We want FGM to stop and a lot of people still see it as what they can’t stop, people still believe that without FGM, a girl would be promiscuous. Some say, without FGM, the clitoris will hit the head of the baby if the women want to deliver. They say different things, some say the clitoris would grow and be competing with the male reproductive organ.  I think it is just ignorance and we need to go down to their level and sensitise them to drop these fallacies.  And that is what we are doing under the joint programme of United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and UNICEF with other stakeholders to make sure we talk to their conscience; to let them know the importance of culture, that culture is good but should be dynamic so as to embrace changes.  Until they get this understanding we may still remain where we are in Osun State and Nigeria in general. Where do you see Osun state in the next five years in the eradication of FGM and violence against child? In the next five years, I see Osun State as a State that FGM will have become a history as we will keep on talking about it in schools and in our society.  And we will say, there was a time FGM was being practiced in the country just like the issue of killing of twins. There was a time that every twin that was born in this country, in Africa, is being killed, but today everybody is proud to have a twin. So I am seeing Osun state in the next five years with the work been put in place free from FGM. I think this is possible with the readiness of the State government as well, I can see that State governments, the partners, most especially the joint programme of United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and UNICEF partners in Osun state with the help of every stakeholder. I think in the next five years the issue of Violence Against Person’s Prohibition Act (VAPP) and FGM will become a thing of the past.