SIAKA MOMOH At a time when the world is still recovering from snags in the global supplychain, caused by economic lockdowns over the past two years, the evolvingRussia-Ukraine crisis has a real possibility of worsening the existing supplychain vulnerabilities, a current Vetiva Research report has stated. Global Food Market According to the report, the importance of Russia as a commodity source hasbeen highlighted in energy discussions and can be seen in the rising price ofcrude in international markets.” However, Russia (with Ukraine) also holds asignificant sway in the global food market, as even countries who are notdirect trade partners would be affected by higher prices, should globaloutput decrease. With this, we highlight the impact on some of these keyfoods and agro-commodities specifically in Nigeria.” It adds, “In the global wheat market, Russia and Ukraine contribute 53 million metrictonnes, accounting for 29% of global supply. The tensions surrounding theblack sea as well as the trade sanctions placed on Russia could see to it thatthese export volumes are trapped in Russia and Ukraine, depleting globalsupply of wheat and raising already high wheat prices (according to theFinancial Times, by March 08, wheat futures were trading at $1,273;+95.6% y/y, levels not seen since 2008). Although the wheat agreementbetween China and Russia may alleviate this pressure by reducing China’sdemand on remaining global supply; given that China’s demand is expectedto peak at 9.5 million metric tonnes this year, about 25 million metric tonneswould nevertheless be potentially lost from global supply this year. Versatility of wheat “The impact of this is far-reaching. Given that the versatility of wheat extendsbeyond various food products like Pasta, noodles, flour and feed – which aresome staples that drive food consumption significantly in the world – to somealcohol products, the cost implications could be dire. In Nigeria, wheatconsumption stood close to 5 million metric tonnes in 2021, compared to aproduction level of less than 300,000 metric tonnes in the same period. Thisleaves little room to wonder on the impact of rising wheat prices in Nigeria.” Cost of Food production POLL According to Vetiva, “Nigerian food and beverage makers are grappling with increasedcosts of production, although many have been subtly passing these costs onto consumers through re-sized packages and/or outright price increases.However, passing on the additional increase in raw wheat prices may not befeasible without a sizable loss in sales, given tight consumer wallets. Assuch, we may see a contraction in food margins for the year.Russia and Ukraine as Big Players Similarly, Russia and Ukraine make up 19% of global barley exports to therest of the world. Barley is another key input in alcohol production, and risingprices would force production costs higher. Already, beer margins are worseoff than they were in 2019, given increasing FX constraints and theinflationary impact on operating expenses. However, given that Spirits aretypically high-end products, players in the space may have some leeway toraise prices in response to cost spikes. “Looking at corn, Ukraine is the fourth largest exporter of the commodity, withexports in 2022 expected at 33.5 million metric tonnes, covering 17% ofglobal market share (up from 12% in 2020). As such, there is an expectednegative impact on prices from reduced supply. Recall that feed pricesgalloped in Nigeria in 2020, owing to the ban on FX for maize importation bythe CBN. Likewise, we expect that the rise in international maize prices wouldtake a similar yet less severe path, influencing feed prices with acorresponding impact on poultry and fish products.” It says so far, “these have been direct commodity hits and more indirect impacts couldinclude an exacerbation in already high sugar and edible oil prices”. United States Department of Agriculture Citing the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), it says “Ukraine is the largest sunflower seed producer, with an estimated annual output of 17.5millionmetric tons, accounting for more than 50% of global output. Russia as well,is the second-largest sunflower seed producer, making up 27% of globaloutput. In aggregate, Russia and Ukraine account for almost 80% of globalexports of sunflower oil, which is a close substitute for other edible oils likepalm oil and soybean oil. Consequently, with demand shifting to thesesubstitutes, prices have risen to new highs. Meanwhile, export restrictionsimplemented by the Indonesian government has worsened the situation andlowered the supply volume of palm oil while triggering a price increase.” The World Bank Commodities Price Data It adds: “According to The World Bank Commodities Price Data, the average price ofsoybean oil has jumped by 9% to $1,596 per ton in February and Malaysia’sbenchmark crude palm oil prices have also soared 45% year to date.However, this rise in prices could prove to be a positive for CPO producersin Nigeria, akin to the scenario in 2020, when CPO prices rose 50% y/y andRevenue for industry players jumped 22.5% y/y on average.” Spiking Crude Oil Prices It says “Furthermore, with crude oil prices spiking, focus could shift more to usageof ethanol for energy, raising demand for the commodity amid alreadyheavily constrained supply. For Nigeria, the impact would worsen marginsfor sugar players, especially given the FX cost element.” In conclusion, Vetiva argues that  given the possible constraints to planting activities in Russia and Ukraine (for wheat and barley) and potentially globally (with higherfertilizer prices), the shortage in supply and attendant pricing upsurge maywell exceed the current year, despite attempts from other major exportersto step up production. “A glimmer of hope, however, may be that with surging oil (and commodity)prices, operations would become expensive globally, and scale may reduceto match this increase. With this, the impact on food commodity prices maynot be as severe, “it says.