ABUJA – As agitations continued to mount over how the new Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will emerge on March 26, a group, APC Youth Stakeholders on Friday protested to the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja. The group led by Yunusa Ahmadu Yusuf said they were at the party’s headquarters to register their anger over recent happening in the APC suggesting an ongoing plot to foist somebody as Chairman of the party. The group who were uncharacteristically led by men of Nigeria Police to submit their demand to officials of the party warned that the party should guard against attempts to impose any candidate on people in the guise of Consensus. Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (05/03/22) Discos Apologise To Customers Over Poor Power Supply They equally demanded that delegates to the Convention should be allowed to choose who will lead the party at the national level warning “that the mistakes that have been made in the past must be corrected by this convention. “We commend the chairman Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC Mai Mala Buni who has managed the party to where it is now because over time our party has suffered leadership crisis and we are now trying to see how we can say our voices so that we can ensure that is corrected. “We have recommended very highly that all party stakeholders should be allowed to make their input, should be allowed to say what they want who would lead them how, when, where and that is what we have to settle for and that is why we are here today.” Reacting to the purported endorsement of a candidate by President Mohammadu Buhari, the group said that would be uncharacteristic of the president whom they claim knows the definition of democracy. “Mr President who knows the definition of democracy, who knows that it is only good to allow people to choose who governs them and Mr President also wants to bring people back to the party because people have left the party, and we don’t want to miss people after the convention. POLL “We have seen scenario after a convention people left the party to go and form a third force and we do not want that to happen. The best that can happen to prevent this is to have a leader that will be elected by the delegates and if anybody wins that means he has done his own work. What we are here to say is that we want the convention to be by delegate voting not by consensus.” That aside, the group claims that the president cannot impose someone on the people. “President Buhari that we know is not somebody who imposes on people if not even the last FCT elections, Mr president would have wanted to ensure that it’s been hosted by the APC candidates by all means. He doesn’t want to get power at all cost at the detriment of people and the same thing that he is expected.”