LAGOS – Medical Director, Optimal Cancer Care Foundation, Dr Olufemi Olaleye, on Tuesday, disclosed that in every two minutes, a woman dies of dies of cervical cancer. Olaleye made this disclosure at a special occasion and commemoration of the Year 2022 International Women’s Day organised by the Charitable Network for Community Empowerment (CHANCE), held at the Afe Babalola Auditorium of the University of Lagos. The medical expert, who spoke on the topic ‘Breast and Cervical Cancer: All There is to Know’, explained that in knowing about breast cancer, every woman, especially, those who don’t smoke, must know their family history as it relates to cancer. Dolapo Marks Osinbajo’s Birthday At North-East Children’s… Electricity: Low Generation Cause Of Widespread Blackout –… While noting that out of every 25 women, one is likely to have a lump in one or both of her breasts, Olaleye pointed out that it is important for women to have a regular screening of their breasts. He encouraged women, particularly widows, to go for regular screening, as early detection can protect them and save their lives. While explaining that early detection remains the best approach to preventing cervical and breast cancer, he enjoined them to be wary of unhealthy factors that could lead to these diseases. His words: “Having regular cervical screenings where available will help to identify abnormal cells on the cervix caused by Human Papilloma Virus (HPV), which according to him, could lead to cancer. “Every month, you should do a check on your breasts in order to detect if there is any issue. Once a lady becomes sexually active, she is prone to cervical cancer. And you need to know that a woman dies of cervical cancer every two minutes. So this is why every woman must take issue seriously. POLL “All women are at risk for cervical cancer. Long-lasting infection with certain types of HPV is the main cause of cervical cancer. HPV is a common virus that is passed from one person to another during sex. At least half of sexually active people will have HPV at some point in their lives, but few women will get cervical cancer. “Screening tests and the HPV vaccine can help prevent cervical cancer. When cervical cancer is found early, it is highly treatable and associated with long survival and good quality of life.” Earlier in her welcome address, the Founder and Programme Director of CHANCE, Mrs Olajumoke Saliu explained that the non-governmental organisation, put the event together to empower women and youths with skills that will help them aspire to be more, make the up-skill move and live intentionally to create a truly gender equal world, free of bias, stereotypes and discrimination. Earlier, the NGO was at Bariga Market on an outreach programme tagged ‘Project 100 Smiles’, which 100 female traders and Street sweepers gifted packs of food items. Highpoints of the event include free screening – blood pressure and blood sugar level check; eye screening and free glasses; breast and cervical examination.