OSOGBO – The management of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife has ordered the closure of the institution for next week asking the students to proceed on mid-semester break for the next two weeks. The closure of the university by the management occurred three days after some aggrieved individuals of the university host community besieged the campus with charms and substances suspected to be fetish objects in protest against the approval of Professor Adeboye Bamire as the substantive Vice-Chancellor of the institution. During the protest which occurred for three days consecutively, some workers and students of the university were said to have been assaulted by the aggrieved protesters. In a special release issued and dated March 26th 2022 and signed by the university registrar, Mrs. I Omosule, a copy of which was made available to Independent Newspapers, the mid-semester break will commence today, Monday, March 28th 2022. The decision to close the university arrived at a management meeting held on Saturday, March 26th 2022. The release stated that “this is to inform staff and students of the university that the management at a meeting held on Saturday 26th March 2022 approved two weeks mid-semester break for students beginning from Monday, March 28th 2022. “We wish students of the university an enjoyable break. Most institutions of higher learning were already on strike as Joint Action Committee of Senior Staff Association of University, (SSANU), Non-Academic Staff of University, NASU as well as Non-Academic Staff Union of Allied and Educational Institutions are on two weeks warning strike commencing today Monday, March 28th 2022. POLL The decision has already crippled activities in tertiary institutions aside from crisis rocking ASUU and members of parallel Academic Union called Congress of University Academic (CONUA) over unpaid Academic Earned Allowance which has refused to join ASUU in their strike action and has since been teaching the students. As at the time of filing this report, students have started moving out of the campus as many of them faced high-cost transportation cost because of inadequate availability of petrol. Some elders of the ancient city of Ile Ife have backed the protest that greeted the recent appointment of the new Vice-Chancellor for the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Professor Adebayo Banire. The elders under the aegis of Ife Progressive Forum (IPF) in a petitioned written alleged that oath was administered on members of the selection committee to appoint Professor Adebayo Bamire as the 12th Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the university. At a news conference held at the Community Hall, Enuwa, Ile-Ife, the President, Dr. Famoriyo Gbolade, alleged that the process schemed in favour of Professor Bamire. He alleged that there was a corrupt manipulation of the vital process of scoring and assessing aspirants to the VC position by the Chairman of the Governing Council, Owelle Oscar Udoji, with the connivance of other members of the committee. Gbolade added, “The secrecy surrounding the exercise is highly suspicious. There was an oath administered on members of the Selection Committee before the interviews were conducted, after, and during the process of compiling the results. The report of the committee to the Council was slated for 2 pm, while the announcement of the reports to the public was slated for 3 pm on the same Thursday, March 17, 2022. Was the report expected to be automatically approved by the Council? “Besides, the tradition in the academia is to frontload reports before consideration. Why were the Council members not given the reports at least 24 hours before the meeting, in accordance with academic and administrative practice? On entering the meeting and after necessary protocols, members were given palmtops containing the purported selection reports. “They were allowed to hold the palmtops for about 10 minutes, after which the so-called reports were approved. Why will the university withdraw the palmtops from members? Is it that the chairman does not trust members? What is it that must be so guided in a public document? Where is it in our academic practice is Oath of Secrecy agreement from committee members?” The indigenes appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and Minister of Education Adamu Adamu to look into the process that led to the appointment of Bamire. But OAU spokesman Abiodun Olarewaju denied the allegation that members of the Selection Committee were made to take an oath to scheme the process in favour of Bamire. He said, “There are civilised ways of seeking justice, especially if a process is perceived unjust. We learnt that a petition has been written. So, let’s wait for the outcome. I am not aware there was any oath-taking.