YENAGOA – Some gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have abducted the Bayelsa State Correspondent of The Guardian Newspaper, Julius Osahon and other passengers around Evwreni community in the Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. They were travelling in a commercial bus from Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, to Ughelli in Delta, on Sunday, when the bandits emerged from the bush along the East-West Road and attacked their vehicle, killing the driver on the spot. The hoodlums, thereafter, kidnapped all the passengers, including Osahon, and herded them into the bush. It was gathered that five females of the abducted passengers, two of which are from Bayelsa, were miraculously released on Monday, March 28. A neighbour of the abducted journalist in Yenagoa, who spoke in confidence, said one of the freed female victims came to inform his neighbourhood of the incident. He said, “The journalist boarded a bus on his way to Ughelli. The incident happened along Evwreni axis of the East-West Road. The gunmen suddenly came out from the bush and started shooting directly at their bus. The bullet hit the driver and he died instantly. “The girl recognised Osahon as someone she knew in Yenagoa and they boarded the same bus. She was on the bus with him when the gunmen suddenly came out of the bush and attacked their bus. The girl was jittery and traumatised because of the experience. “She said about five of them, three from Delta and two from Yenagoa, were among the passengers in the bus who were miraculously released by the kidnappers on Monday morning around 8:30am while the rest of the passengers, including Osahon, were still held in captivity.” POLL A source also confirmed that the kidnappers had contacted some of the journalist’s family members and demanded N5m ransom to set him free. The leadership and members of the Federated Correspondents’ Chapel (FCC) of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Bayelsa State Council, condemned the abduction of The Guardian Newspaper reporter and other Nigerians who were going about their legitimate businesses. In a statement on Tuesday signed by the chairman and secretary of the chapel, Chris Eze and Bassey Willie, the group called on security agencies to rescue the journalist and other abducted citizens. Similarly, the state council of the NUJ in a statement issued by the chairman and the secretary, Samuel Numonengi and Ogio Ipigansi, condemned the abduction of Osahon and urged his captors to free him unconditionally.