…Says Govt Can’t Fund PHC Alone ABUJA –  Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo stated that much more needs to be done to reposition Primary Health Care (PHC) in Nigeria. While adding that the government budget cannot fund health on its own and the need for the private sector to assist. He, however, called on the private sector to assist Nigeria to achieve Universal Health Coverage by taking part in health service delivery. He made this known on Thursday in Abuja at the 2022 PHC Summit with the theme of the Primary Health Care Summit is “Re-imagining Primary Health Care in Nigeria. According to him, “There is a great need for synergy from private sectors, partners and the Federal Government to avoid duplication of Primary Health Care facilities.” Prof. Osinbajo said. “The COVID-19 pandemic was an eye-opener for me in five ways; Health challenges like this can weaken the global economy as well as the national economy. “The health system is only as strong as its primary health care system. Any investment in healthcare is a wise investment simply because fewer people get sick and can contribute to the country’s economy. POLL “It is important that we reflect on PHC investments, particularly tracking the progress made so far such as the BHCPF. We must continue to work towards a health care system that caters to the depressing health needs of all Nigerians”, he said. Similarly, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire added that we urgently need to revitalize PHC services by ensuring their availability at designated communities, at least one functional PHC per Ward, along with an adequate complement of human resources for health (HRH); comprising at the least of nurses, skilled birth attendants and other staff for basic healthcare. While adding that, they must be supported with efficient supply chain management that assures availability of essential medicines, medical devices, consumables and other commodities. According to him,’Our newest PHC design sees the provision of staff quarters in every PHC, to enable round-the-clock service delivery. The plan also requires an obligatory source of potable running water and a steady power supply with solar aggregate, for a conducive environment to deliver quality healthcare services. “Indeed, the foundation of any strong health system and for Universal Health Coverage rests on a robust, resilient PHC system, where health experts reckon that up to 70% of the country’s disease burden can be treated and vital disease prevention and health promotion education can be given, including immunization, routine and mass drug administration for various chronic diseases. Strengthening PHCs, not only assures better population health but reduces the workload on secondary and tertiary Healthcare levels and also the catastrophic out-of-pocket patient spending on health. “Over the past decade, we have made modest, but too slow progress, with landmark achievements like eradication of Wild Poliovirus and control of epidemic outbreaks, which are the outcome of the combined efforts of many players including the government, development partners, traditional leaders, civil society organizations”. Ehanire further stated, nevertheless, the journey towards a desirable health system and outcomes is still long. The PHC level has been neglected, with a consequent negative impact on human capital development. But we also have opportunities to build back better, with the goodwill and funds that have flowed into the system since then. It is in that light that we wish to rebuild our system by correcting the imbalance among the levels of care, beginning with this PHC summit. The Federal Ministry of Health wishes to build on gains of the past and partner with all sectors to achieve national and global targets. He said, revitalizing Primary Health Care Centres is central to this initiative and key to Mr President’s health agenda and the Ministry of Health’s effort to reposition PHCs to deliver quality healthcare service irrespective of location. This is the first step in reversing poor health indices, improving citizen quality of life and economic productivity. Our 10-year country-specific PHC transformation strategy is based on a 4point agenda and in line with best standards. Our call is to re-build a sustainable primary care system, offering services that meet citizen needs, through the course of a lifetime. I am, therefore, calling on all and sundry to support and pursue this agenda: a minimum of one PHC per Ward revitalization, starting now. To achieve UHC and SDG targets, PHC funding has to expand, to reduce out-of-pocket costs for healthcare to less than 30%. For this purpose, I propose that subnational Governments strongly consider supporting the Federal 1% of CFR to Basic Health Care Provision Fund with equal matching grants for their own States and for Local Government Areas, respectively. Additional self-determined, Ward level contributions by communities to their own PHC, will generate the much-desired sense of participation and ownership of PHCs. We can also leverage the partnership with donors, Development Partners, hometown Diaspora Clubs can enrich the pool of resources. A strong accountability and transparency framework is indispensable and must be institutionalized for such a fund pooling mechanism. The NPHCDA is well-positioned to work with all layers of government, including the Ward Development Committee, to oversee the PHC revitalization agenda. A well established State funding mechanism will encourage donor and partner support. The Chairman of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) Aliko Dangote said our PHC System, through which 80% of Nigerian’s health needs are met is not working properly. He opined that our focus should be on improving public-private partnerships, which will enable us to create the system we need to support the health of our 200 million citizens. This includes pharmaceutical manufacturing, investments in technology, training of health workers and improved PHC infrastructure, among others. My Foundation, (ADF) has been steadfastly working with governments, international and local organizations, communities, and users to design, introduce, and scale service innovations that support the improvement of Primary Healthcare in Nigeria. ADF’s investment in Primary Health Care/Health system strengthening efforts have evolved over the years. These efforts have included: Building over a dozen PHCs in Northern Nigeria (11 in Kano and 2 in Yobe); Polio/Routine Immunization (RI); Malnutrition support and broader health services improvement; and supporting the private sector coalition against COVID-19, CACOVID. More so, the Chairman Nigeria Governors Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi reiterated the commitment of the NGF to strengthening PHC in 36 states of the federation. Saying, “The use of electronic medical record, telemedicine and use of drone in hard-to-reach areas, villages have helped in streamlining ease delivery to most PHCs in Nigeria. Fayemi said. In addition, the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard said that Nigeria was moving closer to the achievement of Universal Health Coverage as it pays more attention to the primary health care sector She added that “The US government stands ready to support the PHC revitalization in Nigeria. The Diplomatic community stands ready to support the PHC revitalization.” WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti said that the COVID-19 pandemic has shown that healthcare is a critical aspect of the economy. She added that “I’d like to commend the Government of Nigeria for their desire to reimagine primary health care in Nigeria”. Speaking on behalf of the private sector, Chairman, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede Foundation, Mr. Aigboje Aig-imoukhuede, said that every local government area in Nigeria has people who can deliver Primary Health care center for them. “The private sector is not just behind Primary Health Care but fully aligned with all health care systems in Nigeria”. The Chief Executive Officer of GAVI, Dr. Seth Barkley said that “Revitalization of the Primary Healthcare is critical not just to the people at the community but also for global security. I commend the government of Nigeria for the initiative and commitment to strengthening primary health care. ” we urge the government to fulfill the Abuja declaration commitment to health. Gavi will continue to support Nigeria to succeed”. Earlier, the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaib said that Nigeria has a four-point PHC agenda to implement. “The four-point agenda is about implementing strategies that work and also thinking about those strategies that will drive more service delivery and revitalisation of our Primary health care sectors in Nigeria. Everybody here today has a part to play in changing the current state of our PHCs. Now is the time for us to talk and deliver solutions that will radically transform the PHCs in Nigeria.” Dr. Shuaib said.