****PMB Did Not Anoint Senator Adamu As APC National Chairman ****’I’ve Already Purchased My Form. We’ll Meet At The Ballot Six days to the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) billed to hold on 26 March 2022, former Zamfara State Governor, Abdul-Aziz Yari on Tuesday said that President Muhammadu Buhari has learnt a bitter lesson from imposing the party’s former National Chairman, Adams Oshiomole. He said that not only did Buhari not anoint Senator Abdullahi Adamu for the Chairmanship position of the APC, but that the party has no zoning arrangement. “The President made mistake in the past by anointing Adam’s Oshiomhole single handedly. Nobody voted for him. He was anointed as the National Chairman and you can see the result today, do you want a repeat of that” The former governor who was in the National Assembly to solicit the support of APC caucus of the Senate, said no such arrangement has been helpful to the party and democracy in the past. He said, “I did not know any issue about zoning because it was not communicated to me. I only saw it on social media.” “I have already purchased my form and you know that it is the National Assembly that makes laws for everyone. Whether reconciliation or any other process I have already picked form. We are ready to meet in the ballot box. POLL “For instance,, should the chairmanship be zoned to Northern Nigeria and Presidency to the South are we going to dictate to the zone who should be chosen, no? We are trying to break that jinx and embrace the real democracy”. Yari added that, “he recognized the National Assembly as a symbol of democracy and the lawmakers as critical stakeholders in the coming convention of the party , hence the need to solicit their support to realise his ambition.” Yari who spoke to newsmen after his visit to the APC caucus in the Senate, said, “You have also been reading in the media that President Muhammadu Buhari has anointed some. The President’s Special Adviser on Media, Garba Shehu has since clarified that. We are trying to break those jinx, we must come through the ballot box so that we can respect the votes of the people not by picking. Responding, the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, who stood in for the Senate president said Yari came close to occupying the Senate seat but for the court decision, he was restrained adding that such should not be allowed to repeat itself. Omo-Agege said Yari is one of the few contestants that have formally visited them in the Senate adding that haven been in the House of Representatives and supported them, they will also support him. “APC Is at a crossroads. That is the bad news. The good news is that all the challenges will soon come to pass. You are a major stakeholder. You’ve serve as a governor and you know the problems of the party. In the next few days, continue to tour that part of peace. “All we seek here at the National Assembly is a strong APC that will win the next election. There are so much conspiracies outside here. The PDP is praying to win the 2023 General Election, we are also praying and we pray God should not answer their prayers. “You are a leader that can speak truth to power. You are a leader that fit that bill. We wish you success on the 26 of this month, ” Omo-Agege said.