Can Marks&Spencer Become UK’s Favourite Shop Again?) Harvard Business Review Analytic(Abridged) Marks and Spencer the Britain retailer (often referred to as Marks & Sparks by locals) is a general retailer that sells clothes, gifts, home furnishings, and foods under the brand name St. Michael in the UK, Europe, the Americas and Far East. The company also operates in the financial services segment. Marks & Spencer started in 1884 by Michael Marks in the Leeds market. The company strived for value and low prices and worked for its development. The company’s stores started to carry the label (St. Michael) by 1949. The company’s vision is to offer consumers great quality, value, and service. With nearly 300 stores in the United Kingdom, M&S goods are perceived to be of excellent value and quality. The company has a wide expansion, M&S operated 289 stores in the United Kingdom, 11 in Europe, and 267 in Canada. This leads to have 33% of the market share of the UK. M&S managed to control the inventory and distribution when expanding. Also, they controlled their 50 suppliers which helped them to increase the quality. All went good for several decades, until the end of 1990s when there was a noticeable decline in the sales and in the overall performance of the company. Strategic position Marks&Spencer is operating in a very competitive environment and there are many factors that affect the company in the outside environment. As they operate in many segments like food cloths and home and beauty products they have to deal with many competitors. M&S is very sensitive to technological, social and economic factors. The core values of M&S: quality, affordability and service were under the attack from its competitors. Other Retailers such as Next, and Burton provide the customers with better fashionable and trendier designs with good value. Food chains, such as Tesco, and Sainsbury have started to move into frozen foods and readymade food products. M&S faced many challenges, but it did not change enough to be competitive; this resulted in M&S losing its profits and market share. For M&S to regain its market share and dominance, they need to invest. POLL Though M&S takes on the larger market share, it is still suffering in its profits which implies weakness in a rather cutthroat world of retail. Giving access to quality food and clothes to all is their vision. Increased food and fuel prices has an impact on the disposable income of the consumers, which leads to weaker demand for non-food products, M&S is responding to this trend of cutting prices and this is having a serious effect on their sales. Conclusion Using Below analysis (PESTEL, Porter’s 5 forces, and SWOT) and strategic analysis, it can be seen that M&S poses some strength within them and also a few weaknesses. They also have a few threats and areas of opportunities which explored can improve M&S. M&S drifted away from its core values and failed to notice that the competition was getting tougher and was not in line with the changing trend, this made them to lose a few customers. The mid-market segment which M&S was operating was hit by recession and this made the consumers move to other retailers such as Tesco and Sainsbury etc. which were providing the consumers for cheaper rates. M&S should come up with a contingency plan to not only focus on differentiation, but also to encounter the growing rivalry from other supermarket chains. Acceptability Not following the market trend in the clothing line and lack of proper customer service makes it impossible for M&S to sustain the challenge from other retailers like Tesco, and Sainsbury. They have to do market research and follow the current trend that is in the UK. Feasibility With the combination of its strengths the strategy M&S is using can be feasible but need to turn its threats to opportunities. M&S need to diversify and keep up with the challenge from the competitors, so that they can satisfy the shareholders. Sustainability For M&S strategy to be sustainable in the long term, their core competences such as value to customers, inimitability has to be examined as customers don’t get value for their money as the competitor are offering goods for cheaper prices. RetailWeek Marks&Spencer, led by Richard Greenbury had reported profits of 1.2 billion pounds and become UK’s most profitable retailer. However, the Bellwether business which had set new industry standards and launched many business careers, was about to spectacularly fall from grace. And that period of turmoil would last with the exception of a few moments of respite until this very day. Story source: Harvard Business Review Analytic; RetailWeek