Jessica is very angry with her boss. She believes that she is very hardworking, but her boss, Jennifer, doesn’t appreciate her work. According to her, Jennifer doesn’t like her as she always finds fault with her work. She is very frustrated. She is thinking of resigning and has come to you for advice. How would you use the definition of work in this chapter to help and counsel her? Trying to define work can be very confusing. Sometimes we feel that we have worked and done our best like Jessica, but we get the feedback that our best is not good enough. We see it every day… A student writes an exam and expects to ace the exam, only to see the result and is disappointed. A candidate goes for an interview and expects a job offer because the interview went exceptionally well from her assessment, only to get a rejection letter. Someone goes on a date and feels that he had a great first date and looks forward to the next date, only to be ignored by the other person. Do they sound familiar? In all the above cases, there is a gap between the assessment of their chances and the outcome. When that happens, we wonder what did we do wrong? What really happened? What could we have done differently? This chapter will clear up the confusion about work and bridge the gap between our assessment and our outcomes. To do so, we need to understand what real work is. This understanding will help explain why sometimes our best efforts are not good enough. POLL When I ask people to define work, I get a variety of definitions, from work as a place to work as a task or an activity, the most common of which is, “Any activity that you engage in that pays your bill.” While this definition is a good way to start, it falls short of a complete definition of work and cannot help Jessica address her problem with her boss. At a fundamental level, Work = Idea + Execution Idea requires mental energy, while execution requires physical energy. The centre of gravity of work has gradually shifted from physical to mental energy, which Peter F. Drucker coined as knowledge work to distinguish it from manual work. However, even with the shift to mental energy, we still need physical energy. The knowledge worker still needs physical energy to accomplish her goals. Therefore, real work requires both physical and mental energy, both hard and smart work. Real work requires us to expend energy for the right causes, in the right things, and with the right people. As a basic definition, work is energy channelled to accomplish your assignment or purpose. Real work requires energy that pushes you to stretch to create something extraordinary. Having understood this basic definition of work, we would turn our attention to the four components of real work. Four Components of Real Work One of my gifts is taking complex concepts and making them simple for people to understand. Therefore, based on the definition that work is energy channelled to accomplish your assignment, I would divide the components of real work into four, as shown below. These four components will clear up the confusion about the meaning of work and help many people in the workplace. © Four components of real work by Dr Maxwell Ubah 1. Output Work is always defined by output. It requires you to create or produce something. Without the product, work is not complete. This is perhaps the main difference between working and work. Working is the activity of the worker; work is the output or end result of working. Working can be likened to the process and work as the product. Work, by its definition, must have an end product. For example, I am working on this book, but I have not worked until the book is completed and published. I am like a pregnant woman; my work is complete only after delivering the baby. You get the idea. When we understand that real work must have an output, we will focus our energies on completion or execution. Without execution, work is not complete. We might have expended energy, but no work has been done. Completion, execution, and creation are synonyms for real work. Without them, no work has been done. Ralph Waldo Emerson observed that “the great majority of men are bundles of beginnings.” They begin but lack the discipline to finish the job. Therefore, the world doesn’t honour them as honours are given at the end and not at the beginning. Life doesn’t reward people for participating; life rewards people for finishing, as I am yet to see someone win a medal in a race they did not finish. The first defining characteristic of real work is that it must have an output. Only when we get to the end, when we finish, when we submit our report, only then can we say we have worked. But not before. Can a doctor say he has worked when he has not seen her patients, a tailor when the dress is not ready, a chef when the meal has not been prepared or a builder when the house is uncompleted? “It is finished” is the first characteristic of real work. Without getting to the end and breasting the tape, work has not been done. But output is only one component of real work. Jessica has an output. The student who submitted his script to the examiner has an output. So, what is the problem? This is an excerpt from Chapter 1 of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.