LAGOS – A group in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), United Progressives Forum, has commended the leadership of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) led by Yobe state governor, Mai Mala Buni for successful piloting the affairs of the party in the last two years. In a statement signed by its convener, Hon. Ismail Yakub, the forum specifically singled out the National Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, for the high level of professionalism and loyalty he demonstrated during his tenure. According to them, the story of the success of the Buni-led Caretaker Committee cannot be complete without mentioning the role played by Akpanudoedehe whom they described as a “loyal, dependable and true progressive, who placed the interest of the party far above his personal gains or comfort”. “We commend the leadership of the Buni-led Caretaker Committee for helping to stabilise the party after the raging storm that led to the removal of the Adams Oshiomhole led National Working Committee (NWC). It is indeed a huge sacrifice for the governor of a state currently battling insurgency challenge to accept that role and combined it effectively well, most times shuttling between Yobe, Abuja and other states. “Most importantly, mention must be made of the role played by the National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, a silent achiever and the engine room of the Caretaker Committee. We sincerely thank him for his outstanding patriotic role towards the unity, stability and growth of our great party. “For those who may not know, as the National Secretary, Senator Akpanudoedehe is the engine room of the CECPC. He is not a noisy type. He prefers to work diligently and quietly and he doesn’t want to take any glory for himself. What matters to him is that the committee justifies the confidence reposed in it by President Muhammadu Buhari and other stakeholders of the party by ensuring stability in the APC and putting it in proper shape for the 2023 elections. “Akpanudoedehe also demonstrated what a loyal man he is when he resisted attempts to illegally remove Governor Buni who was recuperating in a foreign hospital as APC chairman. That act of bravery, loyalty and steadfastness is something that is rare in today’s politics and we also appreciate him for that.” The forum also congratulated the newly elected National Executive of the APC led by Senator Adamu Abdullahi, urging them to consolidate on the achievements already recorded by the Buni-led Caretaker Committee.