The adjectives used to describe the APC above are actually not mine. They are borrowed from governors in the APC family who used the exact same dirty sobriquets to characterize their own party. When I read the news reports where the ruling party at the centre, APC, was labeled with the negative epithets that form the title of this ar­ticle, I was jarred and astounded. That is simply because I never envisaged or anticipated that there would be a period in the annals of our beloved country that political chicanery would degenerate to the extent that the rul­ing party would be tarred with such a black brush by its leaders — and not the opposition party members. That such an esteemed platform as the ruling party, APC ,of which the first six citizens of our great country — (President, Vice President, President of the Senate and his deputy as well as the Speaker of the House of Represen­tatives and the deputy) not forgetting the platform which at least 23 of the 36 governors in Nigeria belong — is be­ing described and characterized with such expletives, is astonishing to me. And I believe that l am not the only one nonplussed by the unsavory de­velopment as l suspect that the same feeling of embarrassment would ap­ply to a plethora of right-thinking men and women of goodwill in our beloved Nigeria. Indeed, I was aghast with displea­sure, (as I am of the conviction that perhaps you too, dear readers would have been) when l read the following in most of the daily newspapers that one of the governors from the North-East geopolitical zone protested that “the cabal formed by our other colleagues has suffocated the life out of APC. The party has been reduced to the equiv­alent of a drug-dealing gang where decisions are now based on who can manipulate President Muhammadu Buhari better.” Continuing, the aggrieved Gover­nor contended that: “Even if APC gov­ernors were constituted into a kind of Electoral College to make decisions for the party, which is not the case, there is no way seven is greater than thirteen. When you have only seven governors forcing their decision on thirteen gov­ernors of equal jurisdiction then you know there is a problem.” The obviously highly offended gov­ernor continued venting his anger by making the following explanation: “So, what we are saying is that we are ready for them. We are not saying that Mai Mala Buni should not stop being the chairman of CECPC, but our point is that there must be due process. There is a proper way to go about it, not some character sneaking to the president to snitch in the dark of the night and then come out throwing the president’s name around” He concluded his umbrage by issuing a threat: “If they want us to fall out with them as fellow APC governors then we are ready. But this thing about being dictator must stop. It is a democracy, and the APC must run as a democracy. Or else there is no example we are showing anybody as leaders.” The foregoing co­pious reproduction of tra­ditional and online news­papers reports quoting an aggrieved governor who spoke anonymously sign­posts the turmoil within the ruling party, APC. As if being choreo­graphed, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, who is the chairman of southern governors fo­rum, and elected on APC platform was more frontal and caustic in his outburst about the state of anomie that has engulfed the ruling party at the centre commenc­ing soon after its re-election victory at the polls in 2019; and culminating into the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole led National Working Committee, NWC, that was replaced with Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) since June 2020. As if the fiasco is not terrible enough, chairman Buni just got shoved aside on Sunday, March 6, 2022 and replaced with Abubakar Sani-Bello, Niger state Governor. At least that is according to some members of the party who are against the continued leadership of Buni as reported in the mass media. Until the fog is cleared, right now ev­erything about the APC seems to be in flux. POLL That is simply because, nearly two years after CEPCC was established to organize a national convention for the ruling party, APC in six months, holding a convention has remained a mirage. According to a statement credited to Akeredolu: “We, the Governors are for the party except for the few ‘Ya­hoo, Yahoo’ Governors (apologies to Salihu, former DG of the Progressive Governors’ Forum) who were hand in glove with Buni to circumvent the will of the majority of our Party (APC) members.” He then emphasized that: “Progres­sive Governors in the true name, most­ly all of us, are determined to see our Party through these patchy parts at all cost. None of the scanty numbers has the guts to carry out their imaginary threats as reported in sponsored sto­ries. We dare them to leave the party.” As a senior advocate of Nigeria and former president of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Akeredolu’s state­ment is weighty. Kaduna state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who never shies away from engaging in political cat-fights also joined in the brawl: said in an inter­view that he granted Channels televi­sion: “Buni is gone, the Secretary is gone. Governor Bello is in charge and he has the backing of President Mu­hammadu Buhari and 19 governors. Buni can only return as Governor of Yobe State but never as chairman of our party. “President Buhari ordered his re­moval and this has been implement­ed. Governor Bello has taken over and things are moving according to plan. The party will be restored and the con­vention will take place as scheduled. The 19 governors and their deputies are solidly behind this move. “Buni and his people got a court order to stop the convention but hid it.” The ousted Mai Mala Buni’s camp, roiled by El-Rufai’s allegations against their leader, had fired their own salvo at the governor of Kaduna state. The pro-Buni APC Integrity Group leader, Adams Abel said: “El-Rufai should be sufficiently schooled to accept that the APC is not Kaduna State that he gov­erns by fiat.” “APC has organs that have layers of responsibility and at no time was the power to hire and fire a caretaker chairman outsourced to El-Rufai”. The claim that Buni failed to swear in state executives was also not valid, according to the APC Integrity Group. “El-Rufai claimed that Governors and President (Buhari) directed Governor Buni to swear in state Excos elected months ago and that he nev­er followed the order; that the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) asked him to brief them, but he did not.” Going further, the APC Integrity Group, Secre­tary-General made the fol­lowing argument against Governor El-Rufai: “He should have ex­plained how Buni is sup­posed to swear in state excos when as many as 14 state chapters were bogged down by court cases that resulted from the kind of autocratic tendencies of the PGF.” “It also showed an abso­lute disregard for the other arms of government since the Kaduna State Governor was practically expecting his Yobe state counterpart to disregard extant court orders that forbade the swearing-in of some of the state excos he was referring to.” Indeed, according to reports gleaned from the Punch newspaper, the APC has about 208 cases filed in the court of law against it. Most of them are related to the con­tentious party congresses held across the country that are being largely disputed as they pitched governors against legislators who are more of­ten than not ex-governors engaged in supremacy battles in a bid to maintain the control of the party in their respec­tive states. Since June 2020 when Adams Oshiomhole led National Working Committee, NWC of the APC was dis­solved, and the Mai Mala Buni Special Convention Committee was inaugu­rated, 21 months after, (on March 8, 2022) it was claimed that Abubakar Sani-Bello mounted the leadership saddle of the ruling party at the cen­ter, APC. This simply means that in a period of less than three years, the leadership of APC has changed hands thrice, if the position of the anti-Buni group prevails. But thankfully, it would appear that the Independent National Elec­toral Commission, INEC has helped the APC to save itself by rejecting the purported new chairman on techni­cal grounds. This is underscored by the fact that allowing the perfidy of appointing another chairman with­out due process happening within the APC fold to stand, there would have been a constitutional lacuna similar to the type that was on the verge of ensuing, if President Buhari had not signed the electoral bill into an act to enable the electioneering process to commence according to INEC time­table, hence without further delay, he appended his signature on February 25, 2022. Since over seven years ago that the APC became the ruling party at the center after its presidential candi­date, General Muhammadu Buhari defeated then incumbent President Goodluck Jonathan of the PDP in the 2015 general elections, the party has been unable to hold a convention to blend the interests and ideologies of the five parties that collapsed into one party to oust PDP. Rather, it has on numerous occa­sions, postponed the organization of a critical convention that should ordinarily have been held after the formation of the party 2013/14 which is pre-2015 general elections won by president Buhari. Even after Mr Pres­ident’s re-election in 2019, and stretch­ing into three years into his second term, the ruling party has postponed holding a convention not less than two (2) times in less than two years. Just before the February 26th last scheduled date of the convention, it was shifted to March 26th which may develop ‘K-Leg’ as we like to term things that go awry in our clime. That is in light of the current change of leadership following Sani-Bello’s hostile takeover of affairs from Buni as the helmsman, (as widely reported in the mass media ) the party’s conven­tion may once again be in jeopardy. But as things look, the new acting chairman, Abubakar Sanni-Bello, who is the current Niger State Gov­ernor and deputizing for Buni (or in his shadows) looks set to deliver where others before him had failed. Otherwise, the party would be like a drifter and possibly a house of cards in the dictionary sense of the word-: a structure, situation, or institution that is insubstantial, shaky, or in constant danger of collapse. When l started writing this article, early last week, it was titled: APC House of Commotion and Mai Mala Buni were still holding sway as chairman. It was an apt title. Since I have lots of friends in the rul­ing party at the center that would ac­cuse me of being uncharitable, l toned down the title to what it is currently and which is simply a question to which I am seeking an answer. In response to questions from state­house reporters before embarking on the trip for a medical check-up in the United Kingdom, UK, president Bu­hari had assured Nigerians that the APC would not implode as feared in some quarters.