In line with the global movement to support the rights of women and girls to decide freely for themselves if or when to have children, the Nigeria Government has concluded plans to formally unveil its family planning 2030 commitment this week. Disclosing this on Sunday, Dr Salma Anas-Kolo, Director, Department of Family Health, Federal Ministry of Health, in her welcome address at a three-day virtual training for media practitioners organised by Rotary Action Group for Reproductive, Maternal and Child Health. Anas-Kolo said the launch is coming on the heels of the importance of family planning to meaningful sustainable development and the Federal government’s commitment to provision and uptake of family planning.She stated that the Federal government was also set to increase the involvement of religious leaders with large followership in giving information about maternal and newborn health, nutrition and child spacing to ensure the quality of life and nation-building. Nasarawa Government Earmarks 30m For Family Planning Lagos Women Count Dividends Of Family Planning She lamented that child deaths in Nigeria were still very high adding, “on a daily basis we have many women and children dying, larger than COVID-19. Every year, 40,000 to 50,000 women die from pregnancy and childbirth-related causes, but most of them are not reported.” Anas-Kolo, while noting that over 90 per cent of these deaths in both mothers and children less than five years are preventable, stated “each life is important and every death of a woman or child should be accounted for.” Meanwhile, Professor Emmanuel Adedolapo Lufadeju, National Coordinator, National Family Planning Campaign Rotary (RMCH) Nigeria, stressed the role of family planning in improving the chances of child survival and population management. Lufadeju further identified the critical role of media in awareness creation for increased uptake of family planning towards better sustainable development and called for more reporting on the issue. Worried, Professor Abubakar Panti, an expert in family health matters, said despite the available methods of contraceptives to delay or space pregnancies, Nigeria’s high fertility rate remains on the increase. POLL Panti said, “Nigeria is among the 10 countries with the highest fertility rate in the world, lack of access to contraception contributes to this high fertility rate. “The lifetime risk of a Nigerian woman dying during pregnancy and childbirth is one in 22, in contrast to developed countries estimate of one in 4900. Nigeria ranks fourth in the world’s highest countries with high maternal mortality. Family planning and use of contraceptives prevent pregnancy, thereby preventing maternal death,” he added.