James Iniama, governorship aspirant in the upcoming Akwa Ibom State election on Thursday called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that all defaulters of the recently published elections timetable are brought to book, without waiting for petitions. Iniama who made the call while speaking with journalists in Uyo insisted that the defaulters should be punished while lamenting that some aspirants had gone ahead of the timetable to anoint consensus candidates for parties, not minding what the law stipulated. He also called for voter education in the country to enlighten every voter on the need to play the role of a watchdog to ensure that the right thing is being done during the elections, irrespective of the persons involved. 2023: Insecurity Can Scare Voters From Voting – CAN Warns 2023: Oshiomhole Boys Vow To Stop Alimikhena’s 3rd Term… He said, “The law is no respected of persons, so we will not create a situation where the electoral bill treats one class of persons differently and treats the other one lesser than the other. “For instance, the electoral bill has been passed and INEC followed up with a timetable of activities; if you read the timetable, you will realise that people had breached that timetable substantially. Without INEC waiting for petitions to come, they should bring such people to book.” Iniama, however, commended President Mohammadu Buhari, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Yakubu Mahmud, and everyone who had input in the making of the Electoral Act in the country. The aspirant said the Electoral Act would serve the interest of the electorates and the electoral process in the country. He promised to follow the Electoral Act and the timetable as published by INEC in his aspiration, stating that his project is not personal but meant for the critical masses to take the state to the next level. POLL “Now that the electoral bill has been given assent to, my aspiration is on top gear. We will continue with consultations and we are very hopeful that we are doing the will of God,” he noted.