Dr. Tunde Moses Elebute, a public affairs commentator and human rights promoter, is the Deputy Director, Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIVIFON), Lagos State chapter. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the issues of zoning and consensus in Nigerian political lexicon, among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the current situation in APC, especially as it concerns the uncertainties over its national convention and leadership? What I know about Nigerian politicians is that they always resolve issues. They know how to give and take. I believe APC leaders know what to do as they reach out to each other to resolve the crisis. Let the spirit of give and take lead. The current situation in APC is bad. But, I believe they will resolve the issues. They have experience as governors, senators, etc. there will be horse trading and they will resolve it. There is the understanding that the APC national convention will be held on March 26. It is believed that President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed one Adamu as the national chairman. So, the convention must hold. The convention will resolve the issue of its national leadership. If they are able to hold the convention, the issue of its primaries will not be a problem. I believe Buhari wants the convention to be held so that the convention will be easier. Would you say that the issues of concession and zoning will not destroy both APC and PDP before the election? Ordinarily speaking, zoning is not bad. Consensus too is not bad. It is just like sitting down to agree on issues. If there is give and take, there is nothing wrong in both zoning and concession. Both concession and zoning are very peaceful ways of choosing leaders where there is a spirit of give and take, and where they have done their homework. I pray that the two political parties will allow the spirit of give and take to prevail. If not, there will be confusion. With current problems in both APC and PDP over consensus and zoning, don’t you see the disgruntled elements in both platforms coming together under a Third Force to issue surprise packages to the two major parties in the 2023 general elections? If the majority of people agree on zoning or concession, the disgruntled elements may not carry enough weight to get supporters. Both zoning and concession are good concepts for peace. Even in churches, we practice both zoning and concession. They are internal arrangements to make the party peaceful. If the majority accepts it, it will work. So, people should sit down and resolve issues in their parties. If they are able to resolve the issues, the disgruntled elements will not be strong enough to make an impact, even if they join the Third Force. Unless the issue of zoning and concession are done by force and forced down the throat of members, the issue of the Third Force may not be strong enough. If the North insists on presidency for instance, instead of allowing the South, that may be a problem. If you impose anybody from the North, that person will not win. The North should allow the South to produce a president. South West, South South, South East should rally round a candidate. But, let there be an inclusive government. What is your take on developments over cases involving Abba Kyari? POLL If the government really wants Abba Kyari to face justice, they should allow the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to finish its case. But, the issue of Hausa Fulani may come in. It seems the government may not want him to face the government. I think the government should send him to the US to face the FBI charges. If he is freed, he can return to face the drug charges. I think it is better for him to be extradited to the US to face charges there. If he survives the US charges, he can come back to face the drug charge. Government should ensure that there is no partiality in handling Abba Kyari’s case. Even if he is found guilty in the US, he can be brought back to Nigeria to serve his terms here. While in prison here, the government can continue his trial. Let him face justice in the US. If he is free, he can come back to face his drug charges. That he is involved in a drug case while in suspension shows there is a lot of injustice in this country. So, let him be sent to the US first. Government should not be shielding him from trials in the US. Are you impressed by recent developments concerning Yoruba nationalist, Sunday Igboho? I am happy that he was released to attend to his health challenges. I commend everyone who ensured that he is released so that his doctors can take care of him. It is good that he was not allowed to return to Nigeria at his release. This is because there is a high possibility that if steps into the country, he might be arrested. So, he should be allowed to take care of himself. Omoyele Sowore, the AAC National Chairman and 2019 presidential candidate recently declared interest in the 2023 presidential election. Do you see him going far bearing in mind his treason case and the fact that he is judicially restricted to Abuja? Government should be fair in handling Sowore’s case. He has not been convicted of any charge. He was not a criminal. He did not steal. He only wanted a change in how the country is run. No matter what the government and security agents accuse him of, he is still an accused. He has the right to contest elections and be voted for. The government should allow him to exercise his democratic rights. They should accord him the respect due to him, especially as a presidential aspirant. He tried before and came third or fourth. The government should allow him and give him the opportunity. If Nigerians want him to become their president, so let it be, Sowore is a man of value who has been contributing to the economy and employing people. If the people choose him to lead the country, so let it be. Sowore has a party. He should be allowed to contest. Do you think Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, despite his old age and ill-health, stands a better chance than Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to win the APC presidential ticket and the election? The throne is Asiwaju Tinubu’s, but he may not rule because of certain things. The throne is his because of his efforts and involvement in bringing the APC into existence. His age is not a problem. Trump and Biden in the US were elderly before they became presidents. If Awolowo was allowed to rule, he was already not a young man. Tinubu’s age is not important but his health. If he carries Nigeria’s load on him, his age will deteriorate. There is no politician in APC who has done so much, built people, made many astute politicians who has done so much across the country, except Tinubu. Buhari contested presidential elections several times and lost until Tinubu stepped in to help him. If not that Nigerians are ungrateful, they should have used concession to enthrone Tinubu. See what he did in Lagos. He ensured that Lagos succeeded. He brought in Fashola, Ambode and Sanwo-Olu. See what Lagos is today. Somebody with Tinubu’s acumen should be allowed. His only problem is his health. His party should have granted him the concession without a primary. I am talking of APC. Other parties should bring in their candidates. Let them face Nigerian people. If Tinubu loses at the election proper, we will know that Nigerians rejected him and not his family. If he dies in the process, he will die happily that his party honored him. That is why I said the throne of APC belongs to him. He has been a governor for eight years. How many people who governed with him at the same time are still relevant in their states, not to talk of across the country? If APC fails to give Tinubu its ticket, the party will break up and the third force will be powerful and APC may not win elections again. How do you see the concept of Lagos4Lagos that is becoming popular in the state? Don’t mind the Peoples Democratic Party. They have not shown me that they are serious. Lagos4Lagos is just a slogan. PDP does not have a solid structure in Lagos. APC has even street leaders. APC has foot soldiers at the grassroots, even to the street level. APC is ready to spend. In PDP, if they are given money, people hardly see it. I don’t see Jandor who is championing the Lagos4Lagos going far. If he had remained in APC without defecting to PDP and they resolve issues within APC, the Lagos4Lagos would have made a better impact. Majority of people in Lagos are not from Lagos. If they have passed their demands through APC that has structure, Lagos4Lagos would have become manifest. They should have passed their demands through Tinubu. Tinubu has made even the Obas. It will amount to fighting a tiger for Lagos4Lagos to fight against APC. They should not have defected to another party that lacks structure and does not have funding. It is only God that can change the course of leadership in Lagos. If God decides to do it, fine. People should keep on trying. But, it is only God that can change it.