Barcelona manager Xavi said he did not “see much point” in commenting on the prospect of Real Madrid signing Paris Saint-Germain ace Kylian Mbappe and Borussia Dortmund hitman Erling Haaland. Carlo Ancelotti’s side are currently ten points clear at the top of La Liga and appear to be contenders in the Champions League, after seeing off PSG 3-2 in the Round of 16. However, Los Blancos could be about to further enhance their already impressive squad with the arrivals of Mbappe and Haaland. Mbappe appears set to swap the Parc des Princes for the Bernabeau when his contract at Mauricio Pochettino’s side expires at the end of the season. Meanwhile, the 13-time European champions are also believed to be one of the leading contenders in the race to sign Haaland, who will be available for around £64m, courtesy of a buy-out clause in his contract. Barcelona were also understood to be a part of the transfer tug of war over the Norwegian, which will also likely include Manchester City, Paris Saint-Germain and Bayern Munich in the summer. But Blaugrana president Joan Laporta appeared to rule the Catalans out of the running for Haaland’s signature at the end of the season. And Xavi brushed aside questions concerning the ominous prospect of Mbappe and Haaland leading their fiercest rival’s frontline. Mbappé and Haaland to join Real Madrid? Nothing happened yet, commenting on signings in advance… I don’t see much point in it,” Xavi recently said of the matter. “In football, the group is always more important than the individual players”. His comments proceed rather sombre comments from Laporta, who had initially appeared optimistic when it came to the prospects of signing Haaland. Shortly after unveiling £54m signing from Manchester City Ferran Torres in the January transfer window, Laporta initially stated “Barcelona are back” after being asked about the prospect of signing Haaland. However, Laporta’s recent comments seemed to all but rule out any interest in signing the imperious Norwegian who has netted a terrifying 23 goals and six assists in 21 appearances for Dortmund this season. “Even if we had the best possible financial situation, there are some operations that we will not do,” Laporta said when asked about signing Haaland. “The sporting directors are working hard to improve the team and we want to make signings, but there are some that are very difficult. We have to save ourselves. We have improved the situation, but we have to finish the job of turning the financial situation around. And we won’t do any operations that put the club at risk.”