Nigeria is embarking on aggressive moves to narrow importation gap in the lubricant sub-sector of the oil and gas industry. The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), conveyed this on behalf of the Federal Government, saying Nigeria can’t afford to continually spend more revenue and experience job losses on account of importation of lubricants. The board has entered into production partnership with ERASKON Nigeria Limited whose facility located at Gbarain in Bayelsa State. It said the facility is meant to produce approximately 64,000 litres of lubricants per day and more than 20 million liters of products a year. Mr. Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of NCDMB, noted that Nigeria’s in-country manufacturing capacity for lubricating oil falls far below consumption. He said the shortfall is met through importation. He explained that the partnership with ERASKON was in line with the Board’s mandate of developing local manufacturing capacity, providing employment opportunities, and increasing local content in the Nigerian oil and gas industry and linkage sectors. According to him, Section 70(h) of the NOGICD Act of 2010 mandates the Board to assist local contractors and Nigerian companies to develop their capabilities and capacities to further the development of Nigerian Content in the oil and gas industry. POLL He also said no lubricant blending plant exists currently in Bayelsa State and ERASKON decided to domicile and domesticate the production and thereafter submitted proposals to the Board, which was approved after a diligent review of the technical and commercial viability. He added that the blending plant would be beneficial to the host community, State, and the neighbouring states through meeting their needs for lubricant products as well as providing direct, indirect, and induced job opportunities. Mr. Maxwell Oko, the Executive Vice Chairman of ERASKORP Nigeria Limited – the holding company of ERASKON lubricants, in his remarks, confirmed that the plant would on completion produce high-quality engine oils, transmission fluids, hydraulic fluids specialised four-wheel-drive products, engine coolants, and specialty products such as waxes. He added that in the second phase of development, the company would go into the manufacturing of industrial chemicals such as drilling and production chemicals as well as transformer and turbine oil, in addition to household products such as detergents and aerosols”