JOS – A gubernatorial aspirant under the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Plateau state and Permanent Secretary Government House Jos Sunday Garba Biggs has declared his interest to contest the governorship race in 2023 in his state. Biggs made this declaration on Wednesday at Mangu LGA his country home while addressing his supporters and groups campaigning for him at NUT Hall. He charged his supporters should not use vulgar language or show disrespect for anyone contesting the same office with him. Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards Biggs, who gave this charge in Mangu LGA during the declaration of interest to run for the position of Governor of the State, said he is a child of God and product of grace who does not create hatred or enmity to enable him to get what he wants. According to him, it is a brotherly and family affair and so there is no need to hurt one another if they truly desire to serve the people adding that from a humble beginning in the civil service, by dint of hard work and commitment to the service of his state and people, he rose to the position of Permanent Secretary. “In the course of my work and growth in service, I have been privileged to work with technocrats and public officers. I make bold to say I have learned a lot from our leaders, past and present. “I have tapped from their wisdom, expertise and knowledge and equipped with experience to offer myself as the next Chief Servant leader of Plateau State.” He further explained that his work has made him interact with captains of industry, top technocrats, diplomats and a cross-section of top political leaders of this country noting that this has positioned him, with the understanding and knowledge of issues and dynamics of developmental governance as well as social, economic and infrastructural re-engineering. POLL The aspirant said his campaign mantra is anchored in four thematic areas which include peace and enhanced security, agricultural development, solid minerals development, social services and critical infrastructure. He added that the task now is to secure the ticket of our great party, the APC stressing that if given the chance to serve his dear state, he will present to the great people of Plateau State equality and a level playing for all, irrespective of tribe and religion.