ABUJA  – Airline operators in Nigeria have threatened to shut down operations in three days over the non-availability of aviation fuel, also known as Jet-A1, to run their operations. This was as aviation fuel marketers have failed to convince the House of Representatives on why the prices of the product are hitting the rooftops on daily basis. At the moment, airlines are buying aviation fuel at N670 per litre from normal price of N190 litre recently. Speaking before the special House Committee investigating the unavailability of the product with the aim of proffering solutions, the Vice President, Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), Mr. Allen Onyeama, said that with the current cost of fuel, they cannot sustain their operations. Onyeama also condemned the marketers for refusing to disclose the actual amount they buy aviation fuel per litre. “I have the mandate of every airline in this country to announce to you that if they cannot come down from their rooftop, we have only three more days to be able to fly. We are not threatening this country. We have been subsidising what we are doing. “I will give you the rate as of today (at) N630, N640, N650 (per litre). We have an aircraft going to Kano that has about 7000 litres of fuel on it. Multiply it by N630. The unit cost per seat already is about N70,000 per seat. You have not talked about the insurance that is very static and Nigerians pay a lot of insurance premiums because this country is stigmatised. “You have to insure in London and other places abroad. It is a loss. All the insurance companies in Nigeria put together cannot even insure one aircraft. So, you have to go abroad to insure and they slam us with heavy premiums. What we use in insuring one plane is what the legacy airlines of this world use in insuring about three planes. So, the Nigerian airline is dead on arrival. POLL “Yet, the fuel cost which was supposed to be about 30 to 40 percent (of operational costs) in every other clime in the world, in Nigeria it is about 70 percent even before this time (of scarcity). So, you can now see the mortality rate of airlines in this country and the causes”, Onyeama said. The Air Peace boss challenged the marketers to disclose the actual price of aviation fuel, saying, “They have refused to answer your simple question. Whether you got money from the CBN or from the black market, how much is the unit cost of your acquisition so that we know if the airlines are cheating you or you are cheating the airlines, or if you have formed a cartel to increase your prices overnight.” Onyeama stated, “From what is happening if we continue this way, the least ticket you will expect from airlines will be about N120,000 for economy (class). And we don’t want to do that because it will not help the ordinary man. “I have the mandate of airways to inform the House that we are now demanding that we should be given a licence to import this fuel. If we can buy jets that cost about $80 million, we can afford to import this fuel. Let NNPC give us the right to import fuel and we will not complain to you.” In their presentation, the oil markers said high dollar rate was responsible for the high cost of the fuel. Asked by the Deputy Speaker of the House, Ahmed Idris Wase, who chaired the committee of how much they purchased the dollar and which banks, the representatives of the marketers could not give an answer. He, therefore, warned against blackmailing the government. On his part, the Group Managing Director of NNPC Limited, Mr. Mele Kyari, said that at the moment there were 19 oil companies with 88 million litres of aviation fuel in the country.