ABUJA – Emefiele Support Group on Friday replied the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which demanded for the resignation of the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, whose posters and banners to contest the 2023 election are everywhere in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja Emefiele posters and banners have been seen in the Federal Capital Territory, seeking to contest for presidency under the All Progressives Congress (APC). To this end, PDP had demanded for his resignation, basing its demand for Emefiele resignation on the provisions of section 9 of the CBN Act, which provides that the governor and the deputy governor shall devote the whole of service while holding office, shall not engage in any full or part-time employment or vocation, whether remunerated or not… Reacting to the PDP statement, the Emefiele Support Group (ESG), in a statement by its Director of Communications, Benigna Ejimba, asked the PDP how a poster of the CBN Governor and the President amounts to a breach of the aforementioned section of the law. “Even when the CBN Governor is yet to answer the call to declare for 2023 Presidency. It is quite interesting that a mere poster is generating so much noise from the opposition. “This indeed confirms to us that we are on the right part. As members of the Emefiele Support Group, we made our choice to ask for his Presidency because, in him, we see a man who has shown passion and commitment to our country’s development. “He is a man whose dedication has led him to work both in the PDP administration and retained in the APC administration. It is now funny that the PDP is questioning his loyalty to his service of our country. “This confirms to us that the posters have put the great opposition party in the panic of defeat because they truly know that his emergence will kill their ambition to seize back power in 2023,” ESG said. POLL The group further said that PDP was the first to “discover our fearless and dedicated Central Bank Governor, they know that true Nigerians will go to the polls to vote for the one man that has the ability to place our nation amongst wealthy and developed countries in the world. “Therefore, we will continue our call for a dedicated and committed professional, a loyal person who has been part of great achievements in our country, a tested technocrat, a patriot, and detribalized Nigerian, whose candidacy will ensure unity, peace, and stability in our nation once more. We will not be derailed by the noise but will continue until Godwin Emefiele answers the clarion call to lead our great nation.”