Lanre Shittu Motors has trained some dropouts and area boys out of the streets through its auto skill training and employment scheme for school leavers. Apart from this, the auto company has also ensured advanced training skills to young graduates. In all, the company said that no fewer than 450 Nigerians have benefitted from the schemes. Weststar Launches All-New Mercedes-Benz S-Class In Nigeria Coscharis Offers Land Rover Discovery For Hole-In-One At Ikoyi… Taiwo Shittu, the Executive Director of Lanre Shittu Motors, in an interview with auto journalists in Lagos, explained that part of the empowerment scheme of the auto company was to help beneficiaries’ secure decent jobs with good salaries. According to him, the auto company has contributed a lot to the Nigerian economy especially in the area of manpower, training and empowerment of young Nigerians over the years. He emphasised that the company has an empowerment scheme for school leavers who have passion for automotive development, stressing that they are trained for a period of four years and get paid even while on training. He added: “After the training, we send them to our customers across the country to service them. We ask them to be employed, accommodated and paid well. In some cases, they are given a car and placed on a good salary that we dictate. “We are getting good testimonies from those we sent to Kano, Bauchi, Ondo and Cross River states, among others. These are people that would have been bus conductors, touts or motor boys, now heading a facility of 300 to 500 trucks.” POLL He stated further that Desmond Elliot, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, also sent 10 people from his Surulere constituency to the company for the scheme. Shittu called on the Nigerian government at various levels to invest and utilise the abundant, but untapped local skills, especially among the youth to develop the automotive assembly industry. He expressed that Nigerians have the skills, but lacked the government support to excel. He appealed to the current generation of leaders to invest and make sacrifice for the development of the next generation just like the Chinese did. ‘’In those days, many people looked down on the Chinese and derided them for looking haggard and wretched. What they did not know was that, they were making sacrifice for the current generation. Today, the China’s story has changed. Nigeria also needs to do the same,” he said.