…Rescue Eight kidnaps Victims, Recover Large Cache Of Ammunition ABUJA – The Director, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General Bernard Onyeuko has said, the renewed intensity by troops of the Nigerian Armed Forces in the fight against banditry and other criminal elements in the country has resulted in the destruction of many bandits camps and killing of scores of terrorists across the country. General Onyeuko stated this at the Defence Headquarters, on Thursday, during the bi-weekly press briefing to update the media and acquaint the general populace of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies operational engagements against security challenges across the country. PDP Holds NEC Meeting On Tuesday Contaminated Fuel: Youth Group Demands Sack Of NNPC, NMDPRA… According to Onyeuko, troops of Operation Whirl Stroke while acting on a distress call from Tse Mela in Yooyo Council Ward of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area about the criminal activities of Iortyom Wuave aka JANTA a notorious armed militia gang leader who has been on the wanted list, mobilized and moved to the location and in a subsequent gun battle with troops was neutralized. In the last two weeks, he said, “Operation Whirl Stroke carried out kinetic and non-kinetic operations in its theatre. Some of the areas in which the operations were conducted are; Akula, Alijo, Hillega, Ihuwakaa, Akirga, Tse Mela in Yooyo Council Ward, Tyodoo in Mayongo Council Ward of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area, Kwanta Sule Village, Gbekyor in Guma Local Government Area, Tse Ogo Village in Ugbaam Council Ward, Tse Jundo in Mbamema Council Ward of Ukum Local Government Area and Tse Kyegh Ugondo in Logo Local Government Area all in Benue State. “The renewed intensity by own troops in the fight against banditry and other criminal elements resulted in the destruction of many bandits camps. Notably on 24 February 2022, while on fighting patrol, own troops responded to a distress call from Tse Mela in Yooyo Council Ward of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area about the criminal activities of Iortyom Wuave aka JANTA a notorious armed militia gang leader on Operation Whirl Stroke wanted list. Own troops mobilized and moved to the location and in a subsequent gun battle with their own he was neutralized.” Relatedly, General Onyeuko revealed that “On 25 February 2022 troops raided the hideout of the notorious armed bandits at Tse Jundo in Mbamena Council Ward in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State. During the shootout with troops, 2 of the notorious armed one bandits Terdoo Kiorga aka APAAPA and Orkulam Mom aka ORBUTEE were neutralized.” The duo, he said has been on the wanted list of Operation Whirl Stroke and are known to have unleashed mayhem on Zaki Biam and its environs in the past. Five AK 47 rifles, one pimp action rifle, one pistol, one locally-made gun, three AK 47 magazines, 127 pieces of 5.56mm rounds, six pieces of 9mm rounds, four rounds of 7.62mm, 12 cartridges, five cell phones and assorted charms were said to have been recovered and handed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary actions. POLL In another development in Niger state, “Troops on patrol and clearance operations encountered bandits in Kutunku, Baban Lamba Villages in Wishishi and Kontagora Local Government Area of Niger State. In the encounter, seven bandits were neutralized, AK 47 rifles, five magazines, 71 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 37 motorcycles and 10 mobile phones were recovered. Within the period review, OPERATION WHIRL STROKE has cumulatively neutralized 9 bandits, recovered eight AK 47 rifles, eight magazines, 208 special ammunitions, 15 cell phones.” Similarly, Onyeuko noted that troops have conducted non-kinetic operations in order to alleviate the poor living of people in the IDP Camps. As part of these non-kinetic operations, the Force Commander of Operation Whirl Stroke distributed some food, sanitary and sundry items to the internally displaced persons in Ortese, and Daudu Camps both in Benue and Keana in Nasarawa State. This is as troops also conducted a series of peace meetings with heads of local communities and youth leader’s to work out modalities for maintaining peace in their domain. “One of such meetings was conducted at the palace of His Royal Majesty Aku Uka of Wukari, Dr Ishaku Ada Ali with heads of local communities and youth’s in attendance.” On the troops’ operational activities in the North East, General Onyeuko said, the efforts of troops yielded significant results in some locations in the North East such as Mandara Mountain, Kwatara hill, Fadagwe Village in Gwoza Local Government Area, Timbuktu Triangle, Buk Village in Damboa Local Government Area, Hawul Village and Mallam Fatori in Biu Local Government Area all in Borno State. “Notably, own troops during a robust clearance operation engaged Islamic State West Africa Province terrorist at Mandara Mountain in Gwoza Local Government Area and Timbuktu triangle in Damboa Local Government Area Borno State. During the encounter, 10 terrorists were neutralized. Akwa Ibom 2023: Luke Vows To Build On Legacies Of Attah,… Nigeria Set To Strengthen Bilateral Relationship With Cuba “Troops also recovered 4 AA-guns, 2,000 rounds of 12.7mm ammunition, 10 bicycles, one unexploded Improvised Explosive Device, one MOWAG APC, one truck mounted with 122 artillery gun, one machine gun, four AK 47 rifles, 1 60mm motar tube with five bombs. “Similarly, troops had an encounter with Islamic State West Africa Province terrorists along Debiro-Shaffa Village in Hawul Local Government Area two terrorists were neutralized and recovered one AK 47 rifle, three magazines, 143 rounds of 7.62mm special, one Dane gun, one pump action rifle and six cartridges. “Furthermore, the Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province have continued to surrendered to troops at different locations in the theatre, a total of 174 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State West Africa Province terrorists and their families comprising of 43 adult males, 58 females and 73 children from Villages around Bama and Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno State surrendered to own troops. All surrendered terrorists and their families have been profiled”, he revealed. He said troops of Operation Hadarin Daji on clearance patrol on 1 March in Bakin Dutse, Gadawa Daji Camp and Brunkoza Village in Kankara Local Government Area in Katsina State encountered terrorists, following artillery bombardment from ground troops and Close Air Support from the air component neutralized 6sixterrorists and forced the rest to flee in disarray. “Troops exploited the area and recovered 574 rustled cattle, 22 motorcycles, 3 AK 47 rifles and 21 rounds ammunitions. Similarly, troops also conducted operational activities in Gargwaje Village in Gusau Local Government Area, Danmark Village and Goronyo Mailele axis in Bukkuyum Local Government Area of Zamfara State. “Other locations are Kurami Village, Batasani, Yargamji in Batsari Local Government Area, Dantambara, Kolumbo, Tsambe Daji, Kyabbo Village in Jibia Local Government of Katsina State and Dankolo in Sakaba Local Government Area of Kebbi State. “Consequently, the operations resulted in the neutralization of 90 Bandits, eight civilians were rescued, and two locally fabricated rifles, two pump action guns, one locally-made pistol, two rounds of 7.62mm special and four phones were recovered.“Cumulatively, the operations neutralized 96 terrorists, rescued 8 kidnapped victims, and recovered large cache of ammunition. All rescued civilians have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further actions.This is as Military High Command, therefore, commanded troops in the frontlines of the various theatre of operations for their zeal and commitment in containing the various securities challenges across the Country