Pastor Oloruntimileyin Joshua Daramola, aka Bosoro, is the founder of The Omnipotent Mission Of God. Recently, the church inaugurated about 20 graduates from the church’s school of theology as pastors. In this interview with NGOZI UMA he shared how he has been able to manage the church successfully, even as he stressed the need for pastors to be involved in politics, among other issues. Excerpts: What are your expectations from the new pastors? Mark 16 verse 15 tells us what pastors are supposed to do. I believe that they would perform better because we taught them about God, how they can handle humans, how they would go about their pastoral work without any evil in their minds. I expect them to sow good seeds, to do better than me because before we chose them, we have known them. Delighting In God The Man Called Bartimaeus (I) In your address to the new pastors, you warned them not to toe the path of Judas Iscariot. How do you manage cases of betrayal among your pastors? In every organisation we have betrayals, we have untrusted people. Among the disciples of Jesus Christ, one of them, Judas Iscariot, betrayed him. I have worked with a lot of pastors that were betrayers. But, I managed to cope with them. Today, they know where they are. Also, I know where I am. I thank God who gave me the wisdom and knowledge to manage them. There are a lot of fraudulent pastors. No matter the education you give them, no matter the teachings, and how you satisfy them, they will still misbehave. I pray for such pastors for God to re-anoint them and touch their hearts to do good works for God. Being a leader of a big church like TOMOG can be very challenging. Could you share some of the things you have put in place to ensure its sustainability? POLL I have been saying it, for you to own a church and the church is successful, it means God is with you. Again, God is the weapon of the church that you own. There is a lot of wisdom, understanding, endurance that we need to put in place for us to maintain the church. There were a lot of things that happened at my branches that I overlooked but I handled my Pastors in a way an earthly master would. Looking at the state of the nation, what do you think the leaders are doing wrongly and what should the president do to bring the positive change we have long for? This country called Nigeria is my home. No matter the condition, I will still pray for her. Our major problem is that we lack truthful leaders, a leader that would dedicate himself as a leader; a leader that would feel the pains of the citizens; a leader that would establish trust; a leader that will have a true mind that all Nigerians are one. Not a tribalistic leader. We want a leader that will agree that Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa and other tribes are one. Nigeria is a great country, we are endowed with many mineral resources, we are the giant of Africa but because of bad leadership, we have become a poor country. Dubai has good leaders and they are doing well. They turned their country to a paradise. What we need in Nigeria are good leaders, we beg our leaders to rethink and change their system of governance. Many church leaders seem not interested in leadership positions in the country. Why do you think pastors in Nigeria do not get involved politics? Catholic Bishops Elect Ugorji New President Archbishop Asks Nigerians To Choose Right Leaders That is a great mistake. Every man of God is a politician. We deal with human beings, we correct mistakes of our members, we hold the nation, we hold the world. Now, when we approach God to give us a good leader, who is a good leader? A good leader is a man of God or a woman of God. I know if a church leader like Baba Adeboye or Oyedepo said they wanted to be the president of this nation, people will not vote for them and we have being aspiring for truthful leaders. I want to use this opportunity to call on all the pastors, we should renew our minds to go into politics. We should not allow devil to take control of the nation. When we said we want a man chosen by God and we are running from same position, by doing that we give chances to the devil to take over. We give evil people chances to take over as much we reject those leadership positions because of our church. The notion that I am a Pastor I can’t go into politics should stop, when we reject the positions we allow evil to take control, we allow the killers to take control. Man of God, go and be the king of your town, let us feel the presence of God in your town. Don’t allow those evil people to be the leader in your town. When you allow an evil person to govern you or to be a king in your town, as Pastor you will be under that person; under the evils. If you can’t do it chose another man of God to go and do it. When the Emir or King is from God, you will see a positive change in this country. As a king in one particular town, being a pastor that town will be God’s town. When a Pastor becomes a president in this nation, it means this nation will become God’s nation. Let pastors go out to vote who they feel can lead. Lastly, with the rise in crimes among youths; ritual killings, and abnormal taste for quick wealth, do you think the church is to be blamed for the moral decadence among youths? The church cannot be blamed much, it’s just 30/70. The church will be with the youths like four to five hours in a week during Sunday services. The parents have a lot to do more than the church. The church can preach it on Sunday or other service days but the major work lies at the home front. The parents of the youths have a lot to do, because nowadays, it is becoming more terrible, there are a lot of ritual killings, even among youths at the tender age of 15 and 16 years. You want to do yahoo plus at that tender age? In church, we should stop preaching wealth and prosperity. Let us preach the kingdom of God. We prepare our youths for the future but now they are killing the future. If government can inert another law to ensure that parents guide and guard their wards properly, it will be a welcomed development. The parents play major role in bringing up a child. They need to shout out and seek for help when they notice any abnormal behavioral pattern of their child. They should not hide them.