Coach Chudi Onyemeri Kalu, President/Chairman and Co-founder, Arkbridge Integrated Limited, is Independent Real Estate Personality of the Year 2021. His innovativeness and creative prowess have positively disrupted the Nigeria Real Estate space. Being a highly distinguished real estate coach and frontline property developer, he enjoys both local and international recognition as an exceptional breed and a motivator par excellence. He gives insight into his peculiar world of business, coaching and mentoring, as well as other issues. Excerpts: The Brand, Coach Chudi Coach Chudi is a real estate investor, property developer and a rental income coach. I started a real estate business about 10 years ago, full time. I saw it as an opportunity to exit poverty. Growing up in a one-room apartment and staying there for over 20 years was quite traumatic and spurs you looking for an opportunity to take up. I tried my hands on so many things. Tried consulting. Did a whole lot of investments. I used to sell in the bus. I bought my first wheelbarrow at the age of 16, combing the streets trying to heck a living and paying my younger brothers’ school fees. Constitution Review: What Nigerian Women Want –Women Groups We’ve Taken Out Most Self-Acclaimed Terror Leaders –Air Marshal… I sold magazines on the bus but it didn’t yield much. I organized seminars and training and I remember vividly one of the events I attempted to hold. We distributed over 20,000 flyers and only two people turned up. The two persons who showed up were actually a friend who came to support me and the DJ handling sounds for the day. Those were the two persons available that day. So, you can imagine that we had a powerful seminar that day. (Laughs) I went back to the drawing board to review. I went into real estate just to prove to myself that I wasn’t operating under a curse. Because after I had tried a whole lot of stuff, I needed to actually prove I wasn’t really under a spiritual curse. Without a clear-cut vision of exactly what to do, I just felt real estate was for people who are rich, so it may just be an easy way out. But in the first 5 years, we did pretty much but because there was no particular direction, we stumbled till the 4th and 5th year; and we were only able to recover by the grace of God in the 7th year. And thereafter, we started breaking forth and striving better because there was now a clear-cut direction on what path to follow. We kept developing strategies on which the business thrived. I can say, today, that if I am not even directly involved in the day- to-day running of the business. But I can beat my chest to say we have been able to build a system that works given the quality of staff we have and the structure and plans put in place over time. Motivations When you look at where you are coming from. For those of us who were poor, poverty was a big motivation. You don’t want to go back to where you are coming from. No one wants or loves to be referred to as a former millionaire. It is better you don’t taste the sweet life than to return to your former state. Those were my personal motivations and I guess it is the same for many in my shoes. It remains my biggest motivation. It comes to a point you want to outdo your performance of yesterday, you want to do better on a daily basis, you want to scale new heights, take on new opportunities and improve on your fortunes or whatever you are doing. You want to maximize and be creative on what you are doing; you want to quickly build on where you are. That’s my biggest motivation. POLL Learning Curve In the course of my work, I met with a lot of people and one of them is Baba Adeyinka. He showed me some perspectives I wasn’t privy to. It was like going back to the school of real estate and business. One thing I learnt from him was that real estate is not for the rich but for those who want to be rich. So, it is not for those who already have it all. It is for those who want to have it all. Real estate is an opportunity for people to become who they want to become. But the question is: how do I participate in real estate and play it big also? That was now my reality and defining moments. So, I went back and started developing strategies as to how everyday people can actively invest in real estate. That was how we developed the rental home income market. Before now, the concept used to be exclusive to certain persons. It wasn’t common. So, we entered into that particular space and I can beat my chest that we opened up that market that was never discussed in the open. We exposed it to people who are regular investors, who ordinarily wouldn’t have ventured into real estate. We started with one bed-room, two-bedroom, three-bedroom etc. that has been our focus pretty much overtime and I can tell you it’s been wonderful. We started with what we called the Fairfield Apartment. We did 52 units of the apartments and in less than three days, everything was taken because of the acceptability. We have seen some real estate companies adopting our model. I can tell you that we are influencing how people respond to the real estate market today. Cash Flow Model We have people who invest in real estate and they don’t make money from such investment. It grieves my heart. What we did was to introduce this concept. Every property should be usable because it is what you have in use that people will pay for. People will not pay for property that is not in use. For example, let’s say I have a two-bedroom apartment and it is presently in use and I have another seven-bedroom somewhere else that is not in use, the value of the two-bedroom, in terms of cash flow, is better than the unused seven-bedroom apartment. So, while the two-bedroom is giving me what we call cash flow, the other is just tying down cash. So, it is not about buying into real estate but buying what people can use. For instance, if you do a seven bedroom duplex at Alimosho with swimming pool and all, you may find it difficult getting people to come and rent it; but if you do a bedroom or studio apartment, you may find out that in less than three or five days, the property is taken. There are certain property you find that, while you are still constructing, people are paying upfront already. Those are cash flow property. But you may have another you are on for three years and nobody is looking in your direction. You are just struggling. The concept of cash flow is making the property more usable. We have an alarming rate of housing deficit and we have so many people who can’t afford to own a house. The deficit gap is too wide. It will take many people over a span of 50 or 60 years before they can even afford to buy a house given their income. The minimum wage presently is about N30,000. The average house in any part of Nigeria would probably go for nothing less than N3 million. This means, it will take that individual, 60 years of hard work, without cutting corners, to own a house. No matter what people do, some will never own their own house. That opens a critical market for people who want to invest because the truth is not everybody will own a house. But you can be an investor, earning rental from people that will live in the house. The concept actually is, don’t just own a house, own something that you can make money out of. Anglican Priest Allegedly Impregnates Woman Seeking Deliverance Wike Blasts Umahi For Describing Judge As ‘Hatchet Man’ Customer Reward Systems/Staff Welfare I believe in investing in peo