Wise men invest in the times, but the best investment on earth is earth. There is no doubt that Bunmi Ariyo, the former personal assistant of the past Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is the kind of person to ponder deeply before pursuing anything. With bountiful harvest after bountiful harvest, Bunmi Ariyo has finally decided to rest from public and political operations, taking respite from his family and home, and private ventures. In his mid-40s, Bunmi asserted his political influence into solid wealth and has been acquiring choice property in every available area in Lagos. Whether on Lagos Island or the mainland, Bunmi has parcels of land and sometimes houses where they matter. Months back, he bought a massive property in Opebi, Ikeja; a lot of properties in upscale GRA, Ikeja and recently bought a massive one on a major street in GRA from one of the Ogunlesi brothers (Fola, Lanre, and Kayode). His property acquisition drive, no doubt, reveals his innate passion to succeed where several of his predecessors and colleagues failed. Don’t blame him, he understands that political office and power are temporary perks in the life of a man hence, his determination to acquire as much property as he can and prepare for life after office. Until his appointment as Ambode’s man Friday, Bunmi had no socio-economic visibility. But with the appointment came a different level of prosperity as he became the unofficial powerbroker and favour dispenser before whom every contractor who had any business to do with the state had to genuflect or bend double as the case may be in order to enjoy the governor’s good grace. He wouldn’t brook any disrespect or dissent from anyone no matter how highly placed. While his friend and colleagues, another happy-go-lucky and deep-pocket dude, Deji Williams, who is equally powerful in the scheme of things in the then Lagos State Civil Service has kept a low profile since the end of Ambode’s administration. Deji is the husband of Wunmi, the Nakenohs boss, who gave a refreshing and delightful meaning to the Aso Ebi concept at social events in Lagos State. Bunmi Ariyo became a semi-independent personality, winning to himself the acclaim and support characteristic of inherently influential people and his role in Ambode’s administration was a launching pad that Ariyo put to use. There’s almost no other figure that emerged from Ambode’s council of assistants who has been able to solidify his influence and affluence in recent times.