As part of activities marking the 2022 edition of the Inter­national Women’s Day, the Lagos State Govern­ment has recognised popular actress, Toyin Abraham as one of the hundred women making a huge impact in their societ­ies. In a letter to the actress, the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu saluted the actress for her unending commitment to a more equal and equitable world. According to the governor, half the population of our country are women and girls, and so anything that limits them limits all of us and stunts our capacity to achieve our full potential as a nation. “Therefore, the trailblazing work that you do is very im­portant and necessary. Many of us, young and old, female and indeed mole, are inspired to follow your steps and fully play our part in achieving a world where everyone is truly evolved and acknowledged, regardless of gender, age, lan­guage, or skin colour. “It is heartwarming to see the progress being made, in our State and in the country, one glass ceiling at a time. But we would be the first to acknowl­edge that more can be done, and faster too. That we are on acclaimed Center of Excel­lence is in large part due to the accomplishments of audacious and visionary people like you. Thank you for your unforget­table contributions towards building the Greater Logos of our dreams,” Sanwo-Olu wrote. He further states that his administration salutes her boundary-breaking exploits as well as her bold and visible presence in the spaces and plac­es that matter. “We also honour the work that you do to expand these spaces for more people, espe­cially women and girls. On be­half of the Lagos State Govern­ment, I am pledging our total and unequivocal support for every effort to achieve a logos where all women and girls can live their lives to the fullest and achieve their potential without limits. I applaud you; Logos applauds you. Happy Interna­tional Women’s Day 2022,” the letter states. Reacting, the actress wrote; “Thank you sir, your excellency @jidesanwooluand @lagosstate­govt. Thanks for the recognition. Eshey Modupe. Eko o ni baje.”