AWKA – Chief Daniel Orji, an estate developer, has asked Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State to audit lands acquired by the government for estate development purposes in order to ensure that the state’s housing programme succeeds. Mr. Orji, who is the managing director of Daniel Bob Group Limited, an estate development company, made the call in a chat with newsmen in Awka on Wednesday. He asked Soludo to audit land allocations in the capital territory and as well set a deadline within which the owners must develop dormant ones Orji also tasked Soludo to, as a matter of policy, set up a specialised bank for mortgage financing to create low interest loans for developers in the state. He said: “I want to call on the governor to audit land allocation in Awka, the capital of Anambra. So many lands were taken from the communities by the government and sold to themselves without developing them. “Go round Awka, there is no active government estate. Where you see work going on are the ones private developers like Daniel Bob estate are handling. We have the capacity to work with the Anambra Government to provide mass and affordable housing in Awka.” He said it was only when these are done that the housing challenges in the state capital can be tackled. Orji said the increasing housing shortages in Awka were due to the failure of previous administrations to invest in the sector. POLL According to him, it was sad that there was no active or functional government-owned estate project in Awka in spite of the good number of large expanses of land inaugurated for the purpose. “We are ready to partner with the government to solve the housing problem; let me also use this opportunity to call on Governor Soludo to set up a special bank like Anambra Mortgage Bank for civil servants to enable access to cheap finance through developers,” he said. Orji urged Soludo to revisit the Three-Arms Zone project at Isiagu in Awka South Local Government Area which had been abandoned at various stages of execution. He said Isiagu represents the New Awka but has not been able to take off because of the absence of government presence, critical infrastructure and social amenities.