Virgil van Dijk has questioned the formation preferred by Netherlands boss Louis van Gaal after Saturday’s 4-2 friendly victory over Denmark. Van Gaal is in his third spell as head coach of the Dutch national team and is undefeated so far with six wins in his first eight games. The formation he has deployed is a 3-4-1-2 system but Netherlands skipper Van Dijk would prefer to see the team line up in a 4-3-3 system, which he is used to playing in at Liverpool. “Until today we have been training hard, with lots of tactics and meetings. There are good times but also things to improve,” the centre-back told NOS, via footmercato. “We will analyse this. Of course, we are playing in a new system, different things are required of the players. But I think we showed a lot of good things. “Do I like the system? Well, I’m still in favour of 4-3-3 but I’m not the national coach and the national coach has a very strong opinion about it.” In an interview with MailOnline last month, Van Dijk opened up on his recovery from last season’s devastating ACL injury, claiming his return to fitness has been “taken for granted” by some. “I felt a little bit taken for granted at times [earlier this season], like people were acting as if nothing had happened and everything was normal,” he said. POLL “I had to really switch off and get myself clear in my head and make sure I told myself that everything that is happening right now is quite good and be proud of it. “It isn’t really normal, after the injury I had, to be able to already play that amount of games and the level I had already reached, in my opinion. “The games before the break, I felt I had good games but to keep that consistent level and also the level that everyone expected of me was always like a pressure. It was a thing that played a part in my head a little bit, not much but still… “Even if I had a good game, I felt like no one appreciated it as much as they should. “Not that I’m insecure and need to have confirmation all the time, not at all, but I felt like coming back from an ACL/MCL [anterior or medial cruciate ligament] injury and playing the amount of games I have played so far, playing three games a week, it is quite good and should not be overlooked. And it was overlooked in my opinion.”