Leaders, among them former Governors Peter Obi of Anambra State, Gbenga Daniel of Ogun State, Ahmed Makarfi of Kaduna State, Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Dakuku Peterside, Iba Gani Adams, Prof. Akinyemi Onigbinde have said that poor leadership recruitment process, disunity are some of the reasons Nigeria has remained under-developed. They spoke at the fourth Annual Lecture of Freedom Online, with the theme, “Nigeria’s Political Indices: Bright or Bleak Future” in Lagos on Tuesday, where Makarfi was the Chairman of the event. They emphasized the need for Nigerians to access the crop of leaders who will be asking for their votes in 2023 and make the right decision to save the country from imminent collapse. Otunba Gbenga Daniel, who was the keynote speaker, said that the advent of democracy in the fourth republic was supposed to snowball the nation into prosperity, pointing out that while the leaders did their best, apparently, it wasn’t good enough. “It appears that what is required for a prosperous Nigeria is beyond stylish leadership and idealism, rather, what is mostly required in today’s world is realism. “I cannot admit that our future will ever be bleak. I am an optimist and believe strongly that with the right decisions and policies, we can change the narratives and state of the nation currently to an enviable position within the shortest time possible. “But to kick start the process for development, we have to disavow our minds from the prevailing ethnicity and disunity that has enveloped our society. ”The only way we can leave the trenches is by putting into power individuals who are realists. We don’t need PowerPoint presentations and well-written manifestos that end up in the dustbin of history. We need leadership that, as they say in the mathematical parlance, “show workings”. POLL Anybody can write and make promises, but we have to be intentional in ensuring that we elect those who know how to bring to life these visions,” he said. Obi said that Nigeria has acquired all indices of a failed state, stressing that the leaders are no longer in control of the territory of Nigeria. “Everybody lives in fear. Yet we have oil and everything. All we are experiencing today is the cumulative failure of leadership over the years. Everyone is worried about the future of Nigeria. “We should be compared with countries of comparative trajectory and we will see how bad we are doing. USA with Cumulative Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of $50,000 cannot be compared with a country of less than $2,000. “The biggest country in America which is California has 3.8 trillion as GDP, which is eight times Nigeria’s GDP. Britain has 48,000 dollars GDP. We have everything in Nigeria but we lack leadership. Poor leadership can destroy everything and that is the problem of Nigeria. We have poor leadership because our recruitment process is poor,” Obi said. Bode George who was represented by Prince Uthman Sodipe-Dosumu, agreed that the recruitment process is flawed, however, believed that Nigeria is not yet a nation in the classical sense, stressing that it is a country still grappling with survival.  “Surely Nigeria has severe challenges and searing crucibles just like all inchoate states grasping with nationhood, struggling with the firmness of national existence.  “Truly, there are clear illustrations of despair. There are desperate moments that query the sustainability and the endurance of the Nigerian union.  Things are not the way they should be. We live in a state of anomie where truth is scarce, where logic is unknown.  “The throbbing indications of rudderless straying as observable in banditry, in urban terrorism, primitive ritualistic values and other ills are enough for many patriots to give up on our survival as a nation.   “However, I do really believe that we can get it right. I do believe Nigeria is salvageable. I do believe our nation’s ultimate redeeming progression is in our ability to give every section of our society a sense of belonging in the larger Nigerian space,” he said.  Gabriel Akinadewo, Managing Director and Editor in chief of Freedom Online, stressed the importance of good leadership and why over-centralization has worked against the development of the country for a very long time. He however stated that there is hope for Nigeria if all hands will be on deck to ensure that the right leaders are supported to come on board. Makarfi corroborated what all the speakers said; pointing out that it is true that there are challenges in the country that must be addressed. “Restructuring and other things mentioned here, revolve around good leadership. It is important that in 2023 that we offer good leadership that will be responsive to the needs of all Nigerians. Because of division, the fabric that held us together is getting thinner and thinner. Anyone who emerges Nigeria President in 2023 must have the spirit of forming a government of national unity,” he said.