JOS – No fewer than over 400 persons benefited from the empowerment programme of the Honourable Member representing Langtang-North and South Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Honourable Beni Lar. The empowerment programme which is the first phase for the year 2022 cut across all the 33 Federal Wards in the Constituency, had brand new motorcycles, cash grants were also distributed to some of the constituents’ to ease the party’s activities as well as better their wellbeing in the face of economic hardship facing the country. Lar made this known during the empowerment of women and youths with cash grants and motorcycles for Langtang-North and South Federal Constituency held at GSS Pangna in Langtang North LGA of Plateau State. She explained that the empowerment programme is spread in phases and assured her constituents’ that her desire is to see that everyone in her Constituency is gainfully employed or self-reliant creating opportunities for others to benefit. According to the Federal Lawmaker, “Every year we do empowerment, training to our youths and women three or four times a year. Very soon farming season will come and we will be doing more empowerment in that regard aside from adding value to those with skills and those who have no skills getting one. “My desire and prayer at all time are that nobody will be idle in Langtang-North and Langtang-South by the grace of God. That all our youths will find something doing with their hands and not be used as thugs for political violence.” She cautioned, “Political violence doesn’t get us anywhere, but one thing with the PDP is that we are a peaceful party. We do not engage our youths in violence, we go with the people, we canvased for our votes and we delivered on our mandates that is why people love the PDP.” Lar said she is optimistic that come 2023, a new government will be inaugurated by the PDP in Plateau State and the country at large. POLL “By the Grace of God come 2023 in a free and fair election, PDP will inaugurate a new government in Plateau State, and at the Federal level. We will have a Governor of the people for the people and by the people to redeem Plateau State from the shackles of depression, oppression, underdevelopment and retardation.” She called on her supporters and the PDP family to be peaceful as the country head to election come 2023. “Especially in Langtang-North and Langtang-South, anyone that raised his hands to cause injury to another person in the name of politics should be arrested. We should not allow such people to walk on the street of Langtang-North and South introducing violence to our peaceful Constituency.” Lar recalled the efforts of the founding fathers of PDP in the country whom she said if alive some of the wrongs going on in the State will not have been happening. “PDP is a legacy that Baba Chief Solomon Lar the founder of the party has left for us in Langtang-North and Langtang-South and we will continue to follow that path until we graduated from politics. “Baba left us a legacy of emancipation, he was an Emancipator, emancipating people from oppressions. We see oppressions going on now in Langtang-North and the House of Assembly if Baba was alive non of this will happen! But we know that his spirit is alive and his spirit will overcome what is going on.”