All football stakeholders have been charged to unite for further development of the game in the Ondo State and Southwest with a view to meeting international standards. The 1st Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation(NFF), Barrister Seyi Akinwumi made the call during the 20th Annual General Assembly of the Ondo State Football Association in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Represented by the Vice Chairman of the Ondo State FA, Barr. Aderemi Adetula, the NFF 1st VP expressed happiness in various programmes executed by the associations in Southwest states, especially coaching programmes, commending the executives. Wike Charges Plateau PDP Leaders On Unity Governor Diri Promoting Culture, Unity In Bayelsa – Timi… Adetula said: “There is no doubt that our football like our country is going through some testing times but much as we have done before, we shall surmount all challenges before us. “We must, however, within the Ondo State football fraternity and the Southwest football zone, come together as one family to raise the standard of the game in the state and in the zone. “Elections come and go, those for the Ondo State FA have come and have gone, other elections will come and will also go. “One thing that will remain in football, the beautiful game. I, therefore, implore all of us within the Ondo State football fraternity to embrace ourselves as one and be guided not by our individual ambition or interest, political or personal affiliation, religion or like, but be guided by the interest of football.” POLL Akinwunmi emphasised that for progress to take place in grassroots football, all the football associations must be prepared to serve the football fraternity conscientiously and transparently. He said: “Finally, I will like to commend the Ondo State FA for the various programmes, particularly the coaching programmes that have taken place in the past year. However, I charge you to do even more in the coming year.” In his address, the Chairman, Ondo State Football Association, Otunba Dele Ajayi urged the state government to return the funding for grassroots football to the state Sports Council, instead of the state football agency. He disclosed that the state government had not been meeting its financial obligations to the state FA by giving the funds meant for the association to the Ondo State football agency. Christmas: Nnamani Preaches Reconciliation, Unity Among… Culture Can Foster Unity In Nigeria – RATTAWU President According to him, the law that set up the state football agency gave room for representation of the state football association on the board of the agency, which the government had also not fulfilled in recent times. “The law that set up the agency specified that the football association should have its member on the board of the agency,” Ajayi said. In his response, the state Commissioner for Youths and Sports Development, Mr Bamidele Ologun, assured that all the requests would be met at the appropriate time.