The first day of the seven-day warning strike embarked upon by the Niger State chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has paralyzed social and economic activities in some parts of the state, Minna the state capital in particular. Several meetings between representatives of the organised labour and Niger state government ended in deadlock as representatives of the former declined entreaties to rescind their stance, the workers insist on staying away from duty posts to press home their demands. At the Niger State Transport Authority (NSTA) premises located along Tunga, some of the customers who had paid for trips to parts of the country were disappointed when they met the two gates under lock and keys while all state government offices were also deserted. The situation at the Minna General hospital is very pathetic as the facility is almost deserted when our correspondent visited. Few of the patients were seen with their relatives making their way out of the government-owned health facility. Though Banks opened for businesses, our correspondent learnt that efforts are being made to ensure they remain closed as from today (Tuesday) if no truce was reached between the representative of the Niger state government and the organised labour. NLC Wants Restoration Of Gratuity For Public Service Retirees We Would Resist FG Anti-Citizens’ Policies In 2022 -Labour When contacted on Niger state Chairman of NLC in Niger State Comrade Yakubu Garba expressed satisfaction with the level of compliances with the strike by all affiliate bodies of NLC and called for the continuation of such strict compliant. Comrade Yakubu Garba however maintained that the strike will continue until their demands for improved working conditions were met by Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello who is currently in Abuja while all government businesses are being grounded in the state. Labour leaders amongst are amongst others demanding for the payment of gratuities of civil servants which has been abandoned for about two years now and the immediate payment of 30 per cent June salary for the year 2020 that was not paid due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Other demands by workers are the release of withheld cooperative Endwell Union dues and National Housing funds money by Niger state government and as well, stop without further delay salary payment by percentage. Meanwhile, efforts to contact the state Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Alhaji Mohammed Sani Idris for comments on the lingering crisis between labour and the state government were unsuccessful as at the time of this report.