…Urges INEC To Withdraw CoR ABUJA – Honourable Teejay Yusuf, Member representing Kabba- Bunu /Ijumu federal constituency in the green chambers, has lambasted the All Progressives Congress (APC) for harbouring Anti-Democratic forces in the person of Dave Umahi, the embattled sacked governor of Ebonyi State. Hon Yusuf said the APC against well-meaning advice revelled in the defection of Umahi into the party from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but has now realized it actually inherited a huge liability. Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards He said the tantrums displayed by the embattled sacked governor following the decision of the Federal High presided by Justice Inyang Ekwo has in no small way rubbished and ridiculed the party’s claim about respect for democratic standard and rule of law. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) should feel ashamed with outgoing Ebonyi Governor, Dave Umahi’s comments ridiculing the Judiciary over the Federal High Court ruling that he and his Deputy Dr. Eric Igwe should quit office. “When Umahi was decamping, we were not playing politics when we genuinely warned APC that they were inheriting PDP’s biggest problem in that part of the federation; now, the party’s claim about respect for democratic standards and the rule of law is being put to question by the ex-governor,” said Yusuf. While urging Engr. Dave Umahi and his Deputy, Dr Eric Igwe to immediately vacate Ebonyi Government House Hon Yusuf also enjoined the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) immediately withdraws the certificate of return issued to both men in obedience to the court ruling. Hon Yusuf in a statement stressed the need for Politicians to exercise restraint, civility and tact in comments that concern the Judiciary, saying that the‘”acts of impunity and reckless statements from highly-placed beneficiaries of democracy sometimes inspire further similar reactions from the populace, thereby threatening Nigeria’s democracy.’” POLL His word: “It is highly regrettable and unfortunate that he resorted to illogical reasoning, and indecent verbal vituperations to rubbish the judicial arm of government. “Why would a former chief executive of a state with his wealth of experience, exposure and academic records demonstrate gross impunity and executive rascality by making such indecorous and intemperate comment against the judiciary and democratic processes? “It is highly regrettable and unfortunate that he resorted to illogical reasoning, and indecent verbal vituperations to rubbish the judiciary arm of government and by extension, our hard-won democracy. “Without any reservation, the APC should feel ashamed that it parades elements with anti-democratic credentials among its top ranks and it is the hypocrisy of the highest order for the party to make any false claim about progressive ideals,” Honourable Teejay Yusuf stated.