Architect Registration Council of Nigeria, ARCON, has directed registered architects practicing in Lagos State to disregard a public notice from Lagos State Chapter of Nigerian Institute of Architects directing practitioners to update their information on payment of required membership dues with the Institute. According to a statement issued and signed by the Registrar of the Council, Arc. Umar Murnai, a copy of which was issued to Independent in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, the Lagos Chapter of the Institute had directed practitioners to update their information in order to keep an ‘up-to-date registers of relevant professionals registered to practice in Nigeria.’ The Council maintained that keeping registers of practitioners by the Lagos Institute was an obvious usurpation of the Council’s function as enshrined in Paragraph 5(2) of the Architects Act, Chapter A19, The Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The Council further examined that the Lagos Institute has no such power whatsoever under any law to keep Register of architects entitled to practice in Nigeria. According to it, the Act also empowers any Architect registered by the Council to practice his/her trade anywhere in the Federal Republic of Nigeria unfettered and without any hindrance based on an annual renewal of the practice licence. “The attention of the Council has been drawn to a public notice emanating from Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Architects directing architects practising in Lagos State to update their information on payment of the required membership dues to both the Chapter and the National Secretariat because it intends to furnish the Lagos State Planning Permit Authority with the Register of Registered Architects practising in Lagos State in accordance with Clause 43 of the regulation which states that: “The authority shall keep up-to-date registers of all relevant professionals registered to practice in Nigeria as submitted to it by the State Chapters of the respective professional bodies, which shall be updated yearly,” the Institute was quoted to have directed. “The above is an obvious usurpation of the Council’s function as enshrined in Paragraph 5(2) of The Architects (Registration, Etc.) Act, Chapter A19 The Laws of the Federarion of Nigeria 2004, (formerly known as Decree No 10 of 1969 as amended). POLL “It shall be the duty of the Registrar to prepare and maintain in accordance with rules made by the Council under this section, register of the names, addresses and approved qualifications and such other particulars as may be specified, of all persons who are entitled in accordance with the provisions of this Act to be registered as architects and who apply in specific manner to be so registered. “Consequent upon the above, we wish to inform all registered architects practising in Lagos State or having any business that has to do with the practice of Architecture in Lagos State to discountenance and disregard this directive from the Lagos State Chapter of the Nigeria Institute of Architects. “Because it (the Institute) has no power whatsoever under any law to keep the Register of Architects entitles to practice in the Federal Republic of Nigeria or issue same accordingly,”  The Council maintained.