According to a report from Dutch outlet Voetbal International, Arsenal have emerged as the frontrunners to capture the signing of PSV Eindhoven and Netherlands forward Cody Gakpo in the summer transfer window. The 22-year-old winger is also a target for Liverpool and Barcelona. Gakpo is a product of the PSV youth academy, who made his first-team breakthrough back in 2018. A regular in the senior side now, the 22-year-old has racked up 125 appearances in which he has a return of 37 goals and 33 assists. The ongoing campaign has been the Dutchman’s most productive, as he has tallied 16 goals and 15 assists in just 37 matches across all competitions. Gakpo has also won four caps for the Netherlands national team and has scored once for Oranje. His progress for club and country has attracted interest from a bevvy of clubs, including Arsenal, Liverpool and Barcelona. Arsenal are in the market for attacking reinforcements in the summer, having lost Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang during January. While a top centre-forward is a priority for Mikel Arteta’s side, they could dip their toes in the market for a new wide forward, considering that Nicolas Pepe is staring at an uncertain future at the Emirates while Gabriel Martinelli could be utilised in a central role moving forward. Gakpo, to that end, has emerged as a viable target for Arsenal. However, they have been joined by Premier League rivals Liverpool in pursuit of the 22-year-old Netherlands international. Liverpool’s interest in the PSV Eindhoven star stems from the uncertainties surrounding Mohamed Salah’s situation at Anfield. The 29-year-old will be entering the final year of his contract with the Reds this summer. And an agreement over a new deal is yet to be struck. It could lead to Salah leaving Liverpool, opening up a vacancy in the squad, which someone like Gakpo could fill. Even if he does stay, the Dutchman could be seen as a replacement for Divock Origi and Takumi Minamino, both of whom are likely to leave. As for Barcelona, they are looking at the 22-year-old attacker as a direct replacement for Ousmane Dembele, who will depart Camp Nou at the end of the season once his contract expires. However, it must be noted that the Blaugrana have shifted their focus completely towards Leeds United winger Raphinha and already have agreed personal terms with the Brazilian. POLL Nevertheless, as per the report, Arsenal are now at the front of the queue to sign Gakpo, although they might have to shell out a significant sum to land him, considering that his contract with PSV runs until 2026. It remains to be seen whether the north Londoners sign the Dutchman in the summer or look at other options to strengthen their attack.