A political party deserves the approbation of [Nigerians] only as it represents the ide­als, the aspirations and the hopes of [Nigerians]. If it is anything else, it is merely a conspiracy to seize power.. US President Dwight Eisenhower, 1890-1969, November 7, 1956. Is there a political party in Ni­geria today called the All Progres­sives Congress, APC? The answer is No. Was there ever a political party called APC in Nigeria? The answer again is certainly No. There was, however, a grand conspiracy to seize power embarked upon by a mob of out-of-power politicians. At the heart of the conspiracy, which resulted in the formation of the APC, were the ambitions of two men Buhari and Tinubu — who wanted to become President. Each had an iron-grip on his own political unit the ACN and the CPC. They agreed on a turn-by-turn arrangement. Buhari would go first; Tinubu would succeed him. It was also agreed that Tinubu, who controlled more Governors, Sena­tors and other elected officials, would bank roll the campaign to get Buhari nominated as the party’s Presidential candidate. Once nominated, Buhari would select Tinubu as his running mate. Man proposes, God disposes. That was wisdom passed down to mankind from the time we were created. But, some individuals would still not get this simple truth into their heads. They always want to play god. Buhari clinched the party ticket. The election boat was moving; but, Tinubu was di­vinely left standing on the dock as an­other person became Vice President. It might not have occurred to all those who joined the vessel sailing that they were witnessing the beginning of the end of APC. As usual, only a few dis­cernible individuals could see that APC, as composed, could never be the answer to Nigeria’s problem. The Prophecy Of 2013 In times of victory, prophets are unnecessary distractions. Trevor Roper, 1914-2003, VAN­GUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS , VBQ p 204 It is not only in times of victory that people ignore the warnings of prophets. They also turn deaf ears when they are desperate for release from hardship. Jonathan had proved such a monumental disappointment; there was a pervasive feeling that nothing worse than his government could follow. But, as the contraption called APC was being assembled, doubts grew in my mind. Certainly, this was not the political party which will lead us out of bondage. The fol­lowing article was published in Au­gust 2013. Read parts of it. POLL Is APC The Answer? (1) Alliances are held together by fear not by love, Harold Macmillan, British Prime Minister. (VANGUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS p 9). Until the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, regis­tered the alliance of political associa­tions which had come together under the banner of All Progressives Con­gress, APC, to me, there was nothing to discuss about the matter. APC is now a reality, so there are loads of issues to consider. ” He [Macmillan] was also once reported to have said that: If people want a sense of purpose they should get it from their archbishop [or Chief Imam]. They should certainly not get it from their politicians, I cannot agree more; particularly Nigerians. Even the devil knows that after fourteen years in government, at the Federal level, and in most states, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has failed. There is hardly any problem we had as a nation, in 1999, that has not got worse or remained unsolved. But, from now until 2015 and, per­haps beyond, the most urgent ques­tion is: Is APC, as presently constitut­ed, the answer? My answer for now is: perhaps not. We may need another political party. Looking closely at the leaders of the APC, it is doubtful if all of them will pass the test of integrity. Few, if deeply probed, will fail to change their designer suits for prison attire. But, my biggest worry lies in the fact that APC, even so early in the day, is like a structure resting on two major pillars; each deeply flawed. APC re­mains ACN and CPC or, more can­didly, Bola Tinubu and Buhari with a lot of political appendages or even jesters attached. Today the questions about lead­ership, internal democracy and in­tegrity are being answered by top members of the APC themselves. Governors are called Your Excel­lency in Nigeria; despite the distinct lack of excellence in most of them. But, one at least expects them to be aware of the obligations of their lofty positions. We should believe them. So, read what Governor Akeredolu of Ondo state said about some of his co-Governors. We, the governors, are for the par­ty except for the few Yahoo Yahoo governors who were hand in glove with Buni to circumvent the will of the majority of our party members.Their short-lived antics in arm-twist­ing Governor Buni and probably some pocket filling elements within the corridors of power to supplant the Presidents will through fake let­ters, endorsements, as well as Black Market” injunction (procured since November 2021) are despicable. Governor Buni is out of the coun­try for health reasons. The attempted coup took place with the poor fellow fighting for his life abroad. But, he has defenders. This is their rejoinder to Akeredolu and co. Senator James Akpaudoedehe, the Secretary of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Conven­tion Planning Committee, CECPC, had this to say about the governors trying to unseat Buni.. close your eyes and see a brother of yours lying on a sick bed, being oper­ated upon and you see your fellow gov­ernors holding knife; and stabbed you on your bed. You would understand the kind of persons these people are. They are agents of destruction. To the Senators statement, Ali, Bu­nis aide, added. Most of those ganging up against Buni are aggrieved poli­ticians who lost control of the par­ty machinery in their states. They wanted certain favours from Mai Mala Buni which were against the collective interest. I closed my eyes as the Senator suggested; and I saw a group, called APC, without a leader. That is the classic definition of a mob. Where Is The Leader? He is lying down, for the ump­teenth time, in London; issuing con­flicting orders through body language a sort of Stone Age method of com­munication leaving everybody to in­terpret it as they want. Why the man cannot simply say whether Buni is in or out is a mystery which only senile people can solve. To be continued. P.S. Buhari finally spoke. He backs Buni, El-Rufai and Akeredolu disgraced. Come Over To Massey Prayer House And Help Us. Givers never lack. Massey Morning Daily Praying Band, MMDPB, was established on March 9, 1939, three years after World War II started and several Nigeria men were drafted to go abroad to fight White men’s war. My father was one of the suffer heads who went to save British lives. My mother was one of the six women who founded the prayer house in 1939. Every morning, before doing anything else, from 5.30, the women would gather to pray for the safe return of their husbands. They were soon joined by other women having issues to take to God. Many prayers were answered. Miraculously, all the six men re­turned safely; my Dad in 1943. I was born in 1944. I have been a member of MMDPB from pregnancy till today. The original members are all gone; and I am now the only living member of the prayer house where prayers are still offered every morning. At 78, I am actually not even the oldest mem­ber; and the attendance has declined. Otherwise, this appeal for donations would not have been necessary. But, we are all living on pensions (if paid), the generosity of others and on bor­rowed time. Petrol is drilling another hole through our pockets already full of holes. We badly need help so we can continue prayers. Getting an inverter will help us to continue to serve God every morning. CAN YOU HELP WITH DONATIONS OF EITHER MONEY OR INVERTER? We will remember you always in our prayers. If you can help, please get in touch with me: 0708-137-2829. God will bless you abundantly; and may you live longer than our oldest member, 94, in good health and prosperity. Please say a loud AMEN.