Chukwujekwu Ilozue, Charlie Onyekamuo Former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, on Thursday received the traditional ofo, symbol of authority, to enable him prosecute his presidential ambition. Obi had declared his ambition at Government House, Awka, where traditional rulers gathered to receive him. Addressing them earlier, Obi, who was vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general election, said he was aspiring to serve Nigeria. He said that before Thursday, some of the monarchs had called him privately to ask why he had not declared. Obi said he preferred to be well prepared before throwing his hat in the ring so as to ensure that he clinched victory. Obi said he decided to run after a careful study of Nigeria and regretted that today division and insecurity have dealt a heavy blow on the country. The government he will lead, he maintained, will manage resources efficiently and invest to pull people out of poverty. POLL He said: “I have done a careful study of Nigeria and I can tell you that if I have the opportunity I will turn the country around. What is needed is competence and capacity to turn things around. “Nigeria needs people with capacity, competence, and willingness to manage resources of the country”. Obi also said that he had managed huge resources as a private businessmen, a corporate player and as governor of a state and was not found wanting. “I have done management of resources effectively and anywhere. We want to move from consumption to production, from waste to wealth. “I am a Nigerian and I want to have a secure country, have security in every state of the federation”, he declared. He pledged to contest strongly. One after the other, the traditional rulers said that his governorship of Anambra State was remarkable and that it was their duty to carry his message to everywhere. They said they will dissuade other aspirants to step down for Obi who is so far the only competent person in the race. They also promised to spread the message to their people in diaspora to throw their support behind Obi. Obi also addressed presidents-general of the 189 communities in the state where he made similar declaration.    