ABUJA: The Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani-Bello has been commended for saving the All Progressives Congress (APC) from embarrassment; and inspiring it to “a superlative national convention.” Disclosing that there was no hope in sight for the party’s National Convention, a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Senatorial aspirant of the party in Cross River State, Ray Morphy, said that, but for Governor Bello, the APC Convention which held on Saturday in Abuja may have been aborted. “Recall that preparation for the APC National Convention was in a lull, until Governor Sani Bello, who also doubled as the Chairman, North Central Governors Forum, took over as the Acting Chairman of CECPC, on 3rd March 2022, following the absence of Governor Mai Mala Buni on medical grounds. “His subsequent actions became the catalyst that propelled the APC Convention. It should be placed on record that, immediately he took over, he reinforced the inevitability of holding the Convention on 26th March 2022. That declaration came at a time of huge uncertainties for the party, and became the needed vitality for members, who committed and redoubled their efforts towards a successful Convention. Upon stepping in, he immediately swung into actions geared towards achieving the set date for the National Convention. Some of the actions he took were the inauguration of State Chairmen of the Party, adoption of zoning formula from the Zoning Committee, adoption of some relevant documents and inauguration of sub-committees for the National Convention among others,” Morphy stated. Morphy, a member of the national convention Media Sub Committee, in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, said without the drive and dedication exhibited by the Governor, “APC may not have achieved the success so far achieved; a success which every party member is proud of.” Adding that “for every event, there is always a trigger,” he praised the Governor for demonstrating “courage, the spirit of sacrifice, loyalty, selflessness, love and togetherness in his commitment towards delivering a successful and rancour-free APC national convention.” The statement added that even as after the CECPC Chairman returned from a medical trip abroad, “the Governor was again given the responsibility of ensuring smooth preparations for the event, a task he diligently carried out successfully as he was at the Eagle Square, venue of the event at different dates to see to the progress of preparations. POLL It further explained that Governor Sani-Bello “had several interactions with various sub-committees to ensure things went on smoothly. “As if that was not enough, on the day of the National Convention, Governor Sani Bello was at the venue early enough to see that things are carried out without hitches. “He went as far as visiting delegates from various states, interacting with them to give them a sense of belonging. The efforts can be said to be worthwhile as the desired result of a successful and rancour-free National Convention has been achieved. Cumulatively, this has heralded a new National Working Committee, NWC, of the APC.”