DAN AMORSunday February 13, 2022 marked the 46th anniversary of the brutal assassination of General Murtala Ramat Muhammed, Nigeria’s former head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Ordinarily, forty-six-six years is a long enough period for the living to forget the dead. But a lot of sentiment still trail Murtala ‘s name both in Nigeria and elsewhere. Why is it so? It is because the man had the infectious grin, the energy, the youthfulness, the shining confidence, the sagacity, the courage and the zest that leaped out of a background of solid patriotism hitherto unknown and yet to be rivaled in Nigeria. Therefore, to remember him now, forty-six years after his senseless assassination, with the image of a living man in our hands, shows that Murtala is larger than life, in the memories, emotions, and minds of his fellow Nigerians. After death, the real Murtala is now the symbolic man, the figure about whom have clustered the yearnings, the lofty ideals and the aspirations Nigerians have for themselves and their country.Having worked himself up the hallowed cadre of the Nigerian ruling class as Head of State, Murtala, in his passion, concern and vulnerability, was one of the representative men of his generation. His personal quest for identity, understanding and power mirrored the turbulence, paradox and dream of mid-twentieth century Nigeria. He lived through a time of unusual turbulence in the history of the country and Africa, and he responded to that turbulence more directly and more sensitively than any other political leader of the era, at least in Africa. Murtala was equipped with certitude of youth, faith and love for country- attributes that sustained him till death. But they were the premises, not the conclusions of his life. For he possessed to an exceptional degree what literary experts call “an experiencing nature”. History changed him, and had time permitted, he would have changed history. His relationship to his era makes him, unarguably, one who embodies the consciousness of an epoch, who perceives things in fresh light and new connections, who exhibits unsuspected possibilities of purpose and action to his contemporaries.Indeed, Murtala never had the time to fulfill his own possibilities, which is why his memory haunts so many of us now. Because he wanted to get things done; because he was often impatient and combative; because he felt simply and cared deeply, he made his share of mistakes, and enemies. He was a romantic and also an idealist, and he was also prudent, expedient, demanding, fearless and ambitious. Yet the insights he brought to governance – insights earned in a labour of self-discipline and self-purgation that only death could stop- led him to see power not as an end in itself but as the means of redeeming the powerless. Murtala was to Nigeria what Charles de Gaule was to France: a young man with military background but, who, ironically, brought uncommon composure and dignity to statecraft. This is not to say that military personnel possess exceptional leadership qualities. Far from it! Those ones only worked up themselves to become the tribunes of their generations. It only brings us to the incontrovertible fact that democracy is still preferred to the most benevolent military dictatorship anywhere, anytime.  Murtala was indeed a diamond among stones.In fact, the emotional legacy left by Murtala is so intense in Nigeria, but it is yet deeper and even more fervent in the entire African continent. This point is important and thus could be made with an anecdote: since a man is not measured by what he did before he became a leader, or by what he said and did after he was a leader, but by what he did, and not by what he said while he was a leader, we can now comprehend the passionate veneration of Murtala’s memory. Today, we seek a sense of the man in order to understand the deep emotional response to the memory of the man. We know what happened and we cannot undo that knowledge. Even as his immediate friends and successors started destroying what he stood for soon after his brutal exit, we cannot but get the record straight. But the meaning of that straightened record is inextricably involved in the meaning we also try each day to discern in the confusion of the living present. It is a tragic reality that those who thought to have upheld his enviable legacies have demonstrated a grand betrayal of what the man stood and died for. Could Murtala have built mansions, bought limousines, owned oil wells and own universities while in power? The answer to this poser is a loud NO! But Chief Olusegun Obasanjo who succeeded him did all those things.The conditions of misery and inequality that troubled Murtala still persist among Nigerians but people in power are doing their best to ameliorate the situation. Despite his extremely emotional bent, Muhammed’s youthful vigour and impressive grasp of the black man’s burden won for him national and international acclaim. His administration which lasted for only 201 days was most memorable, leaving a 19-state structure for the country and achieving a leadership for Nigeria in Africa through a decisive foreign policy thrust that was basically Afrocentric, and a clearly defined anti-imperialist stance. Perhaps, the most concrete demonstration of this was his mobilisation of African leadership to support liberation struggles for Portuguese areas and a loud “NO” to American neo-imperialist designs culminating in the eventual independence of Angola.At home, an expression of his unrelenting crusade against corruption , was the great purge in the civil service, which was aimed at putting paid to the problem of “ghost workers” and the menace of secret societies in the country. Even though his actions had unintended consequences, his anti-corruption campaign was not merely cosmetic, as there was no evidence to prove that he was corrupt. It was on the basis of the depth and spread of his anti-corruption campaign that analysts had a unanimous position that his attempt at sanitizing the system was total. He spotlighted members of his cabinet as well as state governors irrespective of religious or ethnic affiliation. Murtala left only N6,300 ( his salary for the month of February 1976) in his bank account, a rickety Volvo car ( apart from his official Mercedes Benz car in which he was assassinated) and a ramshackle 3-bedroom bungalow in Kano, his hometown.Can there be any wonder, therefore, that Nigerians in their millions cannot fail to contemplate the shrew, practical, resourceful and often irritatingly dynamic leadership qualities of their only leader who came close to possessing  the ennobling ethos of a national hero?  It can be said emphatically that Nigerians can appreciate good things and love to celebrate a hero when they see one. The Nigerian intelligentsia including scholars, students in Nigeria and the world over celebrated him. Which is why forty-six years  after his untimely death, memories of Murtala’s pragmatic leadership still linger in their consciousness. It is as a result of the scarcity of men of Murtala’s latent qualities in leadership positions that Nigerians are yearning for him forty-six years after. But a time will surely come again when the most endowed nation in Africa will overcome its indifference to the degradation of its citizens. Only then can Murtala’s tall legacies be seen to have exemplary values.