JOS – Executive Chairman of Langtang South Local government Council of Plateau state, Hon Prince Vincent Venman, on Tuesday denied assaulting the former chairman of Langtang North Council Boss Joshua Ubandoma. Venmark also debunked the claim that he desecrated the revered Resettlement Day celebration held last Saturday in his local government area. According to him, as the chief security officer of the LGA, he took positive steps to manage a situation which was set to disrupt the Resettlement day celebration. Tinubu To Be Honoured At The Gazelle News Anniversary/Award… Dolapo Marks Osinbajo’s Birthday At North-East Children’s… Hon Venmam in an interaction with newsmen in Jos on Tuesday, exonerated himself from claims circulating in his state to the effect he slapped and chased away Mr Ubandoma from a public function held in Langtang South LGA last Saturday. He explained that the Resettlement day celebration recorded huge success despite the initial challenges . According to him the fund raising at the event was beyond what was expected. He said, “The Remembrance Day has been holding in the last 74 years, I am a Chairman of the local government area. I was at the venue very early to receive guests before the former chairman of Langtang North came and he was asked to sit with the people but he refused and wanted to sit where he was not asked to sit.” “The Former chairman of Langtang North Ubandoma came all out to disrupt the occasion. “ POLL “He went and collected the microphone and started saying PDP, as if he came for a rally and I said, you can’t do this here because it’s a cultural occasion , I sent him out of the podium. They started throwing stones, sand and bottles… I asked my people to calm down, the event was a success because after they left, we continued. “We wanted to raise N10.5m, we got almost N28m that day after they left. I will not ask my people to do what is not good, I am a man of peace.” Venman stressed. According to him, he stopped the Ex Langtang North Council chairman from singing praises of the opposition political party “the People’s Democratic Party PDP” during a fund raising occasion toward resettling Internally Displaced Persons IDP’s. It would be recalled that Venmark was alleged to have attacked the former chairman of Langtang NorthJoshua Ubandoma at an annual Resettlement day celebration event held at Sabon Gida, Langtang south LGA last Saturday over a sitting arrangement.