M92 Associates Cooperative Multipurpose Society (M92ACMS) Ltd has disbursed to its members’ dividend payment of N2.50 kobo for every 50 kobos ordinary share for the financial year ended December 31, 2021. This is as the cooperative said that plans have reached an advanced stage to invest in landed property for its members. The dividend was over the weekend in Lagos at the maiden Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the society disbursed physically and electronically to members. The N2.50 kobo per ordinary share was approved by shareholders at an earlier meeting held by the society. Mr Adesanya Adebola, President, Management Committee, M92ACMS, in his welcome address said that the meeting was a mandatory requirement of the cooperative society bye-law. Adesanya lauded the shareholders who entrusted the management with its finances, assuring that the management would continue to judiciously expend the funds on beneficial ventures. He also commended the Board of Directors (BoD) headed by Mr Segun Ayodele for their regular support and contributions, which he said had kept the cooperative vibrant, strong and reliable ever since its inception in October 2020. He, however, expressed that the cooperative experienced low requests for loans in the last financial year, while it also found it a bit difficult of collecting back some of the loans given to members, but promised that the management would continue to ensure prompt attendance to members requests despite the challenge. POLL He unveiled the plan of the society to invest in landed property in the future, stressing that this would further reduce challenges to members. Also, Mr. Segun Ayodele, Chairman, Board of Directors (BoD), M92ACMS, recalled that the society was unveiled in October 2020, during the Covid-19 pandemic year that collapsed global activities and crippled the world’s economies. He stated that many of the shareholders and members were faced with critical pressure as the global economies, including Nigeria was adversely affected by the pandemic, but expressed that despite this; the society was able to rise to the many challenges and demonstrated its strength and resilience as a society as well as our capacity to adapt and improve. He added: “Throughout the pandemic, we have witnessed the benefits of our society culture, which constantly embraces agility, change and challenge. I believe this culture will continue to play a key role in seizing the opportunities that the recovery period might bring whilst creating value for all of our shareholders and stakeholders going forward. “During the past year, the Board of Directors approved the numerous requests from the management, which fasten our growth and on the long-term enhances strategic direction of the society, while also enabling us to drive faster business growth for the benefit of all.” Ayodele explained that since the society came onboard in 2020, the management with the support and approval of the board had unveiled numerous novel ideas and sales of items and products, which he said were beneficial to the shareholders, stakeholders and every member of the society. He explained that in spite of the challenges posed by unstable economy, occasioned by the continuous damage caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the board was still able to maintain its commitment by paying a full-year the dividend payment to all shareholders and stakeholders. The society’s results show an impressive growth in its performance signaling its strong recovery from the impact of the COVID- 19 pandemic in 2020.