The All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State chapter has said no litigation or hateful propaganda against the State Government would distract Governor David Umahi-led administration. Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, the state Chairman of the party said that in some instances some opposition elements have deliberately engaged in frivolous litigations, for the purpose of diverting the focus of leaders, He, however, noted that such moves have continued to fail in the Ebonyi government because the Governor is visionary. Ebonyi: Mother, Three Children Consumed By   Mysterious Fire 2023: Tinubu, Aregbesola Set To Reconcile Speaking on the backdrop of the suit which sought that Umahi and his Deputy, Dr Kelechi Igwe vacate their offices for having defected to APC from PDP, he commended the judiciary for upholding the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by quashing the suit. Chief Emegha said the judgement was anticipated because the provisions of the constitution on the matter were clear even as he appreciated Ebonyi people who first gave the verdict via the polls because of their satisfaction with Governor Umahi’s trajectory in Infrastructural development and peacebuilding among communities within and outside the state during his first tenure in office. “In all honesty, for the right-thinking citizens like us who participated in the last general elections, especially from Edda in Afikpo South Local Government Area of the state where coincidentally I and the plaintiff Chief Sunny Ogbuorji hail from, we all knew that the electorate voted massively for Governor David Umahi because of his achievements in his first tenure”. ” To the family of the ruling APC, this is a welcome development. The battle is over and the Governor still remains the number citizen of the state. He has a covenant with God to rapidly develop the state and its inhabitants. “However, in the spirit of sportsmanship, the plaintiff who is now an integral part of the party cannot even appeal the judgement because there was overwhelming evidence that the suit lacked merit as read out by the presiding judge. Before the ruling, there were stories that he wanted to withdraw the matter” POLL Emegha canvassed for more support to help the Governor, “who has made Ebonyi take the center stage as the fastest developing state in the country to actualise his dreams his dreams especially becoming the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023 so that the entire country can enjoy the aura of his talented leadership ingenuity and sagacity”.