Encouraged by his huge investments activities in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari and his host, the Governor of Kaduna State, have hailed the President of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote. The duo spoke at the 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair which was officially declared open by the President at the weekend. The organiser of the Fair- Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA)-also described Mr. Dangote as the biggest contributor to the economy by an individual through his business and charity -The Aliko Dangote Foundation. CBN Should Establish Mechanism For Robust Monitoring, Evaluation… FinTechNGR Targets Accelerated Startup Growth With Newly… President Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, also visited the Dangote pavilion where he said the country is grateful for the humongous support the Dangote Group was offering the nation. He described Mr. Dangote as a friend by virtue of his contribution to the Nigerian economy, support to government and social interventions. The Dangote Industries Limited is the major sponsor of the ongoing 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair with the theme: Re-strategizing Nigerian economy for Global Competitiveness. Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufia said Kaduna State Government is creating the enabling environment for private sector investors like Mr. Dangote to come to Kaduna State and invest. The Dangote Industries Limited has the largest stake in the Dangote Peugeot Automobile located in Kaduna. POLL The Governor, who was represented by Commissioner for Business, Innovation and Technology, Prof Kabiru Mato, said the state has created friendly policies to woo local and foreign investors. Speaking on the sideline of the opening ceremony, the Director-General of Usman Saulawa extolled the relationship between the Dangote Group and KADCCIMA. “Dangote Group is an international brand in the world of business and manufacturing. I can also add that it is a must-have in every home. Dangote is also known for its philanthropic activities through the Dangote Foundation,” he said. He said one of the uniqueness of the 2022 Fair is the flagship event-the Business Round Table on Blue Economy where stakeholders and businesses are brought together He said companies from India, Pakistan, Morocco, Chad, Senegal, Mali, Niger Republic and Bangladesh are also participating at the Trade Fair. Group Appeals To FG To Legalise Artisanal Refineries Why NCC’s 112 Emergency Number Central To Successful… The companies participating under Dangote Industries Limited are Dangote Cement, Dangote Sugar, NASCON, and Dangote Fertiliser. A statement from the Corporate Communication Department of the Dangote Group said participants who seek to do business with any of the company’s subsidiaries can avail themselves of such opportunities through a Special Desk at the pavilion.