ABUJA – The Director, Defence Me­dia Operation (DDMO), Major Gen Benard Ony­euko, has disclosed that, no fewer than 7000 Islam­ic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP)/Boko Haram terrorists from different locations have surrendered to troops in the last two weeks. He also said scores of terrorists and bandits in the North-east, North-west and North-central regions of the country were killed by own troops deployed to those regions. General Onyeuko stated this at the Defence Head­quarters, Abuja during the biweekly briefing on the successes of military operations in the country between 10 and 24 March 2022. According to him, troops of the Nigerian Armed Forces have con­tinued to carry out mil­itary operations against the terrorists, bandits and other enemies of the state. He noted that, “Our troops have remained committed; and while the security situation in some locations remained peace­ful and calm, some other areas recorded some inci­dents within the period.” While giving the break­down of the operational successes of the military within the said period, Onyeuko narrated that, “Following intelligent re­port about the gathering of terrorists possibly for a meeting of their key Commanders and leaders, it dispatched an intelli­gence, surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft to monitor activities at the location. “It was confirmed that over 50 of the terrorists congregated for the meet­ing. “Consequently, the air component vectored the fighter jet to the loca­tion, human intelligence gathered indicates that 27 of the terrorists were neutralised. Prominent among those neutralised include one Mallam Sule, a brother to major bandit Lalbi Ginshima who was a major setback for the group.” POLL Furthermore, he said, “Another air interdiction was carried out at a ter­rorist enclave at Magaba in Kaduna State, neutral­ising scores of the terror­ists while those fleeing were trailed and mopped up by ground troops. “Cumulatively, own troops neutralised eight bandits, arrested seven bandits, rescued 56 civil­ians and recovered one AK 47 rifles, two genera­tors, three MC, 1 motor­cycle and one pumping machine. “All arrested, rescued civilians and recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action.” Explaining how troops of Operation Hadin Kai recorded success in the Lake Chad region and Tumbuns close to Wulgo in Marte Local Govern­ment Area of Borno State, General Onyeuko said, “During the airstrikes key members of Islamic State of West African Province were neutralised. “Other operations were conducted in Marsele, Musini, Gwoza, Liman Kara, Mandara, Fadhis, Waitini, Galdekore, Izza, Garin Ba’abba, Sambisa forest, Ashigashiya all in Borno State. “The operational achievement include neu­tralisation of 17 terror­ists, arrest of 35 terror­ists, recovered 34 AK 47, five dane gun, nine local­ly made guns, 270 rustled cows, three motor cycles, AK 74 and 13 bicycles used for logistics movement.” This is as he revealed that “7000 Islamic State of West Africa Province and Boko Haram Terror­ist from different loca­tion surrendered to own troops. “Troops also rescued 27 civilians. The surren­dered terrorists have been profiled, while rescued civilians and recovered items were handed over to appropriate authorities for further action.” Meanwhile, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor commend­ed troops in all theatre of operations for the mod­est feats recorded and enjoined them to remain professional, vigilant and exhibit utmost caution re­spect for human rights of citizens in their respec­tive area of responsibil­ities. General Irabor also ap­preciated the general pub­lic for their unrelenting cooperation and efforts in providing useful informa­tion in aiding and support of our military operations across the country.