ABUJA – The Joint Union Action Committee (JUAC), the umbrella body of the various employees’ unions in the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has commended the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello for his efforts in creating a conducive working environment for the workers and putting their welfare on the front burner of the Administration’s industrial relations agenda. This commendation was made by the Chairman of JUAC, Comrade Korede Matilukuro during the first Quarterly meeting of the JUAC and the FCT Administration. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Anthony Ogunlelye, saying, the FCT Minister deserve a standing ovation, Matilukuro said while thanking the FCT Minister for the payment of promotion salary arrears to FCTA workers in December of 2021 totaling the sum of 2.9 billion Naira. In his words “Without telling us in December, the Minister went out of his way and he paid a whooping sum of N2.9 billion just for promotion arrears without telling anyone. The next thing we saw … waking up and our staff are attesting to the fact these promotion arrears were paid. “So, I’m sure that if you are in my shoes, you would do more than standing ovation. That shows the disposition of a good leader. Sincerely speaking, Malam Musa Muhammad Bello has not only been encouraging, but he has also actually added value to the system and to quite a number of staff. “Let me also say that the enjoyment of the promotion arrears even went as far as those that are retired. They called to say it has never happened before; that initially, some of them even thought that it was 419, how can I retire and they will pay promotion arrears into my account. That’s how far the Minister has gone. So, we are not regretting taking that position”, Matilukuro said. Speaking on the highlights of the meeting the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola said “First quarter meeting reviewed the general situation of the workforce of the FCTA. The Hon. Minister commended JUAC for their cordial working relationship with the management. The JUAC was also appreciated for their role in the resolution of the lingering industrial action by the NUT”. He went further to say that “JUAC on its part, assured of its continued support of the administration. Various issues that bother on staff welfare were discussed and resolutions arrived”. POLL Amongst the resolutions, the Permanent Secretary said was the commitment of the Hon. Minister to support JUAC in strengthening its cooperative society so that the Administration will be able to deliver further welfare to the staff beneficiaries. Olusade further stated that “JUAC also promised not only to continue to support the administration but to also point out to the Administration where necessary, areas for improvement”. “The various initiatives in the Territory were discussed and it was indeed a cordial relationship based on the honesty of purpose, frankness and dedication to the service of the citizens in the FCT” the Permanent Secretary concluded The meeting was also attended by the Chief of Staff to the HM Minister, Malam Bashir Mai-Bornu, Mandate Secretaries, the Director of Human Resources Management, The Director of Treasury and other senior officials of the FCTA.