KATIE GADDINI In early 2021, social media influencer and pastor’s wife Caressa Prescott made the startling admission that she had just come out of rehab. Prescott told her followers on Instagram that her ongoing mental health struggles, including an eating disorder and substance abuse, had led her to seek help in a treatment facility for several weeks. Prescott’s audience of nearly 50,000 followers received the news with equanimity. Many wished her well and applauded her bravery in coming forward with such a personal and vulnerable admission, especially as a prominent and public Christian woman. At the time, Prescott had a significant social media following due, in part, to her husband, Ben Prescott, the affable, somewhat goofy Australian pastor of Free Chapel Orange County in California. On top of that, her father, Jentezen Franklin, is a well-known televangelist who was one of President Trump’s evangelical advisers and serves as senior pastor of the multi-sited Free Chapel Church in Georgia. In evangelical Christianity the role of pastor’s wife (and to a lesser extent pastor’s daughter) carries its own authority and prominence. A few months later, Prescott made another shocking revelation: She was divorcing Ben. Her followers reacted to this news less positively, as divorce is highly discouraged within evangelicalism and generally considered a valid option only in cases of infidelity and abuse. Since then, Prescott has deleted and restarted her Instagram account several times, a series of stop-starts that hint at her uncertainty around where she fits on the internet these days. Whereas her Instagram feed once featured photos of personal training sessions, Parisian shopping trips, and holidays with Ben at five-star resorts, her account is now very simple, understated, and mostly comprises photos of her children. Prescott’s story of evangelical fame and destruction, played out through real-time photos, highlights the vicissitudes of social media—that one can be loved and then hated at lightning speed, that behind each perfected photo lie countless imperfections. It also reveals a curious shift in evangelical culture over the past five years, as believers now turn to digital media for religious engagement, potentially changing evangelicalism at its core and raising the question: What else are these women influencing? Over four years of in-depth research, I learned about the many struggles and joys of being a single woman in evangelicalism today. I document these findings in my new book, The Struggle to Stay: Why Single Evangelical Women are Leaving the Church, which also includes everyday women’s reactions to Christian social media stars. Having grown up in the faith, I knew most of these gendered norms already, including the importance of modesty and purity, the unspoken codes of conduct around socializing and “accountability,” the value placed on heterosexual marriage and children. But I quickly realized that many aspects of evangelical womanhood had changed since my time. Although female-specific books, magazines, and Bible studies still flourish in evangelicalism, the advent of social media has changed the way that women live out their faith. Especially during the last two years when the pandemic has moved many churches online, devout Americans now practice their faith digitally. Evangelical influencers represent a new avenue of religious engagement for women. Although female evangelical influencers existed before the pandemic, the shift online means that they have gained even larger followings and become even more savvy with how they use social media. Evangelical influencers share a few traits in common: Most are pastor’s wives or “co-pastors” with their husbands, they belong to evangelical churches, and many are charismatic evangelicals, meaning they believe in the gifts of the Holy Spirit, such as speaking in tongues and healings. Their posts fuse fashion with faith, a luxury lifestyle with Christian values of family. Kids feature often in their social media, and their identity as “mother” reigns supreme. They are beautiful, polished, and well-presented, like social media influencers everywhere, yet they also convey Christian messages; whether by quoting Scripture, thanking God for their blessings, or posting photos of themselves at church worship services. Most importantly, as I have argued in the journal Religions, social media has afforded evangelical women a newfound authority. Only 3 percent of evangelical churches in the U.S. have a female senior or lead pastor, according to the latest National Congregations Study from Duke University. It’s an ongoing battle within evangelicalism that has re-emerged recently with author and teacher Beth Moore’s public rebuke of the Southern Baptist Convention. But even in the “co-pastoring” model, popular with many of evangelical influencers, it’s the male counterpart who holds the power. He’s the visible figurehead, the one who primarily preaches, who makes the decisions, and who leads the church. Social media presents a loophole, a backdoor through which evangelical women can gain authority on their own terms, while still respecting Biblical mandates of female submission. Through social media, women gain their own following, and exercise their voice, without violating church doctrine or usurping their husband’s position. POLL One such influencer is Holly Furtick. In her early forties, with light brown hair and an easy smile, Furtick maintains a significant online presence. She’s married to Steven Furtick, lead pastor of Elevation Church, a megachurch with multiple campuses in North Carolina. In addition to her large Instagram following of almost half a million, Holly runs an online book club, hosts a YouTube channel with 60,000 subscribers, and creates Bible study guides for women, available for purchase on her website. Her website also features an index of her favorite recipes and a shop where customers can buy merchandise, such as grey joggers with Bible verses printed down the side. Furtick’s devotion to her husband is a consistent theme across her digital media platforms. On Valentine’s Day, she posted a TikTok of them on Instagram, which included photos from holidays, selfies of tender embraces, and older pictures standing on-stage at church. “Love this life with you,” she wrote, adding a heart emoji. Influencer DawnCheré Wilkerson’s Instagram feed looks similar. In one Instagram post, DawnCheré and her husband, Rich Wilkerson, are embracing in the ocean. DawnCheré wears a strapless white one-piece and Rich is shirtless in the waist-high water. She captioned the post with one simple word: “Us.”