ABAKALIKI – The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State, Chief Stanley Okoro-emegha, has congratulated Senator Abdullahi Adamu, on his emergence as the new national chairman of the Party. A statement signed Okoro-emegha on Monday urged Adamu to keep his eyes on the ball, so that the party would cruise to landslide victory in the forthcoming general elections. He also thanked President Muhammad Buhari for allowing democratic tenets to guide the convention. The statement reads, “Sequel to the successful conduct of the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the Eagle Square, Abuja, may I, the Chairman of the party in Ebonyi State, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha heartily appreciate our leader cum President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR for allowing democratic tenets to guide the process. “A commensurate note of gratitude of mine also goes to other National leaders of our formidable party who shelved their differences in other to accommodate the interest of the party and entire citizens of this great country- Nigeria.” “In same vein, l profoundly wish to appreciate our father and State Governor, His Excellency, Engr. Chief David Nweze Umahi for having through the convention domesticated the name of Ebonyi again in the national politics of Nigeria by producing the National Treasurer, Zonal Secretary as well as Zonal Legal Adviser of the APC. We have never had this rosy. Congratulations our Indefatigable and coveted leader. “It is also gratifying at this juncture to heartily felicitate with the supportive lieutenant and Deputy Governor, His Excellency, Dr. Barr. Eric Kelechi Igwe for his collaborative efforts at achieving the Governor’s magnificent and alluring dreams at all times. “My warmth greetings also go to the Right Honourable Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Chief Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru; Minister of Science and Technology, His Excellency, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu; His Excellency, Immediate past Governor of the state, Chief Martin Nwancho Elechi; Member representing Ikwo/Ezza South constituency in the National Assembly, Hon Comrade Chinedu Oga, OON; the Nigeria High Commissioner to Republic of Zambia, His Excellency, Ambassador Nwannebuike Ominyi; the Chairman state Zoning Committee, Deacon Austin Umahi (Anyanwu ndi Igbo); delegates, other Stakeholders, and associates of our political party for the display of maturity at the convention. Your fidelity to the process still beats my imagination. POLL “It is however my singular gesture to congratulate the New Executives led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the National chairman of our ever winning party, the APC. Sir, keep your eyes on the ball so that our party will cruise to landslide victory in the forthcoming general elections. “This note of appreciation cannot be complete without the mention of some other critical stakeholders who helped to midwife the transparent, credible, reliable and peaceful process such as the security personnel, Independent National Electoral Commission, and the media. Your diverse roles will ever remain indelible on the sands of time.”