IBADAN – One of the chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Alhaji Adebisi, withdrew his membership from the party. Olopoeyan in a press statement available to journalists in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, made the declaration. Olopoeyan through the statement maintained that he will make his further decision known to public as soon as possible. A copy of the statement stated thus; “In life, I have learnt that God has purpose for every action and inaction we take as individuals. Whatever we believe in shouldn’t stop, in as much as we are confident of the movement with a justifying heart. “I have been a very devoted and committed party man from 1999 when democracy was returned; I had a sweet experience with late political siege, Baba Lamidi Adedibu who was very instrumental to political victories in Oyo State. During Late Former Governor Alao-Akala of the blessed memory, I was made to coordinate his political activities and campaign which was a huge success. I sincerely stood by him even though the atmosphere was tense.” “I was never a man who moves in and out of political parties, never. I have not left PDP for another party before but here is a time I have to say goodbye to the party we built.” “I worked very hard to restore PDP in Oyo state with the support of people, I was the one who formed “Reformed PDP” in 2015 after we lost and people left the party. The aim was to reach out to people across the state, hold the people back, and secure the pacesetter state for Peoples Democratic Party. We thank God it was achieved. “Develop an attitude of gratitude and give thanks for everything that happens to you, knowing that every step forward is a step toward achieving something bigger and better than your current situation.” —Brian Tracy. POLL “It is true that God used me and other political associates to ensure electoral victory for Governor Seyi Makinde. It was very rigorous as we had to cross many hurdles for this victory but alhamdulillah to Almighty Allah for making it a resounding history today. “You will recall that Oyo State PDP has been having crisis for a long time which couldn’t be resolved. All the reconciliation committees failed to start from Dr Saka Balogun led committee, to Osun Former Governor Oyinlola committee, Chief Bode George, and finally Dr . Bukola Saraki. It’s quite unfortunate that the NWC couldn’t restore the peace we have been enjoying in PDP since its inception. “My life has always been put under a series of threats for saying the truth. It was God that saved my life in Osogbo during our zonal congress where thugs hijacked the zonal congress from Oyo state. “These thugs also disrupted the aware state congress at Jogor event centre whereby about 200 vehicles were vandalized and people were injured. It saddens my heart that the streets of Ibadan are occupied with thugs threatening my people here and there. It is on this note, I want to announce my membership resignation from Peoples Democratic Party. “I, Alh Adebisi Olopooeyan hereby withdraw my membership from Peoples Democratic Party. “I shall communicate the public soon my next movement.” “Thank you all for your support, trust, and loyalty bestowed on me over the years.” The statement concluded.