LAGOS – Prof. Itse Sagay, Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), on Friday said President Muhammadu Buhari had no choice but to allow Mai Mala Buni, Yobe state governor and Chairman, Caretaker Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to preside over tomorrow’s national convention. Majority of the APC governors had earlier rejected Buni as the National Chairman, APC Caretaker and Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and declared support for Niger state governor, Abubakar Sani-Bello as the new national chairman of the party who will preside over the convention. However, after the rejection of Bello’s letter by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) saying only Buni and the National Secretary, John Akpanudoedehe that can write to the commission, President Buhari waded in and asked the governors to allow Buni preside over the convention. Speaking in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Sagay said the president did the right thing by reinstating Buni, based on the booby traps set for the APC by INEC. He said “I think President Buhari reinstated Buni again and asked that the governors and other stakeholders should cooperate with him because of the trap that INEC was setting for APC. INEC was setting a trap to say that the convention was conducted by people who did not get 21 days notice of that election. If they have to follow the 21 days notice, then the convention will have to be postponed again”. “So, I think the president was being pragmatic to say ‘let us allow Buni to conduct the convention. It is like when you have a bull in a China shop, you then say let us guide him and lead him out quietly in order to make sure that it doesn’t destroy anything. Buni just have 24 hours to go and we forget about him”. “I think the president is just saying ‘let’s tolerate him but firmly ensure that he doesn’t play more games by postponing the convention again. I think given the circumstances, that was the right step to take. Otherwise, a lot of enemies of the party are waiting for the slightest slip to eliminate the party from contesting in 2023”. “It is a very unfortunate phenomenon which the judiciary has encouraged, thereby progressively destroying our democratic culture” he said.