The French government has appealed for calm following the death of the jailed Corsican nationalist Yvan Colonna after he was attacked by a fellow prisoner almost three weeks ago. Colonna, 61, had been in hospital in a coma since the assault on 2 March in a prison where he was serving a life sentence for the murder of Claude Érignac, the French prefect – the government’s senior representative in Corsica – in 1998. The French government spokesperson Gabriel Attal called on Tuesday for “calm and dialogue” and promised that the “unacceptable” attack would be fully investigated. The incident stoked anger and the worst clashes for years on the island of Corsica, where some still see Colonna, whose death was announced on Monday night, as a hero in a fight for independence. Earlier this month, hundreds of islanders turned out to demonstrate in Ajaccio, Calvi and Bastia, and at least 14 people were injured. His death has sparked fears of further violence on the Mediterranean island. “We need now to call for calm and for dialogue,” Attal told Europe 1 radio on Tuesday. “Everything will be done to shed light on events that led to this unacceptable situation.” Colonna was arrested in 2003 following a five-year manhunt for Érignac’s killer. He was discovered living as a shepherd in the Corsican mountains. The French authorities had long dismissed his demand to be transferred to a prison on the island, saying his crime made him a special status prisoner. His alleged attacker, Franck Elong Abé, has been formally placed under investigation for attempted murder in association with a terrorist group. French media reported that Abé, 36, who was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2016 for “association with a group preparing a terrorist act” allegedly told investigators that Colonna had “spoken badly” of the prophet Muhammad. POLL The local prosecutor Laurent Gumbau said Abé attacked Colonna while he was working out in the prison gym by pulling a bag over his head and strangling him. France’s anti-terrorist prosecutor said Colonna had been “strangled with bare hands, then suffocated”. Colonna’s lawyer, Patrice Spinosi, said on Monday: “The family requests that its grief is respected and will be making no comment.” He confirmed that his client had died in hospital in Marseille from his injuries. In an attempt to dampen local anger over the assault, the French judiciary on 17 March suspended Colonna’s prison sentence for medical reasons. A criminal investigation and an internal prison inquiry have been opened into the assault. In a surprise move just a month before the presidential election, France’s interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, announced in a newspaper interview last week that the government might be prepared to offer Corsica autonomy. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, said the issue should not be a “taboo” subject but added that there must be an end to the unrest before a discussion could begin. “It is a debate that cannot take place until there is absolute calm,” he said last Thursday. Darmanin’s comments last week and subsequent visit to Corsica helped to ease tensions and it remains to be seen how nationalists will react to Colonna’s death. His supporters had long called for his release or at least a transfer from mainland France to a prison in Corsica. The leader of Corsica’s pro-autonomy regional council, Gilles Simeoni, said Darmanin’s proposals were “important words that open up prospects, but they ought now to be extended and firmed up”. The National Liberation Front of Corsica (FLNC), which carried out deadly attacks for decades before laying down its arms in 2014, said this month it could resume its fight if Paris remained in a state of “contemptuous denial”. Corsica, the birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte, has become a favourite of well-heeled French tourists with its unspoilt beaches but has also been mired in internal problems. Many Corsicans are frustrated that a reform of the island’s status has been on ice since 2018. Many are demanding increased control over fiscal policy and hiring policies, and the expanded use of the Corsican language. The debate on the issue has intensified at a hugely sensitive moment, with France preparing for a presidential election in April and the right warning Macron not to give an inch on the island’s French identity. Talks on autonomy for Corsica will begin in April and should be wrapped up by the end of this year, according to a memorandum agreed by Darmanin and Simeoni. Attal underlined the government’s “red lines” on Tuesday: that “Corsica remains a part of the republic and the fact that we will never accept that there are two categories of people in the republic”.