Hon. Moshood Salvador, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Lagos State, has said that it is time for the Nigerian youths to take their destiny into their hands and actively be involved in the nation’s political process. Speaking with Daily Independent on Monday, Salvador who is the former Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state said that one of the core problems in the Nigerian political space over time has been the influence of godfathers wielding enormous political power. “I usually wondered why our youths haven’t been given adequate opportunity to participate in our political space other time. I assume, maybe it is the youths that haven’t shown much interest but it is glaring to me and I am beginning to see that we need political liberation in Nigeria and it can only start happening now. “The 2023 elections are fast approaching as we can all see it is, therefore, the time for the youths to start thinking of holding political positions. “I started my political movement in my 20’s back then in Mushin; I remember very well I became a rep member out of merit because back in the day I gave water to my community and for that and many other reasons my people in Mushin loved me and made me their representative in the House of Representatives. “I think the same thing can apply to the youths of this day, especially now that we are in a digital world where the advancement of getting things done is now more variable. “I believe so much in the youth that’s why I welcome a number of them to my premises in Surulere to always come and discuss with me and share problems so that we can proffer solutions to the challenges facing the nation.” He added, “I recently appointed a 25-year-old (Maxwell Olusegun Njarika) as my youth leader in the Conscience Forum. I am looking forward to involving more youths in the coming elections not just to carry placards but also to be game players themselves. POLL “Maybe it is time for us to make our ward to ward visible, I think it is time for us to open the door for our youths to take up different positions from the ward level to the federal level provided that it is merited and they are filled with the will, zeal, tenacity and uprightly built in their conscience.”