LAGOS – Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of an Ikeja Special Offences Court on Friday sentenced Udeme Upong, one of the co-defendants standing trial alongside a kid­nap kingpin, Chukwudimeme Onwuamadike, known as Ev­ans, to five years imprisonment for illegal sales of firearms. The convict, Upong, and Ev­ans, Joseph Ikenna Emeka, and Chiemeka Arinze, are charged before Justice Taiwo, on a sev­en-count charge of murder, at­tempted murder, conspiracy to kidnap and selling of firearms. They were alleged to have attempted the kidnapping of Vincent Obianodo, chairman of the Young Shall Grow Mo­tors. Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Buhari Commiserates With ACF Over Spokesperson’s Passing At the resumed of the pro­ceedings on Friday, Upong through his counsel, Mr. A. B. Josiah informed the court of his intention to change his plea of ‘not guilty’ to ’guilty’. Subsequently, Justice Taiwo ordered the prosecution to re­view the fact of the case. Reviewing the facts of the case, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Dr Babajide Martins, who led the prosecu­tion team, informed the court that Upong, who hailed from Itan-ikoronumu village in Ika LGA of Akwa Ibom State as at time of arrest, admitted to being involved in the matter having met the first defendant. He said the convict admitted to selling 2-AK 47 guns and 270 arms of ammunition to Evans sometimes in 2008 contrary to Sectionn29(2) of the Fire Arms Act F28, 2004 and punishable under Sectionn27(b)(III). Dr Martins said the convict said he got the weapon from his village where they usually use it for inter-communal crises. POLL He said that they agreed to N400, 000 for the two ammuni­tion but the defendant paid him N200,000. Dr Martins told the court that the defendant’s statement has been admitted in evidence. He told the court that the defendant was charged under Firearm Act Section 92 and punishable under Section B. “Under the said law, the of­fence attracts a maximum of five years imprisonment. “We are not aware of any of his previous convictions,” he stressed. Gunmen Attack Funeral Procession In Anambra, Kidnap One Wild Jubilation As Iregba Community Witnesses Electricity Supply… He urged the court to con­vict the defendant accordingly. Subsequently, Justice Taiwo found him guilty as charged and convicted the defendant for the offence of illegal sales of firearms. In his allocutus, the defen­dant’s lawyer appealed to the court to consider his change of plea as a remorseful act and for not wasting the time of the court and taxpayers’ money. He also urged the court to consider the fact that the de­fendant has been in detention since July 6, 2017, which is al­most the length of his sentence. Josiah further appealed to the court to temper justice with mercy and give the defendant a lenient sentence as a first of­fender who has not been con­victed before. In his judgement, Justice Taiwo sentenced the defendant to five years imprisonment which reads from the date of his remand in custody of Kirikiri Correctional Service on July 6, 2017. It would be recalled that a few weeks ago, Evans was sen­tenced to life imprisonment in one of the charges filed against him and others before Justice Hakeem Oshodi. Evans still has about two more related cases of kidnap­ping against him before Justice Taiwo and another two before Justice Adedayo Akintoye of Lagos High Court sitting at Ta­fawa Balewa Square.