Lagos State Chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has said that it is working hard to ensure that its members who are presently within the Lagos4Lagos Movement are reclaimed to the party. Lagos West Senatorial District Vice Chairman of the party, Mr Babatunde Aboyade, who stated this while speaking with journalists on Monday after he was sworn-in, explained that the party has not given up on the defected members He explained further that the major assignment for the newly inaugurated executive is to reconcile all factions and groups, adding that without unity, the party would be unable to achieve anything meaningful. “Our priority as a party at the state level, even at the Lagos West Senatorial District, is to unite all factions. And that is the narrative from the highest authority. So in the Lagos West Senatorial District, I will make sure that is achieved to the letter and I can assure there will be unity by the grace of God,” he said. Speaking on their plans for aggrieved members, Aboyade said, “We have not given up on those who have defected to other parties. We are still reaching out to them. It may not be in the public but we are talking to them. “We are making sure that whatever they want is looked at. Politics is given and taken, and so, we will ensure that all are brought back into the fold. We are working on it and we are not sleeping on it. “There are people we started together. We will settle whatever their grievances are. They will come back, I can assure you.” While noting that discipline was missing in APC, the APC Chieftain explained that the party would ensure that discipline is restored in the party in order to achieve its goals and aspirations. POLL “Nobody is greater than the party, the party is supreme. We are going to enforce and sustain party supremacy at all levels from ward to the senatorial district. “Lagos West remains the biggest senatorial district in Nigeria, the huge votes in this district would make the party do everything possible to bring everyone on board. “If we get our house together in Lagos West, our votes will soar up in 2023. With the cooperation of all, the youths, women and other groups, Alimosho will lead. Speaking on the presidential aspiration of the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Aboyade assured that the Senatorial District is the largest in Nigeria will deliver the required vote to ensure that Tinubu emerges as the next president of Nigeria.