Party Receives Thousands Of Defectors From PDP Young Progressives Party, YPP, has stated that it is optimistic of an impressive outing in the 2023 general election after it concluded its state Congress in Ilorin on Saturday. The party also commended the Judiciary over judgements sacking defectors in Ebonyi and Cross Rivers, the biggest of which has affected Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State. Speaking to newsmen at the GRA, Ilorin YPP State Secretariate, Hon Vidiyeno Bamaiyi, National Secretary of the party, said that with the completion of the set up of party structure in the state, the party is all set to take the state and the nation by storm. He based his optimism on the success recorded during the membership drive of the party in the state. “We currently have 60, 000 members in Kwara State, more are still joining and we have a target of hitting 300, 000 before June. “We are also going to contest all elective offices in Kwara State. POLL “These are 24 state assembly members, six House of Reps seats, and three Senatorial positions and then the governorship. “That is the task YPP in Kwara has before it and they will be accomplished. “Very soon, we are going to have our party primaries. “We expect that credible candidates will emerge from there,” he said. Honourable Bamaiyi also praised the judiciary over its decision in Ebonyi and Cross Rivers states. “Our reactions to the court verdicts on defection is that we are excited. “The court judgement is how party matters should be handled. “It will regulate politicians who are just jumping from one party to the other and who have no ideology. “Before you join any political party, be sure you understand and buy into their ideology,” he said. Also speaking at the event, the outgoing chairman of the party, Charles Afolayin expressed satisfaction at the work done on the party. He stated that the party offers ready alternatives to parties in power in the country who failed the people. He was also full of praise for his fellow party members’ leaders. “I want to use this opportunity to appreciate my team, the incumbent state executives of the party, all we have achieved thus far is a result of teamwork and their resilience and commitment to see that we succeed. “I want to take a special time to appreciate Waziri Yakubu Gobir, Waziri Hausa and the Madawaki of Ilorin for his immense support,” he added. Meanwhile, the party also recorded a gale of new members who defected from the People Democratic Party, PDP, who were formerly received by the national officers of YPP. Chief among the defectors received are Alhaja Ramat Oba-Jara, a former leader and supporter of Bukola Saraki in PDP and another former chieftain of the party, Hon. Agboola Abdulhameed. They were accompanied by their members numbering thousands at the Congress.