ENUGU – The National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), has commended Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi over the outstanding performance of Enugu State in the just-concluded National Immunisation Plus Days (NIPDS) campaign. It would be recalled that Enugu State conducted a massive statewide NIPDs immunization campaign between Feb. 5 and Feb. 9. The commendation was contained in a letter to the governor, signed by the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of NPHCDA, Dr Faisal Shuaib, and copies comrade available to Journalists on Saturday in Enugu. The commendation letter is titled: “Letter of Commendation on Lots Quality Assurance Survey (LQAS) Performance for NIPDS Campaign in Enugu 5th – 9th February 2022”. Shuaib noted that the council areas used for the independent and objective samples in order to ensure quality assurance and data cross-check/verification passed 100 per cent without any trace of leftover of un-immunised children. The letter reads in part: “On behalf of the National Emergency Operation Centre (EOC), I hereby acknowledge and appreciate the commitment of the government to the ongoing efforts to stop the transmission of circulating variant polio virus-2 in Nigeria. “Your Excellency, this is to commend the tremendous improvement in the Polio campaigns which couldn’t have been possible without your support and guidance. POLL “I also wish to congratulate you and your state team for the outstanding performance during the February 2022 National Immunisation Plus Days campaign which was conducted from 5th to 9th February as shown by the LGAs below. “While appreciating your effort for this performance, we urge Your Excellency to ensure that the newly-elected LGA Chairmen work closely with the State Primary Health Agency to ensure that the standard is sustained in the state.” The eight council areas, where the independent and objective sampling was done, are: Aninri, Enugu North, Igbo-Etiti, Igbo-Eze North, Isi-Uzo, Nkanu East, Nsukka and Uzo-Uwani. It would be recalled that the World Health Organisation (WHO) had earlier issued a commendation letter to Gov. Ugwuanyi on general improvement on immunisation status and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) service delivery in the state.