LAGOS – One of the leading beer brand, Trophy Lager rewarded some of its teeming consumers who participated in the ‘Trophy Stand by Me’ initiative. The initiative came to an exciting end after enabling many creatives to express their talents month-on-month through genres such as poetry, music, painting, comedy skits, acting, dancing, short movie production, and others. The creatives uploaded 60-second videos on social media to showcase their talent regarding the theme “Na Who Stand By Me, Be My Honourable” and received additional tasks while getting a monthly allowance of N100,000 for four months. The 100 winners received a N100,000 allowance through a shortlisting process; this number was reduced to 70, then 40, before arriving at 20 participants. The top 20 were coached by industry leaders – Trophy brand ambassador, Femi Adebayo, popular rapper Tobechukwu Ejiofor, aka Illbliss and talent manager, Andrea Manuela Giaccaglia. Upon rigorous assessment, three final winners were selected and awarded a one-million-naira contract each. Tolulope Adedeji, Marketing Director, International Breweries Plc, while speaking at the closing event which held at the Southern Sun Hotel in Lagos, described the ‘Trophy Stand by Me’ initiative as an opportunity for talented Nigerians to showcase their gifts to the world with honour while friends and relatives got the chance to extend their support to their loved ones by standing by them. According to Adedeji, “Nigeria is blessed with millions of young, enterprising creatives who only need that nudge and platform to showcase their skills, and this is what we hoped to achieve with the Trophy Stand By Me Initiative. Today, we are excited to have achieved this goal through the crop of talented creatives you can see here and many others who have been inspired and equipped to harness their potential to good use.” POLL Marketing Manager, Trophy Lager, Bamise Oyegbami added that the “Trophy Stand by Me Initiative rewarded the creativity and tenacity of young, talented Nigerians as a way of demonstrating that Trophy Lager cares for them and supports their quest for recognition and success every step of the way.