WARRI – Ace media executive, Ruke Edjeren, has finally pitched his camp with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The hard-working broadcaster who recently left the services of Delta Broadcasting Service Asaba says it’s a call to contribute to the service of his community, Delta State and the Nation. Receiving him at Ekakpamre ward in Ughelli South Local Government Area, the Ward Chairman, Apostle Umukoro Paul said he was happy that personalities with a vast wealth of experience have chosen to pitch tent with the People’s Democratic Party in their quest to contribute their quota in the development of their communities. On his part, Ward Secretary Gordons Ufuoma described Ruke as a popular personality, whose popularity and wealth of experience in the media world will go a long way to strengthen our great party, he further praised him for identifying with his grassroots instead remaining at the headquarters. It will be recalled that Ruke Edjeren recently left the services of Delta Broadcasting Service Asaba after attaining the rank of Deputy General Manager. He graduated from the prestigious University of Benin, where he was a schoolmate to notable Deltans like Mofe Damijo and Chief Onanefe Ibori, to mention but a few. Mr Edjeren who has been duly registered at the national headquarters of the party at Abuja was thereafter issued an official party membership card by his Ward Chairman Mukoro Paul. Probed further of his interest to contest the forthcoming elections, Ruke posited that it was too early in the day and that he was still consulting with his immediate constituency, but promised to work assiduously for the party to achieve a resounding victory come 2023. POLL Speaking, Edjeren said there is a lot we can collectively achieve as a people if we pool our resources together. He gave special praise to Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the tremendous human and capital development he achieved in his few years in office. He further said Okowa will finish strong and has written his name in the annals of democratic governance in Delta State. He said Okowa remains a reference point in Delta political equation, he should therefore be allowed to at least influence who succeeds him, after due consultation with major stakeholders in the State