LAGOS – Honourable Philip Aivoji, former Lagos State Commissioner, the newly elected Lagos State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that nothing will come between him and Chief Bode George, former deputy national chairman of the PDP, stressing that Bode George is his leader. The PDP chieftain in an interview with Daily Independent said that the Atona Odua of Yorubaland is their father in PDP, pointing out that he has been in communication with him and wouldn’t like anyone to come between them. Aivoji said, “He is our father and as a man who cherishes elderly people, I will always respect him. I have never insulted any of my elders and nothing will come between me and Chief Bode George. He is our leader. We have been in communication one-on-one and I have told everyone that no one will stand between Chief Bode George and me. I have told them to leave every matter that it is between me and him,” It will be recalled that after the congress which produced Aivoji as the state chairman of the party, some party members alleged that the election was compromised as party leaders had earlier agreed on consensus which was said to have been jettisoned by Governor Douye Diri led electoral committee. Dr. Amose Fawole who was said to have the support of Bode George lost to Aivoji with few votes and aggrieved party members demanded that the leader’s position must be sacrosanct. However, Aivoji who is said not to have the blessing of the former deputy national chairman is insisting that there is no cause for alarm as he has always maintained a good relationship with Bode George On his relationship with the other aspirants, he said, “I have spoken to the other aspirants except for Dr. Amos Fawole whose telephone number was switched off. I am planning to pay him a visit. I have stretched my hand of friendship to all of them. We are going to work together. “They all have something to offer based on their abilities. I am Fawole’s leader politically. The last time we met in Bode George’s place. Bode George is our leader. People say different things and I must say that those people shouting are in minority. The masses are in the grassroots who will win the election. You could see how the voting went, I got 839 votes and Fawole, my closest rival also had 800, plus, which means that it was keenly contested,” he said.