The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), has disclosed that it is reconciling its registered members list and those licensed by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in a view to stamping out quake practitioners. Barrister Rotimi Edu, president of NCRIB made this known at a media parley to usher in 60th anniversary of the Council in its national secretariat in Lagos weekend. According to him, the exercise is aimed at reducing the activities of the quack insurance brokers who are neither in the books of NAICOM nor his Council. Edu noted that the activities of quacks who often times sell fake insurance policies to unsuspecting members of the public have given the industry a bad image when issues of claims occur. “As we are aware, the image of the Insurance Broker is still being smeared by some members who are not Brokers by training and certification, but masquerade as one. Our Council is not folding its arms to watch this charlatans who flagrantly disobey the law mandating them to be registered with the NCRIB before licensing by NAICOM to practice. Good enough, we have been able to excise more commitment from the Commission under the indefatigable Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas to support this purging. More than ever before, the Commission has been quite complimentary to our course and we are most delighted for this. “Furthermore, our Council in a little while would be coming out with Professional Seal of Practice to be used by all Registered Insurance Brokers as we have in similar professions such as Law, Auditing, Architecture. These seals would be affixed to all stationeries and printed materials of our members as a distinctive emblem of professional service and excellence and making our documents admissible as evidence in the Courts of Law. “It is most heart-warming that this initiative has been overwhelmingly received and supported by the NAICOM through the CFI during our visit to the Commission in Abuja early this week. “It is most heartening that the cooperation received from NAICOM in the reconciliation of list of Insurance Brokers Registered with NCRIB and those licensed by NAICOM but not yet on NCRIB Register has been quite progressive. With this renewed commitment, there would no longer be a hiding place for unethical players, for which we appreciate the commissioner for insurance (CFI), Mr. Sunday Thomas and his team, “he said. On the effort of the sector to deepen insurance penetration, the barrister turned insurance broker said that the Council has also created avenues for engagement with governmental and non-governmental institutions to create insurance awareness among them. POLL He pledged continuous support of NCRIB for various developmental initiatives anchored by the NAICOM and the entire insurance sector to achieve the set purposes. He said: “One of the greatest desire of all well-meaning operators in the industry is how to further deepen insurance in the country. In this regards, the Council is already ingeniously creating avenues through strategic engagements with notable governmental and non-governmental institutions to deepen the industry in the country. “As I assured the Commissioner for Insurance during our visit, we would continue to support the Commission and other arms of the industry to achieve this purpose. In doing this, our Council is not averse to any initiative to drive awareness through technology, just as we would continue to advise our members to embrace shared services schemes in order to present a cohesive and formidable front for the overall benefit of the industry and our economy.