The Nigerian Army on Monday said that its troops have dislodged the hideout of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its militant wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) in Orsumoghu, Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State. Onyema Nwachukwu, the Director of Army Public Relations who disclosed this in a statement said that the Troops of 82 Division Nigerian Army (NA) conducting clearance operations in Anambra/Imo States border communities overpowered the pro-Biafra group who staged an ambush against them during the operations. Nwachukwu further stated that the notorious groups have serially launched attacks on defenceless civilians and security targets from the hideout. The Army PR said that further investigations revealed that the hideout served as the operational base of one Innocent Obieke (a.k.a Double Lion), who is said to be the head of the vigilante group in the area, but surreptitiously coordinates the criminal activities of IPOB/ESN in the area. The statement read, “Troops of 82 Division Nigerian Army (NA) conducting clearance operations along Anambra/Imo states border communities today dislodged a criminal hideout used by the Indigenous People of Biafra  (IPOB) and its armed affiliate; Eastern Security Network ( ESN) in Orsumoghu, Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State. “The notorious groups have serially launched attacks on defenceless civilians and security targets from the hideout. During the clearance operations along the border communities, troops were met with stiff resistance from the dissident elements, as they closed in on their enclave. They were overwhelmed by the troops’ superior firepower, forcing them to abandon their hideout. “After overrunning their camp, the gallant troops carried out further exploitation and recovered a cache of arms, comprising 22 pump action rifles, 19 Dane guns and 6 machetes. “Other items recovered include assorted mobile phones, sim cards, a monitor and a laptop. One operational Hilux vehicle and various voodoo items and charms were also recovered. POLL “Investigations revealed that the hideout served as the operational base of one Innocent Obieke  (aka Double Lion), who is said to be the head of the vigilante group in the area, but surreptitiously coordinates the criminal activities of IPOB/ESN in the area. “The suspect is currently on the run, while troops have intensified operations to close in on him and his cohort. “Members of the general public are please enjoined to continue to support troops and other security agencies with credible and timely information that will lead to the arrest of criminal elements in their vicinity.”