The ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine in which Russia is the open aggressor has once more confirmed the bitter truth that the international political system that is operated by sovereign State entities is, at best, lawless and, at worst, anarchic. A situation of lawlessness exists when there are no rules of engagement wherein every participant is motivated only by survival instinct controlled strictly by self-interest. On the other, an anarchic situation exists where rules and regulations do exist, but no one really bothers to comply with them because there are no deterring consequences or reprisals available for their violations. The current world order has something in common with the two set of aberrational scenarios that we have just outlined – plenty are rules, but nobody obeys them. What Russia is doing currently in Ukraine is not worse than what the U.S has been doing for years in many foreign countries without a tinge of remorse or a disapproving whimper from other nations. In fact, under the so-called ‘Monroe Doctrine’, the U.S has unilaterally carved out a zone of influence comprising of several independent neighboring countries within her hemisphere – an undeclared regional empire. We saw how Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya and Syria were bombed to shred by the U.S and her allies, and they hypocritically canonised the bloodlettings as either intended for “installing democracy” or for “defending freedom” with no recourse to the law of nations which has since the inauguration of the UN system in 1945, outlawed such international banditry. There are, however, still some vague allusions to “law and order” in diplomatic circles, but the reality is that due to the interplay of the exaggerated concept of sovereignty exercisable by the powerful nations of the world and to the detriment of weaker nations, the legal order has been largely selective, one-sided and lacking elements of justice which insist on equal treatment of nations in the event of proven violations of the norms of international law. Even the United Nations systems that attempted to bring some level of sanity to the anarchic international order in the aftermath of the Second World War has been less successful in that regard, what with the veto power tool which exists to nullify the position of members by just one opposing vote. Such a situation of perpetual stalemate does not augur well for law and other. When Russia started the massive arms buildup against Ukraine several weeks ago, most people thought that there was really no likelihood of Russian invading her sister nation of Ukraine because it was thought to be strategically unwise of any nation, no matter how powerful, to display such an open animus belli against another country without arousing the negative attention of the world. There was also the strategic loss of the potent surprise element in modern land warfare. What is more, Putin has grown increasingly unpopular within Russia. On the other hand, President Joe Biden, the principal opposer of the Putin military initiative against Ukraine, also needed a diversionary “international emergency situation” to help deflect attention away from the mirage of domestic problems confronting him. So, no one thought that at this day and age that any sane person would want to embark on such wasteful military forays. Indeed, only a mad man like Putin would still singularly want to go into a war with no possibility of a quick and decisive victory. Particularly with respect to Ukraine, it didn’t make much sense for Russia to want to invade that country in reaction to the America/NATO encirclement of Russia. True, the Cold War ended in 1991 with the Soviet Union going into an ignominious disintegration. As several of the Soviet States walked away from the Warsaw Pact and embraced NATO militarily and EU, economically, it was natural for Russia to feel threatened. To make matters worse, those who were “elected” to resuscitate Russia out of the ruins of the defunct Soviet Union turned out to be crooks and state capturers. They callously counterfeited the notion of capitalism while crudely stripping the Russian federation down into penury. Putin is one of them. Russia is a major producer of oil and gas, but she has since become a victim of the old corruption bug that plagues most oil producing counties, oil rich but with wretched populations and dilapidating infrastructures. Such unbridled kleptocracy has meant that Russia, with all her acclaimed military might, is still practically being misruled like a Third World country where corruption is rife coupled with inequality and social disorder. If Russia was really that strong and developed, how come we hardly see any quality consumable product such as Russian-made cellphones, TVs, cars, airplanes, etc.? Instead, the country’s oligarchs are waiting for cheap oil money to plunder, travelling the same corrupt road to perdition that wayward petrol-dollars earning nations like Nigeria have trodden – the oil curse. Due to the consequences of Putin misrule, the West opportunistically started to emasculate the country by using former satellite Soviet republics to undermine her security thereby making the country more and more vulnerable to avaricious Western plots. Using NATO, the U.S has been able to station both nuclear weaponry at Russia’s backyard in places like Poland and Georgia. The only respite that Putin had hoped for was President Trump remaining in power, but his election defeat badly shook Putin’s confidence and for Ukraine with a 2000-kilometre land borders to be angling to join the EU and possibly NATO. That made Putin nervous and, lately became nostalgic about the old USSR. So, he drew the line: Leave Ukraine for us! Recall that when Viktor Yushchenko, the pro-Russian president came to power, he was swiftly ousted for, amongst other things, trying “take Ukraine back to Russia”. He expectedly fled to Moscow. That upheaval did not stop entrenched corruption in Ukraine. It culminated into the election of the President Zelensky, a former standup comedian, because the voters would rather trust a real comedian than the political comedians looting the country. The one thing that most Ukrainians did not want is a return to totalitarianism like Russia. They then befriended the Americans, or they were indeed ensnared, all to the annoyance of Putin. POLL The U.S securing a strategic foothold in today’s Ukraine through NATO is in many respects similar to when Russia, at peak of the Cold War in 1961, wanted to do by installing missiles in Cuba just 90 miles off the coast of Miami. If J F Kennedy could demand that President Khrushchev, who incidentally was a native of Ukraine, withdrew those missiles from Cuba, why can’t the US and her allies also see the sense in Putin demanding for a Ukrainian buffer? The reality is that today’s Russia is no longer the same, either in might or in awe, with the defunct Soviet Union. Therefore, even if Russian inflicts a crushing blow on Ukraine now, the offensive gang up by the Western nations will ultimately ensure that the Russian economy and its social order are destroyed, and Putin might find himself the ultimate loser just like Hitler before him in the face of a near-global coalition arrayed against him. It used to be said that when you eat with the Devil, you use a long spoon. With Putin, it is whenever you talk with enemies, you sit across very long table as the optics of his recent meeting with NATO leaders suggests. This may not be the much-feared World War III even with the massive coalition, but it could end up badly for Putin and Russia who would have to deal with a new world order where aggressors without the means to cower the rest of the world into acquiescence could be easily pariahed into oblivion. Time will tell.