BENIN – Benson Idahosa University, Benin City on Friday matriculated over one thousand students, with a charge to imbibe the culture of the institution which, the University authority said is built on godliness, good conduct, respect for one another, decent dressing, and discipline. Prof. Sam Guobadia, the Vice-Chancellor of the University who gave the charge while addressing the new students also urged them to decide from now to shun all acts of misconduct, including, choosing their friends wisely and taking their studies seriously so as to make their parents proud. According to the Vice-Chancellor, “As you take the oath today to be obedient to the Vice-Chancellor, to all those in authority, and to be of good conduct throughout your stay in the University, do so with all honesty and humility so that God’s grace will be available to you to keep the oath. LASU Grooms Graduates For Generational Leadership, Says… ,”It is my prayer that in four to five years from today, you will all gather here again for your graduation ceremony and joyfully remember today when your journey to greatness began. “Like all journeys, there are unforeseen circumstances and difficulties on the way. I implore you to be resolute and support the Management to solve any problems you may encounter either in the classroom space or hostel space. This is now your university and your identity for life. Join hands with me to make Benson Idahosa University an enviable brand which you will be proud to call your alma mater”. While thanking the parents of the matriculating students for exercising their power of choice in favour of BIU, Guobadia said “there are 170 universities in Nigeria, out of which 79 are private universities. “Of this number, you chose to bring your child to Benson Idahosa University. We are most humbled by this act and we pledge to join hands with you as equal stakeholders to raise these children in the fear of God, to imbue them with excellent character and to impart in them the knowledge that would make them relevant to the world upon their graduation,”, he said. POLL The Vice-Chancellor also emphasised on the University’s readiness to expose the students to the outside world, adding that the world has grown smaller than a village due to technological development. “Consequently, it has become dangerous to produce local graduates who cannot fit into the new world order and being aware of the demands of the new world, we have intentionally created linkages and networks with universities across the world to ensure that our students have an international outlook and access to global knowledge. “Therefore, in the subsequent academic years, we will give our students the choice of studying abroad for one semester in some programs so that they can interact with their international counterparts. “This grants us international exposure and guarantees us the benefits of the exchange of international faculties and students, and the cross-fertilisation of ideas that result from such cooperation and at the end when your children graduate from this university, they do so with a well-rounded education and return to the outer society with much confidence” he declared.