ENUGU – The Ohanaeze Ndigbo has described Governor Lawrence Ifeanyichukwu Ugwuanyi, as a man of peace The President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor Ohanaeze in a letter to congratulate Ugwuanyi as he attains 58 years on Sunday, March 20, 2022 said “we have followed the life trajectory of Ugwuanyi with keen interest and admiration. Both at the St Theresa’s College Nsukka and the University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, Ugwuanyi had shown profound signs of greatness. “In the Insurance industry, he attained the topmost echelon. At the Nigerian National Assembly, he warmed the hearts of his constituents and garnered sufficient goodwill that propelled him to the Lion Building, Enugu.Ugwuanyi has since his assumption of office as the governor carved a niche for himself as a man of peace. He is a Christian of New Testament dispositions; compassionate, allergic to delusion and megalomania. Perhaps, due to his modest background, Ugwuanyi exudes disarming humility, empathy, charity and benevolence. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo notes with immense admiration that as the 2023 general election gains momentum, Enugu State stands out among the other states in Nigeria, in terms of very delicate management of persons of diverse political and ideological persuasions. “The Ugwuanyi open sesame enables all the major political gladiators of Enugu State to relate harmoniously and exchange views under one umbrella. This is an unprecedented Enugu phenomenon; a unique and amazing dimension in political geometry where two or more parallel lines meet. “The ripple effect of the Ugwuanyi social paradigm is the characteristic Enugu peaceful ambience which has attracted residential buildings, students and cash inflow by eminent Igbos from other states. Apart from the revenue derivatives, Enugu is fast becoming a megacity as a result of the enormous human influx. “Ohanaeze salutes this great patriotic Nigerian, a moral edifice, democracy archetype, consensus builder, unassuming persona, rural infrastructural exponent and beacon of greatness. The President General described Ugwuanyi as a perfect gentleman; a man who keeps agreement and navigates his ways with little or no frictions. POLL “Ohanaeze Ndigbo congratulates His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the Gburugburu of our time, Eze Udo Enugu State, as he climbs up, most gracefully.  It is our fervent prayers that God will grant Your Excellency many more years in good health, peace of mind and prosperity,” he said