LAGOS – Air Peace on Tuesday staged a return to Dubai weeks after the diplomatic tussle between Nigeria and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was resolved. The airline recommenced the direct flight with its Boeing 777 aircraft with the register number: 5N-BUU.Mr. Allen Onyema, the Chairman of the airline had on Monday told Daily Independent newspaper that Air Peace would recommence direct flight between Lagos and Dubai on Tuesday.A statement by Mr. Stanley Olisa, the Spokesman of Air Peace stated that UAE is not a new terrain for the airline, as it commenced scheduled operations into the country via Sharjah Airport in July, 2019. Olisa adding that the airline is glad that it can now operate three weekly direct flights into the city of Dubai. Air Peace Deploys E195-E2, B737 Aircraft On Anambra Route Additional Frequencies To Air Peace: FG Looking Into UAE Letter… Air Peace noted that UAE and Nigeria have a long-standing relationship and is delighted to be serving as one of the veritable means of oiling this amity, especially solidifying the economic ties between the two countries through air travel. “Our commitment to excellence and determination to reduce the air travel burden of Africans, will continue to drive our route expansion and fleet modernisation. It is this same excellence that we’re replicating in this service. Air Peace has recorded a lot of landmark strides in just seven years of operation. We now service twenty domestic routes, 6 regional routes, and two international destinations, including Johannesburg, which we launched in December 2020. “We also have other international routes in the works, such as Houston-USA, Mumbai-India, Guangzhou-China and London. We’re constantly reviewing our route network in line with needs of the flying public”, the airline said. Air Peace lauded the Dubai authorities and the Nigerian Government for making this possible and pledged to work harmoniously with all the relevant aviation stakeholders to ensure optimal operation into the Dubai International Airport.