AKURE – A pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, the Defense for Yoruba People’s Right (DYPR), on Tuesday insisted that the two major political parties in the country, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressive Congress (APC) must cede the presidential ticket to the southern region. A statement by the group’s National President, Otunba Muyideen Olamoyegun, and made available to newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the group alleged that it would be an outright marginalization of the South if the presidency didn’t come to the South. The group emphasised that equity, fairness and justice demanded that the presidency be zoned to the South, charging APC, PDP and other political parties to pick their candidates from the South, noting that it would further enhance balancing in the country’s democratic system. Ododo Community  Makes Fresh Demand For Autonomy From… Arrest, Prosecute Policeman Who Killed Our Member, OPC Charges… DYPR warned all aspirants from the Southern region against accepting vice presidential slot from any political party, noting g that anyone who accepted such ticket would treated as “Judas Iscariot.” The statement reads in parts: “Southern Nigeria has competent, experienced, committed and skilled politicians who could take over from President Mohammadu Buhari and successfully steer the ship of the country. ” We strongly recommend these southern aspirants to their respective parties for internal mechanisms that will be favourable to Southern part of the country. “We state that the people of the Southern parts of the country will regard any presidential aspirant from the zone that takes vice president slot from any candidate as “Judas Iscariot” What we want is president. “It has been difficult to salvage the South from the perennial pestilence of marginalisation because the zone was not able to speak and advance its cause with one voice against the recurrent  imposition in past elections. POLL “Political parties should focus on credible aspirants, their skills, knowledge, talents and experience that will endear them to the electorate in order to facilitate the progress and welfare of the people of the country.”