WARRI – Ambassador Goodknows Boladei Igali, former Nigerian Ambassador to Norway, Sweden and Denmark, has said the choices and decisions taken by Nigerians in the forthcoming general election would make the steady evolution of the nation’s democracy. Igali stated this during his welcome address at the 2022 Press Week Lecture/Award ceremony of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Warri Correspondents’ Chapel, at Casa De Pedro Hotel, Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State. Chairman of the occasion, while welcoming dignitaries to the occasion, said: “2022 has a lot of significance and of special importance to the 2023 general election which he described as ‘a major watershed for the country’. “I call on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Federal Government to ensure better preparation for the 2023 general election. “The process of going through an election is like most other journeys in human existence and planning.” Igali who is the current pro-chancellor and chairman, Governing Council, Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA), said: “There is need for proper planning, understanding the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead and more importantly, proffering solutions to issues that present themselves in a timely manner. “In the words of Professor Claude Ake, lack of proper preparation is synonymous to embarking on a journey without a map. This means the outcome could be calamitous. “The choices and decisions which we take in various spheres, particularly pertaining to politics and recruitment into governance will make or mar the steady evolution of our democracy and the overall nation building process which we are all critical stakeholders and committed to.” POLL Dignitaries present at the event which is still ongoing including immediate past governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, and a former Minister of State for Education, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, Ovie of Uvwie Kingdom, HRM Emmanuel Sideso Abe I, Ovie of Idjerhe Kingdom, HRM King Obukowho Monday Whiskey, Udurhie 1, the rector of the Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe-Oghara, Professor Emmanuel Ogujor, among others.