LAGOS – A Chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has cautioned the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu   to stop his meddlesomeness in the internal affairs of political parties which was demonstrated in the “unnecessary haste to pass judgement over who is to be the chair of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  and what process to follow.” In a statement released by his media office in Abuja , the former Presidential candidate explained that “INEC is not a court of law and neither is Yakubu a school principal to bark out orders to political parties that he considers as his students.” INEC had last Friday  rejected a letter inviting it to an emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee(NEC) of the APC. INEC’s response, dated March 9, signed by its Secretary, Rose Anthony, was titled, “Re: Invitation to the emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee”, and addressed to the National Chairman, APC Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The commission drew the attention of the APC CECPC to the fact that the letter of invitation was not signed by Gov. Mai Mala Buni, National Chairman APC CECPC and its Secretary, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe. This, it said, was contrary to the provision of Article 1.1.3 of the commission’s Regulations and Guidelines for Political Party Operations (2018). INEC also reminded those who wrote and signed the letter of the provision in Section 82(1) of the Electoral Act 2022. It said the section required ‘at least 21 days’ notice of any convention, Congress, conference, or meeting convened for the purpose of merger and electing members of its executive committees, other governing bodies or nominating candidates for any elective office. It urged the APC to note the key issues raised for compliance. POLL INEC’s letter read: “Please refer to your letter Ref.APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/022/32, dated 8th March 2022. “The commission draws your attention to the fact that the notice for the meeting was not signed by the national chairman and national secretary of the CECPC. This is contrary to the provision of the Article 1.1.3 of the commission’s Regulations and Guidelines for Political Party Operations (2018). Furthermore, the APC is reminded of the provision in Section 82(1) of the Electoral Act 2022, which requires ‘at least 21 days’ notice of any convention, congress, conference, or meeting convened for the purpose of ‘merger’. And electing members of its executive committees, other governing bodies or nominating candidates for any elective office. While hoping these issues are noted for compliance, please accept the assurance of the commission’s warm regards,” it said. However, Olawepo-Hashim who was piqued by INEC’s position on the issue said “the invitation to observe a meeting of the APC is not an occasion to give lectures on how the party should run, they were merely invited to observe. He added that “INEC could just have stayed away. It will not have invalidated the meeting. Under the constitution of parties deputies can call meetings where authorised officials  are not available. A third of  membership of  any party organ can call a meeting. It is not just chairman and secretaries of parties that can call meetings. There is something fishy about INEC actions. It is like INEC is working a script to complicate things for the APC” The APC chieftain also  maintained  that INEC’s hastily rolled out election time table which stipulates that all parties must conduct their primaries between April and June is suspicious and could have been designed to favour some political interests contrary to the spirit and provisions of electoral Act 2022 which stipulates that nomination must close at least 180 days to election. “180 days to election is September 2022 not June. In spite of many good provisions of the electoral act 2022,  it carries many obnoxious provisions that impugn on citizens political rights as well as freedom  of Association. Some of the provisions of INEC  guidelines are equally defective. All the various provisions may   soon   be tested by aggrieved parties and such challenges have  reasonable grounds of success. Nigeria is a democracy not an autocracy, ” he said. According to him, it is obvious that the “APC that will be conducting its national convention at the end of March cannot in all good judgement and fairness, be expected to start conducting primaries in April except someone somewhere is playing to a script, adding that “INEC’s power to make electoral guidelines cannot override the independent rights of political parties to conduct their internal affairs including when to go for primaries as long as it does not violate the electoral Act.” He congratulated the Acting APC chairman and the governors who are working round the clock to save the party by focusing the party attention towards the scheduled march 26th convention of the party. “We congratulate the newly sworn in state chairmen who are the eyes and ears of the party at the grassroots we call on them to cooperate with Governor Bello to save the party and position it for  victory in the 2023 polls,” he said. Olawepo-Hashim also counselled the new acting Chairman to seek advice from knowledgeable political leaders on party administration and not reduce the running of the party to an exclusive affairs of Governors who ordinarily should be too busy running their states. “It is the tendency to want to run the party in that manner, which is inconsistent with our democratic history that has led the party to where it is in the first instance”. Also speaking on the newly signed Electoral Act 2023, Olawepo-Hashim described it as a  “New Day for Nigeria” and a huge step in the beginning a new electoral system, a stronger democracy and an improved union in our nation. He explained that the Act which has been assented to by President Buhari, contains provisions aimed at making elections more transparent and making the votes of the people count. The new Act stipulates among others, that parties must conduct primaries and submit their list of candidates at least 180 days before the general elections; that INEC can review results declared under duress; that funds for general elections must be released at least one year before the election. Clause 84 of the new law also stipulates that anyone holding a political office – ministers, commissioners, special advisers and others – must relinquish the position before they can be eligible to participate in the electoral process either as a candidate or as a delegate. Speaking further, he stated that the Act is a victory for the people and democracy, since credible periodic election is a Hallmark of Democracy and it is the vehicle of expression of Sovereignty Of The People. He maintained that having credible elections that reflect the will of the people has been an important challenge of Nigeria since return to Democracy in 1999. “Elections were massively rigged in 2003 and 2007.Towards 2011 a slow process of electoral reform started that saw some significant improvement in 2015 which sadly relapsed in 2019. The effect of public perception that the electoral system is not clean has for long, been increasing voters apathy in our country”, he said. He added that credit for the signed law must be given to the relentless pursuit of Nigerian people of higher Ideals of democracy expressed through the work of various civil society organisations and the media who worked hard for the ACT, the National Assembly that conveyed the wishes of the people and President Muhammadu Buhari who has written his name in Gold by giving assent. According to him, “Democracy is not simply about building roads, providing electricity, and water and police service. Efficient and benevolent authoritarian regimes sometimes perform those services better. Essentially, Democracy is about the right of the people to choose who governs them through a transparent electoral system that reflects their will.” He therefore admonished that “every citizen has a role to play and those who are qualified to vote but have not registered no longer have any excuse not to do so because now, every vote will count.”