The Big Picture Every year, Euromonitor International identifies emerging and fast-moving trends that are expected to gain traction in the year ahead. These trends provide insight into changing consumer values, exploring how consumer behaviour is shifting and causing disruption for businesses globally. Each of the 10 trends in this report follows the same format: • Overview and defining characteristics Yours Sincerely Is 70 Green Africa Unveils Gfuture, Sets To Train Hundreds Of… • Consumer behaviour and motivation • Business environment and impact • Outlook and strategic recommendations What Are We Doing in 2022? Change was the only constant over the past two years. Radical lifestyle shifts motivated consumers to make intentional, mindful and ambitious decisions. Now, the world is on the road to recovery. Consumers areputting their plans into motion, taking chances and seizing the moment. POLL Access and action are the driving forces behind the top 10 global consumer trends in 2022. Resilience and adaptability were tested in 2021, forcing consumers to relinquish control and embrace ambiguity.This year, consumers are taking back the reins and paving a path forward based on their passions and values. Backup Planners Supply chain disruptions lead to next best options Faced with challenges in securing their usual or desired products and services, Backup Planners are looking for ways to purchase similar items or finding creative solutions to obtain alternatives. Del-York Wins West Africa’s Media Agency Of The Year Award NAICOM Set To Institute Sanction On Firms Not Uploading… Supply chain shortages are forcing businesses to pivot and provide new solutions for customers to access products and services. 28% of consumers tried to purchase locally sourced products and services in 2021 Finding Creative Solutions Or Resorting To Alternatives Due to limited resources, consumers are struggling to secure their go-to products. As social occasions and discretionary spending return, consumers want to buy new clothes, invest in home renovations or simply enjoy coffee on the go. However, the effects of COVID-19, particularly disrupted supply chains and staff shortages, exacerbate the issue. Backup Planners are getting ahead of the crowd, taking control and using technology to move to the front of the queue when supplies are threatened. Certain consumers are relying on subscription services or community group buying to secure deliveries. When thwarted, Backup Planners are reverting to the next best option, seeking alternatives and in some cases, delaying purchases or changing shopping habits. Two extremes are influencing shopping behaviours of Backup Planners— paying a premium or switching to cost-effective options, such as buying secondhand or renting. 36% of professionals expected supply shortages to be the most significant effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on their company’s supply chain Rethinking The Supply Chain Product availability drives profit. Supply shortages can weaken customer loyalty. Companies must be able to secure the necessary materials to manufacture products whilst providing exceptional service. Businesses can leverage opportunities where others fail to deliver. Rental or refurbished products give consumers additional options and access to alternatives. Backup Planners may also pay more to get first access to their preferred products… Outlook For Backup Planners By late 2022, supply chains should start to stabilise and access to products should revert to pre-COVID-19 levels. Yet, new shopping habits will dictate how Backup Planners discover and select products, from locally sourced to direct-to-consumer brands to subscription services. Localisation and optimisation will become the norm. Companies and distributors should use data to improve supply chain visibility, hone operations and rethink investments. Climate Changers A low-carbon world Green activism and low-carbon lifestyles are here to stay. Consumers expect brands to step up and are taking action through the products they purchase as concerns over the climate emergency escalate. To win over Climate Changers, companies should offer products that are carbon footprint certified. Transparent labelling of carbon-neutral products builds trust and enables consumers to make informed choices 67% of consumers tried to have a positive impact on the environment through their everyday actions in 2021 Committing To Net Zero Climate action is an extension of Build Back Better, with COVID-19 being a catalyst in the transition towards a net-zero economy. Consumers are becoming aware of their individual contribution to climate change. Eco-anxiety is driving environmental activism and purchasing decisions. In 2021, one-third of global consumers actively reduced their emissions and one-quarter used carbon offsets to compensate for them… 78% of professionals think that climate change will impact consumer demand, changing behaviours, needs and preferences The Planet Tops The Agenda Businesses are tapping into the growing market for carbon neutrality. Companies are adjusting their portfolios to meet consumer demand for products with a lower planetary and ecological footprint. In 2021, 39% of professionals indicated that their company plans to invest in low-carbon product innovation and the development and launch of climate-friendly products. Affordability remains an obstacle to make sustainable products mainstream. In 2021, 43% of professionals reported that the lack of consumer willingness to pay more for these products is a significant barrier, hindering business sustainability initiatives. Outlook For Climate Changers Digital innovation is reshaping how retailers, manufacturers and consumers transition to a new era of environmental transparency. Tech tools, such as digital product labelling and mobile tracking apps, help consumers trace ethical claims, their carbon footprint and recycling habits on their phones…