Prof Ishaq Oloyede, Registrar, Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB)says only good governance will solve the problems associated with youth crises in Africa. Oloyede said this in Nsukka on Tuesday in a keynote address during 3rd international conference of Grace Uzoma Okonkwo Foundation in collaboration with the department of English and Literary Studies, University of Nigeria Nsukka. The theme of the conference is “Youth crises in 21st century Africa: An interdisciplinary discourse”. Our correspondents reports that, the venue of the event was moved outside UNN to Nsukka town because of ongoing nationwide warning strike by Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU. He said until the problems of unemployment, drug peddling and abuse, quick wealth syndrome, moral degeneration, human trafficking and lackadaisical attitude to education as result of poor governance, youth crises would continue to increase. “There is urgent and fundamental need for good governance across Africa to solve youth crises. “The system of government in Africa must respect the rule of law, transparency, equity and inclusiveness to move the continent forward. “It’s good governance that can inspire African youths to begin to look inward, to begin to challenge themselves, to begin to tap into their potentials,”he said. POLL The Registrar who was represented by Prof Dapo Asaju, the former Vice Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University Oyo, said youths in Africa should be allowed to play leadership role Africa by being elected as presidents, governors, national and state lawmakers and local government chairmen. “This will give our youths sense of belonging as the future leaders and go a long way in reducing crises in Africa,”he said.He advocated for promoting of African core values, sacredness of human life, abhorrence of evil materialism and reward for trust, honesty, transparency and the dignity ” There should be constant community advocacy on the evil effects of drug peddling, ritual killings for money, kidnapping as well as other societal vices. “African leaders should create enabling environment with prosperous socio-economic settings that will descourage migration of African youths from the continent. “ “More efforts should be made to put an end to socio-political and economic vectors for violence and conflicts across the continent,”he said. In a remark, Prof Emeka Nwabueze , former Director of Institute of African Studies UNN who was the Chairman of the occasion, commended the organisers of the conference. Nwabueze expressed optimism that, the conference would help to find solutions to myriad of problems facing youths in Africa.Earlier in a remark, Prof Florence Orabueze, the host and convener of the conference said that she instituted the foundation in honour of her late mother, Mrs Grace Uzoma Okonkwo who died in 1983. Orabueze said the annual conference was a scholarly event, that brainstorm and proffer solution to youth crises, dwindling societal value and other challenges bedeviling the youths in Nigeria and Africa. “This annual conference is meant to find solutions to many problems facing our youths,” she said.