Terwase Orbunde, former Chief of Staff (CoS) to Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state has emerged the concensus candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwande Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, ahead of the 2023 PDP governorship primaries in the state. Orbunde emerged the concensus candidate for the LGA, following a mock election, after the constitution of an electoral college made up of five delegates from each of the fifteen council wards of the LGA and councilors representing the wards. Daily Independent gathered that in view of the large number of aspirants of the PDP in the state, the G-14 had advised LGAs to come to come up with a candidate each, who may likely fly the party’s flag in the 2023 general election. With this development, other LGAs in the state are expected to come up with their candidates, after which the final process would be conducted that would lead to the emergence of a PDP flag bearer. However, during the mock election that was held at the VIP Guest house, Adikpo, Kwande LGA of the state on Tuesday, Orbunde emerged the winner of the election. Chairman of the Adhoc Election Committee, constituted by stakeholders of the LGA, Mrs. Mimi Orubibi-Adzape who announced the result said Orbunde emerged winner haven scored 58 votes. Orubibi-Adzape who is also the Chairman, Benue State Internal Revenue Service (BIRS) said Tertsea Gbiseh, a member of the Benue State House of Assembly, came second with 27 votes; Paul Ubwa, Managing Director, Pleasure Travels, came third with 20 votes, while Isaiah Ipevnor scored 3 votes to emerge fourth position. Others are Tavershima Anumve, who scored one vote to place a distant fifth, while Christopher Afaor, Asen Sambe and John Tyonongo got no vote. POLL Shortly after the announcement of the results, some of the aspirants, Christopher Afaor and Tertsea Gbiseh who spoke on behalf of other aspirants said they all accepted the result, adding that the process was free and fair. In his vote of thanks, the former CoS, Orbunde appreciated Kwande PDP stakeholders for the confidence reposed in him. He stated that his emergence has placed on his shoulders the responsibility to rally round all the aspirants as well as the electorate to ensure that Kwande people got the governorship ticket and also won the general elections in 2023. Other members of Electoral Committee are Bem Dzoho, Special Adviser to the Governor on Politics and Sugh Abanyi, member House of Assembly representing Kwande West.