P/HARCOURT  – The Executive Chairman of Eleme LGA, Hon. Obarilomate Ollor has called for more recruitment opportunities for Eleme indigenes into the Nigerian Immigration Service. Chief Ollor, who made the call when the Comptroller General of the Nigerian Immigration Service, Rivers State Command CIS AJ Kwasau and his team paid him a courtesy visit in his office at Eleme LGA Council. Chief Ollor, said Eleme sons and daughters were very interested in joining the service but don’t get the needed opportunity and necessary information that will aide their involvement. He pleaded with the Comptroller General to ensure recruitment opportunities on other necessary information are made public so the people of Eleme can apply as according to him, that will go a long way in boosting the relationship between the Immigration Service and the LGA Council. PHCCIMA President Visits Bangladesh Envoy, Opens Floodgate Of… We’ve Brought Down Piracy In Gulf Of Guinea – NIMASA DG He also promised to maintain the support extended to the Nigeria Immigration unit command in Eleme to enhance their activities adding that it will further strengthen his administration’s commitment in sustaining the peace and security being enjoyed in the LGA. Chief Ollor disclosed stringent steps taken by his administration to make sure illegal migrants who falsify their origin using the Eleme identification letter do not get it anymore. According to him, Identification letter from Eleme is now gotten from the Council after proper clearance from the family, chief and Councillor of the community the individual is from, maintaining that it has helped to check activities of illegal migrants. Earlier, the Rivers State Comptroller General of Nigerian Immigration Service, CIS AJ Kwasau informed the Chairman that he and his team are in Eleme to familiarize and called for more collaboration between the agency and the local government council. He said he decided to visit Eleme LGA due to her importance to the state and nation.