Several top European clubs have reportedly contacted Paul Pogba’s representatives over a summer move, including two Premier League sides. It’s unclear who these two outfits are. The Manchester United midfielder, 29, is out of contract in June and is could complete a free transfer. Pogba has already expressed an interest in joining Paris Saint-Germain and it’s believed Real Madrid and Juventus are also keen. According to Sky Sports News, Pogba is yet to receive an official offer and United have not presented him with a contract renewal since last summer. Rumours suggest he will not make a decision on his future until the summer due to a number of reasons. Pogba is thought to want to know the identity of the next United manager before saying goodbye to Old Trafford. The Red Devils are currently coached by interim boss Ralf Rangnick, who will start a two-year consultancy gig in the summer. Ajax manager Erik ten Hag is the current favourite for the United job and has reportedly been interviewed for the position. Other names in the frame include Mauricio Pochettino, Julen Lopetegui, Luis Enrique and Thomas Tuchel. Where United finish in the Premier League this term is also likely to have an impact. The Red Devils are sixth in the table, four points behind Arsenal having played a game more. Tottenham and West Ham are also in the hunt for Champions League football. Pogba has enjoyed an illustrious career so far, winning four Serie A titles, two Italian Cups, two Italian Super Cups, the World Cup, Nations League, Europa League and EFL Cup. Yet his return to Old Trafford hasn’t turned out as hoped. United paid a world-record fee of £89million to bring Pogba back to Old Trafford in the summer of 2016, but they haven’t got near to winning either the Premier League or Champions League. He’s scored 39 goals in 222 outings for the Red Devils. POLL Pogba’s time at Old Trafford has been marred by several public outbursts from himself and his agent Mino Raiola. In his most recent comments, the player said: “You have to be honest, the last five seasons have not satisfied me – really not at all. “This year it is dead, we won’t win anything. Whether it is with Manchester United or at another club, I want to win trophies.” On joining PSG, Pogba said: “Why not? It’s always nice to play with your team-mates in the national team and club.” Many will view Pogba’s comments as disrespectful, with the midfielder still under contract at United. In December 2020 – just hours before a crucial Champions League clash against RB Leipzig – Raiola said his client wanted to leave Old Trafford. United went on to lose the game, ending their campaign. “Raiola – It’s happened many times before,” tweeted United legend Gary Neville after the incident. “However, surely Paul knew he was making this announcement? If he wasn’t aware then we should see a quote from him very soon correcting his agent. Finally, to do this ahead of Leipzig and the Manchester derby is terrible timing for the team.” Despite the rivalry between United and the Merseyside club, this wouldn’t be the strangest move. Rumours last year suggested Raiola offered Liverpool the chance to sign Pogba for £50m. A transfer never materialised, yet that doesn’t mean a deal is impossible. “Paul Pogba is a world-class player,” said Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp – who’s always been very complementary of Pogba – in December 2018. Perhaps the likeliest move, even though City view United as their biggest rivals. Pogba wants to play at the highest level and win trophies – something of a guarantee at City. Pep Guardiola’s side have won eight major honours since United’s last bit of silverware. Guardiola also claimed he was offered Pogba by Raiola in April 2018. “Pogba is an incredible player… a top, top player,” said the Spaniard at the time. If Pogba doesn’t fancy angering United fans, then Stamford Bridge could be his ideal destination. The Blues are currently unable to sign players due to the sanctions imposed on Roman Abramovich, although that won’t be a concern if the club is sold as planned. Chelsea would be able to offer Pogba Champions League football and a great chance of silverware, considering they’re the reigning European and world champions. He could also link-up with his international team-mate N’Golo Kante. “When Paul Pogba plays alongside Kante, he looks like a completely different player,” said ex-striker Darren Bent in January. “If they were to sign him, Chelsea, wow that midfield.” With a new stadium and training ground, there’s no doubting Spurs’ ambition. Signing Pogba would be a huge statement of intent, but whether they can afford him or offer Champions League football is unclear. Spurs are currently fifth in the Premier League, three points behind Arsenal in fourth having played a game more. “Pogba is a modern player, as he is strong, fast and has stamina,” once said Tottenham boss Antonio Conte, who worked with the player at Juventus. “He’s also humble, so listens to the advice given by me and by his team-mates. We started working on him a year ago and his progress has been incredible… in my view he can be the best.” Probably the most unlikely option. Although Arsenal are in pole position to qualify for the Champions League, manager Mikel Arteta has invested heavily in youth. Signing Pogba would see the Gunners move away from their current blueprint. Arteta also wouldn’t appreciate Pogba and Raiola speaking to the press. The Spaniard isn’t afraid to dump a big name – just ask Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.