Celebrated reggae act and Chairman, Musical Copyright Society Nigeria (MCSN), Orits Wiliki undoubtedly came from a music-induced backdrop, hence it was easy for the good-looking act to fit into the many and sensitive capacities of contributing immensely in the making of hits of top-rated reggae acts like: Victor Essiet, Majek Fasek, Ras Kimono and few other pop stars like Alex O, Chris Mba and defunct Cloud 7 band, led by Cliff David. This could be confirmed in their album sleeve credits where Wiliki’s name appeared as either co-producer, arranger, percussionist, backup vocals e.t.c. Hence, his first album, ‘Tribulations’ became an instant hit since its release till date, years after. In this in-depth close-up with IFECHI OKOH, the Koolman Revolutionaire, talked about his evolution as a child and music enthusiast, composer and producer. It was a serious interactive session, which touched on sensitive and interesting areas of Wiliki and his music career. Beyond the stage, who is Orits Wiliki? My fans call me Pupar Orits Wiliki, De Koolman Revolutionaire. I am a music author, writer, producer, performer of music, actor of music and T.V content creator. Between Bola Shagaya And Ibukun Awosika Like Oba Saheed Elegushi, Like Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi What was your childhood days like? My childhood days were like the normal growing up of a child. I mean stubborn and sometimes overbearing naturally. What of your childhood fantasy and why? You mean fantasies? They were simply three: firstly to become a movie star. Secondly, a music star and thirdly, a super military personnel. But interestingly, it was my second choice i.e being a music star that came to pass. I thank God for that anyway. What factors lured you into music? POLL It all started with my late father as my mentor. He was very gifted in music-making. I still remember how we children, used to gather around him, watching him play his music as a reverend minister of the word of God. He was just a very good musician then in my own estimation. Then he used to play the accordion and sang as well, while the children who loved what he was doing simply provided the chorus unsolicitedly. This forum undoubtedly prepared the ground to join the choir which I did subsequently, fitting in solidly. That was when I was eight years old. Why did you embrace reggae music of all the genres? My natural love for the kind of music my late father was into before his death did not have much grip on me any longer when I began to grow older. That time I was older to have known better. That was when it dawned on me that reggae music had a better spiritual springboard or platform to express myself easier and better too. How would you describe the road to the top? My road to the top actually started from a humble beginning. I did not start out recording and releasing songs, rather, I began making others start by working assiduously behind the scenes, either as a co-producer, arranger, percussionist or backup vocals. Gospel Singer, Lanre Teriba Sets For American Music Tour Mandators, Majek, Kimono Hits Have My Signature -Orits Wiliki It was at this time that the Mandators band led by Victor Essiet, Late Majek Fasek band, Late Ras Kimono’s band and other pop stars like Alex O, Chris Mba and Cloud 7 band led by Cliff David came into the picture. Hence I can say categorically today that the hit albums of Mandators, Majek Fasek and Ras Kimono have my signature. In fact, I can say categorically today, thumbing my chest that no artist worthy of note in Nigeria in the 80’s through the 90’s to the 2000 that doesn’t have a piece of me. All you need to do is to check album slips of front-liners like the Mandators, Majek Fasek and Ras Kimono to confirm my claim. Our youths’ love for their energy-sapping music appears to have swallowed reggae music. What is your take on this Pupa? When you say swallowed, I wouldn’t know what you mean. However, I can tell categorically that reggae has since evolved strongly to other sides and patterns of music. For instance, today’s hip hop is obviously an offshoot of the reggae idiom of music. Discerning followers of music know this and they will say it severally to those who care to know. Anybody who knows what is obtaina b l e for now, can say is that the traditional roof rock reggae is no longer popular airwaves like before. This could be seen in the fact that reggae has evolved. That is, it is no longer as it used to be. If you are a keen reggae watcher, you can see that the music of the Late Legendary Bob Marley was already changing in tempo before his death as far as May, 1981. Imagine! You were once PMAN national official, how would you describe your administrations’ tenure? This is simply like asking me to be a judge in my own case. It is of good source that we brought back respect to the union. PMAN became a shining bride to both individual and the corporate community. Our achievements were simply obvious you can attest to them. Oh yes!! Can we know your major challenges then and why? The main one was that the people did not believe that it was possible to bring PMAN to its glorious days. It was quite unfortunate, but we proved them wrong by pulling it out from the abyss. We took many drastic decisions which the past excos were scared of taking. Is PMAN still in existence in your own view? PMAN today was just as it was when we took over, flushing out different persons posing illegally and calling themselves president. The major problem of the union is that the true or real musicians have no interest in it, because they strongly believe they can get whatever they want. After all, their fame has been doing it for them before the arrival of PMAN so what’s the positive impact of the union on their lives?