IKECHI NZEAKO,JOY ANIGBOGU LAGOS – The founding fathers and elders of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in lagos State have declared illegal, null and void the recent actions of Chief Solomon Ogbonna, the outgoing President of Ohanaeze in the state. In a press release at the weekend in Lagos, they said the actions were detrimental to the immediate and long-term interests of Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo in the state, adding that posterity would not forgive them if they chose to do nothing to correct the developments. Igbo Group Threatens Political Parties With Lawsuit Over 2023… IPAN Blasts Igbo Leaders Over Unhealthy Silence On Calamities In… The release was signed by Eze John Greg Ezebuadi, the first inaugurated president of Ohanaeze outside Igboland; Eze Christian U. Nwachukwu. Igbo 1; Eze John C. Nwosu, Eze Ndi Igbo Mushin LGA; Eze Sylvester Oriaku, Eze Ndi Igbo, Coker/Aguda LCDA; Chief Kalu Uguru, youth leader emeritus/ex-officio Abia State; Eze Gerald Onuchukwu, Eze Igbo Eti-Osa; and Mazi Ugochukwu Ekwebelem, administrative secretary of the council. They condemned the excommunication of the first elected president of Ohanaeze in Lagos State, Chief John Uche, which they said Ogbonna orchestrated through the “instrumentality of an illegally assembled Ohanaeze Council of Elders, who are under his payroll. This grave injustice to his predecessor and to a man, who has served Ndi Igbo in the state meritoriously, marked the beginning of the now crisis-ridden administration of Chief Solomon Ogbonna in the state. The excommunication of Chief John Uche has caused a major division in Ohanaeze in the state, which Ohanaeze is still trying to come out of.” They alleged that Ogbonna has embarked on anti-Igbo actions, which included the dissolution and disbandment of duly constituted organs of Ohanaeze in Lagos State such as Ohanaeze Women’s Wing, Youth Wing and local government chapters of Ohanaeze, adding that these organs were elected and inaugurated into office the same day as Ogbonna by Enugu Headquarters. They said the crime Uche committed was that he demanded accountability and transparency in the running of Ohanaeze and that Ogbonna should clear the allegation that he forged his certificate and alleged perjury. POLL They stated that the crime of others was their advice to Ogbonna to thread softly concerning his second term ambition, which they described as unconstitutional and which has polarized Ohanaeze in the state. According to the Ohanaeze Council of Elders, attempts by Ohanaeze Enugu Headquarters of the organization to call Ogbonna to order have fallen on deaf ears, and that he has chosen to blackmail them by accusing them of creating confusion for him in Lagos State. They asserted that they have investigated all the allegations made against Uche and discovered them to be false and malicious and declared his excommunication null and void and of no effect. They declared the Elders’ Council constituted by Ogbonna illegal and “we disown and dissociate ourselves from it.” They rejected the constitution of what they described as “an illegal electoral body by IPOB Sit-at-Home Records Compliance In Ebonyi 983 Biafra Agitators Incarcerated – Ohanaeze Ndigbo Ogbonna and advised Ndi Igbo to disregard the committee and key-into the electoral committee to be inaugurated by Enugu. They also rejected the dissolution of the local government chapters of “Ohanaeze and of the Women’s Wing and the Youth’s Wing and declared their dissolution illegal, unconstitutional and null and void and of no effect.” They urged Igbo people in Lagos State to cooperate with leaders from Enugu Headquarters in their efforts to intervene and restore sanity and normalcy to Ohanaeze in Lagos State.