A senatorial aspirant in Ondo central on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) Ifedayo Adedipe, SAN, on Saturday emphasised the need for best brains to vie for electoral positions to reposition the nation in all spheres. He lamented that the nation was brought to its current socio-political quagmire by mediocre who have less intelligence and leadership skills to harness the potentialities of the nation. The PDP chieftain noted that over the last few decades, the citizenry had nothing show as gains and benefits of the democratic system as legislators of both chambers failed to provide people-oriented policies that could advance the nation. Oputu Unfolds Three-Point Agenda For Warri North Ofili-Ajumogobia’s trial: Judges’ Salaries, Allowances Not Paid… He observed that the red chamber has been reduced to a tool being used at will by the executive. Giving reason he opted to vie for the seat in the 2023 general elections, the learned silk said he believed more could still be achieved if quality and capable people were elected to represent the people at the legislative chamber. He said he was spurred by his commitment and passion for positive change in the narrative and not for self-aggrandisement, promising to give the people quality and productive representation if he got PDP’s ticket and emerged as the winner in the general election. The legal luminary said: “Law-making is for serious-minded people, ones with vision and a clear sense of purpose, and not just figureheads who have no idea on what proper representation and leadership is. “We have a current Senate which does whatever the President wants, it is high time we said no to this obnoxious trend which is counter-productive and purely undemocratic.” POLL Bemoaning the harsh condition of things in the nation, Adedipe said many youths have been forced into doing menial jobs despite their brilliant credentials and qualifications while many women have been forced into unwholesome acts because the government had failed to perform its duties. In his reaction to the clamour for zoning of presidency in the nation, the PDP chieftain explained that the reason for the federal character in the nation’s constitution was to ensure that everyone was well represented no matter how small. He, however, noted that it’s unfair for a region to keep retaining power at the expense of others, adding that while the federal character is good, attention should also be placed on merit and the credibility of candidates to perform excellently well. Commenting on the recent loss of PDP to All Progressives Congress(APC) in the just-concluded Akure North/South Federal Constituency By-Election, Adedipe disclosed the inability of the party to fully resolve the intra-party differences caused by the outcome of the party’s primary election cost them the poll. He, therefore, enjoined the party to ensure that a platform was set up to ensure proper reconciliation among the warring parties.