A few hours to the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention in Abuja, some aspirants vying for the position of the National Chairman have shunned President Muhammadu Buhari by not accepting to step down for Abdullahi Adamu as a consensus candidate. Daily Independent had on Wednesday reported that President Buhari meet with the aspirants for the party’s top job and informed them of his decision to support Adamu, a serving senator and former governor of Nasarawa State. In his push for consensus candidates ahead of the convention, Buhari ordered APC governors to refund the money paid for the expression of interest and nomination forms by any of the aspirants willing to step down. Credible sources close to two of the major candidates from the North-central region disclosed that the other six contenders have had various meetings and have resolved not to back down on their pursuit But few hours to the convention, none of the other aspirants has indicated interest in withdrawing from the race. It was gathered that one of the aspirants named Saliu Mustapha disclosed that he was still in the race and that the consensus should be all-inclusive. Speaking via a statement issued on Friday by the Director-General of Saliu Mustapha Campaign Organisation, Bala Usman, noted that as far as he was concerned, no consensus had been reached. “Our campaign organisation has received several calls from multitudes of party stakeholders, friends, and associates regarding the upcoming convention of our party and the decision of Saliu Mustapha as an aspirant, especially in relation to the unraveling issue of a possible consensus arrangement. POLL “Indeed, we recognise consensus as one of APC’s acceptable leadership selection methods, which is completely legal and constitutional. “However, we are convinced that for consensus to abide, it must be all-inclusive and devoid of any vestige of imposition. “This is why Mallam Saliu Mustapha, together with all the other aspirants, would continue to engage to review the options before them and agree on a common and mutually beneficial decision. Until this is done, nothing has been decided yet”. A source who is also a delegate to the convention, said one of the aspirants had decided to step aside but was persuaded by the others not to do so in order to thwart the chances of Mr Adamu. “Many governors are not happy with Buhari’s choice for national chairman but none of them can come out openly to challenge him. “That is why they are secretly encouraging other aspirants never to back down so that they can work behind the scenes to ensure Adamu is not elected.”