Cristiano Ronaldo’s hat-trick against Tottenham Hotspur has catapulted him to Manchester United’s Player of the Month award for March 2022 – and it’s the Portuguese star’s third win of the campaign. Ronaldo fended off competition from Jadon Sancho and Fred, who both had an impressive month themselves, and with three goals in just two appearances, took home the prize. Our no.7 last won the award in October, when he was named Player of the Month for the second consecutive time following his scintillating start to the season after returning to the Premier League in the summer. All three of Ronaldo’s goals in March came in the 3-2 victory over Spurs at Old Trafford, where he also became the all-time leading male goalscorer in world football, surpassing Josef Bican’s record of 805 goals in competitive club matches. Ronaldo thundered home a fierce strike from the edge of the box to open the scoring against the Londoners – a strike that has been nominated for the Premier League’s official Goal of the Month – and set the wheels in motion for an action-packed afternoon. After Harry Kane pulled the visitors level, our Portuguese talisman was on hand to convert Sancho’s square pass and restore United’s lead. And when the Reds had once again been pegged back, Ronaldo towered above his marker and powered an unstoppable header past the helpless Hugo Lloris after Alex Telles’s inviting corner delivery. In addition to his league exploits, the five-time Ballon d’Or winner dropped deep and was industrious against Atletico Madrid in the second leg of our Champions League round-of-16, desperate to make things happen and haul United into the next round. POLL Despite our exit, Ronaldo’s effort was evident, and he came bitterly close to making a telling contact with Bruno Fernandes’ whipped free-kick, which would have kept the tie alive and taken the match to extra-time. With nine Premier League games remaining this season, Cristiano will be looking to add to his tally of 12 Premier League goals and fire United into the top-four and Champions League qualification. 