LAGOS – The intrigues that have rattled the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have taken a toll on both parties and threaten their electoral fortunes in the 2023 elections, according to findings by Sunday Independent. The ruling APC is presently embroiled in a leadership crisis, which President Muhammadu Buhari fears may make the party suffer a worse fate than that of the PDP in 2015. In the PDP, the governors of Rivers and Edo States, a few days ago, got into a feud over the structure of the party. Obaseki and Wike are currently at daggers drawn over the purported verbal attacks on the deputy governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, by the latter for threatening to quit the party if their supporters were not integrated fully into the PDP. The rift between Wike and the Edo governor stemmed from a comment made by Shaibu suggesting that many supporters of Obaseki, who defected with the governor from the APC to the PDP are not happy and did not feel accepted into the new party. Shaibu asked the national leadership of the PDP to “integrate” his supporters and those of his principal into the party, threatening that there are possibilities of an exodus. This did not go down well with the Rivers governor who tongue-lashed Shaibu, calling him an ingrate, just as he also asked the national chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, to constitute a disciplinary committee against Shaibu, stressing that if this was not done, he (Wike) would invoke sanctions of the party against the deputy governor. However, Obaseki, who saw the attacks on his deputy as unacceptable, described Wike’s action as most unfortunate and uncalled for, saying, if Wike was one who showed respect and courtesy to his colleague-governors, he would have ordinarily reached out to him to express his concerns about the views made by Shaibu, rather than embark on unwarranted public onslaught. POLL This, however, led to exchange of verbal attacks between the duo, with Obaseki accusing Wike of attempting to cow, intimidate, cajole and threaten others into doing his bidding. Wike on his part, alleged that the Edo governor has refused to be grateful to the party and the people who supported him to be re-elected when he left the APC. Meanwhile, concerned leaders of both parties have called for caution ahead of the forthcoming general elections, warning that if care is not taken, these crises may spell doom for them in the electoral exercise. The leadership crisis in the APC has compelled President Buhari to caution their leaders to get their acts together unless they want the party to suffer a fate worse than that suffered by the PDP prior to the 2015 general elections. The party’s internal crisis took a turn for the worse a few weeks ago when the Niger State governor, Abubakar Bello, controversially took over the APC leadership from his Yobe State counterpart, Mai Mala Buni. Buni was reportedly butted out of office as APC’s acting chairman for alleged anti-party conduct ahead of the party’s much anticipated National Convention. It was gathered that the party’s governors masterminded Buni’s dismissal, having noted the latter’s alleged plot to sabotage the March 26 event. His removal, according to the governors, was also sanctioned by President Buhari before the president commenced his latest medical trip to the United Kingdom. However, the President, in a statement last week, signed by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, did not acknowledge his role in the party’s leadership crisis but cautioned its members against repeating the PDP’s mistakes while in power. “Yes, we are entitled to our own share of dissent and intra-party discord. These are common in all parties, left and right all over the world. “But parties splintered by competing egos destined themselves to the worst possible fate,” Buhari noted. 