LAGOS – The Lagos State chapter of Ohaneze Ndigbo has demanded a two-year tenure extension for the current executive committee (exco) led by Chief Solomon Ogbonna, over litigation which is said to have been a recurring decimal during the three years and few months that the administration has lasted. The decision according to the socio-political organisation which held a press conference yesterday became necessary because the good work which the administration has started must not be allowed to be destroyed by the activities of few people which it described as disgruntled members. Those in attendance, include Chief Solomon Ogbonna, President of Ohanaeze Lagos, Don Ferguson, former acting President of Ohanaeze Lagos, Chief Thompson Ohia, ex-officio member, Mazi Kelvin Okereke, Public Relations Officer (PRO) and other dignitaries. UN Women Inaugurates HeForShe Solidarity Movement In Edo World Tourism Day 2022: Oyo To Mobilize Stakeholders To Iyamapo… They maintained that the national executive committee (exco) doesn’t have the right to conduct any election in Lagos State chapter, that the press conference held by some members of the organisation a few days ago is null and void, as the majority of them are not members of Ohanaeze and that the elders and members of the organisation agreed that the tenure of the current exco is extended by two years.Ogbonna stressed that his administration has been disrupted by long litigation, pointing out that since he came on board on the 16th of July, 2018, he had been in court and in spite of that his regime has performed beyond expectation and has also spent millions prosecuting a court case. “I brought sanity to the Lagos Ohanaeze. For over 20 years Ohanaeze didn’t have a secretariat. It was through my connections that we got a befitting secretariat for the organisation. I was able to create a very peaceful relationship between us and our Yoruba landlords. It is on record that since I took over, no major market that our people control has been shut down because of any crisis and our people have been going about their business peacefully. We have done so much and we intend to consolidate on some of these achievements which are why the elders and members met on Sunday to decide that a two-year extension be given to me and the exco to conclude on some of the work that we have started,“ he said. While speaking at the press conference held by some members of the group a few days ago and why the national exco in Enugu doesn’t have the right to conduct any election in Lagos, Solomon said that 90 percent of those who convened the meeting are not members of Ohanaeze, stressing that some of them were expelled from the organisation for one misdeed or the other. “Enugu doesn’t have the right to come to Lagos to conduct any election. Our by-law doesn’t vest such powers on them. We don’t receive any financial support from the headquarters. We don’t know why they are interested in coming to Lagos to conduct elections, if not for the purpose of selling forms and collecting money. They alleged that my offence was that I want to take my people to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and for that reason I must go. “We won’t allow that to happen. It was only during my tenure that the former President General, Chief Nnia Nwodo came to do that assignment because there was an issue then, and unfortunately that election has brought about a lot of issues. As we speak, we are still in court since 2018 and we have about three factions of Ohanaeze in Lagos. We want to sanitize the organisation and we won’t allow anyone to destroy the work that we have taken time to build,” he said. Ohia, Okereke and Ferguson corroborated what Ogbonna said when they insisted that the Enugu would not be allowed to infringe on their right, stressing that the tenure of the current executive has not even ended and wondered why Enugu is in a hurry to start discussing election when the tenure is expected to end in July. POLL They maintained that the two years tenure extension is sacrosanct and that the press conference held by some persons in the name of Ohanaeze is null and void.