Senator representing Plateau South at the National Assembly, Professor Nora Ladi Dadu’ut has Commended Governor Simon Lalong for flagging off the construction of a new interchange at the British-American Junction in Jos. Senator Dadu’ut in a statement in Jos on Saturday called on the citizens of Plateau State to continue to support Governor Simon Lalong to complete his developmental projects. According to her, the flyover project at British -American junction in Jos is a major carriageway that links the Northeast Region to the Federal Capital Territory and other parts of the country. International Women’s Day – Senator Dadu’ut Felicitates… Lalong Congratulates Sunny Echono On His Appointment As… Senator Dadu’ut added that Plateau State a miniature Nigeria remains a centre of attraction and a gateway to many States in the country, hence the need to have good road infrastructure for the easy access of visitors and citizens. The statement further reads that “The foresight of constructing the flyover bridge is one of the brilliant projects the government has done and if completed would address the traffic situation and enhance the movement of goods and persons within the State and outside. Senator Daduut who lauded Governor Lalong for completing projects he inherited from his predecessors said that his spirit of continuity was worthy of emulation by all leaders. “By completing projects you inherited, you have saved Plateau from massive waste and the menace of abandoned projects,’’ she said. Prof Daduut further said that Governor Lalong has focused on activities that directly touch on the life and wellbeing of the people of the state, adding that “of particular interest is the turnaround that has seen a boost in the agricultural output of Plateau state with produce from the state being readily found in other states of the country”. POLL She expressed satisfaction with the return of peace and level of economic activities in the state, saying, “I am impressed with the peacebuilding efforts of Governor Simon Lalong.