The Special Adviser to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State, Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye has hinted that all the policies and programmes of the current administration are life-changing. Oyintiloye also said that the policies and programmes are based on the demands and needs of the residents, adding that the government always places the wellbeing of the populace ahead of other considerations during the planning and execution stages of its policies and programmes. He made the remarks during an engagement meeting held with the members of Black Smith Welder Iron Benders and Metals Technician Association of Nigeria, Osun Chapter, on Sunday in Osogbo. OAU Student: Retrial Of Adedoyin, 6 Others Begins In Osun 2023: Tinubu, Aregbesola Set To Reconcile He said that the governor’s drive is tailored toward bridging the gaps between government and the people, thereby creating a platform for getting feedback for effective policy formulation through Civic engagement. He said the present administration believed in a government, whose affair is run in tandem with the tenets and opinions of the masses. The Special Adviser said the people would continue to remain the critical stakeholder and driving force in the state governance system. He emphasised that the institution of Civic Engagement was a framework aimed at engendering participatory and inclusive governance. Oyintiloye said through this, popular feedbacks that would stimulate better policy outputs, which could have direct positive impacts on the people, are brought to the policy formulation cycle. POLL He said,” Oyetola- led administration, have been placing an absolute premium on the masses as all policies and programs in education, infrastructure, health, security and human capacity building, among others are an offshoot of people’s demands and yearnings. “The life-changing policies and programmes made so far in this administration are not unconnected to our series of assessments of people’s needs through the platform of ‘thank you tour’ review of DFID Citizens Based Assessment Report and the ongoing civic engagement initiative taken to the doorstep of the people at the grassroots. “As a government, we will continue to adopt a system theory approach in our policy formulation which in its cyclic form. “This will allow people to give input into the system and get better policy outputs that could have positive impacts on their lives”. Oyintiloye said the ingenious and astute leadership of the governor had brought about a tremendous development in all the sectors of the state economy, adding that the current administration would not relent in its quest to make life better for all. I Regret Working For Oyetola Becoming Governor In 2018 –… Atakumosa  Market Fire: Osun Govt Sympathises With Communities,… He, however, urged all and sundry to continue giving their support to the people-centred administration of Oyetola in the state for it to continue to meet their needs. In his remarks, the Chairman of the association, Mr Gabriel Obidokun, commended the state government on its various developmental projects across the state and its unique approach to governance through engagement with the people. Obidokun, who also commended the Civic engagement centre for its outreach programmes to all social strata in the state, pledged the association’s support to the governor. He said the peaceful and friendly business environment provided by the state government was one of the many reasons members of the association would continue to uphold its support for the governor.