AKURE – An industrialist in Ondo State, Chief Alexander Ajipe, has promised to turn around the fortune of the people of Ondo Northern Senatorial District through quality representation if elected in the 2023 general election. He stated this on Wednesday while declaring his interest in the senatorial seat at Mapo Hall, Owo in the Owo Local Government Area of the state. Ajipe, who has attracted a number of foreign investors to establish different manufacturing industries to the state Industrial Park at Omotosho in Odigbo Local Government Area of the state, assured the people of facilitating projects that would bring about development and growth in the district if voted in. The Managing Director/CEO of Klick Konnect Networks reeled out before the people his contributions to the development of the state through the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration, asking them to replace Senator Borroffice Ajayi with him. He said; “I have brought investors and investments to Ondo State, so significantly, they cannot be ignored or played down. President Muhammadu Buhari, governors, expatriates, distinguished personalities across Nigeria and all over the world have recognized the great light that God has caused to shine in Ondo State through me. “Even the representative of the divine, the Ooni of Ife, saw this light and capped me the Irawo Ola of Yoruba Kingdom, an epic declaration of divine proportions. Besides, I have employed youths in their hundreds and created thousands of employment opportunities for youths.” Ajipe, who is known for philanthropic gestures, particularly in area of empowering women, youths, payment of school fees for indigents students and settling of hospital bills, assured the people that “if you, the people, with whom great power lies, can give me the opportunity to do more, then you will see a fresh start, and you will see growth, development, and positive changes than you have never seen before in our constituency.” POLL The Emure-born businessman advised the people to take their destiny in their hands by using the ballot to root out all unproductive political officeholders and those who have been deceiving them every election year to get their mandate by sharing food items and cash. Ajipe noted that it’s high time politicians who, with impunity, only enriched themselves at the expense of the people should be voted out of office. He said: “Darkness is when your representative goes for many years, disrespects your elders and rulers, and discredits the young ones, but comes back close to elections, every electioneering season, to share handouts, and ‘mend fences, yet keeps getting away with it “Darkness is when our leader has access to so many opportunities at the centre, but cannot boast of a single thriving industry to employ youths and women. “Darkness is when our leader has all the money in the world, and our people have grown poorer and poorer over the years. “Darkness is when our leader has become over-confident, saying that he knows people, and will have the results of the party’s primary written in Abuja like he usually does, and there is nothing anyone can do about it because he is the godfather of godfathers.” He, therefore, urged the people to “Show that true power lies with God, and democratic power lies with the people.”