The Chairman of DafriBank Digital LTD, Xolane Ndhlovu has again showed his Philanthropic nature with his move to ameliorate the suffering of Africans who suffered losses in Ukraine. Ndhlovu has avowed to donate one million dollars (420 million naira) as relief fund to all Africans affected by the Russian-Ukraine crisis. The announcement was made by Xolane Ndhlovu, through his Instagram account @xolanendhlovu: “Through DafriBank, I’m donating the sum of $1 million dollars to Africans Living in Ukraine/ Russia both returnees and those still in the conflict zone.” CBN Mulls Fresh Funding For Lagos Free Zone After Initial N100bn… Analysts See Access To Finance Key To Economic Development,… Disclosing his motivation for the step, Ndhlovu avowed that he was alarmed by the far-reaching impact of the war on ordinary people in the region, claiming further that it would amount to insensitivity not to help. “I feel driven to do what I can to help,” he said, “ starting with fellow Africans who have lost their livelihood as a result of the conflict.” While expressing support for the coordinated efforts of NATO, the EU and US, the popular billionaire philanthropist noted that it is the responsibility of people and organizations to help “at times like this” and in “whatever ways are possible.” Ndhlovu was noted for his pivotal role during the Covid-19 crisis by donating to the South Africa Solidarity Response Fund, his philanthropic interventions in Nigeria and across Africa. Presently, his bank, DafriBank Digital LTD is leading the digital economy revolution in Africa and has become the bank of choice for digital entrepreneurs on the continent. On the unravelling humanitarian crises in Ukraine, he further promised that DafriBank Digital LTD will continue to offer help aside from the one-million-dollar donation. POLL He also expressed hope that the world will be able to find a solution to the conflict soon. “The people of Ukraine are in our thoughts and our hearts, especially some of our Ukrainian engineers who were affected. We hope for a swift resolution to the crisis,” he stated.