Young Professionals and Entrepreneurs on Monday purchased a presidential form for former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki ahead of the 2023 general election.. Presenting the expression of interest and nomination forms worth N40 million to Saraki, the Young Professionals explained why they decided to take the initiative of purchasing the forms for the former President of the Senate to run for the presidency. The group explained that they contributed between the sum of N500,000 to N2million to enable them to purchase the forms. The leader of the group, Abubakar Dan-Musa who spoke on their behalf of others said that “we are not politicians and therefore non-party members. Rather, we are young professionals and entrepreneurs who believe in this great country, Nigeria. “We are from different parts of the country. We all worship one God in different ways. Our world views are as diverse as this country to which we are citizens. However, we have a common agenda and common goal. We believe in Nigeria. We want Nigeria to develop. We want Nigeria to serve the interest of all Nigerians.” He further revealed that “after extensive deliberations, we have concluded that the situation of our country is so far from what it should be if we have the right leadership. The country is not running as a functional entity that can bring the best out of her citizens and provide the best for the generality of the people. “We are particularly unhappy that the country is not providing the right atmosphere for the millions of its youths to serve as agents of development. Instead, many of our compatriots are being forced to go into negative activities because the system is not encouraging them to utilise their positive potential. “It is for these reasons that we concluded that we should not leave the process leading to the emergence of the next President of our country to only politicians. We have decided to get involved right from the pre-primary election period. We are determined to ensure that only good, solid, forward-looking, and visionary candidates emerge to vie for the February 2023 presidential elections. POLL “We want candidates who understand the needs of the business group and can initiate policies, programmes, and projects that will encourage the growth of businesses, particularly, small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). “We want a candidate that will create a synergy between the private and business sectors. We want a man who will naturally earn the respect of the international community and the confidence of foreign and local investors and get them to establish factories and businesses. “We want a candidate who understands that job creation and wealth creation is a sine qua non for the survival of our country and that only by creating the right atmosphere for the private sector can this be achieved. “We want a candidate who is not too old, who appreciates the needs of young people and therefore will create a bridge between the old and the young. “We want a candidate who is not dogmatic about religion or tribe. We want a unifier. We want a bridge builder. We want an experienced person as the next President of Nigeria. We want a compassionate, courageous, and cool-headed President. “We believe Dr. Saraki will lead Nigeria out of the current multi-dimensional crises. He will make the country great. We call on the leadership of the PDP to also recognise the attributes that we have seen in him. We pray that Nigerian voters will join us in electing this man as President. We are confident he will make a positive difference in our country.” Responding, Saraki, who said he was emotional over the gesture of the Young Professionals promised that if he become the President of Nigeria, all positions of Ministers of State in the cabinet will be occupied by youths. He said: “With your action today, I do not have an option but to listen to the voice of the youths who represent 62 percent of the over 200 million Nigerians. “That is why I want to promise that If I become the President of Nigeria, all positions of Ministers of State in the cabinet will be occupied by youths. “This is a promise that I will not fail because I believe the ideas of the youths are needed to drive modern development efforts. And you know from my record that I have the boldness to implement this promise.” He further said that what they have done is a symbolic message that they are mandating him to go out to the field and work hard among “all our leaders, delegates, and other stakeholders to win the PDP presidential ticket come May as well as subsequently follow up with decisive victory in the general elections in February 2023. “Looking at the diversity that all of you gathered here represent, another symbolic message I will take away is that as far as the youths are concerned, what we need to develop in Nigeria is not where people come from or what religion they subscribe to. “It is about having the competence, determination, and patriotism to initiate good measures and have the courage of conviction to follow through with the plans. “Your charge to me is to go there and make all Nigerians – young and old, Northerners and Southerners, Muslims, Christians, and people of other religions, operators in the private and public sectors, and members of different political parties – to join hands and fix Nigeria.”