ABUJA – A Civil Society Group, Concerned Nigerians has accused the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma of an attempt to truncate the democratic process in the state for allegedly manipulating the by-election conducted at Ngor Okpala State Constituency on February 26, 2022, by the Independent National Electoral Commission  ( INEC ). The group alleged that the Governor moved the full machinery of government from Owerri to Ngor Okpala with the aim of manipulating the election in favour of his All Progressives Congress ( APC )  Candidate. In a letter signed by the Convener, Deji Adeyanju and addressed to the INEC Chairman alleged that the action of the Governor is capable of undermining the democratic process in the state and the country as a whole. Group Berates Northern Senators For Failing To Support FCT… Group Commends Management Of Garki Hospital For Selfless… According to the letter ”  We write this open letter to draw your attention to the imminent threat hovering around Nigeria’s electoral space, particularly the 2023 elections. ” You will recall that on February 26, 2022, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducted a by-election into the Ngor Okpala state constituency election in Imo State. While this election was predicted to be seamless, particularly in view of the recently signed Electoral Act, 2022 and the introduction of BIVAS, we are, however, alarmed to note that the Governor of Imo State, Mr. Hope Uzodima turned the election into a battleground and blatantly rigged the process in favour of the All Progressive Congress Candidate” ” On the day of the election, Governor Hope Uzodima moved the full machinery of government from Owerri to Ngor Okpala where he presided over the blatant rigging. Information made available to us by innocent voters in Ngor Okpala revealed that Governor Hope Uzodima perfected this rigging by compromising the BIVAS machine. ”  This action was successfully carried out after the Governor’s cronies stormed Ngor Okpala, abducted INEC ad hoc staff at gunpoint, commandeered the BIVAS machine, retrieved the total number of accredited voters, and proceeded to engage in massive thumb printing in order to bring the total number of voters in consonance with the total number of accredited voters”. The group noted that the implication of the Governor’s action was to introduce a new precedent in electoral rigging capable of settingdangerous precedent! taking cognisance of Nigerian politicians.The letter, therefore, urged the INEC Chairmanto take urgent steps to arrest this situation and ensure that it does not become a national precedent. POLL They also demanded steps for immediate cancellation of the Ngor Okpala state constituency election and sensitise the politicians on the salient provisions of the Electoral Act 2022, particularly as it relates to its powers to review and cancel elections. ” Thereafter, Gov Hope Uzodima’s cronies forced the abducted INEC ad hoc staff to upload the illegally obtained accreditation and final voting result, to paint a picture of legitimacy. ” This fraudulently obtained result was announced by the returning officer under the threat of immediate violence by Governor Hope Uzodima’s cronies.” The group added.