Chief Funke Arthur-Worrey is a member and past president of Ikeja Lioness Club, now Ikeja Golden Lions Club. She is a Melvin Jones Fellow and a trustee of the International Women Society. She will be 95 years old by April. Despite her age, Aunty Funke, as she is fondly called, is full of life, agile and charming. In this interview with NGOZI UMA, she shares her vision of a country where a woman is a vice president, what life looks like during the colonial era, and the secrets that have kept her sound and agile over the years. Excerpts: By April you will be 95 years yet you are full of energy, can you share with us some of the secrets that have helped you to stay fit? I know I am old, I am 95. Sometimes if I want to run something pulls me back, and reminds me to be careful. I am healthy, I can walk, talk and eat anything I feel like eating. I still go to market not really to buy something but to mingle with the people. Some of the things I do constantly are first, I read a lot. I read the Bible, novels and gossip magazines. Also, I always want to know more about people. I am not a politician but I like to follow their activities. I just want to know what is happening around me. Another thing I do is that I eat a lot of organic foods, I eat a lot of vegetables, and take a lot of onions. You have been the president of Ikeja lioness club and trustee of the International Women Society; comparing then and now, are you satisfied with the level of recognition given to women in politics and the economic sector? The progress now with younger women has advanced and it’s beautiful in a way. You know what you want, we couldn’t do that in our time. In a way women have advanced. But then we are still very far and I know we are not equal but I will like one day for us to have a woman in Nigeria as Vice President. I won’t ask for president because that would be a difficult thing, but let us start with a woman Vice President and we will see the difference. It will be beautiful to have a woman in such position because everything works. Now that the men are ruling us things are getting worst. But then if you have woman as Vice President they would understand the plight of the poor. When I was growing up, when your parents or an older person is talking to you, you dare not talk. You must obey every of their instructions, even to the man you are going to marry, you have no option. But things have changed now, women now have a voice. Share with us your life lessons the younger generations can run with? You have to be focussed. Like what one preacher said, don’t bother about what people say, because some people are so sensitive, they are more concerned about who says what to them. There’s nobody that is perfect. And people must criticise you, no matter how good you are. In life just focus, make your goal and set out to achieve it with honesty and fear of God. You have to be contented with what you have, too. You have been married for 50 years – these days there are a lot of strife between couples that has led to divorces in many cases, what advice do you have for couples? POLL When you meet a man or woman you want to marry you don’t have to hide the person. Then as a woman you don’t rush and move into his house, it never works. You have to take it easy. Love is very powerful nobody can understand it. If it’s a genuine love, you will wait and study each other for some time. And you must receive your parents’ blessings. Share with us some of the things you love to do? I love to port around. I travelled a lot with my husband then. I love to walk, I can walk a very long distance. I don’t sit, I love to move and I read a lot. In those days I like going to parties, I like to dance. Was there anything you wanted to do that you couldn’t do during your prime days? (Long laugh)… I would have loved to have a place where I would put abandoned girls, just to be with them like in a hall. To train and nurture them as young Nigerian girls. Not to adopt them though but to train them in any vocational skills of their choices but things didn’t go as planned and right now that is not possible anymore. There used to be a woman in those days in Lagos that turned her beautiful house to a place where she took care of abandoned girls. That woman had no child of her own but she dedicated her life in taking care of those girls, it was that kind of thing I had desired to do then but I couldn’t achieve it. During your younger days in Lagos, things where better, the crime rate was low, is there a disconnection, is the system not working anymore? Many villagers come to the city and they see a different kind of life in the city, the luxuries and the flamboyant way people live, they want to join them but then they don’t know it’s a thing you must work to enjoy. The good things the city offers are not something you must rush to get. Also at the home front, it is not easy, both parents have to work leaving the children to take care of themselves or at the care of strangers. When I was growing up, we had mixed families, my uncles and aunts lived with us, you dare not misbehave, your uncle would spank you and your mother would spank you too when you went to report. The gap now is that there is no parental training and attachment. Some mothers leave home very early before the children wake up and comes back home late. When the children needed them they are not there. You see a situation where a teacher cannot beat a child in school, if a teacher dared beat a child, it will go viral on social media and the teacher will receive a lot of bashing from the public which was not so during our time. Those days, Lagos was like Australia, everywhere was always bubbling. We mixed together, we were comfortable. Things were cheap compared to now. There is too much crime. The world is changing, Nigeria has changed. In Lagos for instance, people are many, there are a lot of cars, luxuries and too much poverty. In the midst of this poverty, you would still see people flaunting their wealth indiscriminately. There are a lot of things that can make people fall into crime except you decided not to join the bad wagon or life. We just hope it will be better with more education. Churches were in charge of schools but governments have taken over. Do you think governments have done well? Before Independence, during the colonial era, I think we were happier. The education system then was working. I think government should return missionary schools to the churches. We have too many universities, many of these graduates have nothing to offer. Some of them bribed their way all through to get their certificates. I think education should return to the missionaries; it was better with them. These people dedicated their time and life to teaching. Teachers now trade. Also the kind of message churches preach this days is mostly on prosperity. Many church denominations are killing us, many of them are doing it for money venture. What changes do you wish to see in Nigeria? I want government to allow state police, because state police will know the nooks and crannies of the state. You can’t bring somebody from another state to police Lagos State.