AWKA  – Rev. Canon Lumen Cristi Eboh of Christ Township Church Umudioka Anambra State, has allegedly impregnated a woman who came to him for deliverance from evil manipulations. Barrister Ben Uzuegbu (SAN), the Deputy Chancellor Diocese on the Niger, made the revelation in Awka where he recounted various sexual exploits of Rev. Lumen Christi Eboh at different hotels in Anambra State. Uzuegbu’s revelation was in response to the allegation levelled against the Bishop on the Niger Anglican Communion, Bishop Owen Nwokolo, and the Church over his marital pitfalls and seizure of his landed properties. Constitution Review: What Nigerian Women Want –Women Groups We’ve Taken Out Most Self-Acclaimed Terror Leaders –Air Marshal… It was earlier reported that the same Rev. Canon Lumen Cristi Eboh had resigned his office as a priest of the Anglican Communion over marital crisis with his wife. The priest, who disclosed his resignation at a press conference in Awka, alleged that some malignant forces in the church had prevailed on his wife to abandon him over unfounded allegations of marital infidelity and hid her at an undisclosed destination. Eboh had stated that his refusal to include Bishop Owen Nwokolo as trustee as demanded and to hand over landed property of the adoration ministry to him set him on collision course with Nwokolo. The embattled Lumen Christi Eboh, therefore, accused Bishop Nwokolo of witch-hunt and land grabbing. Uzuegbu, on his part, further disclosed that the pregnancy matter between Lumen Christi Eboh and his victim was already in court. POLL Uzuegbu said: “A young sister that goes by the name Ozioma Onukogu, 30-years-old, was impregnated by the randy servant of God. “The lady was seven months pregnant before she was noticed by her parents after several rounds of sex in different hotels, including City Dubai Hotel and Suites Ltd, Omagba, Onitsha, the commercial city of Anambra State, where he continuously had sexual intercourse with the sister.” The lawyer alleged that Rev. Eboh also resigned because of his involvement in sexual misconduct, voodooism, high-handedness, harassments, conspiracy, profanation and desecration of the House of God. Uzuegbu said: “He resigned also because Bishop Nwokolo insisted that Eboh should include his wife as trustee of his ministry. And he has been defrauding the Church on its landed property. “The constitution of the Diocese is firm on the fact that every priest with any call will conduct same in line with the provisions therein. The Brand, Coach Chudi: Creating Wealth With Real Estate Buhari Breaks Silence On APC Crisis, Calls Stakeholders To Order “There is no provision in the constitution for a priest to register a parallel Church while serving the Church. Therefore, his allegations are dead on arrival. “On the issue of high-handedness, harassment, conspiracy and character defamation, this is not true. The Bishop on the Niger is besieged with lots of petitions against Lumen Christi Eboh. “All the petitions bother on acts of impropriety and unwholesome conduct not expected of a priest. He was invited to attend to the serious allegations. He ran away.” Again, several petitions were written by well-meaning female organisations and lawyers. One of the petitions was written by the Law Zoomers,a firm of Legal Practitioners. “Needless to say that, again, he refused to make himself available to answer to the petition.”