One of Nigeria’s widely acclaimed engineering construction sector leader and reputably most reliable contractor, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, has won the country’s ‘Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) company of the year 2021 award.’ The highly vetted recognition and award was announced and made to the contractually proven and consistently dependable company at a ceremony marking the 32 years anniversary of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NWAOJ). The ceremony, which held at the prestigious International Conference Centre, Abuja, which itself was built by Julius Berger attracted dignitaries from across the country. FCCPC Partners NCAA To Curb High Airfare, Consumers Rights… Seplat Energy Plc Proposes Final Dividend Of $0.025 To… To underscore the merit-driven justification for the award to the company, the National President of NAWOJ, Comrade Ladi Bala stated that, “Julius Berger’s verified commitment to strong corporate social responsibility works continues to resonate helpfully nationwide to all of the company’s operational hosts and stakeholders at large. According to Comrade Ladi, “…from its robust ‘Roll-Back-Malaria’ campaign, ‘Food for our Communities’ campaign to its Educational, Hospitals and other sundry Covid-19 effects mitigation donations since the pandemic began, Julius Berger’s CSR contributions continue to meaningfully express the company’s commitment to drive a sustainable, compassionate, and healthy human interface with the Nigerian society.” Comrade Ladi added that: “Julius Berger’s Positive and Impactful Social contributions are explicitly visible everywhere for all to see, and NAWOJ urges you to keep the CSR flag flying ever higher”. The Executive Director, Administration of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Alhaji Zubairu Ibrahim Bayi, FNIOB, represented the company’s Managing Director Engr. Dr Lars Richter at the well-attended event. In his remarks on behalf of the Managing Director of the company, Alhaji Bayi thanked NAWOJ for the recognition accorded Julius Berger by the body. Bayi described NAWOJ as a respectable national body, which, being largely made up of well-educated, informed and responsible professionals and patriotic mothers is generally known for its sensitivity and positive advocacy for social accountability and responsibility across the spectrum of society. POLL Bayi stated that there is no body more implicitly qualified than NAWOJ to have scrutinized the empirical data and given Julius Berger the meritorious and worthy award as Nigeria’s Corporate Social Responsibility Company of the Year. Expressing the company’s appreciation for the award, Bayi further said that at Julius Berger, the trajectory and firm promise for the company and the Nigerian society is always “a better tomorrow.” Very important guests and awardees who graced the occasion included the First Lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Hajiya (Dr) Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, His Excellency, Professor Umaru Babagana Zulum, Governor of Borno State, His Excellency, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri Governor of Adamawa State, His Excellency, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State; and His Excellency, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State. Other important guests and awardees at the ceremony included the former Deputy Governor of Plateau State and Honourable Minister of Women Affairs & Social Development, Her Excellency Dame Pauline Tallen, the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Hajiya Aisha Babangida who received a post-humous award on behalf of her late mother, former First Lady, Mrs Maryam Ibrahim Babangida, and the former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State and Distinguished Senator Biodun Olujimi. The Keynote speaker at the event, Professor Umaru Pate, the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Kashere, Gombe State, the Chief of Staff to the Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate Dr Otive Igbuzor, the former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalits and Father of NAWOJ Chief George Izobo, and Dr. Jummai Ahmadu also received various merit awards at the ceremony in Abuja.