ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has broken his silence on tax administration in Nigeria, insisting that the 2021 Finance Act empowers the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) as the sole authority to administer tax for the Federal Government and collect VAT. Buhari, who spoke at the second National Tax Dialogue Week, in Abuja on Tuesday, said the clarification became necessary in order to avoid taxpayers being burdened with multiple tax compliance obligations towards different agencies of the same government. Recall that the FIRS and Rivers State government have been engaged in battle of wits over who has the mandate to collect tax particularly at the state level. Buhari used the forum to restate his administration’s commitment to an efficient tax administration in order to improve tax revenue in the country. He insisted that a situation where the current tax system in the country, characterised by fragmented administration, multiple and sometimes overlapping taxes may not augur well for the system. He said, “In most tax-efficient nations, tax administrative processes and practices are harmonised within a single system. “One key deliverable of this year’s tax dialogue is to promote synergy in tax administration among the different tiers of government. “Harmonising taxpayer identification across the country is a good start; but we must do more to promote ease of doing business (including ease of tax compliance) in Nigeria. POLL “On our part, we have started by clarifying in the 2021 Finance Act that FIRS is the sole authority to administer tax for the Federal Government. “This clarification became necessary in order to avoid taxpayers being burdened with multiple tax compliance obligations towards different agencies of the same government. ”Multiplicity of tax administration is as undesirable as multiplicity of taxes; it creates uncertainty and instability; and above all, it is inefficient,” the president said at the Dialogue themed, ‘Tax Harmonisation for Enhanced Revenue Generation.’ The president also expressed concerns over the dwindling revenues from commodities, insisting that there is an urgent need to maximise domestic revenue within the extant tax policy and laws. In his opinion, an improved tax revenue for the country which will not necessarily impose new tax rates on Nigerians was now necessary. “We all know that good intentions are not enough as they simply cannot pay for infrastructure, security or social amenities. We must therefore improve tax revenue without necessarily raising new taxes. “Revenue from commodities, including crude oil, are too volatile and unreliable.  Therefore, I pledge government’s support for any viable initiative for improving tax revenue that should emanate from this dialogue,” he said. On Nigeria’s Tax-to-GDP ratio, the president declared that the country also needs to do more in securing a buoyant domestic revenue base of the country that bequeaths an enduring economic foundation, political stability and social harmony to the next generation. “According to the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), in its Revenue Statistics in Africa 2021, the average ratio of Tax-to-GDP of 30 selected African countries in 2019 was 16.6% while Nigeria recorded a mere 6.0%. “It is obvious that much needs to be done in the area of tax revenue mobilisation. “It is my expectation that the discussions at this 2022 National Tax Dialogue will be focused on what we must do to maximise legitimate revenue collection and massively improve the Tax-to-GDP ratio.” On the importance of the Tax Dialogue, which was instituted by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, and the Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), President Buhari noted that the first edition in 2021 was very productive and integral in influencing tax policy, as well as legislative and administrative changes that were introduced last year. He added that the most important testament to the success of the first edition is the fact that the FIRS achieved 100% of its collection target in 2021 and surpassed N6 trillion revenue threshold for the very first time. Congratulating FIRS on the achievement, the president assured Nigerians that the present administration would continue ”to maintain prudent management of our collective resources.” In her remarks, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, said the dialogue was designed to engage stakeholders in the Nigerian tax-space in meaningful discourse so as to glean information, ideas and experience in the aid of policy formulation and improved tax environment. According to the minister, the main tax revenue objectives of the Federal Government include developing an economy that does not lean too heavily on resource wealth. She explained that Nigeria’s economic history provides enough facts that resource wealth alone cannot lead to sustainable development, self-sufficiency and sustainable.