ENUGU – The former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu has declared his intention to run for the gubernatorial race in 2023. Our correspondent reports that the declaration on his gubernatorial race has put to rest the speculation and con­troversy surrounding zoning arrangement in Enugu State. He denied being a product of zoning arrangement in Enugu State saying “what we need in Enugu is not zoning but the capability to deliver good governance to the people of Enugu State.” Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Buhari Commiserates With ACF Over Spokesperson’s Passing Ekweremadu, who is cur­rently representing Enugu West Senatorial District at the National Assembly stat­ed this at a media chat at the Best Western Hotel, in Enugu on Friday. It was reported that some top political leaders have in­sisted that the zoning of the gubernatorial candidate to Enugu East senatorial zone in 2023 for justice and fairness. Ekweremadu, who prom­ised to provide good gover­nance to Enugu people, if elected Governor said “What we need in Enugu is not zon­ing but good governance and capability to deliver the div­idend of democracy to the people The former Deputy Senate President, Ekweremadu, who describes zoning as a selfish interest of some politicians said “there was never a time the leaders deliberated on zon­ing in Enugu State. Even Gov­ernor Chimaroke Nnamani was not a product of zoning. “If there is zoning, I will not be in Senate for five years, so for me to represent my peo­ple in the senate for five years means that there is no zoning in Enugu State. POLL “Those people talking about zoning have a candidate in mind as they believe this is a means to achieve their plans,” he said. Ekweremadu, who named his campaign coordinator for the 2023 guber race in Enugu as Ogboo Asogwa assured not to interfere with Local Government funds if elected as Governor in 2023. He assured to reconstruct all roads leading in and out of the state into a well multiple carriage road and super high ways. He said “We understand the challenge posed by re­source scarcity but we have the social capital to attract local and foreign funding as well as the integrity to keep our words. “If elected Governor, I will utilise all the experience, friendship, partnership and global contact squired over the years to transform Enugu State to a model state. Gunmen Attack Funeral Procession In Anambra, Kidnap One Wild Jubilation As Iregba Community Witnesses Electricity Supply… “As a senator, I worked hard to put forward neces­sary bills and motions on constitutional amendments, security education, economy etc and I’m ready to do more by restoring the people’s faith in the government through open door government