The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Oyo State, Dr Mutiu Agboke and Senator representing Oyo South Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Kola Balogun have advised Nigerian youths to be more active in politics rather than only galvanising on the social media. The duo and other panellists gave the advice at the 3rd Akeem Kareem Foundation Lecture Series and Maiden Award of Excellence, held in Ibadan with the theme, “Engineering Change Through The Sorosoke Generation: 2023 And The Path To Follow”, is germane to the 2023 elections. While acknowledging the role of youths in political development and offers ways by which the Nigerian youths can bring about the desired positive change, Agboke said the youths should start a movement that will not be cosmetic. The Oyo REC maintained that movement should be one that is clear-headed without any sinister motives where morality should not be thrown away in politics, noted that voting is now counting. He said money plays a critical role in the polity stressing that, for youths to be effective, they should start from the grassroots level where enormous power resided. According to him, “the youths should start a movement that will not be cosmetic. It should be one that is clear-headed without any sinister motives. Everybody in politics has thrown away morality, but voting is now counting, though we are not there yet. “Start from the ward level. Go back to participate in politics at the grassroots level where enormous power resides. You should forget stereotypes about contesting for elections at the national and state levels. “All the political parties that we have in the land are the same. So, for the youths to be talking about raising money to find elections and expect the desired change is not in tune with realities. POLL “INEC has been campaigning for the mainstreaming of people considered to be less privileged. These include women and youths. They should not be marginalised”. Also speaking, Senator Balogun, who was one of the awardees at the event, however, urged the Nigerian youths to be ready to make sacrifices in their quest to make a change and become relevant in the polity. According to him, “It is not just about Sorosoke. It is beyond EndSARS. How many of you have your Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs)? The youths should get their PVCs. Go and get registered and make your voice known. “It is good to Sorosoke but you need to make it more concrete. Jumpstart the process and create awareness. Sorosoke, but jerk it up with critical awareness. “Youths of today should take the bull by the horn. You should take control and make positive impacts. The political kitchen will be very hot and those who cannot stand it will find their way out. “2023 is around the corner. Don’t sit on the fence. Get your PVC; get your relatives and friends to register to vote. Educate them and exercise your power. “Politicians will come to you with money. Given the fact that poverty is a reality in the land, collect their money but don’t vote for them. That will go a long way to teach them some good lessons”. Other speakers at the event also acknowledged the fact there is a need for a change in the system to allow for more youth and women participation in the political process.