BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI Access Bank has received plaudits from analysts for running one of Nigeria’s largest banking business with the zeal of a unicorn, a feat that is highly desirable but difficult to obtain. The bank, which is one of the largest bank in Nigeria and Africa’s leading bank by customer base, has left no one in doubt about its readiness to have the leadership of the banking business for keeps. While predicting the bank’s performance for 2021, analysts at United Capital last year stated that Access Bank has shown resilience in a tough environment and the structure and diversity of its operations should sustain top-line and bottom-line growths in the current business year. “We expect Access Bank to sustain top and bottom-line expansion in 2021. While non-interest income growth should taper going forward, as the economy stabilises, we imagine that rebounding asset yields, supported by massive balance sheet size and gains from expansion activities, should spur interest income growth,” United Capital stated. According to analysts, the well-diversified nature of the loan book of the bank is expected to sustain asset quality and thus keep non-performing loans and cost of risk within prudential limits. Analysts noted that with its string of acquisitions and expansion across the African continent, including Cameroon, Kenya, Zambia and South Africa, the management of the bank plans to leverage the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement to expand its footprint to 20 countries across Africa. “As such, in addition to the already concluded acquisitions, plans are currently in place to enter Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Angola, Namibia and Ethiopia,” United Capital stated. POLL 2021 full year results As predicted, Access Bank’s performance for the 2021 financial year confirmed it leadership in the banking sector as the bank recorded substantial growth in Gross Earnings (+27.1% y/y to N971.89 billion). This was driven by growth in both the funded and non-funded income segments as the bank was more aggressive in creating risk assets, especially through its digital and retail-based products, which bolstered fees and commission income. On the earnings per share (EPS) of N4.58 (+52.2% y/y), the board proposed a final dividend of N0.70 per share from the N0.55 per share offered in 2020, which equates to a dividend yield of 7.1 per cent based on the last closing price of N9.80 per share on March 18th, 2022. The bank recorded an interest income growth of 23.0 per cent year-on-year (y/y) to N601.70 billion in 2021FY, buoyed by the uptick in income from investment securities (+31.7% y/y to N203.68 billion). Similarly, income from loans and advances to customers (+16.4% y/y to N360.19 billion) and banks (+116.8% y/y to N28.38 billion) increased following the double-digit loan growth (+29.3% y/y to N4.16 trillion), the highest seen so far among Tier-1 peers. The growth across these income lines offset the sole decline in cash and balances with banks (-20.9% y/y to N9.46 billion). Interest expense also increased by 32.8% y/y to N300.24 billion, with a significant spike in the cost of deposit from customers (+41.1% y/y) as the bank took on more expensive term deposits to meet its obligations. Consequently, the bank’s Current Account Savings Account (CASA) mix deteriorated to 58.4 per cent in 2021FY from 64.6 per cent in 2020FY. Likewise, expenses on interest-bearing liabilities (+77.1% y/y) and debt securities (+12.6% y/y) increased during the period. Similar to Tier-1 peers, non-interest income grew significantly by 30.6 per cent y/y to N329.60 billion, supported by the solid income growth from foreign exchange trading (+126.3% y/y to N101.10 billion), net fees and commission income (+26.7% y/y to N118.60 billion), and bad debt recoveries. This growth in non-funded income further supported the funded income growth, leading to a 21.1 per cent y/y expansion in operating income. Significantly, operating expenses increased by 13.7 per cent y/y to N371.14 billion in 2021FY, as all major contributory lines recorded spikes – personnel expenses (+32.2% y/y to N96.71 billion), deposit insurance premium (+32.0% y/y to NGN20.44 billion), AMCON levy (+17.1% y/y to NGN41.51 billion) and non-cash depreciation and amortization charges (+12.3% y/y to NGN42.15 billion). Given the more significant year-on-year expansion in operating income than expenses, the bank’s cost-to-income ratio (after accounting for LLEs) improved to 67.7 per cent from 72.2 per cent in 2020FY. Tying it all together, the bank recorded a profit before tax growth of 40.3 per cent y/y to N176.70 billion. However, profit after tax notched up higher (+51.1% y/y to N160.22 billion), given the lower income tax expense (-17.2% y/y). African expansion Access Bank has been stepping up plans to be a key player in retail banking to complement its core strength in the corporate segment of the industry since its strategic purchase of Diamond Bank in 2018 riding on the latter’s sweeping digital innovations to gain traction in the retail sector. Access Bank Plc, which last year cut a $60 million deal to acquire the controlling stake in Grobank of South Africa, has firmed up its presence in the region with the acquisition of Botswana’s African Banking Corporation (BancABC Botswana). The bank acquired just over 78 per cent of BancABC Botswana for an undisclosed cash sum of around 1.13 times book value as well as a two-year deferred payment, Atlas Mara said in a statement. The deal with ABC Holdings, the local unit of London-listed Atlas Mara, expands Access Bank’s African presence to 10 countries. Before the acquisition of BancABC, Access Bank also acquired South Africa’s Grobank, having taken over Kenya’s Transnational Bank in July of 2020 and Zambia-based Cavmont Bank in January 2021. The lender targeted 30 per cent of profit for 2021 financial year from outside its base Nigeria, and break into eight countries in Africa, from Morocco to Angola, that have been marked down as markets of significant promise. A definitive agreement is in place for Access Bank to acquire more than 78 per cent of the Botswana bank shares, held by Atlas Mara, a financial services group based in British Virgin Islands, in a transaction to be completed by June, one of Nigeria’s biggest bank by asset said in a note to the Nigerian Exchange Limited last week. Significantly, Access Bank is seeking presence in eight African countries to be able to tap into AfCFTA opportunities. The bank hope to leverage the markets in eight of the countries on its expansion line-up in exploring the opportunities of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The lender will utilise the fewer trade restrictions, removal of a couple of regulatory bottlenecks and other trade liberalisation features that the AfCFTA offers in tapping value from some economies of high potential on the continent. Herbert Wigwe, Access Bank’s group Managing Director, while speaking on the bank’s expansion moves said: “Let me put it this way, it’s something that we’ve been planning as part of our corporate strategic planning 2017, and the whole idea has been to support our correspondent banking business, to support our payments business and to basically ensure that there is greater trade within the continent. “So, for us, we are basically making sure that we have a strong presence in all the major trade centres in the continent, to make sure we can access the United Kingdom as a strong encore that we can support correspondent banking. “And that we can physically build that presence in the continent that supports payment within the continent. So, I think we’re on track. In South Africa, we are basically going to ensure that it becomes a hub for the continent as far as correspondent banking services are concerned. We will help support corporations and their interest in niches in that market that are yet to be served. “Without revealing so much more of the strategy, there are interesting markets that have not been served that will basically cater for. “But apart from that, you need to see also the context of a large layer in the continent and partly serve our operators in different parts of the continent and putting that whole network together is extremely important. Well, besides that, it is truly important, correspondent banking is important and of course, the global support in the countries within the South African context, which is of course the largest in the continent, will be very important for us”. Analysts’ opinion To analysts at Cordros, Access Bank’s increasingly strong financial performance and the corresponding increase in payout to shareholders lend credence to positive outlook of analysts on the bank. “We envisage positive price reactions in the short to medium term. The bank is also one of the fastest-growing banks nationwide, with an increasing footprint across Africa. “This, coupled with the strong execution of its digitization and retail-led strategy in the Nigerian market informs our view of a positive growth trajectory”, the analysts said.