Anefi Mohammed, Vice Chairman, International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA), Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML), in this interview with ANDREW UTULU, speaks on the negative effect of the newly introduced Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) policy being implemented by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), the meeting of freight forwarders and agents with the NCS delegation to Lagos, as well as hash economic impact the policy will have on the common man if not reversed. Excerpts: You were part of the meeting with the Nigeria Customs Service in respect of the ongoing protests in Lagos ports as a result of the new VIN valuation implemented by the Service. What was the outcome of the meeting? Yes, we actually had a meeting with members of the committee set up by Comptroller General of Customs, who came to look at the issues that we have tabled before Nigerians, concerning the obnoxious VIN valuation. NSC Calls For Establishment Of Desk Offices In Shipping Lines NPA Appeals To Maritime Workers, Customs Agents To Shelve… We spoke at length, and the committee said it will get back to Customs headquarters, for an amicable resolution that will appropriately resolve the impasse. Since when did the agents and freight forwarders embarked on this protest? This started far back as last week of January 2022. We have some of our consignments which were issued valuations, after payment, as we get to the point of releasing; we discovered they have been alerted. When we asked why? They told us that the alert came from the headquarters that we should revert to VIN valuation. That we grossly under paid, meaning we paid below the value. Our questions were, what are the basis for the valuation. We asked for the assessment and nothing came out. Being that the consignments are lying at the port and accumulating demurrage, we wrote letters to the CG, no response from him. So, we embarked on a peaceful protest. We withdrew our services from the ports. To what extent has the new VIN valuation policy affected your activities in terms of the previous value payment and the current VIN valuation payment? POLL I will categorically tell you that payments based on the new value triples what we were paying before the introduction of this new VIN valuation. Based on the market value and what is obtainable in the system. Market value of a vehicle which its cost and freight is estimated at N3million, Customs by this new VIN valuation will expect you to pay N7million, as Cost Insurance and Freight duty on the same item from the same market. This is very outrageous. Vehicles like 09 Corolla, 09 Camry, we were paying N250,000 to N300,000 surface duty, now Customs say 09 Corolla should now pay N750,000 surface duty. We are talking about surface duty, not total duty, which the value of that car in the market is between N1.8 million to N2 million or at maximum, N2.3 million. At the end, if Customs decline to reverse to former value, what would be the next line of action? Of course, the Customs knows that they must have to revert. If the policy was assigned to them by the Federal Ministry of Finance or whoever must have given them the policy to implement, they just have to reverse it because it will bounce back on the economy. We’re Always At Alert, Our Officers Very Thorough – Compt Okun Decline In Piracy Incidents Product Of Collective Efforts –… Inflation will skyrocket, transportation cost will go up, cost of living will move up higher than expected. At this point in time when the world had gone and still going through COVID-19 negative effect since 2020, for the Nigerian government to come up with high increase in the value of vehicles, it is not acceptable. It is not done anywhere in the world. This is because the value tripled what is obtainable and what we were paying before. When you look at it, the Customs says we have been rebated, that they have been dealing with us on compromise. There is no compromise, it is rebate based on what is on the tariff. Vehicles on 10 percent rebate, 20 percent rebate, 30 percent rebate, 50 percent rebate, depending on the year of manufacture. So, that is what we are operating on, suddenly they came up with fixing this new price, when we already have consignments on ground and accumulating demurrage. Some are on the vessels in the high sea, some are on the highways. You can see it is unreasonable. A lot of un-cleared vehicles are trapped in the port since you started this protest, who will bear the demurrage costs? Of course, all these things are not taken into consideration by the government when these policies are being implemented in the country. Goods are trapped in the port for almost one month now. Demurrage is accumulating on them. The owners are going to pay, which will still bounce back on the economy. The owners will sell based on the cost of getting in the goods. So, that is the inflation we are talking about and nobody is looking into that. They have promised that they will get back to us and that things will become normal, but at whose cost? The shipping lines and terminal operators will tell us they are not responsible for the problem. That it is our government. That they ware-housed these consignments, watch over the consignments, pay their taxes to the government. So, the owners of the consignments which were not taken into consideration before the new policy will bear the cost. The sensitisation during the meeting is about the VIN valuation. How can you be sensitizing us when the goods are already trapped in the port. We should have been notified, the Nigerian populace should have been sensitized so that if it is favorable for them to go into the trade, they go and if not, they withdraw. Some of the goods are even alerted, and we are asking them to vacate the alert so that we can take delivery of those consignment. But they did not.