LAGOS  -Jaiz Bank, Nigeria first non-interest bank, has been growing at by 40 per cent annually, a feat unrivaled by commercial banks in the country since 2016. Hassan Usman, Managing Director of the Bank, who spoke with journalists on the 10th year anniversary of the bank, said the management have been busy in the last ten years to give Nigerians a non-interest bank that responds adequately to their needs. The bank, Usman said, is making strategic efforts to upscale its reach in existing and new markets across sub-Saharan Africa to achieve the target of being among the top three. He noted that over the past 10 years, the bank has come a long way to be in the sixth position of the top non-interest banks in the sub-Saharan Africa, while noting that despite challenges the bank has maintained its leadership role by deepening this alternative model of financing, thus providing the foundation for its expansion, and providing the needed ethical funding for infrastructural development in the country. To support the bank’s growth trajectory, the bank was currently working with fintechs to strengthen and expand its digital channels as a non-interest-banking group, while noting that the bank would continue to innovate and provide products with a substantial socio-economic impact on its customers. As the bank marks a decade of providing non-interest financial services, Usman said it had grown its balance sheet from N12 billion in December 2012 to almost N300 billion in 2021, having broken even within the first three years of operation, a feat unprecedented. The non-interest bank began operations on 6 January 2012 with three branches in Abuja, Kaduna, and Kano. It has since expanded to other cities, and recently commissioned its 45th branch in Akure, Ondo state recently. While expressing readiness to compete in the sector, Usman said the bank is aware that it has to be competitive. POLL He said: “On how to remain competitive, we know that this is a space where we see growth and because we have been fairly successful, Nigerians are going to see more. Today, we have about two or three non-interest banks in the country and we believe more will come. “Our approach is unique. We will compete and collaborate. This space is big and it is in the interest of non-interest banking to have collaboration and to also widen the scope of their market because one player in the Industry is not attractive. “We need to have even much more numbers; we have more than 20 conventional banks today and they are all operating successfully; Fairly almost 95 per cent of them are doing well” He added that the economy needs finance institutions to support its growth and with our ever growing population, we see young people coming with opportunities. “The next phase of Nigeria’s development is not about people looking for employment but people becoming employers. “We are getting to the point where people after graduating from universities or polytechnics or even people who could not have those privileges are looking towards becoming employers themselves and that is why our focus on SME is hinged on that principle of empowering the people otherwise we will have difficulty growing the economy base in the present realities that employment opportunities are not there”, he said. Going forward, Usman said the bank’s top priorities in the next five years are all targeted at consolidating the gains already recorded while also providing opportunities for development. He said: “We want to remain on top of the chat of the non-interest banking sector not only in Nigeria but in Africa. Our vision is to be a leader in sub Saharan Africa and we are focused on that knowing that our competitors are also in other parts of Africa. Today if you look at the statistics, we are about number five or six in Africa but we want to move farther to be among the top three before the next circle of our strategy which is the next five years but specifically, we want to be the bank that has the most value with SMEs and women entrepreneurs. “These are the segments that we believe, if we deliver on, we would have definitely delivered on our mission, which is making life better through non-interest banking. There is no other section of the society that requires it to be supported and where you can have a quantum leap in terms of impact on livelihood than when you touch the lives of women and the SME sector. “This is one sector of the Nigerian economy that we want to play a great role in and we are also doing it to show our peers who are also engaging in this because we cannot do it alone. “We have about seven thousand women we are working with today on the basis of equity. “Despite COVID-19, we have 99 per cent recovery of whatever we funded and it wasn’t alone; it was in equity and these women came back and we met with them and there were able to bring back the capital and the profit share for the bank, but we have some challenges during COVID-19 lockdown but we have now recovered. Speaking at challenges, Usman said: “At the beginning, we have the challenges. One of them is the lack of infrastructure which made it difficult for us as a new company. We lacked the complementary infrastructure to support the institution at the beginning but these infrastructures are now falling in place. “We had no counterpart in the first five years and we were alone. That was one of our challenges too; the other challenge was lack of awareness. Even those who wanted it did not understand the product and those who didn’t wanted it misunderstood the purpose, so I think we are overcoming and we see ahead of opportunities to make awareness a priority”.