The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caucus in the Senate has denied endorsing any of its colleagues for the position of the National Chairman of the party. The senators, who said there was nowhere or occasion when they took any decision to adopt any particular candidate, added that they would be very happy if any of the senators vying for the chairmanship position emerge as the APC national chairman on Saturday. The three senators running for the chairmanship position in the party’s convention slated for Saturday, March 26 are; Messrs Adamu Abdullahi, Sani Musa and Tanko Al-Makura. This clarification became necessary because of the tension in the red chamber when the news went around that the APC senators had settled for the candidature of Adamu Abdullahi. The development had caused serious confusion among the senators as many of them contacted, denied ever endorsing Abdullahi. The Senators said they needed the party to move forward with the emergence of an energetic person who would be elected through a transparent election. When contacted, the Spokesperson for the Senate, Dr Ajibola Basiru, said the APC members in the red chamber had not endorsed any of the aspirants. He said: “I am not aware that the APC Senate Caucus has adopted any Senator for the position of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress. POLL “I know that three senators are contesting and there was nowhere or occasion when we took any decision to adopt any particular candidate. “We would be very happy if any of them emerge as the APC national chairman on Saturday. “The emergence of any of the three senators would be a good omen to our institution. “At the moment, the APC Senate Caucus hasn’t endorsed any of them or agreed to pick any of them as the consensus candidate. “Senators Adamu Abdullahi, Sani Musa and Tanko Al-Makura are in the race.” There was confusion on Monday when a national daily reported that the APC caucus in the Senate had endorsed a former governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Adamu The report claimed that the leadership of the 9th Senate led by the Senate Leader, Senator Abdullahi Yahaya made the declaration last Thursday during the launching of the Adamu’s campaign headquarters in Abuja. The launching of the campaign headquarters located at No 78 Emeka Anyaoku Street, Area 11 Garki-Abuja, witnessed the attendance of the leadership of the Senate. Those also in attendance included Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo Agege; Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Others were Senator Ali Ndume; Senator Adamu Aliero; and Senator Barau Jibrin.