LAGOS – A leading biotechnology company, Moderna has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Kenyan Government to establish a $500 million mRNA vaccines and related drug manufacturing facility in the East African country. The proposed facility, expected to be the first of its kind in Africa, was designed with the goal of producing up to 500 million doses of vaccines yearly and focusing on drug substance manufacturing which could be expanded to include fill/finish and packaging capabilities at the site. The Chief Executive Officer of Moderna, Stéphane Bancel, while speaking at the signing ceremony said Moderna was also working on plans that will allow it to fill doses of its COVID-19 vaccine in Africa as early as 2023, subject to demand. Celsius Hospitality Signs MOU To Manage First Four Star Hotel In… NiMet Signs MoU With FMA&RD For Automatic Weather Stations “Battling the COVID-19 pandemic over the last two years has provided a reminder of the work that mustbe done to ensure global health equity”, he said, adding that “Moderna is committed to being a part of the solution and today, we announce another step in this journey to build a drug substance mRNA manufacturing facility capable of supplying up to 500 million doses for the Africancontinent each year” . Mr. Bancel explained that Moderna’s mRNA global public health vaccine program, and its vaccine programs against HIV and Nipah, are being undertaken with the support and partnership of the Republic of Kenya, the African Union and the U.S. Government. “We believe that this step will become one of many on a journey to ensure sustainable access to transformative mRNAinnovation on the African continent and positively impact public health”, he added. In his remarks, the Co-founder and Chairman of Moderna, Noubar Afeyan, who expressed appreciation to all the partners, said the Company was honored to have played such a critical role in combatting the COVID-19 pandemic with its vaccine adding that Moderna was determined to expand its global impact with the first manufacturing facility on the continent of Africa”. Also speaking at the brief ceremony, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya Government was pleased to partner Moderna as the facility will help prepare Kenya and her sister states on the continent, through the African Union, to respond to future health crises and stave off the next pandemic. POLL “The partnership is a testament to the capabilities of our community and our commitment to technological innovation”, he said, adding that Moderna’s investment in Kenya will help advance equitableglobal vaccine access and is emblematic of the structural developments that will enable Africa to become an engine of sustainable global growth”. In his speech, Sen. Mutahi Kagwe, the Cabinet Secretary for Health, said Kenya recognizes and appreciates the collaboration of Moderna in building its local manufacturing capacity, noting that the project will ensure a quick response to health demands requiring Vaccine commodities”. Moderna’s mRNA pipeline, in its prophylactic vaccines modality, includes 28 vaccine programs including vaccines against respiratory viruses, vaccines against latent viruses and vaccines against threats to global public health.