The observance of Ash Wednesday, March 2, ushered in this year’s Lenten Season with clerics stressing solemnity, personal and national repentance, rededication and almsgiving as hallmarks of the 40 days journey. The Lent of 2021 contrary to this year’s was amidst the COVID-19 pandemic where certain changes were made. For the Ash Wednesday, a special circular was made available to all priests and religious working in the Lagos Archdiocese, directing that after parishes source for ashes from the previous Palm Sunday or earlier ones or any other dignified source, the Priests should administer by putting the ashes on the palm of each person in silence while the person signs himself or herself and their children with it. The Ark Of The Covenant St. Paul’s Church, Ebute-Metta, Battles Land Grabbers It was not so this time as the Priests and Rev. Sisters signed parishioners and other individuals. Sadly, the Ukraine and Russia crisis, poses concern as Pope Francis urged all Catholics to pray for the peace of the world, he requested March 2, as a day of prayer and fasting for Ukraine. His Grace, Archbishop Adewale Martins, Catholic Archbishop of the Metropolitan See of Lagos, in his charge, asked Catholic faithful to renew and deepen their relationship with God through prayer, fasting and almsgiving, while giving other guidelines to make the best of the season. He stated: “Welcome to the month of March, 2022, a month that leads us into the special season of Lent, a season in which we are called to deepen our relationship with God. With the Ash Wednesday (March 2) the Church ushers all into the solemn season of Lent to experience the profound call to repentance and renewal. “This month presents us with these important feast days: St. Patrick (17th March), St. Joseph, the Husband of Blessed Virgin Mary (19th March), Annunciation of the Lord (25th March). POLL “2. Call to Prayer: Our Holy Father, Pope Francis has called on all Catholics to take 2nd March, 2022 as a day of prayer and fasting for Ukraine. We are therefore enjoined to offer our fasting and prayers on that day for the restoration of peace in Ukraine and other parts of the world. “3. A Few Thoughts on Lent: As we begin the season of lent, may I remind everyone of the following regarding the season: a. Abstinence: All the faithful who have reached 14 years of age and above are required to abstain totally from meat or favorite dish or drink on Ash Wednesday (March 2) and Good Friday (April 15) and all Fridays in Lent. b. Fasting: All the faithful between the ages of 18 and 60 years are obliged to fast. In practice, fasting involves limiting oneself to a single full meal or two smaller meals a day. Those who are sick, pregnant or nursing or whose health would adversely be affected by fasting should not consider themselves bound by this norm.” He continued: “c. Parents and teachers are responsible for helping young persons, who are not bound by the norms regarding fasting and abstinence to recognize the genuine sense in penance and self-denial. “i. Avoid Sin: Keep yourself away from all occasions that could lead to sin. Repent and return to God by a good sacramental confession and do appropriate penance if you fall into sin. ii. Practice self-control; be more generous especially in giving to the poor and needy and in contributing to the works of the church, remission of debts and payment of just wages. iii. Pursue and achieve reconciliation with anyone with whom you are not at peace. The Man Called Bartimaeus (I) Why A Christian Should Be Generous “iv. Read the Scriptures in order to deepen your intimacy with God, spread the kingdom of Christ and help others to know and return to Christ. v. Pray before the Blessed Sacrament, go to Mass often, if possible, daily.vi. Be regular at the Stations of the Cross on Wednesdays and Fridays and do it every day if you can.vii. Take part in the Lenten programmes and retreats.” Martins, however, made an appeal on Ash Wednesday to deceitful politicians and preachers to amend their ways. He also called on corrupt public office holders, kidnappers, ritualists and all evil doers to repent. The cleric, during the day one broadcast of the Lenten Reflections, entitled: ‘A Return Journey’, monitored by Sunday INDEPENDENT, described Ash Wednesday as the “beginning of the journey towards repentance”, adding, “It is our 40 days journey in which we are renewed through the Lenten observance and practices in preparation for the joy of Easter.” Ash Wednesday, he said, was a subtle reminder that life was “fragile, temporal and transient as it would end one day”, saying also that the Ash placed on the forehead reminds that man is dust and signifies the preparation for the ultimate journey back to his maker after sojourning on earth. The Archbishop said it was necessary for all to maximise the Lenten season to genuinely repent, stating: “If we do not repent from our sins, how can we receive a warm welcome back to Him (God)? “… Let politicians who lie to the people repent. Let the ‘men of God’ who take advantage of their congregation return to the Lord. Let the ones who steal public funds return to the Lord. “Let the ones who kidnap for ransom repent. Let the money ritualists repent and return to God. Let those involved in activities inimical to their relationship with God to repent.” Rev. Father Anthony Okereke of Holy Spirit Catholic Church, Onireke, Ojo, Lagos, likewise urged Christians to use the Lenten period to plead for God’s mercy and forgiveness of sins. Okereke, made the call on Wednesday in Lagos during the parish’s morning Mass to mark the 2022 Ash Wednesday, as contained in a media report. He said the Lenten period was unique for its observance of intermittent prayers, fasting, and sacrifices that could move God’s benevolence toward man. According to him, the period is when God’s grace is mostly released for miracles and atonement of sin, for supplication to be attended to and uncommon miracles to be received by mankind. The priest, who administered ash on the foreheads of the faithful, urged people to use the period of Lent to seek God’s face in repentance of sins, saying such prayers would be heeded now than before. He also tasked leaders worldwide, especially in the country, to use the 40 days of the Lenten season to make sacrifices in the management of the country, to lessen social strife in the country. The priest decried the unwholesome organised crimes among the youth and admonished younger ones to emulate the life and times of Jesus Christ that impacted positively on mankind as a youth. He stated further: “The season is one that people are expected to fast, pray and pour out their hearts to God and come out of sins and show love and care to one another for a better society. “The sign of ash administered on the faithful is to show that from ash we come from to ash we shall go back to. That goes to show that people should live simple and service-oriented lives devoid of bad blood, hate, and acrimony. “The mother church is using this period to urge people to pause from materialism, carnality and interface with God through consecrated prayers, fasting, and self-denial.” Rt. Rev. Dr. Humphrey Olumakaiye, Lord Bishop and Missioner, Diocese Of Lagos, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), pleaded with Nigerians to also return to God, while prioritising holy living. He quoted Zechariah 1 verse 3 and Jeremiah 29 verse 12, stating:”He sees you where you are but still wants you as you are. His goal? To transform you into His likeness for His glory and for your eternal benefit! “Look beyond the missteps. Look beyond the hurt. Look beyond the guilt. Look beyond the falls. Look beyond the fails. Let by gone be by gone. Hand it over to the Lord. You are the exact reason Jesus came to die… Welcome to Lent!”