….Youths Critical To PDP Victory- Saraki …..Under APC Nigeria Faces Imminent Collapse- Youth Leader The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorcha Ayu, has charged the youths to use technology to mobilize for the party to unseat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. 2023: We’ve Perfected Yahaya Bello Presidency Masterplan,… 2023: Governors Reach Consensus To Produce Presidential… This is even as the former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki noted that youths are critical for PDP victory in the coming general elections. The National Youth Leader of PDP, Muhammed Suleiman Kadade warned that under the APC Nigeria faces imminent collapse. Speaking at a Meeting of the National Youth Leader with the Zonal and State Youth Leaders, the PDP National Chairman noted that the youths can do alot with technology during the election. Represented by the PDP Deputy National Chairman North, Umar Damagum, Ayu said, “we appeal to you to also be digital. We are in a digital age. If you mobilize your colleagues, from the wards to the local governments on phone alone, you can do a lot.” Saraki on his part noted that it was not lack of ideas that cause the failure of APC, but lack of implementation. POLL Saraki, who assured that PDP is coming into power in 2023, added that the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP is committed to ensuring that the youths are there to make sure the government of PDP works functionally. He said: “If you look at what has hindered this government, it’s not lack of ideas, it’s implementation. They are tired. They don’t have what it takes to make things happen. So, any government that is coming needs to have energetic and committed people like yourself, otherwise, the government will go nowhere. “So nobody is doing you a favour by saying you should be part of that government, it’s in the interest of the nation.” Analyzing the 2019 election, Saraki said: “We only lost with under 5 million votes. There is over 18 million youth still unregistered. If we can register those numbers they will vote for a government that will bring a better future for you all. “The 2023 election is for PDP, it’s there for us. Let’s go back and mobilize our supporters to ensure that we all register, at the end of the day it is their votes that will get us there.” 2023: Why Nigeria Is Not Moving Forward – Fayemi 2023 Presidency: Obasanjo Speaks On Endorsing South-East The National Youth Leader, Kadade said: “Our dear country Nigeria faces imminent collapse due to unprecedented economic and security challenges. Nigeria has been named the poverty capital of the world, Nigeria ranks five places worse on the 2021 corruption perception index and the state of insecurity has reached unacceptable proportion.” Appealing to the zonal and states youth leaders to join him in mobilizing the Nigerian youths to join PDP and rescue Nigeria, Kadade said that this is the time to answer Nigerians, who are beckoning on PDP to come to their rescue. “We must not fail them, we must save this country, yes, we must save our Fatherland. “It is very important that as we are embarking on mass mobilization of Nigerians, we should encourage those without Permanent Voters Cards (PVCS) to quickly visit INEC registration centres nearest to them to get registered. It is the PVC that can empower the youths to vote out the incompetent government of APC. Therefore, all the youths must have PVCS,” Kadade said.