ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Wednesday called on the Inspector General of Police, the Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff and other security agencies to as a matter of urgency deploy their personnel to intensify the raid and combing of the entire Lilu, Azia,Orsumoghu, and Mbosi communities in Ihiala LGA of Anambra State. The lawmakers said this is in order to move into and dislodge the camps housing hundreds of kidnapvictims, and without delay rescue the victims, including Mr. SteadyOnome Idisi and Emmanuel Ifie who had been in captivity. The House, therefore, mandated its Committee on Police Affairs, Army, Airforce and other relevant Committees to ensure compliance thereof and report back within two weeks for further legislative action. NASS Declares States’ Power To Collect VAT Group Commends Yahaya Bello For Curbing Insecurity In Kogi These resolutions followed a motion onmatter of urgent national importance on the “need to address the spate of insecurity and abduction of innocent citizens of Nigeria and for the immediate release of kidnapped victims including Rotarian Steady Onome Idisi and Emmanuel Ifie, moved by Hon. Ben Rollands Igbakpa (PDP, Delta). The lawmaker in the motion noted the “increasing spate of kidnapping and banditry, which has rendered our nation inhabitable for both citizens and foreigners alike.” “…on Sunday, February 20, 2022, Mr Steady Onome Idisi, the CEO ofLonestar Drilling Company Limited, President of Steady Run Club and a notable Rotarian, and his friend Mr. Emmanuel Ifie were kidnapped at Orsumoghu in Ihiala LGA of Anambra State. Mr Idisi is from the reputable Idisi family of Ovo, Ehtiope East LGA of Delta State. Up until date, their whereabouts remain unknown. “Mr. Idisi on the said date checked out of his Hotel Room in Asaba in the company of his friend, Mr. Emmanuel Ifie and proceeded on their journey back to Port Harcourt. They encountered gunmen suspected to be IPOB militants at Orsumoghu in Ihiala LGA of Anambra State. “A well-known Nnewi businessman, Chief Gab Ofoma was on February 20, 2022, killed along the same road by men suspected to be members of the same gang of unknown gunmen terrorizing the area,” the motion noted. POLL It further expressed worries that “several efforts made to locate Mr. Steady Onome Idisi and Emmanuel Ifie have so far proved abortive as their whereabouts is still uncertain, and the victims may be held in captivity in a camp deep in the Orsumoghu forest where, by the account of an escapee, there is electricity,generators, SUV vehicles, and is like a City of its own, where evil reigns. By the same account, over 100 persons are held captive in that camp and are killed intermittently at the pleasure of the bandits.” “A situation where non State actors rule over and dictate the conduct of citizens in a democratic country has been foisted on us. It is unacceptable and must be stopped by legitimate Agents of the State entrusted with the security of lives and properties. “A properly coordinated and concerted inter-agency intelligence-driven efforts by the Police, Army and other security agencies in the form of a Joint Operation to continually raid the entire area, as was done in the past, is critical at this point to address this menace in order to dislodge the bandits and release their victims,” the motion added.