The recreation of classroom experience by students of the Caleb University, Imota, Lagos, to a real-life situation will for some time serve as a memorable experience for the students as they familiarised themselves with the work environment. JEJE MARY AYOBAMI and YUSUF OMOBAJESU GRACIOUS report. The recent visit by final year students of the Caleb University, Imota, Lagos State, to the headquarters office of the Independent Newspapers Limited has become an eye-opener to the practical workings of journalists in news gathering and dissemination. The visit, no doubt, afforded the 400-Level students of Mass Communication, Caleb University, to fully understand the workings of journalists in information processing and appreciate the efforts respective professionals put into every edition of the newspaper. At the vast premises of the newspaper production company, the students accompanied by the university’s Director of Branding, Mr. Abimbola Olulesi, Dr. Samuel Ogbonna, a Lecturer in Mass Communication (Print) and Mr. Wale Adekoya, Information, Media and Publication, was received by Mr. Charles Okoh, the News Editor. The News Editor took time to explain the work environment of the newsroom as well as the processes involved in gathering and processing stories for publication, adding that the organisation publishes three titles: Daily, Saturday and Sunday Independent Newspapers. He said, “Besides the ambience and the working space, we also have a forward-moving management” and urged the visiting trainee journalists to know the perk and power a journalist possesses. Okoh encouraged the students never to stop reading regardless of the available technology, adding, “The day you stop reading is the day you start limiting yourself.” Mr. Yemi Adebisi, the Saturday Editor lauded the University management for the visit and showed the visitors a clean copy of the day’s edition. POLL At the next point of call at the Online Room, Mr. Segun Abisoye, the online editor, explained to the students, lecturer and officials of the university his duties as online editor, how essential it is to write and publish factual reports as soon as news event breaks via the organisation’s website: www.independent.ng. He said, “When you practise journalism today you have to possess the ability to write news as it breaks.” At the print shop, Mr. Charles Iheagwam, the Production Manager, revealed that the Goss Community offset machine can print 24 pages of colour and a complete set of 48 pages at a stretch, just as it has the capacity to print 30,000 copies per hour.