House of Representatives on Tuesday adopted a motion moved by a member representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency, Hon Shina Peller, seeking to compel the Federal Government to make budgetary provisions in the 2023 Appropriation estimates for the revamp of Iyake Suspended Lake in Ado-Awaye, Iseyin Local Government,  Oyo State. In the motion titled “Need to Revamp the Iyake Suspended Lake at Ado-Awaye in Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State. 2023 Presidency: Tinubu Writes To Meet APC Caucus Insecurity: Reps Want Armed Personnel Deployed To Anambra… In a statement on Wednesday by Press Secretary, Office of Hon Shina Peller, Kola Popoola, Peller observed that Ado-Awaye Hill is a tourist destination that is under-utilized and neglected in spite of its several attractions like the Iyake Suspended Lake, Ishage Rock, Elephant Tree, Ese Awon Agba (footprints of the elders), Esekan Iku, Isata Hill, and the Iya Alaro Lake, among others. He argued that tourism is a strong pillar of growth for the Nigerian economy with a contribution of 3.20 per cent to the National Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Quoting the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), he added that tourism contributed about 2.70 per cent of total employment in 2013 and that it is envisaged to rise by 6.1 per cent per annum from 2014 to 2024. Peller expressed concerns that the Iyake suspended Lake in Ado-Awaye, a very rare natural occurrence that has the potential of attracting tourists all over the world annually, has been abandoned; He, therefore, prayed that the House resolves to: Urge the Federal Government to make budgetary provisions in the 2023 Appropriation estimates to revamp the Iyake suspended Lake in Ado-Awaye; Mandate the Committees on Culture, Tourism and Appropriation to ensure compliance. The House overwhelmingly granted the prayers. POLL Iyake Suspended Lake is one of the two suspended lakes in the world.  One is in Colorado, United States of America (USA), and the other is the amusing Iyake Lake situated in Ado-Awaye,  Iseyin local government area of Oyo State. The Iyake Lake never dries even in dry seasons, and the water level remains the same in rainy seasons. Besides the lake, the mountain has other wonders that make it a fascinating destination and a significant cultural heritage. It would be recalled that in 2019, Honourable Peller, alongside his children, Sultan and Naomi Peller, had visited Iyake Lake whilst on a tour organised by the Iseyin Youth Development Group (IYDG). During the tour, the Iseyin-born federal legislator had said, “Ado Hill is definitely a goldmine that has to be tapped into, and I’ll do everything within my capacity to make sure that we fully explore the great potential of Ado Hill, especially Iyake Suspended Lake, which is one of the only two suspended lakes we have in the world.”