Manchester United have announced that former centre-backs Wes Brown and Jaap Stam have become the latest former Reds stars who will feature in the Legends of the North charity match against Liverpool at Old Trafford in May. The duo, who made almost 500 appearances between them for United, are two of five further additions to the squad for the charity encounter that will take place on Saturday, May 21. They have been joined by former striker Louis Saha, Ronny Johnsen and Jesper Blomqvist. The quintet have joined the likes of Patrice Evra, Mikel Silvestre and legendary Uruguayan striker Diego Forlan in being confirmed as players who will participate. The match has been arranged in aid of profits from ticket sales being donated to the Manchester United Foundation for its work with young people.  A statement released by the United Foundation said: “Manchester United Foundation is excited to reveal the next group of former Reds set to feature when a team of club legends take on their Liverpool counterparts in the Legends of the North match. “Taking place at Old Trafford on Saturday 21st May, Jaap Stam, Wes Brown, Louis Saha, Ronny Johnsen and Jesper Blomqvist will once again don the famous red shirt for the game. They will join Diego Forlan, Patrice Evra, Mikael Silvestre, John O’Shea and Karel Poborsky who were announced earlier this month, with many more former Reds still to be named. Bryan Robson will be taking charge of the squad alongside assistant manager Andrew Cole. “The match is the first of its kind since the Treble Reunion match of 2019 and promises to be an entertaining affair with famous names from English football’s two biggest teams going head-to-head.” Being invited back to Old Trafford to participate in the Legends of the North match, Brown said: “I’ve been involved with the Foundation for many years now and I love visiting the schools, helping with their projects and just showing my support. I know how important their work is, which is why I can’t wait to play again in the Legends of the North match.”It’s a big match, against a big rival, so I would encourage all United fans to come along and get behind us, while also helping to raise important funds for the Foundation too.” POLL Stam, who could partner Brown in central-defence for the contest, is also looking forward to returning to Old Trafford. He played for the club between 1998 and 2001, racking up 127 appearances. “Returning to Old Trafford is always special for me and this time will be no different,” said Stam. “Everybody knows how important this fixture is to both sets of fans, so I’m sure it will be well-supported, which is exactly what we want to see with the money raised going towards supporting the Foundation.”