Alake of Egba land, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo has applauded the efforts of the Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams for championing the cause for the promotion of Yoruba culture and tradition, saying the Yoruba generalissimo has used the Olokun Festival Foundation to drive the tourism potentials of Abe-Okuta, and Ogun state generally. Oba Gbadebo spoke at the 2022 edition of Olumo festival held at the at Olumo Rock, Ikija, Abeokuta, Ogun State. The Egba monarch added that the economic sector of Abe-Okuta received a big boost with over 50,000 dignitaries, including members of the Oodua Peoples Congress(OPC). Gani Adams Admonishes Yahaya Bello To Adopt  Amotekun In Kogi Gani Adams To Nigerians In Diaspora: Shun Negative News, Develop… “I want to commend Aare Gani Adams for his courage to project the cultural identity of Yoruba race and that of the Egba people. “He has used his platform to drive the tourism potentials of Abe-Okuta and Ogun state in general by bringing over 50,000 participants to Olumo festival annually. His spirit of consistency is unrivalled and I appreciate his courage”. Meanwhile, Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, in his remarks restated his beliefs in sustaining the cultural identity of the Yoruba race, saying promotion of Yoruba culture and festivals across the southwest is part of the tools for the liberation of Yoruba race. He urged all the traditional rulers in the region to perform their statutory roles as custodians of culture and tradition. “There are several spiritual benefits we derive from celebrating these festivals. We have also used these festivals as part of our sacrifices to the deities in order to connect to the spiritual realm”. POLL While explaining the reason for celebrating the festival, Aare Adams stated further that  Lisabi/Olumo festival remains one of the most celebrated festivals in Egba land, adding that the festival showcases the rich cultural heritage of the Egba people. “By celebrating Lisabi and Olumo festival, we have rekindled the hope of the Egba people. We have also reinvented the glory of their past heritages. Egba is notably one of the leading and historic towns among the nucleus of the Yoruba race. “The beauty of their tradition is expressed in the way they celebrate their ancestors. In history, Lisabi was truly a great progenitor of the Egba people. His footprints remained evergreen in the minds of all indigenes of the ancient town. “Yoruba history has always been kind to the Egba people. History has provided adequate information on the various exploits of Lisabi, whose efforts brought Abeokuta to global reckoning”. He maintained also that insecurity has taken a huge toll on all sectors in Nigeria, saying no sector has been spared with the rising scourge. Presidential Visit To Ogun: TRACE Issues Traffic Advisory Soun Of Ogbomoso’s Death, Great Loss To Nigeria, Yoruba… The Yoruba generalissimo, however, stated that the rising spate of insecurity across the country can only be tackled with state or regional police, which, according to him,is one of the contents of restructuring”.