ABAKALIKI – The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, has urged Corps Members to avail themselves of opportunities for self-employment offered by NYSC through its Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship (SAED) programme, at Orientation camps, warning that “white-collar jobs are not readily available.” Mr Ibrahim gave the charge on Wednesday in his address at the swearing-in of the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream ’11’ Corps Members at NYSC Orientation Camp, Afikpo in Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, and enjoined them to avail themselves of the once-in-a-life-time opportunity by participating actively in all the camp activities. The DG’s address which was read on his behalf, by the Ebonyi State NYSC Coordinator, Mrs Bamai Mercy, enjoined them to choose from any of the skills areas, and make themselves available for the training at the orientation camp, even as he promised they would work with relevant stakeholders to ensure the success of the programme. While imploring the new Corps members to maintain a high level of discipline by being compliant with the camp rules and regulations, the DG warned them against indulging in cultism, drug abuse and other social vices. He further urged them to avoid using social media for spreading fake news, fuelling hatred and other negative purposes, instead, should deploy the same for the promotion of national unity and development. He said: “I would like to remind you that white-collar jobs are not readily available. Therefore, I enjoin you to avail yourselves of opportunities for self-employment offered through our Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship (SAED) Programme. You are expected to choose from any of the skills areas, and make yourselves available for the training, which starts from the Orientation camp. On our part, Management will continue to work with relevant stakeholders for the success of the programme “As you are aware, one of the major objectives of NYSC is the promotion of national unity and integration.This informed your deployment away from your State of origin and assemblage here from diverse ethnic-religious and socioeconomic backgrounds. This policy will not only offer you the opportunity for a broader understanding of the country, but also entrench the culture of working together in an atmosphere filled with friendship, peace, harmony, and a shared vision of a great and prosperous Nigeria. “Let me also remind you that the oath of allegiance you have taken today is significant, as it is expected to guide your conduct in the service year as well as have a everlasting influence on your life after service. You are also enjoined to familiarize with the provisions of the NYSC Act and the NYSC bye-laws. POLL “I implore you to maintain the high level of discipline and enthusiasm you have so far, especially by remaining compliant with the camp rules and regulations. You must continue to distance yourselves from cultism, drug abuse and other social vices. “I also urge you to avoid using the social media for spreading fake news, fuelling of hatred and other negative purposes, and instead deploy same for the promotion of national unity and development. You are strongly advised to be security conscious at all times and report any suspicious characters or activities around you to the appropriate authorities.”