Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the South-West geo- political zone have vowed not to support candidates from the northern region who wished to contest 2023 presidency on the platform of the party. The PDP leaders who met in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Tuesday, insisted that they will support only candidates from the Southern region to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The meeting was attended by a former Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Olabode George; former Governors Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Olusegun Mimiko and Ayodele Fayose of Osun, Ondo and Ekiti states respectively. Others are; PDP Deputy National Chairman (South), Ambassador Oladejo Arapaja; former governorship candidates of the PDP in Ogun and Ekiti states, Hon. Ladi Adebutu and Professor Olusola Eleka. They noted that they were in support of the position of the Southern Governors’ Forum that Southern Nigeria should produce the next president. They added that the need for the Southern region to produce the next President is necessary in order to ensure fairness, justice and equity. The PDP leaders while speaking further maintained that they reaffirmed their position on restructuring of the country. National Vice Chairman, South-West PDP, Olasoji Adagunodo, in a communique made available to DAILY POST after the meeting, insisted that the leaders of the party resolved that the unity of its members in the zone is non-negotiable. POLL He added that the leaders also resolved to do everything within its power to win the forthcoming elections in Osun and Ekiti states. He said, “The PDP South-West Zone is in support of the Southern Governors’ Forum that the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria should come from the south. “The Zone has agreed that we should do everything possible within our power to deliver Osun and Ekiti states to the party in their forthcoming offseason governorship elections. “The Zone is desirous of fairness, justice, and equity in the distribution of Federal positions and appointments and will support all efforts geared towards national cohesion through equitable distribution of federal positions and appointments amongst the geopolitical zones of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The South-West Zone reaffirms its position on restructuring of Nigeria.”