Today’s Prime Minister’s Questions clash between Sir Keir Starmer and Boris Johnson focused on the domestic implications of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The Labour leader started by calling on Johnson to force Chancellor Rishi Sunak into a U-turn on his policy of a £200 loan to help with energy prices. Starmer’s argument was that this loan had been developed on the assumption that prices were going to fall, but Ukraine had changed that. Johnson argued that Starmer would be ‘absolutely out of his mind’ to be arguing that the Chancellor should U-turn on the help he was already offering. That wasn’t what Starmer was saying: he was arguing that the ‘help’ would actually cause more pain because people would be required to pay back the loan when they were struggling even more with their bills. ‘We will see how long that position lasts,’ he retorted. Starmer also asked for a windfall tax on the profits of energy companies, accusing the Prime Minister of ‘protecting energy profits, not working people. He also expressed theatrical astonishment with the Prime Minister as he ridiculed Labour for changing tack on nuclear power and for refusing, as he claimed, to invest in nuclear. ‘Oh come off it!’ he expostulated. ‘Labour is pro-nuclear. This Prime Minister can’t get a single brick laid of a new nuclear plant!’ Biden Signs Order On Cryptocurrency As Its Use Explodes India Logs 4,575 New COVID-19 Cases, 145 Fatalities In 24 Hours These exchanges were designed to show that the government doesn’t have a plan for coping with the cost of living. ‘Britain can’t afford another crisis like this,’ Starmer argued. It is indeed going to be a very uncomfortable year for the Conservatives as the cost of living goes up and up. But the more immediately politically awkward exchanges came later and were on refugees. SNP leader Ian Blackford started the complaints on the matter, accusing Priti Patel of incompetence and of presiding over one of the worst responses in Europe. Johnson’s answer sounded very pre-written, starting with the line that ‘everybody sympathises with the plight of refugees: this government wants to do everything we can’. He then ignored Blackford’s second question in which he accused Patel of blocking people fleeing war crimes ‘with endless paperwork’, and claimed, to some jeering from the opposition benches, that this government has an unparalleled record on refugees.