ABUJA – A group, the Nigeria Rebirth Platform has advised Chief Bode George to prepare to beg the National leader of All Progressives Congress,  Bola Tinubu for amnesty by next year when he emerges as President of Nigeria. The admonition came after Bode’s threat to leave Nigeria should Tinubu become Nigeria’s president. National President of NRP, Comrade Victor Onah gave the advice when he spoke to newsmen in Abuja, Friday. Comrade Onah said Tinubu is networking towards realizing his lifelong ambition of governing Nigeria so that he can set the country on the path of prosperity similar to what he did during his tenure as governor of Lagos State. Onah said the NRP has taken time trying to understand Bode George’s fixation with Tinubu and all they could conclude is that ode George is a victim of extreme paranoia driven by his troubled past. “His delusion is so violent that he is driven to aggressively pressure others to join him in his hate-Tinubu obsession. “For instance, George in his latest tirade alleged that Tinubu has cornered Lagos state. He went on to claim that the APC national leader set up a parallel company to the Internal Revenue Service. “We are left wondering what planet Bode George came from to have such a perverted mindset. How is it possible that an individual will use a company to replace the tax authority when there is a governor, State House of Assembly and Judiciary. “Even this kind of mindset swirls around in Lagos beer parlors and drinking joint, it is irresponsible for an elder of George’s standing to attempt using his fading clout to validate such. “The embattled PDP chieftain also insinuated that Tinubu is running Lagos state by installing successive proxy governments to run the state. POLL “This fable is uncharitable even when it came from a man who is known to be persistently disconnected from reality. “His suggestion is an insult to the millions of Lagosians who have consistently voted for governorship candidates that they know can deliver on good governance.  We are at a loss how George will reduce the millions of votes cast during elections in Lagos state as the handiwork of Tinubu. “If George were in touch with reality, he would have realized that he should rather approach Tinubu as a humble pupil to learn what makes millions of Nigerians eager to align with his vision and vote for candidates associated with him.” “Had George paid close attention, he would have realized that the Tinubu effect goes beyond Lagos state because he was strategic, in his own way, to APC’s victory nationally in 2015 and 2019 and this would be repeated in 2023” he said.