BAUCHI – The Chairman of Ningi local government, Alhaji Mamuda Hassan Tabla, has debunked online medium and social media publications of his suspension as Chairman of Ningi Local Government. Recall that there were reports circulating yesterday in some online mediums that the Ningi Local Government Chairman has been suspended. He described the rumour as unfounded, mischievous, fake and Politically motivated, saying that his performance as the elected executive Chairman of Ningi local government is unassailable. “My link with my constituents, councillors and entire people of Ningi Local Government is unbreakable. The Leadership of my Party and my people have total faith and belief in my abilities, thus, my further progress in politics is in the hands of God and no amount of fake news can stop what has been divinely ordained. “My attention was drawn to a report on social media and some online medium that I was suspended as the Executive Chairman of Ningi local government. I want to dismiss the reports as it is concocted, mischievous and a crafted fake news. “I would have ignored this laughably as it is a hatchet job, but the undiscerning may fall for this deception if the facts are not put straight. In their haste to execute their devilish agenda, they failed to get their facts right because as I am talking to you now, I am in my office on my seat, discharging my official functions and responsibilities harmoniously as executive Chairman of Ningi,” he said. Mamuda said he was aware that the news of the so-called “suspension” is the hand-work of political forces who are bent on degrading his political image with the motive of positioning themselves for higher office which they are mistaken. The Chairman explained that since the assumption of office, he adopted the inclusive and participatory approach by ensuring transparency and accountability to all as well as making tremendous effort In the provision of infrastructures in the state. POLL “We have been forthright in carrying out our official functions together with my councillors, but unfortunately, some politicians want to use us for their selfish interest, we refuse to be used. “That is how we have always worked in the council, the idea of disunity or attempt to move against the Chairman by councillors only exists in the imagination of mischief makers,” he added. On the issue of allegations of Lame Burra Gane reserve forest, the chairman said various committees have been set up by the state government and nothing incriminating was found against him, adding the bone of contention is the issue of illegal settlers in the forest. The Chairman commended Governor Bala Mohammed for his steadfastness in steering the affairs of the State even as he advised the Nigerian Union of Journalist to take punitive measures against their members who does not cross-check their facts before going to press.