ABUJA – As the nitty-gritty of the Consensus option adopted by Governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) take root ahead of the party’s national convention, it has now emerged that President Mohammadu Buhari passed his choice of Senator Abdullahi Adamu without the much-anticipated opposition. Recall that the reported endorsement of the former governor of Nasarawa State earlier this month had met with widespread opposition by both stakeholders of the party and fellow aspirants but president Mohammadu Buhari we gathered, reversed all in his Meeting with the APC governors at the presidential vila Wednesday telling them in no uncertain terms that his choice of national Chairman should not be opposed. A source at the meeting disclosed that President Buhari, in selling his candidate Senator Adamu, simply asked the governors if he has ever interfered in their choice of who becomes the Chairman of the party in their States and wondered why his choice of national Chairman should be an exception. According to an insider, the logic of the president’s stance was so effective and persuasive that all the governors who had lined up reasons to object to Adamu’s nomination were disarmed and had to leave without altering a word. In his private meeting with the aspirants, the President was said to have asked them to step down for Adamu, citing his vast experience. Giving credence to the choice made by Buhari, Governor Abdullahi Sule, Chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee of the Convention said the president has no selfish or ulterior motive in whatever choice he makes, having finished his term. In his update on the Convention programme, the governor said the different caucuses of the party is working hard on the Consensus option adding that any decision by the president was in the overall interest of the party. “What our party has that others don’t have is the fact that we have a political leader and father that everyone who is truly a member of this party respects and that is President Muhamadu Buhari. We strongly believe that he will not do something just for a selfish reason, for greed or for anything that will be against the interest of the party. POLL “He is interested in ensuring the unity of the party. So he’s not doing anything for his personal benefit. That is the kind of leader we have that is why each time he speaks everyone listens because they know he is not doing it for any personal benefit. “That is his request and I am telling you his request will be honoured because we know he is doing it sincerely for the benefit of the party, he added that the instructions to refund funds to aspirants who agree on the Consensus will be obeyed. “The refund of payment that was made by aspirants – this was an appeal made by Mr President inorder to show leadership. He said once we agreed on the consensus it is only fair that what they pay be returned back to them. It was a request actually made by Mr President to the leadership of the party and the leadership was there. So, I will say that the leadership of the party also agreed”. Governor Sule maintained that the party Chairman position is still zoned to North Central even though President Mohammadu Buhari met with aspirants from other zones.