Granted a divine assent, Prof. Mthunzi Mdwaba, a South African lawyer, academic and tested labour affairs expert will, in a few days from now, become the first African chief executive officer of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) via the election scheduled to hold on the 25th of March, 2022. When this happens, the world labour force will henceforth witness a fresh aura of the dignity of labour, robust employer-employee relations midwifed by industrial laws that are enacted and adhered to for the benefit of all concerned and thus further engendering global industrial peace. Interacting with journalists across African countries on Thursday, March 3, 2O22, the cerebrally equipped African flag-bearer disclosed that he has been endorsed as the ILO Director-General Candidate by the Southern African Developing Countries (SADC) Tripartite (Trade Unions, Governments and Employers) through its Ministers’ Council. Mdwaba exudes much of confidence in victory having traversed widely, consulting and presenting himself for further service to humanity in the exalted and highly engaging position as the DG ILO come March 25, 2022. It note-worthy that Prof. Mthunzi Mdwaba is the solely endorsed candidate of the African Union (AU) for this coveted position. The positively radical and fearless labour unionist that he is, Prof. Mdwaba, who is acknowledged as the best-ever performing African in the governing body of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), declared to journalist at the press conference that: “the ILO is not as known as it thinks it is. The ILO is not as strong as the members it has”. POLL Hence, when voted into office as the Director-General, he already has his well-articulated plan to cahnge the order for the better. “The biggest challenge in Africa is that we do not have employment for the youth”; Mdwaba complained. Hence, under his leadership of the ILO, African youth and indeed, the world labour force hope to enjoy, among other benefits, dignifying employment for the youth, eradication of poverty and, of course, the eradication of hunger through the SDG1 and SDG2 respectively. The confident Africa’s hope enthused: “I have the intention of winning and I am going to win for Africa to lead an ILO that cares; an ILO that delivers.” Armed with a rich bacground of vast, all-round experience as a lawyer, an academic, a labour leader of veteran stature, a versatile negotiator and insider-operative of the dynamics of labour movement globally,   Prof. Mdwaba will no doubt, be well-placed to halt the current exodus of highly skilled medical personnel of African descent into Europe and other climes in the quest of greener pastures and personal fulfilment. To Mthunzi Mdwaba, “there is a lot to do better in the ILO”; adding that the Department of Labour has to monitor effectively to deal with the issue of child labour.” This is even as he has pledged that the first thing he would do as the DG, ILO is to go to every region and speak to journalists on the gospel of building an ILO that cares, listens and collaborates. A Glimpse Into His Background: Mthunzi Mdwaba, President & CEO of TZoro IBC, Chairman of Productivity SA & Chairman of the South African Norwegian Association(SANA)was until the 16th June 2021, the first African IOE Vice-President to the ILO,Global Spokesperson for Employers in almost a 100 years of the ILO’s existence, and consequently Vice-Chairman of the Governing Body. He remains the IOE’s Chairman for Business Human Rights & Responsible Business Conduct which represents 159 Employer Organisations & over 50 Million companies through same. Mthunzi has been endorsed as the ILO DG Candidate for 2022,by the SADC(Southern African Developing Countries)Tripartite (Trade Unions,Governments & Employers)through its Ministers’ Council. He started out as an entertainment practitioner, working for Kallmeyer&Strime Attorneys and later worked in the music/entertainment industry at the highest level, running the industry body made up of producers/record companies. He also ran an Independent record label(launched Kabelo’s solo career with the Pantsula for Life album and,inter alia,won the licence rights for Craig David) before he turned to the ICT industry. He built his career as a serial entrepreneur and was until November 2010, the Group CEO of Torque IT(since 2001),a world class company dedicated to computer technical training solutions(led a team that built it)and was appointed Deputy CEO of the Group(following the acquisition of Torque IT). The group was a listed entity on the JSE. He was responsible for 90% of the operations, with 7 MDs reporting to him, including entities in San Francisco, California in the US(with clients such as Cisco, Wells Fargo, Union Bank). He has various passive investments in the property, advertising, IT&Telecoms industries. He was one of 28 Commissioners (ex-officio) on the Global Commission for the FoW co-chaired by the Presidents of South Africa and Sweden. A tested academic, he was the Chairman of Council at the University of the Western Cape (UWC) until the end of his term in June 2018, and subsequently appointed as an Adjunct Professor of Law at the University focusing on the FoW/Labour Law & Business Human Rights. He was appointed as the B20 Italy,Co-Chair for the Task Force on Employment & Education, having previously chaired at B20 Germany. Born in the rural village of Coville,Herschel in the EC,in the Republic of South Africa, he is a very keen cyclist. He is blessed with three kids made up of two sons, Mlungisi and Litha and one daughter, Nina) and two grandchildren, Keiko and Kenzo. The South African businessman, Prof. Mthunzi Mdwaba, will by by God’s grace, clinch the top job at the International Labour Organisation come March 25 to replace Guy Ryder, who steps down after a decade at the helm. And granted the envisaged electoral feat, Mdwaba will make the first African on that seat.