The Orientation Course done by prospective Corps members is said to serve as the launch-pad for the entire Service year as they are enjoined to brace up for the tasks of the next phase. The assertion was made by the Director-General of the National Youths Service Scheme (NYSC), Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim at the terminal parade/closing ceremony of the 2022 Batch A Orientation course of Corps members posted to Yobe State. The NYSC DG said that the process is very important as the entire nation looks forward to their roles in advancing the unity and development of the country. He urged the corps members to remain patriotic, hard-working and resilient as demonstrated during the orientation exercise and advised them to devote time to identify the felt needs of their host communities and initiate personal and group Community Development Service projects that will uplift their living standards. “As you get set to report to your Places of Primary Assignment, I wish to stress the need for you to be diligent in the performance of your duties. I also urge you to integrate into your host communities through the learning of their languages and cultures”. “As I said during my previous addresses to you, white-collar jobs are no longer easy to come by, hence the need to embrace the self-employment option. Accordingly, the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme has been carefully designed to equip you for self-employment and wealth creation”. “Of course, the level of enthusiasm you demonstrated during the vocational and entrepreneurial training conducted in the Camp is commendable. You are further encouraged to build on the skills acquired by availing yourselves of opportunities for post-camp training” he said Shuaibu Ibrahim who is an Associate Professor added that “It may interest you know that the desire to make the SAED programme more impactful partly informed our advocacy for the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps Trust Fund”. POLL “Once it becomes operational, the quality of the programme will be further enhanced through the provision of adequate training materials and engagement of more specialist trainers. All trainees with bankable business proposals will also be supported with start-up grants”. “You will in turn be expected to step down vocational training or employ a good number of youths of your host community. That way, we will be pulling millions of Nigerians out of poverty, thereby stemming the tide of youth restiveness and tendency for criminality” he added. The DG who was represented by the Yobe State Commissioner of NYSC, Hajiya Hafsat Yerima used the opportunity to thank the House of Representatives and, by extension, the entire National Assembly for the progress made so far on the legislative processes on the Bill for the establishment of the Trust Fund, which has not only passed through the second reading but also subjected to the public hearing. He then assured the Corps Members, that their welfare and security are topmost on the priority list of the Directorate saying, “In this regard, we have sustained our liaison with security agencies and other stakeholders with the view of not only ensuring your safety but also making the essential provisions that will enable you to have a fulfilling service year”. The DG also warned that social vices such as drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime and advanced-fee-fraud will not be condoned stressing that, anyone caught will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the NYSC Bye-Laws even as he enjoined them to be law-abiding at all times, and be good ambassadors of the NYSC and your families. He warned against unauthorized journeys and night trips in order to greatly minimize the risk of road traffic accidents just as they are expected to always cut short trips from 6 o’clock in the evening and pass the night at military barracks and other locations officially designated as safe. “You are also strongly advised to avoid boarding vehicles at locations other than officially approved motor parks so as to avoid falling prey to criminals disguising as commercial vehicle drivers,” he said