★Reject Power To Override President’s Veto By NASS, Okay Independent Candidacy ★Kick Against Pension For Presiding Officers, Immunity For Legislators, Judicial Officers ★Say No To Removal Of VAT From Concurrent List Expectations As Soludo Is Set To Be Sworn-In As Anambra Governor Why Ogonis Should Produce  e Next Rivers State Governor – Kabari ★As Lawmakers Kill Bill Seeking Additional/Special Seats For Women ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favour of both political and financial autonomy for local government administration in Nigeria, in the ongoing amendment to the provisions of the 1999 constitution. Clause 1 of the report as taken by the lawmakers was on a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Abrogate the State Joint Local Government Account and Provide for a Special Account into which shall be paid all Allocations due to Local Government Councils from the Federation Account and from the Government of theState; and for Related Matters.” Clause 2 of the report also relates to a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to establish Local Government as a Tier of Government and Guarantee their Democratic Existence, Tenure; and for Related Matters.” Both clauses got overwhelming votes to pass the amendment process. The House however rejected a proposed constitutional provision seeking to empower the National Assembly to override the President’s veto by 4/5 of both chambers on constitutional amendments. POLL Clause 13 of the amendment which was voted on twice needed 288 of the 360 members’ votes to scale through, but unfortunately garnered just 284, after its initial failure by 217, which forced the House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila and his deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase to explain the import to members with a view to representing same for a second round of voting. The provision states that “an amendment to the constitution, having passed in both chambers of the National Assembly and concurred to at the States’ houses of Assembly but failed to get presidential assent shall become a law if it gets 4/5 votes of lawmakers in both chambers of the National Assembly.” On the provision seeking to guarantee life pension for presiding officers of both the National and state Assemblies, the lawmakers again declined support by voting against it. Clause 16 of the amendment which had needed 2/3 majority to pass, but was rejected by some members who voted against it, thereby frustrating the amendment with just 102 for, and over 200 against. On clause 23 which sought to empower judges to conduct court proceedings through virtual means over the internet, 276 lawmakers voted to pass the amendment. Oyedepo, APC Chieftain, Indicate Interest In Senatorial Race For… Adebakin Excited Over PDP’s Good Showing In Plateau, Cross… Clause 23 is on a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to allow Court or Tribunal Proceedings to be conducted remotely, Virtually, Online or through any Media Platform or Technological Innovation; and for Related Matters and approve the recommendations therein.” If passed by the Senate and concurred to at the States Assemblies, as well as a presidential assent, trial judges could preside over cases from the comfort of their homes, or anywhere provided they can virtually link up with parties to the case and supporting judicial staff. On the provision relating to value added tax (VAT), of the House voted 209 —91 against an attempt to move it collection from the concurrent list to the exclusive legislative list. Clause 34 was on a “Bill for an Act to Alter Part I of the Second Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to include Value Added Tax on the Exclusive Legislative List; and for Related Matters and approve the recommendations therein.” The executive bill was aimed at putting to rest the incessant conflict between federal and state government on who has Tue right to collect VAT, as well as who gets what out of it. The House also rejected clause 35 seeking to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution to Provide for Special Seats for Women in the National and State Houses of Assembly; and for Related Matters”. The House voted 208 against it while 81 voted in favour of the provision which could have secured a total of 111 additional parliamentary seats for women. Also rejected in the green chamber was the immunity clause for legislators and judicial officers, as lawmakers voted against the provision seeking to extend the privileges of section 308 which is currently an exclusive preserve of the President, the Vice President, Governors and their deputies, to judicial officers and members of the legislature at both National and State Assemblies. Clause 42 which is on a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Expand Immunity to the Legislative and Judicial Arms of Government; and for Related Matters,” was voted against with 214 members instead of the required 240 votes. The House however approved the amendment empowering the National Assembly and States’ Assemblies to summon the President or Governors for explanations on issues of public importance. Clause 48 as contained in the report of the special adhoc committee is on a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Second Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Empower the National Assembly and State Houses of Assembly to summon the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Governors of States to answer Questions on issues on which the National and State Houses ofAssembly have the Powers to make Law; and for Related Matters” and passed overwhelmingly by 305 votes. Similarly, the House approved the inclusion of former presiding officers of the National Assembly in the National Council of State. Clause 55 of the report is on a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Include Former Heads of the National Assembly in the Council of State; and for Related Matters,” and was passed by 282 votes. Also approved was the provision for ‘Independent Candidacy’ provided for in clause 57. It deals with a “Bill for an Act to Alter the Provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Provide for Independent Candidacy in Presidential, Governorship, National Assembly, State Houses of Assembly and Local Government Councils Elections; and for Related Matters.”