LAGOS  – With the 2023 general elections fast approaching, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is not having the best of time, as the party is presently locked in a leadership crisis, which analysts believe may affect the fortune of the party in the election. Already, the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seems to be in a joyous mood with the recent developments in the APC. Apart from the leadership crisis, which has to do with contending forces fighting over who is in charge of the control of the party, the party received a blow on Tuesday, when the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on Tuesday, sacked Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State and his Deputy, Dr. Eric Kelechi Igwe, following their defection from the PDP to the APC. Unceremonious Changing Of The Guard How New Link Roads Are Bringing Life Back To Kwara Communities APC Presidential Ticket: Tinubu More Experienced Than Osinbajo –… On Monday, there was tension, confusion and anxiety at the national secretariat of the ruling party in Abuja as contending forces clashed over who was in charge of the leadership of the party. Very early on Monday morning, security agents took over and cordoned off the entire Blantyre Street, which housed the national secretariat of the APC. The security agents that had arrived with over 70 battle-ready personnel, barricaded the street, stopped and screened all human and vehicular movements into the secretariat. Members of staff, visitors and journalists that were allowed into the complex were equally thoroughly screened. The arrival of the Niger State governor, Sani Bello, accompanied by the women representative in the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Stella Okotete, the Youth Leader, Ismail Ahmed, David Lyon, Prof. Tahir Mamman, Senator Ali Abba, Sen. Ken Nnamani and Sen. Yusuf Yusuf, around 12 noon, was said to have further heightened the tension and anxiety. Hailed by a crowd of party supporters and staff, Governor Bello, earlier reported to have taken over the running of the party from the Chairman of the CECPC, Governor Mai Mala Buni, presided over an emergency meeting held by the committee. As it was gathered, shortly after the meeting by the Caretaker Committee and inauguration of the state chairmen, seven governors, comprising Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Hope Uzodimma (Imo), Abdulraman Abdulrazak (Kwara), Babagana Zulum (Borno), Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe) and Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), had visited the secretariat in what Governor Bello described as show of solidarity. POLL Addressing newsmen after the meeting, Bello said though he had the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari to take charge of the party, he cannot confirm whether the Yobe Governor had been shoved aside completely. Announcing that the presence of the state chairmen that came for inauguration was responsible for the rowdy situation at the secretariat, Bello claimed that he was just acting on Buni’s behalf. On the rowdy situation, he said: “Every time there is a major event, we beef up security. Today, we had a major event and all the chairmen came in. And they are to maintain law and order.” When questioned on how often he would be in charge, he said: “Almost every day,” adding: “most of my colleague governors are here to support me to receive the report from the zoning committee. You know the zoning committee report is a very important one. And all the governors here are here to support me. Now, at zonal level, they can go and do their work. What is going on today, does it have the blessing of the president? Of course.” Asked in what capacity he presided over the meeting and whether he had been confirmed as chairman, he said: “I have been acting for a while since the chairman traveled. As for your question for me to confirm the news that I have been appointed to take over from Buni as the acting Chairman, I can only say that it is news and I don’t have a comment. Federal Character Principle Can Check Sectional Politics – Ajose… Buhari Breaks Silence On APC Crisis, Calls Stakeholders To Order “We are here because the states’ chairmen took their Oath of Office today and we discussed progress made so far on convention and what needs to be done next so that we will achieve the March 26 date for Convention.” Why Bello And Friends Struck Later in the day, some prominent leaders of the party confirmed that President Muhammadu Buhari actually approved the sack of Buni as chairman of the CECPC. Some party leaders, including governors on the platform of the party, affirmed that the President approved Buni’s removal when he was confronted with various moves by the CECPC chair to thwart plans to hold the party’s national convention on March 26. Specifically, Buni was fingered as the brain behind a legal action filed by a party member in court against the party to hold the national convention as scheduled. A top source in the party, told our correspondent: “If you like, call it coup or sack, but the fact is that Buni is no longer the chairman of CECPC. The President has been defending him despite all his moves against the party’s decision to hold its national convention on March 26, but when we confronted the President with all documents showing that Buni was against holding the national convention on March 26, Mr. President was disappointed and approved his sack. ‘‘That was why we convened Monday’s meeting to swear in state chairmen and begin the move to hold the convention. Buni has a hidden agenda and he can no longer have his way in the party. And you could see a number of governors at the meeting to ensure things go as planned.” The source also disclosed that notice for the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting will hold in the next seven days where Buni’s removal will be ratified. Contrary to the claim that President Buhari approved Buni’s sack, the immediate-past Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum PGF, Salihu Moh. Lukman, faulted reports that the President may have sacked Buni as National Chairman of CECPC of the APC. Lukman in his reaction to the development on Monday said the story was planted by those sympathetic to Buni in order to cast President Buhari in the mold of a dictator. According to him, there are several allegations against the Buni-led CECPC, one of which he said is that the committee has allegedly procured a court order against holding the national convention on March 26 but which it intends to tender a few days to the convention. He said, “The sensational but mischievously planted news in some media is that President Buhari has sacked His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni as APC CECPC Chairman and replaced him with His Excellency, Abubakar Sani Bello as Sole Administrator. “This is a clear misrepresentation of all the internal contests in APC aimed at rescuing the party from the mutinous leadership of His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe and their few collaborators. “The truth is that President Buhari, like most party leaders and members, is highly disappointed at the serial cases of deliberate efforts by His Excellency Mai Mala Buni and his associates to block the APC Convention from holding based on alleged personal ambitions. “Between November 2021 and January 2022, the APC Convention had to be postponed three times because of deliberate refusal to initiate most of the processes required, such as booking the venue for the Convention and serving the statutory three weeks’ notice to INEC. “In addition, there were other serious allegations against the leadership of His Excellency Mai Mala, which include the discovery that his group, since November 2022, had obtained a Court injunction against the Convention and are waiting until three or two days to the Convention before serving it on the party to succeed in blocking the March 26 APC Convention from holding. “The plot is that His Excellency Mai Mala wants to continue to run the affairs of the party and conduct the party’s primary where candidates for 2023 elections would emerge. Based on that, there are specific allegations of His Excellency, Mai Mala striking some deals with some Presidential aspirants to ensure their emergence as the Presidential candidate of APC for the 2023 elections.” He said a good confirmation of why it will be difficult for party leaders and members to continue to invest any trust in Buni’s leadership of the Caretaker Committee is the attempt to constitute another zoning Committee after there is decision between President Buhari and Progressive Governors on zoning, based on which stakeholders of the party at zonal levels are to finalise negotiations on positions to go states. “As far as His Excellency Mai Mala is concerned, his interest is supreme and together with the Secretary of the CECPC, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe and their collaborators outside the CECPC, they must block the APC Convention from holding on March 26. “As part of the plot, once they heard that President Buhari has agreed with some party leaders that necessary steps to save the party should be taken, which require change of the CECPC leadership, they decided to present it in the media that the President has sacked His Excellency Mai Mala Buni as the Chairman of the CECPC and appointed His Excellency Abubakar Sani Bello as Sole Administrator. “This is mischievously designed to present both the party and President Buhari as being undemocratic. To the contrary, internal organs of the party with all the statutory powers to effect all the necessary changes will be used to give effect to all the aspirations of President Buhari, party leaders and members to rescue the APC from the decidedly depraved leadership of His Excellency Mai Mala. Anybody that will emerge as a replacement of His Excellency Mai Mala and the Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe as Chairman Secretary and Secretary will have all the requisite mandate of the organs vested with such responsibility as provided by the Constitution of the party. “This is the time when His Excellency Mai Mala and Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe and all their collaborators are required to demonstrate their loyalty to the party and President Buhari. Attempts to delegitimize the process of changing the leadership will only confirm their undertaker mission rather than serving as leaders of the CECPC. All party leaders and members should support other members of the CECPC to rise to this occasion by ensuring that they effectively enforce collective leadership in the CECPC at this critical point in the life of the APC. Similarly, all leaders and members of the party must be vigilant to ensure that the new leadership of the party to emerge from all the internal contests currently going on are leaders that will faithfully implement all decisions, especially the scheduled March 26, 2022 APC Convention,” Lukman stated. PDP Delighted By Turn Of Event The PDP in its reaction to Monday’s development, warned aspirants on the platform of the ruling party for various positions in the 2023 general elections to have a rethink owing to what it called the legally-defunct status of the APC. This is as the PDP said, “The unilateral dismissal and replacement of Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni with his Niger State counterpart, Abubakar Sani Bello by President Muhammadu Buhari as chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, CECPC, confirms that the CECPC is an illegal creation that lacks statutory powers, authority, and legitimacy of party leadership.” In a statement signed by spokesman, Debo Ologunagba, the PDP noted that President Buhari’s action “confirms that the APC is not a political party under our laws but a Special Purpose Vehicle, SPV, which became legally non-operational when in December 8, 2020, it dissolved its national, state as well as local government structures and handed its affairs over to a team of political undertakers known as the CECPC.” The statement continued: “With the absence of a National Working Committee, NWC, National Executive Committee, NEC, a Board of Trustees, BoT, or legitimate structures in the states, the APC is plagued by confusion and fierce infighting by its various warlords with two national chairmen, multiple factions in the States and a national secretariat now taken over by security agencies. “This further validates PDP’s sustained position that the APC is just a bunch of strange bedfellows and inchoate sailors clobbered together for remote personal gains and not for governance and public good. “Moreover, by virtue of Section 183 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) which bars a sitting governor from holding “any other executive office in any capacity whatsoever” while serving as a State Governor, the APC’s CECPC whether headed by Governor Buni or Governor Bello remains constitutionally invalid. “The PDP draws the attention of intending aspirants on the platform of the APC to the fact that the CECPC has no statutory authority under the law and that any state congress or national convention conducted by it to produce any party leadership at any level remains invalid and unrecognized by law. “Consequently, any Governorship, State Assembly, National Assembly as well as Presidential Primary election conducted by any leadership produced by the illegal CECPC can only produce invalid candidates just like in the case of Zamfara and Rivers states in the 2019 general elections where the APC had invalid candidates due to defective primaries. “Our party, therefore, urges aspirants intending to contest in the 2023 general elections under the APC as well as their supporters to read the handwriting on the wall and not waste their resources, time, and energy in the APC. “The PDP urges Nigerians not to be distracted by the turmoil in the APC but remain focused on the platform of the PDP as we continue to take appropriate steps and actions in our mission to Rescue and Rebuild our nation from the misrule of the fizzling APC.” APC Senators Sue For Peace Meanwhile, the Senate Caucus of the APC, on Tuesday, called on members of the party to unite and have a sense of purpose for the party to emerge victorious in the 2023 general elections. Leader of the Senate, Yahaya Abdullahi, made the call while speaking with journalists in Abuja, after a closed-door session of the caucus which lasted for about two hours. Abdullahi said, “APC senators met for about two hours. We are too worried about what is happening in our party and we expressed our concerns over the challenges facing the party. “We resolved to meet again to articulate the major issues and then meet with the various stakeholders and aspirants of the party to advise and call for unity and a sense of purpose. “We want to draw the attention of everyone involved to come together and unite so that we can have a very successful convention in the party. “This is not the time for exchanging regrets about what we can do. What is happening is about the future of our party and government and also the capacity of our party to win elections in 2023. “We have sat down as important stakeholders, as a caucus in this great party to dissect all the issues that have been affecting our party since the formation of the caretaker extraordinary convention planning committee. “We are quite aware of the challenges that they have faced and we are also aware of the successes that the committee has recorded particularly when it comes to registration of members. “They came to harmonise some of the successes of the party, carrying out congresses at the ward, local government and at the state levels. “We commend the performance of that committee. “We ask you to do more by as much as possible, trying to reconcile those chapters where there are still challenges trailing the ward, local government and state congresses because a loss in any state is a loss for the party. “We cannot afford to come to the convention as a divided entity. Anywhere there are challenges that can cause the party its victory is a loss for everybody.” Abdullahi, while reacting to the tussle between the Buni-led caretaker committee and Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State, said the same convention planning committee was in place. “What we realised is that the chairman of the convention planning committee has been sick and he went for medication, checkup. “The Niger governor, from the grapevine and from the knowledge that is available to us is actually the deputy chairman; and in the absence of the chairman, he is acting till the chairman comes back. “The speculation in the papers is not exactly true. What we are concerned about is the seeming disarray in the party,” the Senate Leader said. The real reason why Buni was removed may not have been given, but Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has said President Buhari instructed Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State to take over the leadership of the party. Buni’s Return Foreclosed Reacting on Channels Television on Wednesday, El-Rufa’i explained that Buni cannot return as the Chairman of the Caretaker Committee of the party because Governor Bello had the backing of President Buhari and 19 governors. According to him, “Buni is gone, the Secretary is gone. Governor Bello is in charge and he has the backing of President Muhammadu Buhari and 19 governors. Buni can only return as Governor of Yobe but never as chairman of our Party. “President Buhari ordered his removal and this has been implemented. Governor Bello has taken over and things are moving according to plan. Party will be restored, and the convention will take place as scheduled. 19 governors and their deputies are solidly behind this move. “Buni and his people got a court order to stop the convention but hid it,” he said.