LAGOS – Hon. (Prince) OluwaRotimi Agunsoye, a member of the National Assembly, representing Kosofe Federal Constituency, in collaboration with Tinubu Support Group TSG, organises a major rally on Thursday, March 25, to show support and solidarity to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who has indicated interest in running for presidency under the All Progressive Congress APC, in 2023. The rally which took place on Emmanuel High Street, Ojota, near the Kosofe Local Government Area, Ogudu, Lagos State, had a large gathering of party faithfuls, estimated to be about 7000, especially members of the TSG, market women, artisans, members of the Bola Tinubu Support Group BTSOUK Diaspora, adorning green T-shirts and caps with support inscriptions on them who sang songs, danced and made loud political statements in support of Tinubu. Honourable Agunsoye in his speech as the convener said, “This is Kosefe’s day with destiny, a day that will go down in history as the point at which her fortune turned around as she stood with a man whose destiny and ours are interwoven. Posterity will forever remember today as the day the pen that will rewrite the narratives of our dear nation was fashioned and delivered to us on this very ground. The watershed moment is right here with us, when we shall take the all-important first step of our long journey of a thousand miles to a Nigeria of our dreams symbolized by the very man for whom we are gathered today. “I am highly honoured to present to you my people the vehicle and show you the route to our destination in the Tinubu Support Group that we are launching here today. TSG is a support group initiated by the APC caucus of the Federal House of Representatives to actualize the presidential aspirations of our national leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. With a network spanning the 360 federal constituencies of Nigeria, TSG has been so structured to give Asiwaju formidable political machinery, with the widest geographical spread and grass root support that will translate into massive electoral votes for him in the 2023 presidential elections.” He added. In attendance were; Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe; Senator Anthony Adefuye; Mr. Moyo Ogunlewe, the council’s chairman, and a host of APC leaders and Governance Advisory Council (GAC) members in the constituency