The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers has joined its voice to the sympathy messages to the Lagos State Government over the Apongbon fire disaster where valuables worth millions of naira were destroyed. Mr. Rotimi Edu, the President of the Council, in a sympathy letter to the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said that the Council was pained by the avoidable disaster, especially at a time when the state government was deploying all strategies towards protecting lives and properties of Lagosians. Edu said that the fire disaster speaks to the need for government to accelerate sanitary initiatives, especially in vulnerable areas of the state and embark on more aggressive public campaigns on how the citizens could become more responsible for their assets and those of the government The NCRIB President utilized the opportunity to underscore the critical place of insurance in risk mitigation, particularly in the protection of assets of the lowly in market places “With this, government should turn more attention on insurance of markets across the country, in order to provide safety and succor the victims in the event of the aftermath of losses to human and material assets as this case in point” Edu asserted. In a separate development, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has extended further hands of collaboration to Insurance Brokers in the deepening of Insurance market in Nigeria. Mr. Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance, during a courtesy visit to the Commission by Management of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) led by the Council’s President, Mr. Rotimi Edu, noted that Insurance Brokers constituted a critical segment of the insurance industry whose roles are being factored into the industry’s ongoing growth initiatives Mr. Thomas utilised the visit to highlight some issues being combated by the Council of which appropriate rating of risks was one. He opined that inappropriate rating of insurance risks had led to a diminution of the reserves and solvency of the industry, for which urgent steps were being taken by NAICOM. POLL Earlier, Mr. Edu had applauded the phenomenal strides of the Commission in fostering better industry unity and cohesion. He intimated the Commissioner with the various initiatives by the Council to grow the Insurance Industry and ensure adherence to ethics by Brokers. Edu particularly disclosed that the Council would soon introduce the use of professional seal as a distinctive mark for all Brokers in the fold of the NCRIB, an initiative that the Commissioner for Insurance applauded noting it would aid the Commission’s regulatory oversight over Brokers. He also expressed the resolve of the Brokers to collaborate and support the initiatives behind the Webb Aggregators, noting it would lead to greater creativity and spread of insurance brokers’ presence in areas of the country where they were presently non-existent.