As part of security measures by the Oyo State Government, Governor Seyi Makinde has expressed the determination of his government to support the building of the Nigerian Airforce base with N500m which is to be cited at Ajia village, Ibadan, Oyo State capital. Makinde on Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony of the Air Force Base located in Ajia Community, Ibadan the Capital City state disclosed that the state will be supporting the construction of the Air Force Base with sum of N500m. The event was attended by the Royal Fathers, top government functionaries, service chiefs, politicians among others. Makinde in his address commended the Military men for their peacekeeping efforts across the Country, he also promised to assist in the site’s development spanning 58 hectares. The 671 Nigerian Air Force Detachment was established in 1992 to provide operational support services to Nigerian Air Force aircraft operating in the South-West Region of the country and also contributes to the Internal Security architecture of Oyo State. It is however unfortunate that the base had been without a permanent site, and to further strengthen the security within the southwest region, thereby boosting the economy of Oyo state, the state government allocated 58.8 hectares of land for the airforce base. Governor Makinde stressed that the N500m support would see to the rapid construction of the airforce base POLL He also noted that the base was part of development plan of his government added that some infrastructural support would also be provided to the new Airforce Base. Governor Makinde appreciated the efforts of the security agencies based in Oyo State and equally enjoined the people of the Ajia community to be accommodating in the task of building the airforce base and other development in the state. Also speaking, the Chief of Airstaff,Air Mashal Oludayo Amao commended the Oyo state government for the airbase with this expanse of land to serve as permanent site for the construction of structures for the Nigerian Air Force Base. Air Mashal Amao said with the establishment of this new base in Ibadan, the Nigerian Air Force would be able to extend her operational reach to enhance Internal Security operations in the South-West Region. Air mashal Amao pledged the loyalty of the Airforce to Nigeria, he appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for his continued support to the Nigerian Air Force especially in the area of capacity building and for consistently creating the enabling environment for us to operate.