. Only God Can Stop My 2023 Return Bid – Alimikhena Dares BENIN – The political atmosphere in Edo North Senatorial district has taken another turn as core loyalists to former Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, commenced regrouping and vowed to stop the third term bid of Senator Francis Alimikhena. They, therefore, vowed to sustain the pressure on the former governor to throw his hat into the ring and contest for the Edo North Senatorial District so as to give the district a viable representation from 2023. 2023: Resist Being As Propaganda Tools  Awa Ibom NUJ Tells… 2023: Elect Right Leaders Or Nigeria Is Doomed,  Atiku Tells… The group which met under the Platform of the “South-South Movement ” Edo North chapter, told newsmen that the incumbent National Assembly member has not met the aspiration of the people to deserve another shot at the senate. Led by the former Executive Director, Ministry of Lands and Survey and Deputy Director of the group, Alhaji Mustapha Buddy, APC chieftain Mr Vitalis Eshokene, Hon. Ojisua Akojima David and Hon. Felix Ughiovhe said most of the projects executed by Alimikhena are merely ‘ceremonial’ in natureand non-functional. Eshokene, who spoke on behalf of the South-South Movement, Edo North Chapter said ” in my Etsako East Ward 9 and 10, the boreholes are ‘ceremonial’ because they cease to function after the inauguration. He has boasted that the few individuals he has empowered will take him to the senate for the third term. “We don’t have a problem with him giving Greek gifts to a few individuals in the name of empowerment. What we are saying is that he has failed to meet the collective interest of our people. “He (Alimikhena) was a principal member of the Senate in his first term and there was no significant project he attracted to the area with this position. Look at what Prof Julius Ihonvbvere is doing in Owan Federal Constituency with laudable people’s orientated projects. POLL “We are saying this because we hear he is telling people that he will be a principal member if he should be given another opportunity. For us, he has had his chances and failed to use them for the betterment of the district. “To change this narrative is why we are routing and already mobilising for Oshiomhole to come to replicate what he did as the governor in the area. “People may want to say it is not the same thing being a governor and a senator, but past experiences have shown that Oshiomhole sees the people as the centre point of his policies. “We are not just talking, we are already working the talk by mobilising fund both for the campaign and buying of the form for the former governor who has done a lot for not just people of Edo North senatorial district, but the entire State. “We no longer want a sleeping Senator, we want a working senator,” Eshokene stated. 2023: Tinubu Speaks On ‘Driving Vision’ As Next President Of… 2023: Why DSS Sends Strong Message To PDP’s National… In his response, Senator Francis Alimikhena said “as far as I am concerned only God, the creator of heaven and earth can stop me, nobody, no human being on earth can stop my 2023 return to the Senate because I have performed and my performance will speak for me when the time comes”