Some leaders and stakeholders of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have backed Senator Seriake Dickson’s second-term bid to represent Bayelsa West in the National Assembly ahead of the party’s primaries for the 2023 general elections. They have, therefore, announced their resolution to buy the party’s senatorial expression of interest and nomination forms for the former governor. The PDP Ekeremor LGA stakeholders, led by the Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Michael Ogbere, and the Chairman of the Local Government Council, Bertola Perekeme, reached the decision during a meeting in Yenagoa on Saturday. At the meeting, they backed their resolution by raising the sum of N10million through voluntary donations by stakeholders present to purchase the senatorial forms for Dickson. This took place two days after officials of the Ekeremor Elders Stakeholders Forum, led by Martins Agbede and Dein Benadoumene, met with the state PDP leadership at the party’s secretariat in Yenagoa and urged it to uphold the existing zoning agreement alternating the senate and House of Representatives seats between Sagbama and Ekeremor council areas that make up Bayelsa West. They insisted that it was the turn of Ekeremor to produce the senator for Bayelsa West at the forthcoming 2023 National Assembly polls. While Dickson comes from Sagbama LGA, the member currently representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi, hails from Ekeremor LGA. According to the Ekeremor PDP stakeholders, the donations were made in appreciation of the numerous good deeds and developmental projects Dickson brought to the people and land of Ekeremor during his time as governor. POLL They also appreciated the fact that against all odds, Dickson backed, supported and handed over to their son, Governor Douye Diri, who is maternally from Ekeremor LGA. The Ekeremor PDP stakeholders declared that they were in total support of the former governor and were not ungrateful. They also advised the public to discountenance some mischief makers who are bent on dividing the party with propaganda on a purported zoning arrangement. They claimed that the zoning agreement had neither been implemented nor respected in the senatorial district at any time in their history. They further declared that Dickson had no other contenders in the PDP or in any other political party as far as Bayelsa West was concerned. According to them, the Bayelsa West seat is the surest seat in Bayelsa for the PDP and Dickson does not speak only for the senatorial district or for the state, but for the Ijaw nation and the Niger Delta at large.