Signs that normalcy may soon return to the All Progressives Congress (APC) appeared on Tuesday as the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) -led by Gov Mai Mala Buni took charge of the party’s National Secretariat with the return of John James Akpanudedehe, Secretary of the party. Addressing reporters via a written statement, Akpanudedehe clarified that the APC and indeed the CECPC under Governor Buni is intact, united, strong and crisis-free contrary to widely held impression. Reassuring Nigerians and stakeholders of the party on the determination of the party to deliver on its mandate, Akpanudedehe explained that Gov Buni duly gave written authorization for CECPC members to continue work in his absence ahead of the convention. He said that the actions executed by the Acting Chairman Gov Sani Bello and other members of the party due to the urgency to meet timelines set by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) remains valid as they were taken on behalf of the substantive Chairman of the party. The statement partly read, “That on the 28th day of February 2022 the CECPC Chairman took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. “That in his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the Timetable for the 2023 General Elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanizing some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the Committee/Party. “That all such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from Office or otherwise replaced. “That the CECPC is intact and functional as originally constituted”. POLL Sen Akpanudedehe declared the determination of the CECPC to deliver a hitch-free convention next week. “Delivering a seamlessly successful National Convention for the APC on March 26, 2022, is top on priority for the CECPC and we shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the Chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume Office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders” While expressing appreciation to the INEC for providing guidance during the difficult week, Senator Akpanudedehe said the party is engaging a team of senior lawyers to vacate the court order stopping the national convention of 26 March. ‘”The party has engaged a team of senior lawyers to address a purported court order halting the planned APC National Convention. We hereby call on the Judiciary to give the matter the needed and expedient attention in our bid to vacate the purported Court order and allow for the conduct of a transparent and rancour-free National Convention deserving of our great party, APC. “The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) hereby restates absolute loyalty to the APC, thanks to the National Organs and leadership of our Party led by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR and reassures our members and citizens that the Party is stronger than ever before and poised to extend her winning streak since 2015 into 2023 and beyond”.