…Writes Acting President On Injustice, Iniquity Against Middlebelt ABUJA – A presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Moses Ayom, has charged President Muhammadu Buhari, his Vice, Yemi Osinbajo and former governor of Lagos state, Bola Tinubu to work for Middle Beth presidency in 2023. In an open letter to Acting President, Osinbajo, Ayom expressed sadness on unfairness, inequities and injustice against Middlebelt. He called on leaders and key stakeholders in the ruling party to embrace equity, fairness and justice to resolve the lingering security and socio-political crisis in the ruling party and the country at large. He said desperation by powerful political forces to take the Presidency at the expense of the Middlebelt, which he noted has suffered continuous political discrimination since the return of democracy in 1999, is responsible for the unhealthy rivalry in the APC  and the nation in general. Speaking on ARISE TV programme, Ayom said, “all cases of insecurity (banditry, terrorism, kidnapping, armed robberies) and the crises of poverty that Nigeria faces as well as the political turmoil in the major political parties are the results of decades of extreme iniquity, injustice and the flagrant display of unfairness perpetrated against the Middlebelt belt region. A total reversal is the only solution especially now that there is an opportunity in 2023 to do so.” The aspirant urged the Acting President to use his position and background as a professor of law, a discipline best known for the promotion of equity, fairness and justice, to facilitate the zoning of the presidency to the Middlebelt in 2023. He observed that countries and societies that embrace injustice and all sorts of practices that negate equity and fairness, can never escape the crisis. POLL Ayom’s letter also drew the attention of all APC governors, the Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives and the APC national leader and Tinubu, to the urgent need to reverse the trend of political discrimination against the Middlebelt people. He said: “In the whole of these, we should remember God. No matter permutations, party wrangling,  we should remember God.” Ayom said he is particularly focused on President BuharI with whom he had been on a trade mission to China. The benefit derived from that trip was because of his integrity which is acknowledged internationally. He charged the former Lagos State governor, Tinubu, to use his political influence to solve the problem by immediately withdrawing from the presidential race for the Middlebelt. Ayom said he had known Tinubu back in his days at Senate when he was the Chairman of Finance, appropriations, banking and currency. In the letter, he also eulogized the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who was also not just a witness to the MoU signed with SBM CHINA. (The Largest manufacturer of mining equipment in the world) and also went ahead to grant N1billion RSSF as counterfeit funding on the side of the Government. Ayom stated, “Nigeria has the opportunity to correct the injustices meted out on the people of the middle belt. The middle belt is the thread that knits Nigeria together. Now is the time to make us feel integral in the affairs of our fatherland.” He said the people of the middle belt are tired of being mere passengers and onlookers in this vehicle called Nigeria. “The impression is being created that political power at the highest echelon is a ping pong game between the far North and the South while the Middle Belt is a mere net to be used in scoring points. “Now is the time to be assured that we are equal stakeholders and not second or third rate citizens in Nigeria,” he said. Ayom called on Nigerians to join hands in the fight for equity, fairness and justice and support the Middlebelt to produce the next President. As an international businessman, Ayom is also soliciting for the support of international organizations like the UN, UNICEF, EU, etc for equity, justice and fairness in Nigeria.