IBADAN – Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde on Saturday, restated his administration’s commitment towards the delivery of free and qualitative education as a way of lifting the people of the state from poverty to prosperity. The governor who stated this at the maiden convocation ceremony of the First Technical University, Ibadan, held at the University Hall, Lagos /Ibadan expressway, Ibadan, on Saturday, said that the graduands of the Institution have acquired the necessary skills in vocational training and entrepreneurship skills which should make them self-reliance and job creators. Governor Makinde, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Olubamiwo Adeosun, explained that globally, emphasis has shifted from white collar jobs to self-employment, adding that attention has shifted towards institutions that prepare graduate job providers and not mere job seekers. 2023 Presidency: TOTT, Other Groups Drum Support For Osinbajo Electoral Act: The Substance Of Buhari’s Objection The governor, while congratulating the eminent personalities that were conferred with distinguished fellowship award of First Technical University (Tech-U), Ibadan, sought for more assistance in terms of donations for the advancement of the Institution. He commended the Management of the Institution for the priority attention it gave to staff and students’ welfare, which he said has manifested in the stable academic calendar and peaceful conduct of the students of the school. He charged the graduands to support the government in creating jobs through the vocational and entrepreneurship skills that they have acquired in the University. He also admonished them to be good ambassadors of the Institution and Oyo state at large. He said: “I am greatly delighted to be here today on the occasion of the maiden Convocation Ceremonies of this citadel of learning – First Technical University (Tech-U), Ibadan. “This epoch-making event is not only significant in the history of this great Institution, it also provides more opportunities for the re-engineering of the State and its lost glory in the area of vocational and entrepreneurship skills. Before I dwell further, let me on behalf of myself and the entire State Executive Council congratulate the Vice-Chancellor of this Institution, Professor Ayo Salami together with his team for this milestone and being a part of this historic event. POLL “However, it is not how long that matters but how well. It is in this background that I congratulate the graduands for the successful completion of your programmes. “By implication, the graduands have satisfied all academic board requirements for the award of degrees of the Institution. “Let me point out at this juncture that the graduands have been certified to be worthy in learning and character. “Also, I am aware that the kind of training that this Institution provides exposes students to practicals in various fields of their studies. “It is no gainsaying, therefore, that these graduands have acquired the necessary skills in vocational training, skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development as prerequisite for self-reliance and job creation.” According to him, in today’s world, emphasis has shifted from white collar jobs, which he said are not readily available, to self-employment. “In essence therefore, attention has shifted towards institutions that prepare graduate job providers and not mere job seekers. This is in line with the current global reality which is bent towards institutions that produce self-reliant graduates either through gainful employment or personal investment after graduation, he said.” Nigeria Bleeding From Corruption – Korodo Sowore’s Presidential Declaration: The Never-Say-Die Spirit He congratulated the eminent personalities who have distinguished themselves in their respective callings and have been considered worthy to be conferred with distinguished fellowship award of First Technical University (Tech-U), Ibadan. He expressed happiness that many of the awardees were already contributing towards the upliftment of the Institution, while also praising the host communities for the cordial relationship that exists between them and Tech-U. “It is, however, pertinent at this juncture to seek more support in terms of donation from all and sundry towards the advancement of the Institution,” the governor said. He further submitted: “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I, on behalf of the State Government, I wish to acknowledge the landmark achievements of Tech-U in the areas of research and development, as well as collaboration with donor agencies, sister Institutions and international organizations. Some of these partnerships have further earned the State international recognition and funding of notable projects in the Institution. “Let me reiterate that this administration sees education as a key aspect of growth and development. And that is why it forms an integral part of the four-point service agenda. Our goal is to ensure free and qualitative education in a bid towards lifting the people from poverty and underdevelopment. This is why we have been ambitiously investing in education at all levels.We believe that education should liberate society, help to fight poverty, defeat unemployment, and engender industry. I am glad to note that the First Technical University (Tech-U), Ibadan, is being propelled along this line.” He acknowledged the fact that the institution is growing, and that the growth covers all segments of the University administration in terms of high-quality students, increase in qualified human resources and infrastructural development geared towards promoting a functional institution.” “In the current order, it has been discovered that funding and maintenance of public Institutions and infrastructure can no longer be satisfactorily managed by government alone. In line with this imperative order is the clarion call to management of institutions to search for grants, research collaboration and sponsorship of research and other developmental needs. I truly believe that things would get better but the support of all stakeholders in the Oyo State project is important.” He quoted Jesse Jackson, sayiing : “If my mind can conceive it, and my heart can believe it, I know, I can achieve it” and declared that the graduands should allow the quote continue to echo in their mind as they go into the world. He added that the graduands must also be guided by the African proverb which says that the firewood we gathered in our youth is what we will warm ourselves with in old age. In his address, the pioneer Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Ayobami Salami, said that Tech-U is a very unique Institution that ensures that apart from the normal degree programme, every student must go through a Diploma programme in Entrepreneurship and a certificate programme in one other international language apart from English. He said the Institution has recorded many achievements within the short time of its existence, saying that in the latest ranking by NUC,the Tech-U is 7th among all the state Universities, and 27th among all the universities ranked in Nigeria. The VC, hinted that the University within two years of commencement of academic activities won three international research grants with a combined worth of over $450,000 and host of many others. He appreciated the governor of Oyo state for giving free hand to run the Institution and allowing local government scholarship scheme to continue unhindered. He therefore announced that the first class graduands who are interested in academic pursuits have been offered automatic employment immediately after their National Youths Service. He added that the school has secured the support of the local and international partners to award scholarship to all that accept the offer, to enable them have international exposure through Master degree training in the United States of America as well as Brazil. The institution later conferred awards of honorary doctorate degrees on Chief (Dr.)Tunde Afolabi, the institution’s Chancellor, notable entreprenuer, Chief Adebayo Akande, former Head of Service of the Federation, Chief Mrs. Amal Pepple, Professor if history, Toyin Falola and the Managing Director of Guarantee Trust Bank, Mr. Segun Agbaje.