The football world, in particular, European football, is in state of frenzy and topsy-turvy right now. Frenzy in the sense of the uncontrolled excitement by the supporters of the eight football clubs, Chelsea inclusive, that qualified for the UEFA Champions League quarterfi­nals. Liverpool fans are also not left out in this frenzy mood, following their 2-0 defeat of Arsenal at the Emirates on Wednesday night, a victory that took them to a point off pace setter, Man­chester City, in the English Premier League table. On the other hand, Chelsea fans exemplify the topsy-turvy in football as a result of the utter confusion that envelopes the club following the Unit­ed Kingdom’s sanction of Roman Abramovic, the former owner of the club, for his support for Russia Presi­dent, Vladimir Putin. Aside the gov­ernment announced sanctions; UEFA is believed will bar Chelsea fans from attending the quarterfinal at Stamford Bridge due to new EU sanctions on the Russian. Also Chelsea are at the verge of los­ing six academy players on free trans­fers, since the club is unable to offer contracts to players due to the terms of their special operating license. While Russia has not let up a bit on the bombing of Ukraine, Belgrade is in lively mood as a result of the 3-day World Indoor Athletics Champion­ships that end on Sunday. What a con­trast in fortune. The same frenzy and topsy-turvy is being experienced by African coun­tries playing their 2022 FIFA World Cup playoffs next week and Russia that will rue their invasion of Ukraine following CAS sealing of their hopes of playing their playoffs. While Africans are eagerly await­ing the playoffs, CAS told Russia on Friday that the ban placed on them by FIFA was still in force. As a Nigerian, my concern is my country’s playoff games against Gha­na, first on 25 March in Kumasi and secondly on 29 March in Abuja. The aggregate winner of these two games will qualify for the World Cup holding in Qatar in November/December. For the avoidance of doubt, Super Eagles qualified for the Playoff on stroke of luck. Nigerians hearts were in their mouths is the team’s last group game against Cape Verde that ended 1-1 at the Teslim Balogun stadium, Lagos. Nigerians breathed a sigh of relief when the referee ended the game knowing that a loss would have effectively ruled out the team from the World Cup. Recall that Super Eagles were beaten 1-0 by CAR at the same venue during the qualifiers. POLL It was against this backdrop that no eyebrows were raised when Coach Gernot Rohr was sacked as the team’s manager and Austin Eguavoen asked to take over. Eguavoen’s performance at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cam­eroon in January this year endeared him to Nigerians who campaigned for his retention and the Nigeria Football Federation unexpectedly heeded their call. Despite losing 1-0 to a depleted Tu­nisia in the second round of the Africa Cup of Nations, Nigerians still believe that he has the wherewithal to qualify the country for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar later in the year, more­over after the playoff draws pitied Nigeria against Ghana. Now Super Eagles are in the busi­ness end of the qualifying series. On Friday, 25 March 2022 in Kumasi, Gha­na, the Super Eagles will attempt to cross the last but one hurdle in their bid to qualify for the World Cup for their fourth consecutive time and their seventh overall. The hurdle is the Ghana Black Stars, who missed the last World Cup in Russia despite taking part in the 2006, 2010 and 2014 editions. The rivalry between these two countries is legendry. Of the 56 times they’ve met at the senior level, Ghana has the upper hand with 23 wins to Nigeria’s 12 with 19 draws recorded. However, on Friday, these past meetings will pale into insignificance as they strive to outdo each other for the ticket. This is where Eguovoen’s role as Super Eagles Interim Manag­er comes in. He carries the hopes of millions of Nigerians. This is the time for him to reward Nigerians for their trust in him. His supporters are, however, begin­ning to doubt his judgement, including the writer of this column, due to his actions of late. The squad he named for the playoffs gave the impression that he is not in control of the Super Eagles. This belief is reinforced with his admission that he invited Ogenyi Onazi in order to ‘pacify’ everybody. “Onazi, good player. Whether he’s still good and can play at that level, we don’t know. But that’s why I said to pac­ify everybody, to ensure there’s harmo­ny here, put him on the standby. While he’s on the standby, I have the final say,” Eguavoen said. What balderdash. How do you invite a player you don’t know his form? Has Super Eagles become a rehabilitation centre? The fact that two players on the list were foisted on him, without his resist­ing mean he just want to keep his by being a ‘good boy’. It seems he cannot stand his ground. Is he afraid of been kicked out? After all, coaches are hired and fired at will, so sacking him means nothing. Also the exclusion of Genk of Belgium player, Paul Onuachu, who had scored 16 goals this season and the highest goals scorer in Belgium league last season means he has succumbed to the powers that be at the NFF that don’t want Onuachu in the team. Let’s not dwell on the negatives to­day but to let Eguavoen know that the task of qualifying for the World Cup is one that must be done. He won’t be forgiven if he fails in this assignment and will only arm those in favour of foreign coach with the ammunition needed to justify their position. Denying Ghana the ticket starts from the realization of never under­rating the Black Stars. Going into the playoffs with the mindset of how Black Stars performed at the last Afri­ca Cup of Nations in Cameroon will be tantamount to courting disaster. It was this mindset that cost the Super Eagles the match against Tunisia in Camer­oon. The players must know that he that is down fears to fall. Ghana is like wounded Lion that is down and ready to pounce on its prey. Eguavoen must not only prepare the team physically but also psycho­logically. The players must realise that they are playing a ‘wounded’ team whose only way to return to reckoning is qualifying for the World Cup. The players must not have the belief that it is a done deal. If they enter the game with this mindset, they will be shocked with the outcome. The good thing is that Eguavoen realises the enormity of the respon­sibility on his shoulders. From the Presidency to the most common man in Nigeria, failing to qualify for the World Cup is an unforgivable sin. Ask Alhaji Ibrahim Galadima, and thank God, he was the one asked to salvage the situation in 2006 after Christian Chukwu messed up. Eguavoen, no slip up please.