Mr. David Nnadozie, father of Chiemelie Emmanuel David Nnadozie, who has been missing since January has pleaded with the Nigeria Police Force to apply the same dexterity used in the unmasking suspected killers of Oluwabamise Ayanwole to rescue his son. Chiemelie Nnadozie, was last seen after visiting Dems Park, Akowonjo area of Lagos with his mother and two other siblings on the 2nd of January, 2022 and his whereabouts has remained a mystery. David Nnadozie junior, known among his friends and peers as, ‘Prince’ went missing barely 10 months after he relocated to house No 6 Wole Soyinka street, Iyana-Ipaja, Lagos and nothing has been heard about him despite reporting to the police. The family reported his disappearance at the Gowon Estate Divisional Police Office, Iyana-Ipaja two days after and has since been keeping in touch with the police trying to get an update but to no avail. The sudden disappearance of Chiemelie, according to David Nnadozie has not only created a vacuum but thrown his entire family into confusion as there has been no trace of him and the police is not forthcoming with any clue or efforts being made towards his rescue. David Nnadozie said he had travelled to his village in Anambra State when his daughter called to inform him about his son’s disappearance two days after and is pleading with the police to come to his aid in unravelling the mystery. “The case of his disappearance was reported at the Gowon Estate Divisional Police Office, Iyana-Ipaja on January 5, 2022 and since then we have been keeping in touch with the police trying to get an update but the police are not telling us anything”. Nnadozie family through the spokesperson, Chinwendu had in a statement pleaded with the Lagos state Police Command to intensify efforts at unravelling the mystery surrounding the disappearance of the lad the same night after he parted ways with his mother and other siblings. POLL “It has been over two months now since Chiemelie disappeared and I am appealing to the Nigeria Police to help me intensify the search for my first son. I know that the police are capable of rescuing him wherever he may be dead or alive”. While expressing optimism that his son will be rescued alive, David said he and other family members have been praying that God will help the Police in their search and rescue of Chiemelie. “We keep praying to God to help the police in their search and rescue operations”. The father further lamented that Chiemelie’s phone number is still on and ringing but nobody is picking whenever you call. This is really mysterious and this makes us even more worried about what could be happening to him”.