PORT HARCOURT – In view of the increasing rate of unemployment in the country, a leading foreign exchange broker, OctaFX, has launched a trade programme that is targeted at training about 250 Nigerian students in forex trade at the Rivers State University, RSU. Ajola Johnson, Lead Strategist for OctaFx, in an interview with journalists at the sideline of the programme in Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital yesterday said the move by the company was necessitated by the accelerated rate of unemployment among young graduates who cannot find a place in the society with what they studied in school. Johnson said: “With the way the current university system is, you find out that people come into school, study their courses and leave without having any skill, sometimes they are not able to apply what they learned in school and some cannot hold down a job after school, so we design this initiative because we understand that Nigerians have multiple lives. “We can do different things at different times. So this is designed to empower students to have something to do while studying in school. With that, one can get a university degree alongside a degree in FOREX,” she said. Johnson went on to explain that the initiative was geared toward diverting the attention of young people from Internet fraud and creating an enabling platform where they can legitimately make genuine income while in or out of school. “We simply want to make a clear pathway for young people to learn about the forex market and to make a genuine income for themselves and reduce the level of financial dependency. “This means that whenever young people want to trade currencies, the company creates a reliable platform for them to do just”, she stressed. The OctaFX Lead Strategist further disclosed that the initiative, having its first phase in the Rivers State University, will be on a project-by-project basis, adding that it will be sustained over time every quarter. POLL According to her: “We intend to organize programmes like this in a number of universities with Port Harcourt being the first. We intend to empower them with the knowledge and support that they need to gain financial independence for themselves. “250 students registered and in attendance, there are over 150 students currently learning. It will be a project-by-project basis, this being the first of them, it will be sustained over some time quarterly. “We hope that those that came in without any prior knowledge of Forex trade, within the duration of our training, learn everything about forex and become self-sufficient and become meaningful and responsible people for themselves and the society,” she said.