. Says Buhari’s Chairmanship Choice Yet To Get Consensus Support 48 hours after ABUJA – A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and former presidential aspirant, Adamu Garba II has decried the unconscionable imposition of candidates on the party by President Muhammadu Buhari and some APC state governors. Adamu who disclosed that there is a high level “conspiracy of silence” in the party also said, 48 hours after the President has anointed his candidate for the chairmanship, his choice is yet to get a “consensus support” which shows there are a lot of “issues” in the party. The renowned Advocate for youth inclusion in governance made this known in Abuja, during a press briefing, weekend to express his views on the developments within the APC as regards the consensus candidature for the APC chairmanship position, the disagreements amongst the major contenders within the party, the merits and demerits of the zoning arrangments and the expected possible outcomes from the Saturday, March 26th party convention. He told newsmen that there was a lobbying committee that was constituted which he was part of. According to him, “We moved around and met with key actors in the political scene; both from the executive and the legislative arms of government and even the president, who promised that some of the young people are going to be duly part of the current National Working Committee (NWC). “But unfortunately, what we are seeing now is politics of imposition where we have state governors and also the president himself imposing a candidate on the party. “We believe that it is good for us to allow fair contestation, so there can be young people participating actively to test their popularity at the convention ground. Of course, we know that there are some challenges, some offices have to be consensus, we understand that. But know that, young people are the most active drivers of APC, from 2014.” POLL Adamu, however, lamented why some governors are imposing candidates by sidelining the youths. “Young people in the party and in the country in general clearly seem to be ostracised from the system,” he noted. The entrepreneur cum politician, therefore, charged the youths to get actively involved in politics. He said, “The young people should be able to understand that it is no longer an issue of the party when it comes to election choices. Because it is very clear when you look at the composition of APC as it is today, probably, the purported list that is being termed as the “unity list” is composed of seventy per cent former PDP members. “When you look at the list of the current NWC, the national champion is a founding member of the PDP, the one that President Buhari has chosen for us. The National Secretary is a PDP man, the Deputy National Chairmen, both of the north and south are former PDP members and so many others are PDP. “It is not a bad thing that we have reformed PDP into an APC. But it shows clearly that our elites only consider the need for them to get raw power as opposed to party lines based on ideology. So, we the young people should do the same. “We should go beyond party, we should go for youth in whichever party they are. You don’t necessarily need to leave the party, I am an APC member and I remain in the party but trust me, I will have sympathy for a PDP youth, I will do that.” He insisted that it is not about the party, but it is about the “demography” and when young people believe sincerely and deeply, that even the civil service rules stated that by 60 years someone should retire and now we have much more older people coming into the foray. As much as possible, he stated that they are not “condemning” their coming into the foray but the youth also should be allowed the opportunity to participate. “Let us fail dignified and honourably at the convention ground. Young people should always vote for young people. It is about youth for youth.” Adamu however, revealed that the future of APC to the best of his knowledge “only God knows,” because of the high level of bitterness in the party. According to him, “I can guarantee you that there is a general conspiracy of silence in the party. So many people are not happy with the status quo, but they choose to be silent. They don’t want to talk because President Buhari has chosen a direction. And that could make it or mar the success of the convention. “I hope we don’t see this kind of thing. Only God knows what will happen at the convention ground. Even the position of National Chairman, the President has made a choice for the first time, 48 hours later, there is no concensus support, so it shows there are a lot of issues in the party. “There is high level conspiracy of silence such that I have never seen in party politics in Nigeria. So many people would come and meet you privately and complain bitterly with these decisions, but they don’t just voice it out. So, we as young people felt like, no, we should talk about our own constituency. “We can not keep silent because our generation doesn’t know silence.if we are silent, we may go and do the wrong thing and we don’t want to do the wrong thing.”