The Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has adopted Ikechukwu Henry Ikoh as its candidate for the post of national vice chairman, South-East. A letter dated March 17, 2022, addressed to Hope Uzodimma, governor of Imo State, which was sighted by our correspondent, was signed by fourteen eminent members of the party, including Uchechukwu Sampson Ogah, Minister of State, Mines and Steel; Senator Chris Adighije; Senator Nkechi Nwaogu; Emeka Wogu, former Minister of Labour and Productivity, and Stanley Ohajuruka. The five-paragraph letter, titled, ‘Adoption of Chief Ikechukwu Henry Ikoh as Our Candidate for the Post of National Vice Chairman, South-East’, read in part: “Your Excellency, if you could recall a delegation of stakeholders of Abia State APC paid you a visit on the 4th March, 2022 after her meeting on 3rd March, 2022 to solicit your support for the position of the National Vice Chairman, South-East to be ceded to Abia State which your response was in the affirmative. “We wish to convey to you that the Abia State APC stakeholders having deliberated in several meetings over the position of the National Vice Chairman, South-East resolved unanimously to adopt and forward the name of Chief Ikechukwu Henry Ikoh as our candidate for the National Vice Chairman, South-East.” Following the development, Ikoh has since purchased his nomination/expression of interest forms, and has also successfully submitted same back to the APC national secretariat. In a campaign flyer, Ikoh said that a vote for him by the delegates was a ‘Vote for generational change; for capacity, and for humanity.’ The All Progressives Congress will be holding its national convention, where fresh members of its National Working Committee (NWC) would be elected on Saturday, March 26, 2022. Ikoh is from Ahuwa Oboro in Ikwuano Local Government Area of Abia State; a former commissioner for Industry in Abia State and founder of Harmony Foam Nigeria Limited. In a recent interview, when asked to comment on the increasing voter apathy arising from the belief by many Nigerians that their votes would not count and their unwillingness to participate in the voting process in 2023, Ikoh said that the coming elections would be different with the new Electoral Act in force. POLL “I do not believe that votes do not count in Nigeria. But if there had been any of such, with the new Electoral Act in force, I assure you there would be no such thing as votes not counting,” he said.