UGHELLI – The Delta State Governorship People’s Democratic Party (PDP) aspirant and the member representing Delta South Senatorial District in the upper chambers of the National Assembly, Senator James Manager, called on the good people of his district and Delta North Senatorial district to support his governorship ambition to provide the government of inclusiveness to all Deltans in 2023. Senator Manager’s stated this when he led members of his governorship consultations team to consult with PDP delegates in Warri North, Warri South-West, Warri South-West, Bomadi, Patani and Burutu local government areas of Delta South Senatorial district of Delta state. The consultation team of Senator James Manager also visited Delta North Senatorial district 9 local government areas to consult PDP Delegates in Oshimili South, Oshimili North, Ndokwa East, Ndokwa West, Ukwuane local, Ika South, Ika North East, Aniocha South, Aniocha North Local government areas to appeal to their conscience to be fair to the ethnic group that had been deeply involved in the making of Kings from behind the scenes, without becoming one. Manager started this on separate occasions thanking the PDP faithful for always supporting his political ambitions in previous party primaries and the general elections. The Delta State Governorship Hopeful added that after consulting with himself and his creator he is fully into the race to continue from where Governor Ifeanyi Okowa will stop come next year. Senator James Manager who was the Pioneer Chairman of PDP Delta State posited that having been one of the kingmakers in the state as well as one who has worked closely with the various Governors of the state since its creation, he has gathered enough experience to pilot the affairs of the state on the path of sustainable growth. He added that his administration which will consolidate on the gains of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa will focus on rural transformation, urban renewal, qualitative education, agriculture, peace and security, job creation, as well as engagement of experts that will help him in the building of a vibrant state. On the issue of an Ijaw Governor after the tenure of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa come next year, Senator James Manager told the Warri Federal PDP faithful that he strongly believes in fairness, stressing that the Ijaws have supported an Itsekiri Son to be Governor of the state. POLL Responding to the various PDP local government chairmen described Sen.Manager as a seasoned politician and the pioneer State party chairman who has paid his dues. They held that if Manager is given a chance to govern, he would bring his wealth of experience to bear.