LAGOS  – Having done over N10 billion in the year, Access Bank, one of Nigeria’s biggest bank, said it is ready to offer loans in excess of N100 billion to women-led businesses across the country. Abiodun Olubitan, the bank’s Group Head of the W Initiative, stated this in Lagos in commemoration of the International Women’s Day celebration 2022. She said this is Access Bank’s way of having more inclusion of women-owned businesses and expanding them for a better growing economy. Tier-1 lender, Access Bank Plc, says its financial target for 2022 is to give out loans of about N100 billion to women-led businesses. Olubitan who spoke at the sidelines of the International Women’s Day Celebration organised by Access Bank in Lagos noted that the bank through the “W” initiative has been able to support several women for eight years while noting that 100,000 women have benefitted about N11 billion in terms of volume from the initiative. She said: “So in terms of financial targets for loans, we are targeting to do around N100 billion this year because we are taking it further to have more women-owned businesses in the inclusive net”. She further added that the bank has several products for women and these include the W power loan, Maternal Health Support Scheme (MHSS) and to date we have birthed about 7880 babies on MHSS within three months since inception. Olubitan, thereafter, assured that Access Bank will continue with its drive for the “W” initiative and support and empower women across Nigeria and Africa at large. POLL Earlier in his opening remark, the Group Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe, said that the world needs more women on board to address several serious problems affecting humanity. Wigwe noted that the bank is in a standard position of supporting women as even the board has almost 50 per cent of women. He explained that the “W” initiative goes all down to the grassroot and has programmes for women such as the MHSS which is structured to help women experience the joy of motherhood and access various fertility treatment at specialist hospitals at subsidized rates. “For us at Access Bank, we believe that women need to be served better and deserve equal rights as men, deserve equal access to financial services because they represent the most devoted talents that one can find in the world”, he said. He added that the bank’s experience with women-led businesses has been very encouraging and the level of loan default by women is less than 1 per cent