Edo Civil Society Organizations (EDOCSO), on Monday, objected to the proposed ceding of 20 per cent of every community land for ranching purposes by the state government, describing the proposal as another way of accepting the federal government’s plan of establishing the National Livestock Transformation Programme code-named RUGA. The civil organization made this known through its Interim Executive Council Chairman, Bishop Osadolor Ochei while addressing journalists during a peaceful protest in Benin City According to him, we are constrained to be concerned with the way and manner the state house of assembly was going about the passage of the law aimed at prohibiting open grazing of cattle and other livestock in the state. He said the chief among their concerns is the deliberation by the committee of the whole on the percentage of communal or local government lands to be acquired for ranching which is between 10-20 per cent. What the state house of assembly is about to do, according to the Bishop, will hunt and hurt their children’s children when new communities of herders would have become indigenous by reason of population growth and long stay. The Interim Executive Council Chairman noted that cattle rearing is a private venture and should be left as it is, adding that owners of cattle have the financial wherewithal to buy or lease any size of land for their business. He said it has become difficult for them to understand the rationale of the government in doing land acquisition for cattle owners when it has not done the same for others in different agricultural ventures that require land. He said the proposed law should be as simple as prohibiting open grazing of cattle and other livestock with penalties for violation. POLL He said a businessman that intends to go into the rearing of cattle also understand the requirements in making it feasible and that it should not be in the place of government to get such his business place. Marcus Onobun, Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, who addressed the protesters, asked residents of the state to disregard the rumour that the government intends to cede any land, stressing that the bill, when passed into law, would be a workable document. “Anybody that wants to do business, the government’s responsibility is to provide an enabling environment and not to give land to businessmen. “What the government seeks to do, in this regard, is to be a regulatory body so that some communities will not connive, give land to strangers and, at the end of the day, it becomes a disaster to other communities. “So, the government has now chosen to set up a committee which they asked the house to empower them to be a regulatory body. “The regulatory body will be tasked to ensure there is no ranch without approval from the government,” Onobun said. Meanwhile, the Edo state government in a statement said the anti-open grazing bill is still being deliberated at the statehouse assembly, adding that it is not yet a law or state policy. According to a statement signed by the Secretary to the state government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie Esq. ,” The State’s Anti-Open Grazing Bill is still undergoing legislation at the Edo State House of Assembly and has not been passed into law neither is it a state policy “Members of the public who are concerned about parts of the bill can make input before its passage by the House. “Civil society groups who are raising concerns about sections of the bill can constructively engage with the Assembly and not resort to acts that could cause a breakdown of law and order in the state. “The lawmaking process is one that involves a comprehensive assessment of a bill before passage and it is refreshing that the conversation on the bill is generating public interest but this must not degenerate to civil disturbances capable of being hijacked by unscrupulous elements. “We hereby call on all those who have reservations about sections of the bill to explore the statutory provisions of the law in making their contribution” the govt declared.