DAN AMOR Much of the significant critical issues in the Nigeria 2023 presidential contest would most likely be centred on the pedigrees of the contestants. This is more so as it is glaring that a precedent has already been set in the quality of materials the country has indubitably thrown up as president since the beginning of the current political dispensation in 1999. Two personalities who have governed the country since then,  Umaru Musa Yar’Adua (2007 to 2010) and Goodluck Ebele Jonathan (2010 to 2015), represent a bold testimony to the emerging trend of enthroning young and brilliant people at the apogee of political leadership across the world. It is against this sparkling backdrop that many Nigerians and intellectuals in particular   see the emergence of Chief Timipre Sylva  as one of the aspirants to the nation’s 2023  diadem as an act of providence. Given his brilliant pedigree and age-bracket, it is not a surprise that the gallantry displayed by the ebullient and hardworking current minister of state, Petroleum Resources and former Governor of Bayelsa State has marked him out as the Beautiful Bride in the 2023 presidential debacle. Of course, one of Nigeria’s notable prophets has predicted that the next president of Nigeria would be below 60 years. As a man who hardly talks but knows where he is going, Sylva is loved by almost all Nigerians. Ministers And Their Report Cards Adamu Must Go Coming from the effeteness of a polity cast rather in fossilized mould, the wily young man has assiduously and tenaciously worked his way around his mission since joining party politics in  1991. Chief Timipre Sylva cares so much about the man in the street as a focal point of his political philosophy; because he cares less about personal material gains, his tenure as Special Adviser to Chief Edmund Dakoulo as minister of state, Petroleum Resources during the Obasanjo administration and as State Governor recorded a stunning success. In 2009, Sylva’s  zeal and untiring effort catapulted Nigeria to international acclaim, thus attracting a recognition by the United Nations when the Yar’Adua government succeeded hugely in its amnesty programme by calming the restive Niger Delta Youths. Even as Chief Sylva has worked very hard as governor, his performance shorn forth in solitary starlike splendour. This superlative performance was what endeared him to leaders of the newly registered All Progressives Congress (APC) and winner of the presidential election, who appointed him chairman of the inauguration committee of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015. But his achievements could not have come in a sudden flight; he had enough preparation. His political career became accentuated  with his appointment as Minister of State, Petroleum Resources in 2019. He also had other responsibilities like his magic transformation of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Sylva’s spartan performance as minister of State, Petroleum Resources has not gone unnoticed. His sterling performance has resulted in the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill into law, a bill which had been lying fallow in the National Assembly since 2006. Some of his achievements as Minister include the formulation of policies, one of which is the reward-and-sanction scheme that has resulted in putting an end to contractors abandoning projects. Many more would be touched in subsequent pieces. Despite the challenges imposed by the COVID 19 Pandemic since November 2019, his ministry has performed creditably, to the consternation of his detractors. There is the signing of the Final Investment Decision for NLNG Train 7 Project, the commencement of the AKK pipeline project championed by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the implementation of the deregulation of the downstream sector of the Petroleum Industry, among others. Other notable accomplishments include the completion and commissioning of the 17-storey headquarters building of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and commissioning of the Waltersmith modular refinery, developed with 30 per cent equity from the NCDMB. Ensuring that the various agencies are managed by competent hands while collaborating among themselves, Sylva has really taken the ministry to an unassailable hight. A great manager of human and material resources, Sylva has expressed optimism that more results would be recorded this year, 2022. Much was done last year. The imposing Nigerian Content Tower and the adjoining 1,000-seater conference facility are located in Bayelsa State. According to petroleum priorities, NCDMB has delivered several initiatives, one of them being the launch of the NOGTECH Hackathon and Science Technology Innovation Challenge (STIC) as a strategy of developing innovation to address pilferage, sabotage and losses of petroleum products. Sylva  may not qualify for the company of geniuses. He may just at best be in the league of men of moderate means. But what makes him the beautiful bride amongst the lot is the way he seems to coast along on the wings of his simple faith. First, he believes that something ought to be done to alleviate the pains of the suffering masses of his country, Nigeria . Then, he sets about doing it. As a dove in government, too often, he would draw the scorning guffaws of the hawks and skeptical onlookers until he achieves the ultimate, and goes about without guile. He is hardly schooled in the duplicitous saloons of Nigerian politics. The way and manner he has managed the recent eclipse in the petroleum industry (scarcity of petrol and the foul fuel) despite an emerging conspiracy theory by saboteurs, shows how free he is with everybody. He has even said that this is not the time for the blame game. POLL But the 58 year old grammarian and technocrat remains the quintessential unknown with the Midas touch who achieves the impossible. His grasp of issues and his insights are simply astounding. If the insights he proffers are penetrating, his quest for excellence is unrelenting. But it is his vision and determination to provide comfort for humanity that has made many people feel safe with him. With Chief Sylva , the people of Nigeria and residents alike might not bother searching any longer for any other political icon as far as the 2023 presidential election is concerned. He is the irresistible bride.