BAUCHI – As many presidential Aspirants are obtaining nomination forms preparatory to the 2023 general elections, a political group, Arewa Youths Awareness Group Sylva 2023 has vowed to buy one for the former Bayelsa state Governor, Mr Timipre Sylva to join in the race. The group said they have conceptualized the idea to push Sylva who is now the Nigerian Minister of State for Petroleum to contest for president in 2023. The National Chairman of the Group, Comrade Saadu Muhammed and Secretary General, Lawan Abubakar Yelwa jointly made their position known while speaking to newsmen on the outcome of their meeting in Bauchi on Monday. According to Sa’adu, they are only waiting for the National Leadership of the APC to commence the sale of the nomination forms to enable them purchase it for their preferred candidate, adding that they will contribute money from their pockets to purchase the form for Sylva, since the party has zoned its Presidential slot to the South. “Our conviction as Youths is born out of the experience, expertise and commitment of the Minister. What endeared us and indeed most Nigerians to this gentle technocrat administrator is his passion and personal conviction to issues of welfare of Nigerians, security and opportunities” Sa’adu said. He further explained that, having carefully consulted with the necessary individuals and groups, they have resolved to collectively and massively canvass support from both women and youths in the 19 northern states for Sylva. The Chairman of the youth group appealed to the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) to ensure that Sylva is picked as its presidential flag-bearer for the 2023 general elections. On his part, the Secretary General of the group, Lawan Abubakar Yelwa, called on Nigerians at all levels to support the Minister in his bid to move the country forward. POLL “Arewa Youth is calling with loud voice to the minister who was also the former Governor of Bayelsa State, Timipre Sylva to declare his interest and contest for the seat of the president of Nigeria in the forthcoming 2023 elections”, Yelwa said. He explained that Sylva with his vast experience and performance when he served as Bayelsa state governor and his performance as Minister is capable of uniting the country and growing the economy. The group vowed to continue to canvas for more members while enlightening Nigerians about the antecedents of Sylva and his exemplary leadership style. “Nigeria is blessed with intelligent men and women of goodwill which has continually produced eminent figures and eminent personalities in the likes of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva. He is top among equals whose track records in unifying this nation is of note”, The group said. They noted that the former governor is eminently qualified to lead Nigeria if given all the needed support by stakeholders, adding that he is fit for the highest office at this time and needs to be brought on board to lead the unification struggle. They described the Ex-Bayelsa governor as a man with laudable achievements and a good track record, explaining that Sylva remains the person that would be most acceptable to the northern and southern elites and Nigerians. “To this end, in our own genuine view of Nation-building, a man of goodwill in person of Sylva should be given the chance as his pedigree and records in national politics speaks volumes”The group added