LAGOS – South East South South Professionals of Nigeria have said they were determined to lead in finding solutions to the myriads of issues affecting the progress of the nation. The advocacy group with the acronym, SESSPN, expressed optimism that the problems facing Nigeria were not insurmountable at its maiden medal of honours of ten distinguished Nigerians including Mr. Emmanuel Ijewere, His Excellency Donald Duke, Late Engr. Chidi Izuwah, Late Albert Okumagba, His Excellency, RT. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo Iweala, Professor Okey Oramah, Mazi Uche Orji and Engr. Simbi Wabote. SESSPN, at the event held in Victoria Island, Lagos, however, renewed the call for the inauguration of the new board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Mr. Hannibal Uwaifo, SESSPN President in his address, pointed out that the failure to inaugurate the board two years after Senate clearance was against the interest of the region. He lamented that NDDC which has “a chequered history of corruption in a monumental form is a total disservice to the Niger Delta region which it was created to support in development.” Uwaifo said that the group of professionals will continue to agitate for Nigeria to be restructured into a true Federation, devolution of real authority and resource control. “The continuous plundering of the mineral resources in the South-South, especially in the Niger Delta remains of serious concerns to us, just as the injustice of environmental pollution and marginalisation in the allocation of resources in the extractive sector of our economy,” he stated. He added that the infrastructural decay in the South East as a result of neglect and marginalisation was not only unjust and despicable but should quickly be addressed in a holistic form. POLL His words: “It is the belief of the SESSPN that politics must not deliberately be played to the detriment of the South East but instead the so-called federal character principles should be applied to ensure that the East is accommodated to solidify the unity of Nigeria.” Gen. Alexander Ogomudia (rtd)Former Chief of Defence Staff and the Chairman of the occasion, charged people from South-East and South-South to “give serious thoughts to education and industrial development within our sub-region” in order to establish the youths. Mr. Andy Wabali, SESSPN, Vice President South-South and Chairman Planning Committee of the Maiden nite of honour, noted that the honour was centred around the socio-economic development of the region. “We should be ready for the development of our region, we are the only ones that can develop our region ourselves. We have to take the bull by the honour and develop our region,” Wabali advised.