UGHELLI – The Delta State Civil Society Organizations have refuted an alleged disclaimer on them by the Delta State Government that they are a self-styled and mischievous group of elements trying to mislead the general public. The refusal was made known in a press release signed by Chief Comrade Sheriff Mulade, Convener/Chairman Board of Trustees, DELCOF and Dr Andrew Agboro. Chairman, DELCOF, stated that rebuttal was as a result of a government public announcement purportedly made by the Delta State Government on the 9th of March, 2022, about Delta State Civil Society Organizations Forum, DELCOF, an umbrella body of non-state actors in the State. The statement reads; “we wish to inform Your Excellency that DELCOF is a broad coalition of more than 250 non-state actors, associations and social movements in Delta State, focusing on different thematic areas of sustainable development. And it champions a sector that is accountable and autonomous, giving voice to the common man. “We have a Board of Trustees, an Executive Council comprising the Chairman and his Executive members, State Focal Persons (Coordinators both at the 3 Senatorial Districts, and 25 LGAs of Delta State), 7 Management Committees and 6 Cluster Heads (Media Cluster, NGO Cluster, CBOs Cluster, FBOs Cluster, Human Rights Cluster, and Persons Living with Disability Cluster)”. According to the release, “Our vision is to be a body of non-state actors enjoying effective partnership for sustainable development, while our goal is to strengthen the underlying principles of good governance and targets of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through collaborative efforts of non-state actors, towards creating a sense of cooperation, mutual harmony and affection among member organizations. “Despite these laudable interventions, your administration, through the Office of the Secretary to the State Government, SSG, issued a disclaimer to our partnership and referred to us as a self-styled group and mischievous elements trying to mislead the public. “For us, it is only normal for a pro-people organization forum such as DELCOF to recognize the importance of State Government partnership and extend our invitation of inauguration to the government which is supposed to be the major partner in bringing sustainable development to the State. POLL “Sir, we hereby state that DELCOF is not a self-styled and mischievous group of elements trying to mislead the general public as erroneously stated in your alleged letter of public announcement dated 9th of March 2022. “Instead, we are a conglomerate of over 250 non-state actors, associations and social movements under one big umbrella body known as DELCOF, promoting good governance, transparency, accountability and sustainable development in Delta State, while giving voice to the voiceless and hope to the vulnerable,” it added.