IBADAN – Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has pledged his commitment to promoting the cultural and traditional values of Yorubaland. Governor Makinde who was ably represented by his Special Adviser on Community Relations Matter, Hon. Olufemi Josiah at the grand finale of the Oke Ibadan 2022 Festival expressed his readiness to support individuals and organisations that have good intentions for the promotion of Yoruba culture and traditions. He said, “we are here today to celebrate Oke’badan day, which is a cultural festival, and from the government point of view, our admonition to the people of Ibadanland and in Yorubaland, in general, is like we should revert to our cultural heritages because if we lose our cultural heritages, surely we have lost our identity and as a government, we will not allow that to happen and that is why we identified with the celebration and more of such. “Whatever the religion you subscribe to you must understand that your ancestors have a culture so we all need to go back home and elevate that culture. Go to the rest of the world, you will never see a white man downgrading his own culture for anything. “Yoruba culture has survived over 500 hundred years of the slave trade in diaspora, there are culture and traditions of Yoruba that is you will find in places like Brazil, Cuba, Argentina that we don’t find here any longer. “Some white people recently came to Oyo town to look for Rainbow worshippers (Osumare worshippers), there is nobody worshipping it again, but go to Brazil they are worshipping it there so what happened to us, we must bring back all our lost culture, traditions and heritage because they are our greatest assets. Olufemi said. In his address, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, has warned cultural and traditional stakeholders against the conventional religious burial of Olubadan of Ibadanland and other Yoruba monarchs in Christian or Islamic ways whenever each occupier of the throne joins his ancestor. Adams, who is the leader of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), however, advocated traditional burial for every departed Olubadan, unlike what is obtainable at present, which according to him has been making the kings of Ibadan and some of the other Yoruba monarchs arguably look ordinary in the eyes of their subjects. POLL He said, “the conventional religious burial of some Yoruba monarchs in Christian and Islamic ways has been taking away the myth and power attached to the stool “and makes the kings look ordinary in the eyes of the subjects.” Adams, however, urged the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Mohood Olalekan Balogun, to uphold, sustain and preserve Yoruba culture, adding that the important historical role being played by the Ibadanland in the history of South West could not be over-emphasised. On security issues, Adams made a case of synergy among the security operatives to effectively check crimes and criminalities, especially banditry in the Yorubaland and beyond. He also commended the Amotekun Corps in the South West, as well as the local vigilante, the security arm of the OPC and the conventional security operatives at ensuring the security of lives and property in the South-West zone. “There has been a huge spike in the waves of insecurity in many parts of the six states that made up the South West which has been epitomized by the spate of killings, kidnapping and other forms of violent criminal activities in the region. “There is a need for us to consolidate on the best way to address the situation. We need to strengthen the capacity of out local security outfits for them to secure the region. “We can easily win the war against the killer, herdsmen by creating the system that produces the best solution to the problem.” The Aare Ona Kakanfo, who lauded Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State for providing enabling environment and necessary logistics for the hosting of the 2022 Oke ‘Badan festival, gave kudos to the governor for ensuring amicable resolution of the crisis that preceded the installation of the new Olubadan.