LAGOS – Rt. Honourable Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, has revealed that President Muhammadu Buhari is delighted at the pace of the construction work on the Lekki Deep Sea Port. The minister revealed this while fielding questions from journalists shortly after the visit of the president to the port located at the Lagos Free Zone, Ibeju Lekki, Lagos. The president was received at the port site by top management of the promoters of the project – Lekki Port LFZ Enterprises Limited (LPLEL), led by the Chairman of the board, Mr. Biodun Dabiri; Director, Alhaji Olabode Oyedele; the Managing Director, Du Ruogang; Managing Director – Africa, Tolaram, Mr. Haresh Aswani and the former Chairman of the company and former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Chief Joseph Sanusi among others. During the tour, President Buhari commended the efforts of the minister towards making the Lekki Deep Sea Port a reality and directed him to consult and bring up a memorandum to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to link the facility with the railway network. Speaking on the purpose of the president’s visit to the project, the minister said the visit affirms the commitment and support of President Buhari’s administration to ensure timely delivery of the port. Amaechi explained further that he was confident that the commencement of operation of Lekki Port would strengthen Nigeria’s maritime sector to meet the ever-growing demands for goods transported by sea and will also position the maritime hub for the West African sub-region and even up to the Central African Republic. “I can confirm that President Muhammadu Buhari is delighted with the progress of work done on the project, I am also happy, and I am sure everyone is happy that the project is going on as scheduled, and we are looking forward to the official commissioning and commencement of operations,” said Amaechi. Also speaking during the visit, the Chief Executive Officer, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited, Mr. Du Ruogang, expressed the profound appreciation of the company to the President for the visit and the immense support the project has received since its inception, stating that the team remained committed to delivering the project as scheduled. POLL Ruogang further assured that the company was working round the clock to complete the construction by September, as scheduled to ensure that commercial operations commence by the fourth quarter of 2022. “We are indeed very pleased and grateful to His Excellency, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari f President Muhammadu Buhari on the visit to Lekki Port today; this day will remain a memorable one in the history of this Port, we sincerely thank the President and all the dignitaries that accompanied here today even as we look forward to having them soon for the official commissioning,” he said. Also speaking during the visit, the Managing Director of Lekki Freeport Terminal, the terminal operator for the Port, Mr. Denrick Moos, assured that the port operation would be a world class and efficient one leveraging technology in the automation of its processes. Moos commended both the promoters and partners of the project including Tolaram and China Harbour Engineering Company for their commitment towards the timely delivery of the project ahead of operational readiness.