The  leadership of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Ekiti State has been admonished not to toy with the voting strength of Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. A political group, Ado Ekiti Frontiers, (AF) in a press statement made available to journalists  urged stakeholders to cede the Ekiti Central Senatorial Ticket to Ado-Ekiti  in order for APC to take advantage of the huge voting power. The group maintained that the agitation for Ado-Ekiti in the APC political calculations was not only strategic but popular and legitimate. In the statement signed by its Coordinator, Mr. T.S. Salami explained that   in the  just concluded PVC registration exercise, Ado Ekiti had about 155,000 registered voters The group warned that it would be dangerous for APC to open its flank and allow the opposition to take advantage  of voting strength of Ado-Ekiti at the expense of the ruling party. It argued that allowing Ado Ekiti to produce the party’s senatorial candidate would boost its chances in the June 18, 2022 governorship election and general elections scheduled for 2023. The group said  ” Ado-Ekiti  is strategically placed to clinch the seat because it has the voting strength that will contribute the chunk of votes that will drive the party to victory in 2022 and subsequent elections.” “Ado Ekiti is the largest local government areas in the state, it had the population and capacity to turn around electoral fortune of any party in the state, because of its sensitive position. POLL “Ado Ekiti had produced likes of Prof ‘Banji Akintoye as senator and Hon Gabriel Falayi as a member of House of Representatives in 1979, hence we are not asking for too much, if we pleading for a senatorial seat in 2022. “We shall continue to be peaceful and patient to demand for our rightful positions as community that hosted entire Ekiti. The voting strength of Ado Ekiti secured victory for our party in 2018, because we were able to bridge the gap of 2014 governorship election to the minimum level. “For instance, in 2014 governorship election, APC polled 13,927, while PDP scored 41, 169 with a wide merging of 27,242, but in 2018 gubernatorial election, we reduced the wide merging to 4,699, which actually gave victory to our party.” the statement reads in part . Arguing further the group said  ,”this was achievable by cohesion and dint of hard work by the files and the ranks of the party. Still on 2018 feat, Ado Ekiti APC polled 28,111 and PDP had 32,810 with a difference of 4,699 in favour of PDP. “Ado Ekiti will perform better in subsequent elections with developmental drives of JKF 2 in Ado Ekiti coupled with mobilisation of the politicians of APC extraction and electorates. “A cursory look at the recent addition of polling units by INEC revealed that Ado Ekiti now has 344 polling units which is the highest in the state, which will eventually translate to votes in coming elections. “If Ekiti West with 188 polling units goes home with governorship ticket, Ikere with 125 polling units coasting home with deputy governorship ticket and Ikole with 203 polling units already settled with speakership. “Then, what is the stake of Ado Ekiti with 344 polling units? Let us reason together without sentiments. Ado Ekiti will still contribute the larger percentage of the votes that will take us to victory. “The above reasoning is the exactly mindset of core progressives in Ado Ekiti and the opinion of leaders and elders in the ancient town. Let us remember that, in everything we do, there will be tomorrow. “We are not confrontational in our agitation. But the onus of proving our argument beyond reasonable doubt lies on us, hence we have to go analytically to drive home our points. Our love for APC has no bound.”the group said. The group ,therefore urged  Governor Kayode Fayemi, the state APC Chairman, Mr. Paul Omotoso and other party stakeholders to consider allowing the senatorial candidate to come from Ado Ekiti Local Government.