LAGOS  – Motorists and commuters alike have in the past six months continued to lament the very deplorable and terrible state of the uncompleted section of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, even as they appeal to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to as a matter of urgency to commence work on the road. Daily Independent investigation revealed, that in the last six months, Julius Berger has moved their equipment and personnel from the road leaving only a skeletal office at Kola Bus Stop. It was further learnt, that since the section from Kantagowa, near Abule Egba to Toll Gate on the left side of the Expressway was opened to motorists about seven months ago, nothing tangible had been done by Julius Berger on the right side of the road from Toll Gate to Ajala Bus Stop. This development Daily Independent reliably gathered, has caused motorists and commuters alike to spend several hours on the road commuting to their various places of work and business. Another worrisome development due to the slow pace of work on the road and the unending traffic gridlock is the incessant accidents being witnessed on the road. Some motorists, especially commercial bus drivers now take ‘one way’ facing vehicles coming from the other side of the road, sometimes having head-on collision. According to a resident of Amje who simply identified himself as Sunmonu Akanni, the worsening state of the road had led to multiple accidents as a result of the recklessness on the part of some of the commercial bus drivers. His words: “About a month ago(precisely on a Sunday afternoon) four children from the same patents were killed by a commercial bus driver who was driving against traffic. Incidentally, where the accident happened, there were policemen who allowed these ‘Danfo’ drivers to take one way. POLL A motorist, Tokunboh Adeniji decried the slow pace of work on the road saying that the seeming abandonment of the road by the Federal Government is ‘a national disgrace’ for such a strategic road linking two states, Lagos and Ogun. He said everyday he plies the road is a nightmare, adding that the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing should do something before the raining season finally sets in. In her own submission, a textile dealer who lives at Ajegunle but has her shop at Oshodi, Alhaja Sherifat Kazeem pleads with the Federal Government to mobilise Julius Berger so that they can return to site. According to her, the man hour being lost on that road due to the traffic gridlock cannot be quantified in Naira and Kobo. Daily independent, however, learnt that Julius Berger relocated from site as a result of paucity of funds to further carry out any meaningful job on the road. Adedamola Kuti, the Director of Highways (South-West),Engineer once said that most of the Federal Highways in the six geopolitical in the South West, were being funded with money from SUKUK and that the funds are not restricted to one particular road. According to him, funds for the reconstruction of these roads would be allocated according to priority.