AKURE – The Senatorial Aspirant for Ondo Central Senatorial District on the platform of New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Hon. Seun Majasan has declared that President Mu­hammadu Buhari-led Federal government has truncated the future of youths in the country through bad governance. Majasan made the obser­vation while addressing news­men in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Friday. He noted that President Buhari had failed to fulfill his promise to address poverty, un­employment and educational challenges in the country. Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Buhari Commiserates With ACF Over Spokesperson’s Passing According to him, “Nigerian youths were jubilating during his 2015 presidential elections campaigns when President Bu­hari promised to bring ‘change’ to the Nigerian people. A prom­ise that made him win the 2015 presidential elections on a sil­ver platter. “However, six years down the line, it’s now very obvious that that ‘change’ was a fake campaign promise made in utmost insincerity. “It was a promise shrouded in deceit, a promise that was never meant to be fulfilled. In fact, the only ‘change’ President Buhari brought is hardship and more hardship. “His policies and agenda are a complete departure from his campaign promises. Life has become a lot harder and a lot more miserable.” The senatorial aspirant, who expressed serious con­cern on the present situation in the country, said: “President Buhari had failed to fulfill his promise to create three mil­lion jobs per year which he made during his electioneering campaign, but the opposite has been the case. POLL “It is unfortunate that rather than empowering the youths, they have been reduced to a bunchof frustratedcitizenswith manyof thembecomingpolitical thugs and agents of destruction in the hands of the politicians.” He, however, stressed that it’s high time old politicians left the stage for the younger ones to bring in new and fresh ideas to governance with the aims and objectives to move the country forward. Seun Majasan, therefore, added that for Nigeria to be a prosperous nation, it needed a great transformation, saying the youths should be allowed to bring the needed and trans­formative ideas.