The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus of the Oyo State House of Assembly has expressed its confidence in the reign and leadership of the new Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun Okunmade II saying the reputation and exposure of the monarch will be made to bear in the development of Ibadan. The PDP Whip of the 9th Assembly, Honourable Akintunde Olajide Emmanuel who made this known in a press statement made available to newsmen on Monday on behalf of the Caucus congratulates the new Olubadan praying for greater wisdom and a successful reign on the exalted throne. According to the statement issued by the ruling party Caucus, the new Olubadan who had a successful and colourful career in both public and private sector also rose to become a former Senator of the federal republic serving meritoriously to the advancement of Nigeria’s democratic process as well as its democracy. The PDP Caucus, comprising of the 26 lawmakers on the platform of the ruling People’s Democratic Party also assured of legislative synergy and cooperation with the traditional institution to bring about the desired 21st-century Ibadanland full of plenty and peace. “We the state lawmakers on the platform of the PDP especially, those of us from Ibadanland heartily felicitate our royal father and new king, the Olubadan of Ibadanland over his Majesty’s ascension to the highly exalted throne of his forebearers. “It is one of the events in the last three years that has clearly reaffirmed our strong belief in the actualization of a 21st century Ibadanland of our dream considering the track record, reputation, and history of our new king in both public and private life which is unarguably enviable by all. “The leader and father of our great party in Oyo state and the entire south-west, His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde has redefined the political landscape and fortune of our darling Oyo state so beautifully that virtually all Nigerians now wish to be resident in the state. “This is essentially so because of the cordial relationship that spans beyond political linen between both the Executive and the Legislative arms of government. POLL “We, the children of our father and king, Oba Lekan Balogun Okunmade II, are willing and ready to deepen the relationship between the legislature and the Olubadan traditional institution in order to attract more prosperity to Ibadanland.” The PDP Caucus stated. The PDP lawmakers, however, assured that it will explore every opportunity to fully tap from the wealth of experience of the new Olubadan being a former Senator of the federal republic to improve on their legislative duties