AKURE – Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has promised to select some civil servants to take professional courses at the newly inaugurated Adekunle Ajasin University Business School, Akure, Ondo State capital. He instructed the state Head of Service, Pastot John Adeyemo on Monday to select some civil servants in the state for training at the new institution as part of the administration’s human capacity building programme. Akeredolu who inaugurated the school said: “We are living in a time when true scholarly interventions and knowledge capacity are required by the countries of the world to produce new crop of leaders and entrepreneurs that are nationally and globally competitive.” WAEC Turns 70, Promises Further Reduction In Result Processing… WAEC Turns 70, Promises Further Reduction In Result Processing… In his address, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Olugbenga Ige said the Business School would train and produce personnel for the commercial and corporate sector globally. According to him, “The AAU Business School will not only serve as an academic hub to offer long term Executive Master in Business Administration programmes and short-term Certificate Courses for career persons and corporate organizations, but will also collaborate with other world-class Business Schools and institutions around the world that could provide academic support and meaningful academic exchange in the administration of its prospective courses.” The institution located opposite Coop Cocoa Building, Agbogbo/Benin Motor Park Road, Akure, has 14 lecture halls, 14 office spaces, an ICT hall, a large conference room, six store rooms, large number of conveniences, and other modern amenities. The vice chancellor, therefore, promised to engage competent hands to maintain the school and “to keep both the external and internal contents in pristine condition at all times. Efforts would also be made to ensure a round-the-clock guarantee of the safety and security of the complex.” The Pro-Chancellor of the varsity, Dr. Tunji Abayomi emphasised the need for having business approach to all engagements for the development of the nation. POLL He said the school would take care of personnel from the North and East because the state is a link between the North and South.