Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, said on Sunday that his administration has been able to put Ibadan’s traditional system back on track. The governor, while speaking at the Church Service marking the beginning of the 2022 Ibadan Cultural Festival Week’ held at the St. Peters Anglican Church, Aremo, Ibadan, said that if his administration did not resolve the crisis surrounding the stool, Ibadan will continue to experience the same challenges each time a new Olubadan is to be installed. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Taiwo Adisa, quoted him as saying: “We have come here today to give thanks to the King of kings. No matter how much we try as mortals, nothing we try to achieve will succeed without God. Oyo State Assembly Hopeful, Ogunwole Rejoices With Olubadan,… Scholar Warns Parents Against Negative Social Media Influence On… “Yes, it took us some time to install the new Olubadan of Ibadanland. If not for the challenges we faced, the Ibadan traditional system is such that the process of installation would take only one or two weeks. “And when we critically looked into those challenges, we discovered that if we did not resolve them just as we have done, we will continue to experience the same challenges every time we have to install Olubadan. “So, with your support, we have been able to put Ibadan’s traditional system back on track.” The governor recalled how he promised the members of the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII), when they came to him, that the 2022 Ibadan Cultural Festival Week would be celebrated with the new Olubadan on the throne. “When CCII came to meet me, they were concerned. In fact, they had already fixed the date for Ibadan Week but I asked them to shift it by one week and I promised that we would install the new Olubadan around that week. And to the glory of God, the ongoing Ibadan Week is being observed with the new Olubadan on the throne,” the governor added. POLL While urging the people to participate in election processes by voting wisely, he added that votes will count with the new law in place. Governor Makinde also called on clerics and residents of the state to continue to pray for his administration. He said: “Let me also use this opportunity to inform those who have been praying for our administration not to relent. INEC timetable is out and it is about time we took the decision on the direction where we want Oyo State and Nigeria to face for the next four years. “I want to urge us to take our stand and not think our votes would not count this time around. What I know is, there will be changes. Gone are the days that some people will falsify election results at collation centres. So, be vigilant and participate in the electoral process because if you don’t participate, you won’t be bold to ask how the processes have gone.” Makinde Bags Special Recognition Of Saudi Varsity Oyo Begins Erosion Control Project In 7 LGAs In his speech, the CCII president, Prince Oluyemisi Adeaga, appreciated Governor Makinde for the way he settled the issues surrounding the Olubadan stool, saying that Ibadan will never forget his administration. Adeaga added that the purpose of the thanksgiving was to show appreciation to God for making the installation of the new Olubadan a successful one and the fact that despite all hurdles, Ibadan has continued to remain peaceful.He called on all and sundry to continue to support the CCII and Ibadanland at large. “We have actually come here to thank God. The first is to acknowledge the fact that Ibadan is witnessing peace and tranquillity. The second is, we are feeling the grace of God in the life of our governor. Yes, this is the truth and that is why we are here in Aremo to show appreciation to God, the Highest. “The third reason for our thanksgiving is the successful installation and presentation of staff of office to the new Olubadan of Ibadanland without chaos. “Some have even asked to know how we have been able to manage to do things peacefully now in Ibadan. So, we are really happy about these developments. “With the way things are going in Ibadan, I want to believe that after Lagos, Ibadan will be the next investment destination,” Adeaga said. Earlier in his sermon, titled “Jesus: Man of Sorrow,” the provost of the Church, Very Revd. Adewale Adebiyi, said that Jesus suffered for the existence of mankind and the Children of God. He charged the CCII to ensure unity among the people and work towards sustaining a peaceful and violence-free environment, most especially among the youths within the city of Ibadan.