Gus Poyet has warned Chelsea defender Andreas Christensen that “it will not be easy” for him at Barcelona as the “competition is brutal”. The Denmark international has played over 150 times for Chelsea since he made his debut for them in 2014/15. Christensen was key as Chelsea won the Champions League last season. He has been relied upon by Thomas Tuchel. Koulibaly’s Agent Denied Barcelona‘s Interest In Signing Napoli … Barcelona Draw Galatasaray In Europa League Last 16 Along with Antonio Rudiger and Cezar Azpilicueta, he is out of contract this summer. Christensen is understood to be close to joining Barcelona. It has been suggested that he underwent a ‘secret medical’ on Monday. Poyet believes Christensen would need to step up if he is to shine at Barcelona: “Christensen won’t have it easy to be a starter at Barça,” Poyet said (via Sport Witness). “He is not playing every game at Chelsea. He has never been an undisputed starter. That will depend on what Xavi is looking for and what is going to happen with Barcelona’s centre-backs. POLL “When the year began, the three chosen by Tuchel were clearly Christensen, Thiago Silva and Rüdiger, and in the end, due to small changes or minor injuries, he is not playing every game. There is something to correct there. “He has the Barça profile without a doubt. But he would have to accept that role and be one of those who plays every game. “It will not be easy because there are three centre-backs who are going to give him a fight. Although the competition is brutal, and that raises the level to play better.” Elsewhere, according to TuttoJuve (via Caught Offside), Max Allegri wants to bring Jorginho to Juventus and is willing to offer Adrien Rabiot to Chelsea to make the deal happen. The Blues reportedly ‘like’ the France international midfielder and bringing him in as a replacement for Jorginho could make sense as he is four years younger. De-Jong’s Extra Time Goal Earns Barcelona Point In Derby Barcelona targeting Bayern Munich’s Robert Lewandowski Rabiot – who is also out of contract in 2023 – has been linked with Newcastle United as well. It was reported last month that Juve are ‘ready to say goodbye’ to the 26-year-old after the Magpies ‘came forward’ to sign him in the January transfer window.