ABUJA – Director-General of Nigeri­an Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Musa Nuhu, on Thursday told the House of Representatives that unless ur­gent steps are taken to address the current situation in the aviation industry, the agency might be forced to shut down the nation’s airspace to ensure safety of Nigerian travellers. Captain Nuhu spoke just as the House directed the Ni­gerian Midstream and Down­stream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) to do everything possible to disman­tle the cartel growing in the industry that has suddenly jacked up the price of aviation fuel to its current price of N670 per litre from its usual price of N190 and the non-availability of the product. But Executive Director, Distribution Systems, Storage and Retailing Infrastructure of NMDPRA, Ogbogu Ukoha, insisted that there was enough Jet A1 in the country to last for 34 days. APC: Members Plan Heroic Welcome For CECPC Buni IWD: SWAN Urges NASS To Revisit Gender Bills Speaking at a meeting be­tween the leadership of the House led by Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, over the currently scarcity of Jet A1, the NCAA boss who expressed sur­prise at the sudden increase in Jet A1 said the safety of passen­gers was key to his mandate, pointing out that with the way things were going currently, he might be forced to shut down some airlines and by extension, the airspace to ensure safety. “I don’t want to appear be­fore any committee either here in the House or in the Senate to explain what happened to airline ABCD. So, we must do something fast to address this situation so that things will not get out of hand,” he said. He added that currently, flights were being delayed or cancelled as a result of sup­posed scarcity of aviation fuel and the sudden increase in prices which, he said, has been happening on a daily basis. He informed that as a result of the increase in the cost of operation of the airlines, they might be forced to shut down their operation, an action which, he said, would have ad­verse effect on the economy of the country. But the NMDPRA Execu­tive Director who said the role of the agency was to regulate the industry and issue licenc­es to importers of the product said from his records, there was enough aviation fuel to last the country for 34 days. POLL Ukoha stressed that aviation fuel was one of the petroleum products that has been fully de­regulated and is therefore con­trolled by market forces, adding that the authority has issued licences to about 28 companies to import the product into the country. “From our records, we have enough supplies to last us for 34 days plus. So, when we hear about scarcity, all we can say is that we have enough supplies,” he said. However, his explanation did not sit well with the Depu­ty Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, who presided over the meeting, members of the House present at the meeting, as well as the airline operators. Wase questioned why there should be scarcity of the prod­uct if there was enough sup­ply to last for 34 days, and then there must be a cartel working so hard to sabotage the efforts of the government. He said, “This is a political era and elections are coming. We do not want anybody to sabotage the efforts that the government has put into re­vamping the economy so far because aviation is very im­portant to the economy.” Infrastructural Development Awaits Aniocha North, South LGA’s… Olawunmi Counsels Police SWAT Officers On Career Development Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, who spoke on behalf of the airline operators, said they have held back from shutting down the industry be­cause of the impact it will have on the nation and its economy. “It is because of this state­ment that you made now about being in a politics era that we have not shut down. We do not want anybody to use us to blackmail the government who has done so much for the industry. “Our DG has said it suc­cinctly that safety is of concern in this industry. He also spoke about the cost of operation and let me say that fuel takes about 30 percent across the world, but in Nigeria, fuel takes about 70 percent of our operation. “What happened in the last two weeks is alarming. From a price of N190 per litre two weeks ago, the price is now N670 as at today and we don’t know what it is going to be lat­er. The government has done so much for us in this industry with the president granting us waivers. “We held a meeting and decided to shut down our op­erations because of the cost of operation. We are owing so much money and we don’t want AMCON to come after us. But we decided not to because we know the impact it would have on the economy. “We cannot survive like this for another three days. We had to reduce our operations to 30 percent because the product is not even available. So, I am surprised that the executive di­rector said they have supplies to last 34 days. “We are making so much sacrifice here. I am evacuating Nigerians from Poland and I had to pay three times the usual amount and I am not asking for a refund. So, something needs to be done and done fast,” Onye­ma said on behalf of operators. Chairman of Skyjet Avia­tion, Kashim Bukar Shettima, gave an indication of the exis­tence of a black market ring operating within the industry when he said that while none of the known fuel marketers agree to have the product in stock, there are companies which are not known that are selling the product. Rep. Sade Soli said from all indications, there was an emerging cartel in the indus­try that is responsible for the current scarcity, while also blaming those saddled with the responsibility for not living up to their responsibility. He said marketers were us­ing the current war between Russia and Ukraine to exploit airline operators believing that there might be a possible increase in the price of the product. Chairman of the House Committee on Aviation, Nno­lim Nnaji, also alleged that there now exist a cartel in the industry that are using pseudo companies to sell the product because of the realisation that they cannot directly increase the price. House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, said what was happening in the industry is a clear sign that the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) was not working as it should, asking the operators of the law to make it work. He said there was fire on the mountain and everything possible must be done to ensure that Nigerians get the desired benefits from the PIA. Deputy House Leader, Rep. Peter Akpatason, said the NMDPRA must bring to book all those who are involved in hoarding of the product and subjecting airline operators and Nigerians to severe hard­ship. He said since they have told Nigerians that the product was available to last 34 days; they must immediately direct the marketers to release the prod­uct immediately. In his intervention, Group Managing Director of the NNPC Limited, Mele Kyari, assured that they will do ev­erything possible to address the issue of supply of Jet A1, while corroborating the statement that there was enough supply of the product in the country. NAAPE Warns Jet A1 Crisis May Cripple Economy, Reaches N700/L Meanwhile, the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) has said that the hike in price of aviation fuel in Nigeria and the scarcity of the product was ca­pable of crippling the country’s aviation industry. This is as the price of avia­tion fuel on Thursday reached N700 per litre mark at the Lagos airport, while the price may be higher in other airports outside the state. A statement by Engr. Abed­nego Galadima, the President of NAAPE, challenged the Fed­eral Government to as a matter of urgency intervene in the sit­uation before it destroyed the nation’s economy. Galadinma said that the as­sociation was worried about the issue, decrying that it has made traveling very difficult for passengers and caused much disruption in the opera­tions of domestic airlines. He added: “The industry is still recovering from the neg­ative impact of the pandemic and many airlines haven’t com­pletely recovered. If this issue of scarcity is not immediately addressed by the Federal Gov­ernment, not only would the airlines be negatively impact­ed, the ripple effect will be felt in the aviation downstream sector which may lead to job losses. “It has been reported that the House of Representatives will convene a meeting of industry stakeholders with a view to solving the issue, but we don’t want it to stop at that. The executive arm of government, should as a matter of urgency, address the issues causing the scarcity and price hike so that normalcy can return to the in­dustry.” However, an airline opera­tor told Daily Independent on Thursday that the price of avi­ation fuel has climbed to N700 per litre in Lagos, while it may be higher outside the state. This is the second time the price of the product would increase in the local market this week. On Tuesday, the price hit the unprecedented N607 per litre at Kano airport.