The Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) has reacted to beauty pageant participation of Chidinma Ojukwu, who is the murder suspect in the case of murder of Super TV Chief Executive Officer, Usifo Ataga. Recall that Ojukwu was crowned the Miss Cell 2022 in the beauty pageant organised by the prison authorities to commemorate the International Women’s Day. According to NCoS spokesman, Francis Enobore, in a statement, her participation doesn’t bestow hany right or privilege, as the contest was organized solely to create a relaxed atmosphere for the inmates. The statement reads, “It would be recalled that several celebrities and internationally recognised artists such as Sam Okposu, Oyenka Owenu, Pasuma, Denrele, Lamboginny, to mention but a few, have carried out lavish concerts in the male custodial centres in Kirikiri and Ikoyi to celebrate with the inmates irrespective of their status. “In the year 2000 to be specific, Channels Television covered a musical concert for male inmates in Ikoyi Custodial Centre were Dr. Sola Fosude, the Head of Department, Art & Music, Lagos State University praised the performance of the inmates and commended the personnel for their effort. The intendment has never been to glamourise or make a hero out of criminality. “These events, beyond the venial of entertaining criminals and suspect alike, provides an avenue for generating actionable intelligence to address some knotty issues under investigation and the intelligence community has severally benefitted from this service. “The beauty pageantry in question was one out of the series of events that featured competition in dancing, singing, bead making, costume design etc. Other prizes were won by other inmates equally facing charges for heinous crimes. Aside from creating a relaxed atmosphere for the inmates, the prizes do not bestow any right or privilege on any of the contestants. “Moreover, the event was for internal consumption within the custodial environment and never meant to be given wide publicity. POLL “It was also insinuated that male inmates were deliberately kept in squalor, compared to the female custodial centres generally adjudged to be exceptionally clean. “It is no longer news that females account for less than 1.5% of the total inmates’ population of about 70,000 in the country. “Therefore, overcrowding and the attendant chaos are exclusively found in male custodial centres due to pressure on the infrastructure.”