The All Progressives Congress, APC Plateau State Chapter has declared that the purported decamping of the former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Abok Nuhu Ayuba from the APC to the PDP is no threat to the ruling All Progress Congress. The Party in a statement issued to newsmen on Sunday in Jos through its Publicity Secretary Sylvanus Namang noted that while it is the prerogative of the former Speaker to join any political association of his choice, the APC wishes to put on record that it is aware that Hon. Abok has for long been far from the party that gave him the mandate to contest and win election to the House of Assembly in 2019 which also enabled him to be given the privilege as first among equals to lead the State Legislature. Namang alleged that Ex-Speaker Abok has been having an open romance with the PDP minority opposition members in and out of the Assembly and had total disregard for the APC leadership and its structures in the State and as well have disdain for its Members in the legislature.. According to Namang, the former Speaker’s antagonism to the State Governor is clear evidence of his betrayal and deliberate attempt to betray the Mandate of the people given to him under the platform of the APC. “The APC wishes to remind the public and well-meaning Nigerians that these and other infractions, including the mismanagement of the House finances, were some of the reasons that Members constitutionally applied for his impeachment in October 2021 and subsequent election of Rt. Hon. Yakubu Sanda as the new Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly.” Namang further said Abok who was subsequently suspended by the House for alleged subversion and holding an illegal sitting at an event centre in an obscure location in Bukuru, using a fake mace as well as using thugs to forcefully break into the Assembly complex thereby causing damage to the facility, remains suspended till date as the House is yet to lift his suspension. “Therefore, the narrative circulating in the social media purporting that “Plateau Speaker Defects to PDP” is not only misleading but mischievous and an attempt to deceive the gullible public by creating a sense of loss to the APC.Abok has since his impeachment in 2021 ceased to be the Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly. “.The Plateau APC spokesman added that the former Speaker had since then not been sighted in any activities of the House at its temporary sitting venue. ‘ It is common knowledge that Rt. Hon. Yakubu Sanda is fully in charge of the State Assembly and has been providing purposeful leadership to the House as it continues to pass laws for the good of the citizens, as well as working with the Executive in ensuring that the mandate of the APC is fully executed in the State.The so-called defection of Abok to the opposition PDP will not in any way affect the business of the House as it is good riddance and relief to the APC.” POLL Namang further stressed that the APC has not, and will not miss the former Speaker for defecting to the opposition party where his heart has always been for a long time and with whom he has fought unsuccessfully to derail the APC Government in Plateau State. “He has finally proved our suspicions right by putting his treasure where his heart is. We wish him well.” Namang however, said as for the APC seat for the Jos East Constituency which the former Speaker wants to steal to the opposition PDP, they wish to assure the good people of Jos East that the APC will take every legal step necessary to ensure that they are not robbed of their mandate which they gave in good faith and with high expectations, but was sadly abused and misused by personal ambition of Ayuba Abok. “While we urge our teeming APC members and supporters in Jos East and throughout the State to remain calm as the party will take necessary actions to deal with the situation, we call on them to remain united and beware of the antics of the opposition who are desperate to use every means to break the unity of the biggest party in Africa,” Namang stressed