Britons offering homes to Ukrainian refugees through a new humanitarian route will receive a “thank you” payment of £350 per month, the Government has announced. The Homes for Ukraine scheme, to be rolled out this week, will allow individuals, charities, community groups and businesses to bring people fleeing the war to safety – even if they have no ties to the UK. One in 10 UK citizens have said they want to help those seeking sanctuary, research suggests. Anti-War Protests Held Across Europe US Sets High-Level Talks With China Monday Over Russia War Local authorities will be given just over £10,000 per Ukrainian who is accepted on the scheme, Michael Gove – the minister in charge of the scheme – has confirmed. Additional payments will be provided to school aged children and those arriving under the scheme will have access to full NHS care and mental health services, he added. Mr Gove denied reports there had been disagreements in Government about the way forward, and said there has been a “focused and determined effort” to help Ukrainians. Sponsors can nominate a named Ukrainian individual or family to stay with them in their home, or offer a separate property for them to use rent-free. It comes as the Government has faced criticism over the speed and scale of its efforts to bring fleeing Ukrainians to the UK. POLL Mr Gove told Sky News’ Sophy Ridge on Sunday the new sponsorship route is expected to bring tens of thousands of Ukrainian refugees to the UK. “I’m going to make sure that I do everything I can as an individual to support,” he said. “And, again, each individual will have their own circumstances. “It is the case that something like one in 10 UK citizens, which is an amazing amount, have said that they want to do something to help. But we want to make sure that people are in a position to help, because inevitably it’s a significant commitment. “I recognise that we need to operate in different ways and in different phases to help people who are fleeing persecution.” Melitopol Residents Protest Mayor’s Kidnapping, Demand… Iran Claims Responsibility For Missile Barrage In Iraq Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he will take a Ukrainian refugee into his home. People sponsoring refugees through the new uncapped route will be required to commit to the scheme for a minimum of six months, but are encouraged to keep up the offer for as long as they can. Those offering accommodation will be vetted and Ukrainian applicants will undergo security checks. As a “thank you”, sponsors will receive payments of £350 per month. A website gathering expressions of interest is set to launch on Monday. Mr Gove said the Government expects to welcome the first Ukrainians using the scheme from the week commencing 21 March. The Government said it is also working to enable communities, the voluntary sector and charitable and religious organisations to sponsor groups of Ukrainians. Mr Gove, the Levelling Up, Housing and Communities Secretary, said the UK “stands behind Ukraine in their darkest hour”, and urged people to “join the national effort” to help refugees. “The crisis in Ukraine has sent shock waves across the world as hundreds of thousands of innocent people have been forced to flee their homes, leaving everything they know and love behind,” he said. “The UK stands behind Ukraine in their darkest hour and the British public understand the need to get as many people to safety as quickly as we can. “I urge people across the country to join the national effort and offer support to our Ukrainian friends. Together we can give a safe home to those who so desperately need it.” Ukrainians who have sponsors will be granted three years’ leave to remain in the UK, with entitlement to work and access public services. Mr Gove also confirmed that the Government has now issued more than 3,000 visas to Ukrainian refugees – up from 1,300 a few days ago. Meanwhile, Nicola Sturgeon and Mark Drakeford have said both Scotland and Wales are willing to become “super sponsors” for Ukrainian refugees. In a letter to Mr Gove, they also renewed their calls on Westminster to waive all visa requirements for Ukrainian nationals trying to get into the UK. The governments in Holyrood and Cardiff said super sponsorship would enable Ukrainians to get clearance to enter each country quickly and be housed temporarily while they work with local partners to provide longer-term accommodation, safeguarding and access to services. Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawi announced on Saturday that online lessons will be made available to 100,000 refugee pupils as they transition to “life and safety” in the UK. He had told BBC’s Question Time earlier in the week: “What you are seeing now is a surge in our capability to take more Ukrainians. “I can tell you in my own department in education, I have a team that’s already making plans for a capacity of 100,000 children that we will take into our schools.”