LAGOS – Rev. Dr. Francis Ujunwa Simeon, the Senior Pastor, Bible Wisdom Ministries International, has lamented the spate of ritual killings in the county, while urging the federal and state governments as well as security agencies to do something to curb the trend. Rev. Simeon, also the chairman, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Gowon Estate chapter in Lagos, who was reacting to the recent killing of Bamise Anyawole in a BRT bus in Lagos, said the issue had once more, brought to the fore the scary prevalence of ritual killings in Nigeria in recent times. The cleric stressed that rumours of ritual killings for money and power by some rich people had been on for many years. He maintained that recently, the mainstream and social media had been awash with tales of young people allegedly butchering their victims or harvesting organs for money rituals. Rev Simeon stated: “The Bible says, ‘For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows” (1 Timothy 6:10). “Many problems in Nigeria, namely, corruption, bad leadership, embezzlement of public funds, electoral malpractices, infrastructural deficit, unpaid salaries and pensions, yahoo yahoo, human trafficking, killings for money rituals and organ trafficking, etc., are traceable to the insatiable love for money. “Money (Mammon) is the god worshiped by some Nigerians today. Consequently, there is a serious erosion of the fear of God, sanctity of human life and other societal norms and values. “To curb this descent into the abyss of moral depravity and barbarity, especially as regards ritual killings, the government should embark on a serious value reorientation of the society concerning the sanctity of human life, contentment and honest labour as a means to wealth creation. Ill-gotten or questionable wealth should be investigated by secret agents and criminalized. POLL “The government must hunt for witch doctors who prescribe human rituals for their clients and prosecute them with capital punishment. If there is no witch doctor, the ritual killings will stop. “Also, the government should install sophisticated body scanners at the ports and borders which are able to detect body organs packaged for export. “Illegal organ trafficking is a global multimillion dollar business with a kidney costing over 50,000 US dollars. As long as the organ harvesters and vendors have easy access to the international market, the killings will continue because of the abnormal profits. Convicted organ harvesters should face capital punishment. “Parents, religious organisations and traditional institutions must preach against the get-rich-quick syndrome and stop the undeserved recognition of persons with questionable sources of income. “Churches and mosques must pray to God against the spirit of avarice and bloodshed ravaging the whole country. “Furthermore, movies and video clips containing money rituals should be banned. Celebrities who flaunt their wealth in social media must be cautioned because they stir up the greed of their young fans. “Lastly, the government must wake up to its responsibilities. Insecurity of lives and property in Nigeria is tantamount to failure of government. “A state of emergency should be declared in the area of poverty alleviation and job creation. Many people are forced into crime and criminality because of hunger and abject poverty. May God help Nigeria.”