LAGOS – The Association of Mobile Money and Bank Agents in Nigeria (AMMBAN), has called for more cohesive collaboration among stakeholders in the mobile money and agency banking sector in a bid to sanitise the industry and diffuse the challenges bedeviling it. Mr. Victor Olojo, AMMBAN National President, while speaking recently at a press conference in the wake of allegations of lack of coordination and regulation levelled against the sector by a member of the House of Representative in Lagos, noted that the sector is well regulated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and has been operating under the regulatory guidelines as stipulated by the CBN. According to him: “While appreciating the interest of the member of the House, I need to state that the financial inclusion industry in Nigeria is well regulated, and of course the financial sector is well regulated by the CBN, and the Mobile Money and Agency Banking aspect is not left out.” He, however, noted that despite the framework issued by the CBN, what is lacking is enforcement. “What we are seeing is somewhat close to an abuse, a clear violation of what the framework issued out by the CBN states. One of the frameworks states that a Mobile Money or Bank Agent should be located in a brick and mortar location, with an address that is traceable. “But, what we have today are agents under umbrellas, trees, and agents who are hawking with terminals. And for a very long time as early as 2021, we had written to various stakeholders highlighting these issues of concern to us. “So, we are happy that finally this is coming out to the fore. We believe that what is lacking is enforcement. And as an association we have already taken steps in ensuring that these issues are being addressed.” Olojo therefore, called for collaboration among the various stakeholders to ensure that there is a streamlined operation in the sector, according to CBN guidelines. Also speaking at the event, was Oluwasegun Elegbade, AMMBAN National PRO, who highlighted the position of the Association. POLL The AMMBAN secretary disclosed that one of the strong resolutions that emanated from its Annual National Conference held in Abuja last year, along with robust deliberations with all critical stakeholders, was to begin to self-regulate using a special AMMBAN task force. He explained that the Association serves the interest of all Mobile money and Bank agents in Nigeria, and is duly registered and recognised by the CBN and other relevant players in the mobile money and Agency banking sector of the country. According to him, AMMBAN is currently in a process of taking necessary steps to ensuring that its “business space is rid of unscrupulous elements and their activities capable of derailing the laudable intentions of the government at ensuring poverty alleviation by deepening financial inclusion to the last mile. Our sincere motive and prayers have been to bring sanity to bear in our business space.” He emphasised that Mobile money and Agency Banking are deliberate innovations of the government, which creation was borne out of the goal of ensuring all Nigerians of bankable age are financially included. He further noted that the critical activities of mobile money and bank agents in Nigeria have, in no small measure, contributed to the enviable achievements being witnessed by the country in the financial Inclusion drive and we are proud to be a critical part of this initiative. While acknowledging that AMMBAN “wholeheartedly agree that the effective enforcement of regulation guiding the industry is long overdue, he said, we will also like to correct some wrong impressions expressed in the motion moved by Honourable Jimoh Olajide as published in some National dallies on the 3rd of March, 2022.” Elegbade, while noting that in most cases member agents are the victims of fraud cases, however, said the worrisome realities lay credence to AMMBAN’s consistent calls for effective enforcement of the guidelines in the industry through the Licensed Operators. He said: “There is need for proper supervision of entry and conduct of activities of all players in the value chain. Agents are mostly the victims of the many crimes committed in our business space today as highlighted on the floor of the House. “Many criminals parading themselves as customers in dire need of cash or other financial services have mastered the act of cloning bank alerts and using same for exchange of cash from the outlets of unsuspecting agents. We have instances where the sum of money involved in such incidences is so huge that the agents involved became insolvent.” On efforts put in place to ensure adherence to CBN regulation, AMMBAN President, Oloja disclosed that the Association has been organising training and retraining exercises to ensure that the framework issued by CBN is strictly adhered to. “We have been training and retraining our members on what the expectations are. “We know there was a time when there were rumours and concerns that agents were taking out details of customers. But we know that no member of the Association of Mobile Money and Bank Agents will do that. Our members are well traceable, we have our database. “We cannot say that unscrupulous individuals now have access to PoS terminals that is why we have continued to raise our voices from time to time to say that there is need for more coordination among the players of Mobile Money and Agency Banking in Nigeria. So, for a fact, there are concerns, but we want to say that the bulk of the issues are not from the side of the agents, but there is a need for all players to come together to see how we can address these issues. He also disclosed that as an internal measure at AMMBAN, the Association has launched a monitoring and evaluating unit, the AMMBAN Task Force, to ensure that Mobile Money and Bank Agents registered under AMMBAN play by the rules. Across our state chapters within the country we have been cooperating with security agencies like the DSS, the Police in addressing issues of counterfeit currencies, fraud and the likes. He however lamented the pressure on member agents who are made to be on the receiving side whenever there is an issue, sometimes being forced to pay for customers’ losses, even when they provide all evidence required in the pursuit of fraud cases. “We have a robust working relationship with the CBN, and others who are working towards deepening financial inclusion in Nigeria, including CBN’s Development Finance Department (DFD), Shared Agent Network Expansion Facilities (SANEF) and Enhancing Financial Inclusion Access, (EFInA)”, Oloja noted.