LAGOS – In a major step towards supporting the entrepreneurial activities of female-owned businesses in Africa and helping them achieve their full potentials, Flourish Africa – a female empowerment Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) founded by Nigerian businesswoman and philanthropist Apostle Folorunso Alakija has unveiled its training partners for the Flourish Africa Business and Life Skills Training. Apostle Alakija, the founder, while speaking at a press conference held in Lagos recently, announced Eloh Consulting Limited, Google, and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as its training partners. She disclosed that a minimum of 500 female micro-entrepreneurs will be trained annually. After the training, 100 audacious entrepreneurs from the pool will access grants of a maximum of N2 million according to their business needs and capacities from an annual fund of N200 million. She further explained that Eloh Consulting Limited will train the female entrepreneurs in 10 modules of management development over three months, Google will train the entrepreneurs to use the “Google My Business” app to create visibility and grow their businesses. Similarly, PWC will train the women on the tax regulations and requirements for doing business in Nigeria, so that their businesses can be tax compliant. “I launched the Flourish Africa N1billion Fund last year during my 70th birthday as a gift to hardworking and enterprising women. This initiative will focus on empowering women economically and socially for the benefit of their immediate families and the society,” she said. Lilian Uwaeme, Partner – Eloh Consulting Limited, in her remarks at the press conference, stated that the company is proud to be partnering with Flourish Africa because the vision to empower five hundred (500) female entrepreneurs this year is a laudable one that aligns with Eloh Consulting’s values of empowerment. POLL “We have put together a group of seasoned facilitators with vast industry experience to facilitate this programme. “We are also providing female entrepreneurs with a one-year business plan advisory support. This is to ensure that at the end of the programme, they would be equipped with knowledge and skills that will enable them to run sustainable and profitable businesses”, said Uwaeme. Mr. Kenneth Erikume, Director, Tax Reporting & Strategy, PricewaterhouseCoopers, while speaking during the press conference, said: “We believe that this initiative will empower the beneficiaries to understand the need to properly register their businesses and intellectual property, understand their role as good corporate citizens and comply with their tax obligations.