LAGOS  – The Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has tasked the management of the Lekki Port to keep up the work momentum at the deep seaport. The Minister made the call in Lagos during his second visit to Lekki Port this year to appraise the status of the construction of the Port and assess the steps taken by management for operational readiness. The Minister, accompanied by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani; the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mr. Mohammed Bello-Koko; the Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh; Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) and a host of Directors, General Managers and Officers, commended the progress of work at the Port site while encouraging the management to keep up the momentum. He said: “I am impressed with the level of work compared to the last time I came here. Things have gone forward. Today, I can see several facility buildings have sprung up, including the 16MW power plant, stacking areas, and jetties under construction. The promoters have taken the Port to a 14.8m depth at the quay and 16.5m at the fairway buoys.” Amaechi also stated that the Lekki Deepsea Port is estimated to contribute about $360billion to Nigeria’s GDP over the 45-year concession term of the project, explaining the multiplier effect of the investment in and around the Port would create enormous economic activities and jobs. Mr. Du Ruogang, the Chief Executive Officer, Lekki Port, while speaking during the project site tour, assured the Minister that everything was going according to schedule to deliver the Port for the start of operations Mr. Laurence Smith, the Chief Operating Officer, Lekki Port, informed the Minister and his entourage that 15 purpose-built Rubber Tyre Gantry (RTG) cranes are being fabricated for Lekki Port. Similarly, five ship-to-shore cranes are ready for shipment and will be arriving at the Port in June 2022. Mr. Denrick Moos, the Chief Executive Officer, Lekki Freeport Terminal (the container terminal operator of the Port), explained that the terminal operating system was being put in place. POLL He added that terminal operations training would start in April 2022. All these efforts, he noted, are geared towards smooth take-off of port operations later this year. The majority shareholders, China Harbour and Tolaram, were represented by Mr. Jay Zhang and Mr. Navin Nahata, respectively, while the Chief Executive Officer of the Lagos Free Zone, Mr. Dinesh Rathi, was also in attendance. Fielding further questions from journalists, Amaechi said there was need for extension of the land allotted for the construction of the Lekki Deep Seaport so as to enable completion of the project. He urged the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), to discuss with the Lagos State government on the land extension. The Minister assured however that the Lekki Deep Seaport will begin full commercial activities in September 2022. He described the project as a huge achievement for President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Amaechi said: “As a layman I cannot talk in terms of percentage. I can only say that I am impressed compared to the last time we came here. “I am being told by the management that by June, they are expecting cranes and by September, like we agreed, they should commence commercial activities, I am happy. “This is a privately funded project, over time they will collect their revenue from commercial activities before they hand over to the Federal Government through NPA.”