International Federation of Women Lawyers, the Ondo State branch, has called on women to join politics en masse in order for them to take their rightful place in decision-making bodies in the country. Catherine Ogunjebi, the chairperson of FIDA, made the call on Tuesday while addressing newsmen on the recent failure to push through the Women Equality Bill at the National Assembly. She stated that women need to join political parties and ensure full participation in political activities for women to be able to burrow into the political circle in real-time. Police arrest 15 suspects With Hard Drugs In Delta Nigeria Must Become A Producing Nation – Dr. Femi… Ogunjebi declared that by 2023, the first woman senator would emerge from the state and more women would win National Assembly seats in the state. In commemoration of the year’s International Women’s Day celebration, with the theme of “Gender Equality Today For A Sustainable Tomorrow,” Mrs. Ogunjebi said there’s a need to repeal a number of obnoxious laws and policies in the country which impede women from attaining their full potentialities. FIDA and other several women groups marched to the state House of Assembly to meet the Speaker, Bamidele Oleyelogun to present their grievances. The FIDA chairperson expressed disappointment in the speaker’s decision not to honour them. She said the speaker claimed to be on recess and instructed the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Gbenga Omole to attend to them. POLL Condemning obvious discrimination against women, the FIDA chairperson said: “Gender bias is seen and experienced in the day to day activities of the female gender ranging from educational systems in schools, where some designate leadership positions are compulsorily given to male students for the sole reason of their gender rather than merit. It can also be seen in instances of clothing, women are not expected to flaunt their beauty and are expected to be modest in dressing and appearance, they are expected to wear loose-fitting clothes when they are out in public, while their male counterparts are complimented for wearing tight fitted outfits.” The group also called on the state Judicial Service Commission to elevate more women to the bench, saying currently in Ondo State, there are just four women in the bench while there are about twenty-one men.