ABUJA – A group, Centre for Leadership Advocacy and Good Governance has warned the Coalition of Civil Societies for Equity, Justice and Good Governance to desist from distracting Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, over her alleged involvement in job racketeering in the Federal Civil Service. Abdullahi Bilal and Ambassador Richard Augustine, Leaders of the Centre for Leadership Advocacy and Good Governance, gave the warning on Monday during their solidarity protest in front of the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation in Abuja. CSOs Tell Buhari To Resist Last Minute Pressure Against… CSOs Urge NASS To Prioritise Electoral Bill Upon Resumption It would be recalled that a coalition of civil society organisations had accused the Head of the Service of the Federation, of involvement in job racketeering despite the embargo placed on employment in the country. The groups under the aegis of Coalition of Civil Societies for Equity, Justice and Good governance, also accused her of abusing her office as well as coming up with anti-people policies. They threatened to ground activities at the Federal  Secretariat if the Head of the Civil Service fails to resign at the expiration of a five-day ultimatum. Rising in Yemi-Esan’s defence, Bilal accused the Coalition of being sponsored by “elements in the civil service who are bent on fighting tooth and nail to frustrate the ongoing transformation of the public service being driven by the current administration.” According to Bilal, “While we certainly subscribe to the fact that public office holders should be accountable to society, it is, however, part of our creed as Civil Society Organisation to be objective and encourage institutions that demonstrate good governance and transparency when the need arises instead of being overbearing and critical of government’s every move or being used as a tool to disrupt laudable initiatives of reforms in the public service. POLL “One would have expected the CSOs to substantiate their sensational and inciting claims with proof of alleged racketeering, corruption, or abuse of office instead of ranting over unsubstantiated points. “The Danesi Momoh and his puppets are strongly advised to desist from attempting to bring the nobility of Civil Society Organisation to disrepute through their selfish and unprofessional conduct.” Bilal noted that under the leadership of the Head of the Civil Service that the Federal Civil Service has been witnessing rapid transformation and innovation, as “the Service is rapidly moving from an analogue to a digital system.” The Centre for Leadership Advocacy and Good Governance, therefore, urged Nigerians to refuse any attempt “to return the civil service to the days of redundancy and all-comers club of mediocre, clueless and self-aggrandising leadership.” Death Of Premiere Academy Student: CSOs Warn Against… Electoral Bill: CSOs Ask  National Assembly To Step Down 2022… Bilal pledged on behalf of the group, to remain committed in the monitoring of the programmes and activities of government, adding that the Centre, would continue to play its role in ensuring that public service and interventions by the government at all levels have positive impacts on the citizenry. Responding, AbdulGaniyu Aminu,Director of Communications in the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation commended the group for the solidarity. Aminu revealed that the Head of the Civil Service was not in the office as of the time of their solidarity visit, he, therefore, urged them to be peaceful in their solidarity protest.