Oyo State Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP) has commenced the implementation of its oriented programs to tackle the menace of erosion and other environmental disasters under the World Bank Assisted project in the state. While holding meetings with Community Leaders and other Stakeholders in various benefiting communities in the state, the Project Coordinator of Oyo NEWMAP, Engr. Omowunmi Yakub said Oyo State Government has graciously approved the commencement of desilting and clearing of waterways in all the mapped sites of seven Local Government Areas in the state. Engr. Yakub explained that work would commence immediately on the already mapped erosion sites to reduce residents’ vulnerability to flooding, which underscores the essence of the meeting. Makinde Bags Special Recognition Of Saudi Varsity Oyo: OYRTMA Accepts Fines Into Private Company Account In Ibadan “We need to engage the communities and stakeholders where the projects will be carried out as well seek for their cooperation for effective implementation, maintenance and sustainability”, he said. The Project Coordinator, therefore, implored residents of various benefiting communities to cooperate with contractors handling the project in their areas to ensure that the work is carried out within the stipulated time frame without any interference from any quarter. Engr. Yakub explained further that the seven erosion sites to work on include Olusoji/ Alaro stream, Oluyole in Ibadan, South West LGA, Ahoyaya stream, Olodo in Egbeda LGA, Ologogoro/Oremoje in Iseyin LGA, Orogun steam in Saki west LGA, Isunwin stream, Isale Alaafin High School Oyo in Atiba LGA, Iwagba/Agbonyin stream in Ogbomoso North LGA and Aborerin stream, Eruwa in Ibarapa East LGA. He emphasised that Governor Seyi Makinde’s administration in Oyo State is committed to tackling the issue of flooding in the state to alleviate the suffering of the people. Added that his vision is to put in place measures that would mitigate the menace of erosion and other natural disasters. “He is a man of his words and that is why you see him fulfilling all his election campaign promises to the people of Oyo State. POLL His administration will not relent in its efforts to improve the livelihood of the citizenry in the State”, he said. He, therefore, urged the benefiting communities to desist from the construction of structures and dumping of refuse into waterways to prevent flooding. In their different responses during the Stakeholders’ meeting, all the Chairmen of benefiting Local Government Areas commended Engr. Seyi Makinde for his determination to tackle erosion problems in the State pledged their support for effective implementation of the erosion control project in their Local Government Areas. The community leaders and residents of the erosion-prone areas appreciated the present administration under the leadership of Engr. Seyi Makinde for the gesture while they also prayed for the success of his administration.