IBADAN – Controversy has continued to trail the selection process for the next Soun of Ogbomosoland as a group has accused the kingmakers and the officials of Ogbomoso North Local Government of collecting the humongous amount of money from one of the Princes, Pastor Afolabi Ghandi Olaoye because of his rumoured closeness to the Vice President of the Country, Prof Yemi Osinbajo. The group under the aegis of Ajilete Renaissance Group, ARG in a statement issued and signed by its Secretary, Mr Majolagbe Oyedepo said that the whole process of selecting the next Soun of Ogbomosoland as presently being conducted by the Kingmakers and the Local Government staff is fraught with corruption, favouritism and undue interference and influence and as such will only lead to chaos, cheating, abuse of culture and traditions as well as court litigations. According to the group, the said Prince who had earlier gone to the media to announce his selection as the next Soun is being foisted on the people of Ogbomoso as he was not among the initial eleven contenders selected by the ruling family. The statement alleged that Prince Ghandi who is a Redeemed Pastor based in Washington DC got included in the list of the invitees after money had exchanged hands. ” It is said that the selection process is taking this questionable and ignominious dimension. The kingmakers and the Local Government officials are using this opportunity to enrich themselves and their plan is to announce the next Soun against the wishes of the teeming population of Ogbomoso sons and daughters. ” There is another rumour making the rounds that the said Prince also bought a brand new car for the arrowhead of the Ogbomoso Kingmakers. How true this claim is we can not say. But we are convinced beyond the least shadow of a doubt that the fresh screening conducted for all the twenty-five aspirants by the Kingmakers and the Local Government officials when some of them were already out of the race was a confirmation that they were up to something and they were acting the script of some paid agents. ” The statement added It expressed fear over the possible breakdown of law and order in the ancient town of Ogbomoso if the Kingmakers go ahead with their infamous plan to circumvent and thwart the process which started on a good note. ” As an association of responsible indigenes of Ogbomosoland, we will not fold our hands and allow this monumental daylight robbery and fraud to stand. We want the whole process to stop now and be reviewed. The Oyo State Governor, Engr Oluseyi Makinde must intervene as done in the Olubadan issue. Our elders because of money are inviting the wrath of the ancestors. They are turning our tradition into a money-making venture. POLL They want to set the whole town on fire. We are calling for full investigations into all these allegations and we want the state Governor to punish anyone found culpable of attempts to subjugate and sacrifice culture and traditions as well as uprightness at the altar of monetary gains and inducement. ” ARG stressed The statement hinted that the Association is not against any particular candidate or canvassing for anyone but its main concern is for the selection process to be just, thorough and devoid of hanky-panky.