DAMATURU – The government of Japan, UN Women in collaboration with Yobe State Government have today officially commissioned Women and Girls Entrepreneurship Development and Empowerment Hub at Damaturu town and storage facility for Rice milling. In her welcome address, Hauwa Bah Abubakar, Commissioner Yobe State Ministry of Women Affairs said that the Women Entrepreneurship Development and Empowerment Hub was renovated and reactivated with skills acquisition equipment and materials by UN Women through ‘The Strengthening Resilience in the Lake Chad Region’ funded by Japanese Government. “As we are all aware, women’s economic empowerment boosts productivity, increase economic diversification and wealth creation in addition to other positive development outcomes. This Empowerment Hub project is a worthy cause that will bring great benefits to our women. We are grateful to partner with UN Women to make this project a reality that will lead to substantial opportunities for women. “As entrepreneurship is a means of earning money and contributing to the family income, women who are economically empowered contribute more to their family and by extension the society. The Women Entrepreneurship Development and Empowerment Hub (WEDEH) will, therefore, no doubt provide skills training for women entrepreneurs with low skills, those from a lower economic background and women and girls affected by the insurgency. “Your Excellency, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is worthy to note that investing in women’s economic empowerment is a strategy towards gender equality, poverty eradication and inclusive economic growth. It is in line with the above that the government under the able leadership of His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni made concerted efforts and supported the Ministry in the discharge of its responsibilities through laudable programmes and policies that promote women’s development issues and children’s welfare. In most of the interventions, particular emphasis is placed on the rable groups and rural women in order to alleviate poverty among the women and improve their economic status for self-reliance. “Distinguished Guest, Ladies and Gentlemen, let me seize this opportunity to extend our profound gratitude on behalf of the Ministry of Women Affairs, beneficiaries and the entire Womenfolk in Yobe to His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni for the untiring support given to the Ministry in the discharge of its mandate”. “It is worthy to note that Yobe State is one of the (3) States in the North-East Geo-political zone that was worse affected by the insurgency, the State has recorded the rise and increase in the number of widows and orphans. The UN- Women has always supported initiatives that complimented the efforts of the Government in bringing relief and restoration of women and girls affected by the insurgency and the Covid-19 pandemic that destroyed economic life globally. “Ladies and Gentlemen, permit me to note that Economic empowerment is one of the most powerful routes for women to achieve their potential and advance their rights. The collaboration and partnership with UN-Women aimed at improving and enhancing the livelihood of women and girls have enabled the Ministry to Your Excellency, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is worthy to note that investing in women’s economic empowerment is a strategy towards gender equality, poverty eradication and inclusive economic growth. It is in line with the above that the government under the able leadership of His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni made concerted efforts and supported the Ministry in the discharge of its responsibilities through laudable programmes and policies that promote women’s development issues and children’s welfare. In most of the interventions, particular emphasis is placed on the vulnerable groups and rural women in order to alleviate poverty among the women and improve their economic status for self-reliance. POLL “Distinguished Guest, Ladies and Gentlemen, let me seize this opportunity to extend our profound gratitude on behalf of the Ministry of Women Affairs, beneficiaries and the entire Womenfolk in Yobe to His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni for the untiring support given to the Ministry in the discharge of its mandate. She added “Your Excellency, permit me to extend on behalf of the beneficiaries and the entire staff of the Ministry of Women Affairs our sincere appreciation UN-Women and by extension, the Japanese Government for supporting women and girls in the state by renovating and reactivating this Empowerment Hub and construction of storage facility, wall fencing and drainage at Women Rice Processing Mill in Gashu’a, Bade Local Government at the total cost of N77,276,488.89. “The supports were aimed at not only imparting vocational skills but also encouraging entrepreneurship development for self-reliance, wealth creation and economic development in the state. It will equally contribute to the improvement of the socio-economic conditions among women and encourage them to become active players in transforming their lives and positively impact their families and communities. We are really grateful. “Your Excellency, permit me also to seize this opportunity to solicits and requests for a Toyota Bus that will serve as a utility vehicle at the Entrepreneurship Development and Empowerment Hub. The Bus if provided would improve smooth day to day operational activities of the Empowerment Hub for enhanced service delivery.”