LAGOS – Mr. Samuel Inyang, a father to one of the five students who allegedly bullied Sylvester Oromoni (Jnr), a 12-year-old student of Dowen College on Monday told the court sitting in Ikeja that his son had par­oxysm and can’t make it to the court. Mr. Inyang made this known while giving his testimony be­fore a coroner, Mikhail Kadiri, in the ongoing inquest to un­ravel the circumstances behind the death of the schoolboy. Inyang, a trader, explained that his son had been suffering from paroxysms since he vis­ited the police station to give his statement concerning the death of his schoolmate. UPDATE: Police Parade Suspected Killer Of Missing BRT Passenger,… (UPDATE) Missing BRT Passenger: We Have Arrested Driver –… During a cross-examination with Akin George, a state law­yer, Mr. Inyang explained that his son was invited to the police station to make a statement. “Why didn’t you volunteer your statement in this deposi­tion to the police?” The lawyer asked. Responding, Mr. Inyang said that he wasn’t told to write a statement. “Are you satisfied with the position of the DPP (Depart­ment of Public Prosecution) on January 4 that exonerated your son?” The lawyer asked. He replied in the affirmative. He however said he did not have medical paper to support the said medical conditions of his son. POLL According to a statement he deposed to the court, he ex­plained that his son had “parox­ysm and suffered shaking since he returned from the police. He also agreed that his son had no reason not to appear before this inquest Earlier in the proceedings, the coroner had asked his law­yer, Olumide Akinnimi, the relevance of the witness’ testi­mony to the court and why the schoolboy was not present to give his testimony. But the lawyer said that “the father is testifying because his son is still experiencing trau­ma. He hasn’t been able to sleep.” However, the coroner in­sisted Mr. Inyang’s testimony wasn’t relevant to the ongoing inquest. Kidnappings: Ex NOA Boss Bemoans Frequent Attacks On Traditional… GAJI Trains 80 On Protection Against SGBV In Benue “I will prefer the student himself and if you do not pro­vide him, I will have to sum­mon him,” the coroner said. He added that the allegation is that the deceased was bullied, beaten and given a chemical substance to drink and the fa­ther isn’t directly involved in the matter because he isn’t the nurse, doctor or IPO, hence his testimony isn’t relevant to the inquest.