A member representing Dukku/Nafada Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hajiya Aishatu Jibril Dukku, has empowered 300 women from her constituency with #10,000 each. The distribution took place on Sunday afternoon at the Dukku township stadium and the lawmaker said the empowerment programme which is intended to enhance the domestic businesses of women in the area, will be a continuous one as the second phase will soon take off. According to her, the economic hardship that has bedevilled the globe which has pushed a lot of families into poverty moved her into making the distribution. Private: BREAKING: Customers Groan As Gombe Revenue Board Seals… Inuwa Swears In New Acting Chief Judge For Gombe She commended Governor Inuwa Yahaya and his wife, Hajiya Asma’u who were present at the occasion for creating an enabling environment for women in the State to make meaningful contributions in the governance of the State. She also commended the Inuwa administration for executing many projects in the constituency especially, those that were aimed at uplifting the educational standard of girls. In his remarks, Governor Inuwa Yahaya assured that his administration will prioritize Dukku and Nafada Local Government Areas in the execution of some projects especially those that have to do with the provision of water. The Governor who promised to dredge all the water dams in Dukku LGA because of their age-long challenges of potable water also commissioned an ongoing rehabilitation of all boreholes from Gombe Abba river into Dukku town. While thanking Hajiya Aishatu for the empowerment programme, Governor Inuwa promised to continuously work together with the Rep member to better the lives of the constituents. POLL The wife of the Governor, Hajiya Asma’u Inuwa Yahaya, said the empowerment will go a long way in alleviating the problems faced by women in the home front considering their position as homemakers and nation builders. She then warned the women against the misuse of the funds given to them.