LAGOS  – Africa Nations cup reigning champions, Senegal, has reached out to the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA), the Nigeria’s travel and tourism trade group. The partnership according to a statement by NANTA is to ramp up mutual beneficial intelligence and market capacity sharing relationship on tourism trade. The statement hinted that NANTA would bring its massive presence and experience of its over 6,000 members across Nigeria to stimulate the Senegal and Nigeria tourism handshake across the vast West Coast of Africa, while the Senegal team represented by its government powered tourism board would fund expansive and exclusive trade workshops on Senegal tradocultural and sport tourism offerings. It said that NANTA would help navigate the destination Senegal expectations, a notable tourism feat the association has championed as part of its Africa to Africa tourism diplomacy under its current leadership. Susan Akporiaye, President, NANTA who led key members of her executives to the meeting at its Lagos office, assured the Senegalese tourism board team that the body have the connection, experience and reach to drive the destination Senegal initiative in Nigeria. In a bid to commence immediate work on the relationship, Akporiaye offered a free exhibition stand to Senegal at its annual trade conference in Kano later this month, which would enable it to showcase its tourism products and offerings. She further informed the Senegal trade team led by khadim Amar, Senior Project Manager, Mamadou Moustapa, Religious Tourism Product Manager and Consultant; Sakina Renneye that NANTA would leave no stone unturned in pursuit of partnering with willing African tourism bodies. She declared that the association was committed to sharing tourism trade prosperity with Senegal. POLL Khadim Amar, who spoke at the strategic meeting, expressed their gratitude to NANTA whose support and commitment to the growth of joint tourism initiatives and action plans in Africa he said had become legendary. He said: “We are grateful for this opportunity to meet with NANTA, to plan and agree together especially as Africans on how the continent, can benefit from tourism trade promotion.”