EMMANUEL OBETA Search Engine Optimisation (SEO) This, in a nutshell describes all the tactics used to help improve a website’s chances of ranking high in search engine results. Phillips Consulting Provides Insight Into ‘Future’ At… Digital Online Marketing As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (3) The essence of optimising your website can only be appreciated when you realise that there are about 1.86 billion websites across the whole world (Ogi Djuraskovic, 2021). This is, besides the more than 570 million blogs on the internet, as represented by activities on WordPress, Tumblr, Blogger, Wix, Squarespace, and Medium; vlogs, social media (Facebook, Instagram, (LinkedIn) pages across the world. The implication therefore, is that owning a web page or site or a blog page is not a guarantee that your web content will be seen at all not to even talk about being watched, read or listened to. Google has become one of the most reliable as well as the first places people turn to when they’re looking for anything (the answer to a question, directions to a nearby business, a product they’re looking to buy). Based on such requests or search information from Google where your web page appears in the search result is very critical in determining whether people will discover or even get to see your web page or not. POLL Chances are that an average search will not go beyond the first ten listings on the search result except the search definition is not throwing up the exact information being sought by the individual in which case he or she restarts the search by refining or changing the search parameters. Consequently, showing up on the first page of Google can make a huge difference in how many people discover and visit your website. According to research studies, for a typical search query, the number one result will receive 40-60% of the total traffic for that query, with the number two and three results receiving significantly less traffic. Only 2-3% of searchers click beyond the first page of search results. Search engine optimisation can also be looked upon as the process of improving the quality and quantity of a website traffic or a web page from search engines. SEO therefore targets unpaid traffic (known as “natural” or “organic” results) rather than direct traffic or paid traffic. Search engines like Google and Bing use bots to crawl pages on the web, going from site to site, collecting information about those pages and putting them in an index. Digital Online Marketing As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (2) Betking Gifts Customers With Brand New SUVs At AFKON Campaign… This index can be looked upon like a giant library where a librarian can pull up a book (or a web page) to help you find exactly what you’re looking for at the time. After the web pages have been indexed, algorithms then analyse pages in the index, taking into account hundreds of ranking factors or signals, to determine the order that the pages should appear in the search results for a given query. Using the same library analogy, the librarian like the algorithms would have read every single book in the library or index and can tell you exactly which one will have the right answers to your questions. These algorithms take into account hundreds or even thousands of different ranking factors to determine the rankings of their search result page (SERPs). It is, however, important to note that three of these metrics or ranking factors are primary core metrics that search engines evaluate to determine the quality of a site and how it should be ranked. • Links – Links or reference tags from other websites play a key role in determining the ranking of a site in Google and other search engines. The reason is that a link can be seen as a vote of quality or authority from other websites, since website owners are unlikely to link to other sites that are of poor quality. Sites that acquire links from many other sites gain authority (called “PageRank” in Google) in the eyes of search engines, especially if the sites that are linking to them are themselves authoritative. • Content – Search engines also analyze the content of a webpage to determine if it would be relevant for any given search query. Don’t forget that the primary role of a search engine is to provide relevant information to those who are seeking for such information from them, the primary basis on which the search engine themselves will be evaluated. So, a large part of SEO is in creating content that is targeted towards the keywords that search engines’ users are searching for. • Page structure – The third core component of SEO is page structure. Because webpages are written in HTML, how the HTML code is structured can impact a search engine’s ability to evaluate a page. Including relevant keywords in the title, URL, and headers of the page and making sure that a site is crawlable are actions that site owners can take to improve the SEO of their site. • According to Google “Crawlers look at webpages and follow links on those pages, much like you would if you were browsing content on the web. They go from link to link and bring data about those webpages back to Google’s servers.” Crawlability describes the search engine’s ability to access and crawl content on a page. Therefore, a site has no crawlability issues, when the web crawlers or spiders can access all its content easily by following links between pages. However, broken links or dead ends might result in crawlability issues which make the search engine unability to access specific content on a site. Indexability, on the other hand, refers to the search engine’s ability to analyze and add a page to its index. Even though Google could crawl a site, it may not necessarily be able to index all its pages, typically due to indexability issues. It is, however, important to note that unlike paid search ads, you can’t pay search engines to get higher organic search rankings or positions, which means that SEO experts will have to put in a lot of work to ensure that the web page’s ranking and position is elevated in the search results.