LAGOS – Honourable Moshood Salvador, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and founder of Conscience Forum, has said that he is not confident that the 26th convention date of the party will hold as proposed. Salvador in a chat with Daily Independent warned that if the leaders fail to do the right thing, there will be grave consequences for the party in 2023, pointing out that a situation where the date of the convention has been shifted many times without cogent reason is not good for a strong party like the APC. He said, “When you talk about the March 26th date of our convention, whether it is feasible or not, I can confidently say that I cannot beat my chest and say that whatever decision or directive that our leaders, the caretaker committee and others, make should be followed. APC Caretaker Committee Meets, May Shift Convention Date “Until it happens I cannot say that it is feasible. This is because they can wake up the next morning and change the date. Everybody is tired. We are just watching. It is worrisome that they are taking things for granted. The elders of our party should call them to order because they seem to be taking too many things for granted and that is very dangerous for our party. “They believe that members are fools. They shouldn’t think that they have all the powers in the world because power belongs to the Almighty Allah,” he said. The former Lagos State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lamented that the leaders feel that the governors are the only relevant people in the party. “They will give directives, and as you are planning, before you know what is happening they will change everything without any excuse or regard for your feelings. It is for that reason that they will sit down and say that they have given the party to state governors. If they are good politicians they won’t do that. They have rendered the party useless because the governors are now the ones in control,” he said. On the speculation that the action of the party leaders will likely have a negative effect on the party in 2023, he said, “It is for that reason that we have been warning them because it won’t pay us if the party loses. We are the ones who will suffer; the governors won’t be affected. We are appealing to them to change their leadership style. POLL “If you come to a state like Lagos and say that somebody like Honourable Salvador is not relevant, as long as you can talk to Sanwo-Olu, so be it. “If you say that Rauf Aregbesola is not relevant in Osun State, it is unfortunate, or that Lai Mohammed is not relevant in Kwara State and that Ibikunle Amosu cannot be reckoned with in Ogun State, you are gradually killing the party,” Salvador said.