AWKA – The Catholic Women Organization, (C.W.O), Basilica of the Most Holy Trinity, Onitsha, has presented an award of excellence to the wife of the Governor of Anambra State, Dr (Mrs) Ebelechukwu Obiano, for her role in governance and charity. The Catholic women group, while presenting the award to the governor’s wife at Aguleri, said that Governor Willie Obiano’s eight years of stellar performance in office enjoyed strong support from his wife who used her charity organization, Caring Family Enhancement Initiative, CAFE, to touch the lives of the indigent and less privileged persons positively. Before presenting the award to Mrs Obiano, the President of CWO Basilica of the Most Trinity, Onitsha, Pharmacist Ify Onochie, described the Governor’s wife as a great achiever who has set a remarkable record in philanthropy and redefined the concept of charity. Hamilton Deserves More Recognition, Says Wolff She noted that the Governor’s wife has been consistent in advocacy for the protection of vulnerable women and children as well as in her practical works of charity in support of widows, the physically and mentally challenged persons. Accepting the award, Mrs Obiano said she felt elated to be considered worthy of the honour by women of faith like the CWO who had over the years demonstrated immense love for her and her family. She explained that she has always loved to identify with women because of the strong role they play in both religious and societal development. Mrs Obiano called on the women organisation not to relent and appealed to them to extend the strong support she enjoyed to her successor and the wife of the Governor-elect, Mrs Nonye Soludo to enable her to succeed. Mrs Obiano allayed fears that her charity organization, CAFE, would close down at the expiration of her husband’s tenure, reaffirming that she would continue to carry out her humanitarian programmes outside government in much the same way she has done in the last eight years. Justifying the Organisation’s choice of Mrs Obiano for the award, a member of the group’s Planning Committee, Lady Rose Ekwenibe, earlier said that Osodieme was adjudged a pillar of support in good governance and in providing succour to the less privileged, and assured her that Anambra women are solidly behind her in her future endeavours. POLL The colourful ceremony was witnessed by theAnambra State Commissioner for Children and Women Affairs, Lady Ndidi Mezue and representatives of the Rector of the Basilica Rev Frs Christogonus Ibemere and Megwalu. Obiano’s wife in a group photograph with members of CWO Onitsha shortly after the award presentation at Aguleri.