IBADAN – The Chairman of Oyo State Universal Education Board (SUBEB), Dr Nureni Adeniran, has publicly declared his intention to represent the people of Oyo South Senatorial District at the Red Chamber. Nureni, who once eyed the governorship seat in the state has on Friday at the State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Secretariat, Molete Ibadan declared his interest to contest for the Senate. Declaring his interest before the mammoth crowd comprises the party leaders across all the nine local government areas of the senatorial district, his loyalists and journalists, Nureni maintained that he’s strongly determined to contest at the forthcoming 2023 general elections. He said, ” I’m here at the state party secretariat of Peoples Democratic Party Oyo State PDP to officially inform the party and to officially declare my interest to contest for the position of senator in the Oyo South senatorial district and to also make an official declaration to the world that I’m contesting this coming election. “Bearing in mind that the party has already released the guidelines towards the process of nominating candidate for the 2023 general elections and I find it auspicious to come out in the open to tell the entire people of Oyo South senatorial district that I’m interested in contesting for the position of Senator in that senatorial district. Earlier before now I have made consultation in all the nine local government areas in the Oyo South senatorial district. “I have met with the party leaders in all these nine local government areas , I have met with the executives and local government chairmen in all these local government and I’m going to further meet with party members of various local government of the district in line with the program that has been earmarked for this particular process, and as you also know that our party has already said that the commencement of forms has commenced, so any moment from now I will also go further to go and purchase the form and contest for the primaries in PDP Oyo South senatorial district. Nureni said. Briefing journalists on the reason he wanted to contest, Nureni said, “the reason why I’m coming out to contest is to avail the people of the senatorial district of my service to provide quality representation and to let them see an established feedback mechanism which suppose to be between the constituents and the legislator and to also contribute to the growth of infrastructure in the senatorial district so as to assist what the Oyo State Government is already doing in the area of education, health and other infrastructure facilities. “I’m contesting because I want to also maintain the fact that the party leaders that are the vehicles through which we get into an authority during election are not jettisoned. We need to have a program to ensure that there is a regular feedback mechanism in form of regular constituency meetings in Oyo South senatorial district. He said. POLL While speaking about whether he has consulted the state Governor Engr. Seyi Makinde about his ambition, Dr Nureni said, “Everybody has seen that the governor is transforming the state from poverty to prosperity and I’m serving under him, he’s my principal and my leader, he’s the leader of the party, it will be a great disservice and out of point for me not to have informed him of my interest and as a leader and a father of all, he said you’re free like any other person to aspire, the people, the party members will decide at the appropriate time without any problem or any rancour.” When asked on when he’s going to resign from his current office as SUBEB Boss to fully pursue his ambition, he said, ” I’m a lawyer, I have seen the electoral act and I know I’m going to resign at the appropriate time to be able to ventilate this my ambition so there is no issue or any problem at all. “I’m strongly determined to contest for this election and I would resign at the appropriate time, I know the appropriate time to resign and when I do that it will be in the news, everybody will get to know about it. Nureni stressed.