LAGOS – The 22-year-old fashion designer, Ms. Ayanwole Oluwabamise who was reported missing after boarding a BRT Bus from Ajah area of Lagos State has been found dead. The Lagos State Police Command confirmed this development in a press statement on Monday. A statement signed by the Command’s spokesperson, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu stated that the body of the deceased lady was found on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community, Lagos Island. Nigerian React As Missing BRT Lady Is Found With Private Parts… Lagos BRT Workers Begin Strike The statement reads in part: “The Lagos State Police Command regrets to inform the public that Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the 22-year-old lady who got missing in transit while on board a BRT bus on 26/2/2022 has been found dead. The corpse was found lying on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community, Lagos Lagos Island. The corpse has been deposited at the morgue of the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, for autopsy.” “The bereaved family has been contacted and family members have identified the corpse as that of Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the lady earlier declared missing.” The Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, is saddened by this incident and, therefore, expresses, on behalf of the management, officers and men of the command, his heartfelt condolence to the bereaved family. Notwithstanding the detectives handling the case of Oluwabamise, would not rest on their oars until her killers are found. We, therefore, assure the concerned public and the bereaved family that we are closing on the culprits and we are sure that soon the suspects would be arrested and made to face justice for this murderous act. POLL While soliciting the cooperation of all and sundry, we once again appeal to anyone with additional information that could help the police in arresting the suspects to kindly oblige us. Such information, we assure, will be treated with utmost confidentiality. The Command is ever determined and committed to protection of lives and properties of residents in the state; and has strengthened its security apparatus to prevent a recurrence of this ugly, disturbing incident.”