As orientation training of over 1,700 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream One Corps members deployed to Ogun State ends on Tuesday, 3 corps camp directors were honoured with letters of commendation. Speaking during the closing ceremonies at the Sagamu camp, the Ogun State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Dr Belinda Faniyi listed the names of the honorees as Isiaq Yusuf Olayiwola, Okpara Chinonso Kennedy and Nobel Gift Oreoluwa. She explained that the 3 corps camp directors were recognised for exemplary conduct during the three-week training programme. Earlier, the NYSC Director-General, Major-General Shuaibu Ibrahim, in an address delivered by Dr Faniyi, charged the corps members to accept their letters of deployment to various Places of Primary Assignment in good fate. He appealed to the corps members to put into use the lessons learned during the three-week Orientation course for personal development and upliftment of their host communities. Besides, he appealed to them to take Post-Camp training of the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme seriously to be self-reliant and employer of labour. The DG disclosed that the Scheme had been in partnership with several stakeholders that empower Corps Members with loans and business grants.He added that the Scheme had been advocating for the establishment of the NYSC Trust Fund, which had passed through the first, second readings and also public hearings at the National Assembly. He assured that once the bill is passed into law and assented to by President Mohammadu Buhari, the NYSCTF would enable corps members to get start-up capital in line with their skills. POLL “All trainees with bankable business proposals would be supported with start-up grants. You will, in turn, be expected to step down vocational training or employ a good number of youths of your host community.He added, “That way, we will be pulling millions of Nigerians out of poverty, thereby stemming the tide of youth restiveness and the tendency for criminality.” Ibrahim urged the corps members to respect and learn the culture of their respective host communities; abide by the rules and regulations in their places of primary assignment and avoid any activity that can endanger their safety. “… Be security conscious and don’t endanger your safety. Please don’t travel at night. “Make sure you board vehicle at the designated motor parks, don’t travel at night and don’t travel without permission from the NYSC. Ensure you reflect on all the four cardinal programmes of the Scheme, as you have been taught in camp,” the DG added. He appealed to employers of corps members, States, local governments and schools to accord priority to their welfare, and provide the enabling environment to develop their potential. To the Federal Government, he said, “I express profound gratitude to the Federal Government for its unwavering support for the Scheme. In the same vein, we appreciate the support of State Governments, Local Government Councils, Security Agencies, the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, traditional rulers, Corps Employers and other stakeholders.”