As the Lagos State University (LASU) turns out 112 First Class graduates, the former governor of the State, and leader of the All Progressives Party (APC), Ahmed Bola Tinubu and other stalwarts of the party will storm the Ojo main campus of the university for the 25th convocation lecture. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the former governor of Lagos State is expected to deliver the university’s 25th convocation lecture titled: “Global Trends: Nigeria’s Rightful Place in the World” scheduled for Tuesday, 22nd March, 2022. Speaking at a world press conference to announce activities for the ceremony, the Vice-chancellor, Professor Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello disclosed that the lecture will be chaired by his Excellency, Aminu Bello Masari, Governor of Katsina State. According to the VC, other activities lined up for the convocation include the conferment of Emeritus Status on Distinguished Professor Peter Okebukola. Other events for the convocation include Honourary Doctorate degrees (Honoris causa) to be conferred on the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullah I Umar Ganduje, Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, and Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman/CEO, Nigeria in Diaspora Commission. Others are Chief Goodie Ibru, Chairman, Ikeja Hotels and Mrs. Ibunkunoluwa Awosika, Founder/CEO, The Chair Centre, Lekki, Lagos. Giving a breakdown of the graduating students, the VC announced that LASU will present diplomas, first and higher degrees to a total of 7, 232 graduates of the University for the 25th Convocation. She announced Olowu Benjamin Damilare, from the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering as the best graduating student with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.97. POLL Besides, she revealed that two Master’s degree students will be graduating with a perfect score of 5.0 CGPA from the Department of Religions and Peace Studies, Faculty of Arts. The VC expressed delight at the development, saying the 25th convocation marked the first time the institution will be graduating 112 first-class students at a go. “These graduates have fulfilled the requirements for the award of the degrees of this great institution, and on behalf of the entire university community, I congratulate them, their parents and guardians and wish them the very best as they enter the next phase of their lives. “I also challenge them to continue to reach for the stars and be value additions to our society. Our society is in serious need of solution providers. That is what we have trained them to be, and that is what I charge them to be. Besides, the VC announced that the First Class graduates that wished to work would be given jobs as a policy of the university.