Following the recent crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated that the party’s National Convention would hold on March 26. In a statement titled, ‘President Buhari asks for order in the APC’. And issued by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, Buhari warned the leaders and members of the party to desist from “name-calling and backstabbing”. The president urged APC members to “remain steadfast and maintain unity if the party is to continue in the path of victory and its dominance at all levels throughout the country”. APC Clarifies Position On CECPC’s Secretary APC: Stop Airing Our Dirty Linens In Public, Matawalle Warns… While tasking them to learn from the failure of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), he said “Look at the once-powerful, main opposition Peoples Democratic Party now enfeebled and adrift and learn lessons in disunity, mismanagement and corruption.” The statement read, “They (PDP) failed in 16 years in power and a failure as opposition. “Yes, we are entitled to our own share of dissent and intra-party discord. These are common in all parties, left and right all over the world. “But parties splintered by competing egos destine themselves to the worst possible fate. “As the country prepares for the long run-up to the 2023 presidential election, we all expect a robust debate on the issues that matter and what is going in the APC should be a reflection of this, not the infighting we are seeing. There must be no more distractions ahead of the convention to choose new leaders.” POLL He claimed that APC started out with a confidence of victory and enjoyed confidence in nearly two-thirds of Nigeria’s 36 states. “This is a party that has been in existence barely for eight years, becoming the dominant party because it has thrown open its doors to defectors from other parties, big and small. “This alone, in addition to the fact that we didn’t start on the note of arrogance of power, nor see government as a vehicle for self-aggrandisement, to be held at all costs, but a vehicle to bring development to all without discrimination-political, ethnic or regional to our dear country made this success possible.  