P/Harcourt – History was made yesterday when one of the best airlines in the world, Qatar Airways made its inaugural flight to the city of Port Harcourt, Rivers state to open a new vista of business contact. Speaking at the maiden reception of the airline at the international wing of the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, the Nigerian Ambassador to Qatar, Yakubu Ahmed, said the new flights connection from Port Harcourt to Doha, through Qatar Airways will provide important travel and trade links and promote business relationship between Nigeria and Qatar. Ahmed said his responsibility was to engineer a cordial relationship between Qatar and Nigeria and that the careful choice of Port Harcourt which is the hub of oil and gas in Nigeria would open a lot of business opportunities to the two countries. Qatar Airways Debut In Kano On Thursday, the Qatar Airways Boeing 787 Dreamliner with registration number A7BCX passenger aircraft landed the Port Harcourt at exactly 11:16 am, marking the start of three new weekly services to Nigeria’s petroleum capital from Doha via Abuja. “The new flights provide important travel and trade links between Nigeria and the world. As the largest economy in Africa, this enhanced global connectivity via the new Qatar Airways service will provide a vital network to move goods and people, as we recover from challenges of the pandemic and prioritize growth. “My responsibility as the Ambassador of Nigeria to Qatar is to engineer economic prosperity between Nigeria and Qatar. I look forward to a robust relationship between Qatar Airways and Nigeria”, said Ambassador Ahmed. Also speaking,  Qatar Airways’ Vice President Africa, Mr Hendrik du Preez, said the new route will connect Port Harcourt, via Hamid International Airport in Doha, to more than 140 destinations through Qatar Airways’ network. Preez also announced that Qatar Airways was the official airline of the Qatar 2022 FIFA world cup expected to kick start later in the year and wished the Super Eagles of Nigeria good luck in the forthcoming global football fiesta. POLL “Port Harcourt is an important economic hub for Nigeria, and we hope these new flights, linking it to the world’s financial and petrochemical capitals, will contribute to its ongoing success and pave the way for future growth. We anticipate good reciprocal demand between Port Harcourt and destinations in the USA and UK. “With the launch of our new service to Port Harcourt, Qatar Airways’ presence in Nigeria now covers four key markets and is a real affirmation of our commitment to the country.” “Qatar Airways has stayed steadfast in its commitment to Africa throughout the pandemic. It has since grown its route network, considerably improving connectivity to and from the continent and providing passengers with more choice and convenience”, Preez said. Responding, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, who officially received the inaugural flight of Qatar Airways to Port Harcourt, said the flight connection would enhance economic prosperity in the country. Represented at the event by his deputy, Dr. Ipalibo Harry-Banigo, Governor Wike said the development will boost foreign direct investment into the region. “We appreciate Qatar Airways for choosing Port Harcourt as a destination of choice. This is happening at a time Rivers state is witnessing infrastructural renaissance with 10 flyovers being delivered to ease movement around the state. “The Governor is a business friendly Governor and has been working tirelessly to improve ease of doing business in Rivers State. This will further enhance the economy of this region and also boost the economy of Nigeria through enhancement of foreign direct investments in the country”.