BENIN – Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, Professor Iyorwuese Hagher, Chairman, Contact & Advocacy Council, Dr Bukola Saraki Presidential Campaign Organisation, has urged Nigerians to elect the next president based on competence and not on religion or ethnicity. Hagher, who made the appeal in Benin while soliciting support from Edo State delegates ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, primaries, said unfortunately Nigerians have been using ethnicity and religion in choosing leaders of the country. While stating that his principal, Saraki is a man with no ethnic or religious bias, the Chairman boasted that Saraki stands tall and remains the most competent and qualified aspirant among others. While stating that Nigeria’s problem is not resources but leadership, Hagher added: “Nigeria has refused to identify the right man and put him in a leadership position. We choose our leaders based on religion; we choose leaders based on zoning; we choose our leaders based on identity politics. Nigeria is a diverse society. “We cannot continue to use these parameters in choosing our leaders, especially the position of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. therefore, he is offering himself as the president that the whole of Nigeria will identify with.” Hagher who disclosed that Saraki has promised the women 35 per cent representation in leadership positions if elected as president, added that his principal would make youths below 35 years of age to be ministers in all the ministries. “He has promised 35 per cent representation to the women. Likewise, the youths should have hope. Each ministry will have a minister who is a youth. All the 36 states will produce a minister that is below the age of 35 because he believes in the youths,” he added. Hagher who stated that his principal is committed to rescuing Nigeria from the major crisis the All Progressives Congress, APC, has plunged the nation into, lamented that: “Nigeria is in the emergency ward. Nigeria is sick. And if the country is sick, then it needs a medical doctor to attend to it, a man that will fix Nigeria by setting it back on its fit. POLL “When the PDP came to power, we offset all debt, but within seven years of the APC coming into power, we have been plunged into debt. It has been loan upon loan and it is increasing every day. Hagher, who is above 70 years urged those above 70 aspiring for the presidency to allow the younger ones to rule, stressing that they are more energetic and will do better. Responding on behalf of the Edo State chapter of the PDP and the State Working Committee, Mr Harrison Omagbon, Deputy Chairman of Edo PDP expressed fear that if the APC govern the country for another four years, Nigeria may seize to exist as a nation He said listening to the brilliant presentation by the organisation, Saraki is good to go as president.