LAGOS  – The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), has assured pensioners under the defined benefits scheme (DBS) which it manages of prompt payment of their pensions as at when due. According to the directorate, pensioners under the Defined Pension Benefit Scheme should not entertain any fear of anybody delaying their pension benefits by paying such into any accounts for personal interest adding that it has put in place a robust pension arrangement solution to check corrupt practices in the civil service. Mr. Sulayman Shelleng, PTAD Director Civil Service Pension, who stated these while speaking at the one-day capacity building training for pension journalists in Lagos recently, added that the directorate did not operate any commercial account but operated the government recommended Treasury Single Account (TSA) in payment of their monthly pension benefits. FirstBank Rewards Customers With N50m Worth Of Prizes In Verve… Over 100 Million Nigerians Don’t Have Recognised ID – Report “Pensioners under the Defined Pension Benefit Scheme should not entertain any fear of anybody delaying their pension benefit by paying such into any accounts for personal interest. PTAD is doing everything within its reach to ensure good welfare package for every pensioner under its administration.” Shelleng assured. He said the Directorate was aware of the sharp practices in the civil service in the past years but they were encouraged by the terrible condition which retired civil servants got into shortly after their active service mainly because of failure to arrange befitting pension package for them. He said as a result, when those still in active service saw such poor condition of their predecessors shortly after active service, they were tempted to steal public fund to make personal arrangement for their retirement. According to him, if there was adequate pension arrangement in place and old age poverty was eradicated through pension package and a retired civil servant looked healthy and well cared for, it would give confidence to the workers still in active service that there would be great hope for them at retirement therefore no need stealing public fund.