ABUJA – Simbi Wabote, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) on Wednesday called for Nigeria and indeed Africa to develop homegrown technology for effective operations and development of its available energy resources. Wabote, who made the call in his opening remarks at a session tagged ‘Competitive Landscape and Sustainable Development of in-country Value Addition, said the call became necessary because soon America will begin to pressure producers of oil and gas equipment to stop in order to drive their quest for greener energy. According to Wabote, there is no problem in a gradual transition to other forms of cleaner energy, where the problem lies is in forcing or setting timelines to reduce or abandon the valuable form of energy for other nations, stressing ‘it will be counterproductive and cause avoidable disruption in global energy supply’. OAU Student: Retrial Of Adedoyin, 6 Others Begins In Osun Qatar Airways Debut In Kano The NCDMB boss, recalled that when coal mattered most Nigeria was forced to abandon the resources by those who claim that coal is dirty fuel, but those with capacity and wherewithal to produce energy through coal continued with the resource. He emphasized the need for Nigeria to develop its homegrown technology to avoid it’s hydrocarbon resources being treated the same way coal was treated by giving it a cold treatment to the ongoing clamour for energy shifts. “Nigeria have abundant of coal resources without using it. When it mattered most. We are being told that coal is dirty fuel and we have moved away from it. Since we do not have the capacity for sustainable production and utilization all the nations that have coal as their local resources for energy and the wherewithal to produce required equipment for extraction and coal power plants for utilization and continue to maintain coal in the energy mix countries like China today, the total energy production in China, of course, is 50% of their energy made because it is available locally, and they have to use local resource for their existence. “All these energy transitions, it will be noticed that there is no total jettisoning of the previous form of energy up to date. So far from the form of energies available in a locality. The locals will adopt it as their form of energy to meet their needs. That is why I have alluded that the so called transition is the RE adjustment of the energy mix. As Europe runs out of forest, I’m sure most of you travelled to Europe and America ran out of forests. And hydrocarbon reserves. I understand the push for renewables and green energy to power their economies. It is all about local content in their search for their energy needs. “It is all about local content in their search for their energy needs. They are no longer seeing that terrific that served the UK for so long. It is estimated that the UK is proven oil reserves is not sufficient to sustain its domestic consumption for the next five years without an increase. POLL “Netherlands has zero barrels of proven reserves left and therefore relies heavily on oil and gas importation. reliant on this import is, therefore, an existential threat to the energy security of most of the European countries and we should understand their predicament as they push for the form of energy shifts, such that they are locally available form of energy will come into prominence in the energy mix. “The only problem is forcing or not in orders, to set timelines to reduce or abandon the valuable form of energy as I believe it will be counterproductive and cause avoidable disruption in global energy supply. We are seeing signs of this as the clamour for energy transition demotivates new investments in oil and gas development worldwide. “This is therefore to buttress the point that we need to develop our homegrown technology. If we have to be to avoid being treated, treating our hydrocarbon resources the same way we treated coal by giving it a call to the ongoing clamour for energy shifts, energy swap, and energy transition to serve as pre-notice of the impending stoppage of production of equipment, technology and consumables required to exploit hydrocarbon resources. “Take it to a live it, very soon, the United States will call all the major producers of equipment to source hydrocarbon like Schlumberger, and others and tell them don’t produce the equipment anymore for hydrocarbon resources, be producing equipment for renewables and we are going to give you grants to do that,” he said.