Since Liverpool won the Premier League in 2020, Jurgen Klopp has signed two capable heirs for his front three forwards in Diogo Jota and Luis Diaz. The duo arrived on Merseyside with bags of potential and they are now proving their ability on the biggest stage. Upon inspection of their respective impacts, it is reasonable to suggest that Jota is Roberto Firmino’s long-term successor as the player who will play through the middle for the Reds. Diaz, on the other hand, seems to be the man who will eventually replace Sadio Mane on the left. Before Firmino and Mane leave the club, all of the attacking options can perform together by rotating and adding depth to Klopp’s ranks as Liverpool chase meaningful trophies. However, one space is missing. Liverpool don’t yet have an alternative to Mohamed Salah on the right side of the pitch, as the Egyptian is left-footed which is a difficult trait to acquire in the transfer market. Salah’s consistent availability and top-level performances render a backup option as less of a pressing matter at the moment, but his future at the club remains undecided as it stands given his ongoing contract stalemate. The 29 year-old has a deal which is due to expire in the summer of 2023 and as of right now, the two parties don’t seem to be close to agreeing to a compromise. In the relatively near future, Liverpool might want to sign a left-footed forward who is younger than Salah, purely as a means of guarding against the possibility of losing him in the future. And Leeds United’s Raphinha is one of the few who fits the mould. Still just 25 years-old, the Brazilian has proved his ability in the Premier League. He’s quick, tricky and direct, and his output in terms of goals and assists would receive a significant boost at Anfield. There aren’t many players who possess similar skills to Salah while also being left-footed, but Raphinha is one of them and in the coming months, he could suffer from relegation. POLL He’s been tipped for a move to Merseyside over the past year but in recent weeks, Barcelona appear to have stepped up their interest in the South American attacker. The Spanish giants are resurgent under Xavi, who wants his wide players to be experts at winning one-on-one battles, which is one of the reasons why Adama Traore was signed from Wolves in the January transfer window. Raphinha is on Xavi’s summer shortlist according to reports, and that could be bad news for Liverpool as the club plan ahead for life with or without Salah. If Barcelona manage to acquire his services, it could make the process of replacing Salah even more difficult than it already promises to be.