Etuk Patricia, Convener of the Grassroot Women Support on Monday said that the group has vowed to work for the actualization of the presidential ambition of Funmi Ayinke in the 2023 general elections. Patricia who stated this during a one million march to mobilize support for Ayinke noted that a significant stakeholder in the development project of any society like Ayinke needs to be involved in the development of the economy. She stated while leading the women that although women and men have different biological and physiological makeup, they may share common features with men regarding educational qualifications, socio-economic status, and occupation, among others. We’ve Not Released Timetable For 2023 Elections –… 2023: Nigerians Have Resolved To Vote APC Out -PDP She said “Yet, they are marginalized in virtually all spheres of public life. In many African countries, such as Nigeria, obnoxious social norms, political exclusion, and economic lopsidedness dictate the presence and voice of women in public life. “We wish to highlight the undeniable fact that in the annals of the country, women have not had the privilege of leading this country despite their numerous contributions to the sustenance of democracy. “This is not to say women in the country are not qualified to lead the country, but rather the enabling environment has not been created as the history of Nigeria is replete with heroic exploits of women that are pacesetters, energetic, industrious and policy experts in governance and development. Patricia said the Nigerian Women Coalition for Good Governance has looked far and wide in consultation and concluded that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke, whose penchant for the country’s development, has been noteworthy. POLL “Her antecedent speaks volumes of a woman who is industrious, energetic and with the requisite experience and qualifications to turn around the fortunes of the country if allowed to lead this country in 2023. “Our endorsement of Ambassador Funmi Ayinke is hinged on the undeniable fact that she has proven herself the amazon of our time through her numerous exploits in her career and philanthropic activities. “Her development model has also elicited commendations from near and far in ways too numerous to mention. This much has been attributed to her leadership attributes that indicate a woman of substance whose penchant for thinking outside the box is legendary and what is required in addressing the myriads of challenges confronting the country. “Therefore, our firm conviction is that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke is well-positioned to lead the country to greater heights. We, therefore, call on all well-meaning Nigerians to roll out the drums in support of this amazon of our time in her quest to lead this country come 2023.