The Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, recently led a Federal Government delegation to inspect the 2nd River Niger Bridge that is being constructed by Julius Berger Nigeria Plc , as Julius Berger in conformity with its impeccable adherence to safety on site exhibited commanding engineering construction capability. Other dignitaries in the entourage of the Chief of Staff included the Minister of Works and Housing, His Excellency Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, and the Honourable Minister of Labour and Productivity, His Excellency, Dr. Chris Ngige. The Managing Director of the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Uche Orji was also on the entourage of the Chief of Staff to the President. The inspection visit commenced at the Owerri interchange end of the project, where the Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Engr. Dr. Lars Richter made a presentation to the Chief of Staff on the progress of the ongoing works. Richter spoke of Julius Berger’s introduction and implementation of innovative solutions for soil improvement using the Geotextile Encased Sand Columns (GEC) system for base reinforcement. The innovation, Richter said, is a foundation method for embankments on ground with low bearing capacity. It also consist of mega Prefabricated Vertical Drains (PVD), which speed up the settlement and consolidation process, in which settlement happens within construction period. Richter significantly put progress so far achieved on the Second River Niger Bridge works at 83% as at February 2022. Status of the works as presented showed that the substructure of the Bridge is completed, while its superstructure and finishing works are in steady progress. Secondary bridges are also completed. Richter also pointed the visitors to ongoing culverts and drainage works. POLL Julius Berger, also held a Safety brief for the important visitors prior to walking the full length of the constructed bridge where finishing works are still ongoing. Other company officials, including Engr. Friedrich Wieser the Project Director for the 2nd River Niger Bridge, accompanied the Managing Director. Richter said: “All things being equal, the second River Niger Bridge project is scheduled for commissioning by October this year. “The bridge aims to minimize traffic congestion on the old bridge and to strengthen connectivity in the entire region. “The project, which is being funded by the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority through the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund, is expected to boost economic activities and open up development in the southeastern part of the country”.