Taiwo Adeniyi, President, Nigerian Employers Consultative Association (NECA), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE speaks on how the ‘Nigeria Employers’ Summit’ will provide the private sector and other stakeholders the privilege to identify and explore the nexus between a thriving private sector and national development, among other issues. Excerpts: What is the rationale behind this event? The activation of the Nigeria Employers’ Summit, 2022, which is the maiden edition of the Nigeria Employers’ Summit, is an event that is primed for this season, and it is aimed at re-shaping the face of advocacy in Nigeria. What is its primary importance in the labour sector of the economy? As you are aware, there is no focused Employer’s advocacy platform where issues facing Employers are specifically discussed with far-reaching recommendations made to Government. This Summit is poised to bridge that gap and become the focal point of advocacy for Employers in Nigeria. Can you throw insight to the concept of the event, particularly as it is the maiden event? As generally known, the wealth of a nation is built by Organisations. POLL The level of development and prosperity of any economy can be easily linked to the health of its private sector. Therefore, a strong and competitive private sector is indispensable to the growth and economic well-being of a country. Again, from global perspective, the private sector remains a critical stakeholder and partner in any Nation’s economic development. It is a major contributor to the National Income, a principal job creator and arguably the largest employer of labour in both the formal and informal sectors in developed and emerging economies. It delivers critical goods and services, contributes to tax revenues and plays a critical role in the efficient flow of capital. A significant portion of Nigeria’s future development rests on the shoulders of the private sector. Notwithstanding this critical role in national development and its innate potential to drive the economic renaissance of the country, the private sector is still confronted with myriad challenges. Despite the growth achieved in recent months and favorable projections by global Financial Institutions, there is a wide consensus that the growth has not translated to significant improvements both at the micro and macro levels. There is, therefore, an urgent need to establish a credible national Platform on which to establish the nexus between a healthy private sector and sustained national inclusive growth, anchored on industrial harmony, decent jobs and national socio-economic renaissance. Beyondtheexplanationyou’vesofarprovided concerning the event what other importance can you say it will serve? The Summit will provide the Private Sector and other Stakeholders the privilege to identify and explore the nexus between a thriving Private Sector and National development. The Summit will identify impediments to enterprise competitiveness and employment creation as well as proffer solutions to these impediments. Workable action-points and follow-up mechanisms would also be set. Outcomes, recommendations and communiqué arising from the annual Summit would serve as a strategic Advocacy roadmap and Employer’s input into National Budgets, National Development Plans and other Economic Plans of Government. Again, the necessity of the Summit is such that NECA and its member-companies cannot miss the opportunity of reinforcing and re-affirming NECA’s position as the most credible, non-political and issues-focused voice of business, advocating for the sustainability and competitiveness of the private sector. It is such a timely event as the nation gears up for the huge market of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement and achievement of the National Development Plan 2021-2025. Also, the Summit will be a focused gathering of Employers, global business thought-leaders, Governments and other Stakeholders. Can you tell us about some of the objectives of the Summit? Some of the objectives of the Summit include, to create a credible national advocacy Platform for employers to discuss, dissect and proffer solutions to private sector challenges, and through robust discussions and interactions, the Summit outcomes will assist the government to set a National Private Sector Economic Agenda, with the view of facilitating a rapid economic and industrial renaissance of Nigeria. Also in the same vein is to promote the enthronement of the Private Sector as the engine for national development and a veritable tool for curbing the scourge of unemployment and other socio-economic vices facing Nigeria as well as deepen collaboration between Social Partners (Employers, Labour  & Government), Civil Societies and Youth Organisations. CanyoualsothrowlightontheSummitMethodology? The methodology is to create a national conversation on the complex links between enterprise competitiveness as a driver of job creation and National development, not only in Nigeria but also at the global level. This will help the Social Partners, Governments (and its Agencies); businesses and Civil Society prioritise their actions. Success stories in the promotion of enterprise competitiveness, combating youth unemployment in African will help elucidate actions that have proved to be most effective in Africa and globally. Such empirical evidence will help define a way forward for Nigeria to build on. What is theme of the event, and when is it expected to hold and where is it expected to take place? The Theme of the Summit is: The Private Sector – An Engine of National Development, and it is scheduled to hold at Transcorp Hotels, Abuja from Monday, 30th – Tuesday, 31st May, 2022. Whoaretheguestyouarelookingattograce the maiden event? The President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari is expected as the Special Guest of Honour. Other invited Guests are the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; Rt. Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives; Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, President of the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) – who is expected to give the Keynote Address; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Minister of Labour and Employment; Members of the Diplomatic Corp and Chief Executives of local and multinational firms. Havingshedlightonthesummitinallitsramifications, do you have more explanation to give in this parley? Yes, I think I have. I will say that the task of advocating for a friendly environment for businesses to thrive is a collective assignment. While Business Membership Organisations, like ours, have its role to play, members of the Press also have an important role to play. We request your partnership and collaboration in this onerous effort of ensuring enterprise competitiveness and National growth by giving massive publication to the Summit and other events. Whatadvicethatcanspurgrowthanddevelopment of the Nigerian economy does the leadership of NECA has to give the Federal Government? We have, in collaboration with other key players in the nation’s economy imploring the Federal Government to focus more on four key areas to promote sustainable growth and prosperity: achieving economic stability, leveraging the digital revolution, making development greener and more sustainable, and investing in people, saying that it is the private sector, rather than government, that can spur growth and development of the Nigerian economy. We believe it is the best way for Federal Government to speed recovery—and to build a more resilient and inclusive economy is to partner with the private sector to strengthen and diversify the nation’s export revenues and unleash its full potential to create jobs opportunities for Nigerians. What is your take on Russia/Ukraine War as to its implications on Nigeria’s economy? Looking at it from the perspective of the fact that Russia is Nigeria’s sixth-largest trade partner in terms of imports there should be implications. Apart from oil and gas, agricultural products, Nigeria imports potash, a primary ingredient for fertilizer, from Russia. So far, the disruption in global shipment occasioned by imposed sanctions against Russia as well as its aftermath has led to a surging increase in diesel and supply of petroleum to Nigeria. Also, Nigeria imports Iron Ore for the production of steel and primary manufacturing hardware from Russia. Again, both Russia and Ukraine are the largest exporters of durum wheat to Nigeria. Durum wheat is used in the production of flour for bread and noodles. Apart from this, Russia exports seafood such as mackerel, herring and other fish types to Nigeria, while Ukraine exports dairy and agricultural products to Nigeria. As with every mishap that takes Nigeria unawares, the war has revealed Nigeria’s dependence on the outside world for even subsistence. According to informed analysts, the impact of the war will see a steady rise in the price of staple foods such as bread and noodles. Agricultural products are likely to be affected since the demand for fertiliser will increase worldwide. Nigeria which also produces fertiliser, as a petroleum by-product, may want to cash in on the global demand to the detriment of local consumption.