The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has submitted the name of Iduma Igariwe as the new Governor of Ebonyi State and Fred Udogwu as his Deputy, following the court injunction that Governor David Umahi and his deputy should immediately vacate the position of the Governor of the state. Daily Independent had on Tuesday reported that Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja ruled that the defection of Governor Dave Umahi and his deputy, Dr  Kelechi Igwe, from the PDP to the APC was illegal. Justice Inyang Ekwo, in his judgement, noted that the votes which made Umahi the governor belonged to the party and could not be transferred to another party. 2023: Allow Prison Inmates To Vote During Elections, Senate… BREAKING:[Defection] Umahi, Deputy Ask Appeal Court To Set Aside… The court made the order in a judgment on a suit filed by the PDP seeking the removal of Umahi and Igwe from office. While Umahi, at a press conference in Abakaliki berated the judge and insisted that he remained the state governor, the PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, said the party had forwarded Umahi and Igwe’s replacements to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Meanwhile, the FHC Abuja held that the crux of the suit was the defection of the third defendants (governor) and the fourth defendants (deputy governor)  from the PDP to the APC. The judge said the declarations of the third and the fourth defendants did not address the issue of defection rightly and frontally but rather resorted to general denial and affidavit evidence. Justice Ekwo said the depositions of the third and the fourth defendants in their counter-affidavit were “evasive and insufficient” to competently challenge the plaintiff’s originating process. POLL He said, “The immunity clause” in Section 308 of the constitution is not absolute. Section 308 is a veritable constitutional shield”, and not for political reasons. The court said Umahi and Igwe did not controvert the deposition that total votes scored in an election belonged to a political party. Justice Ekwo said there was enough evidence that the second defendant (the APC) contested the Ebonyi State governorship election held in March 2019, with its own candidates. He stated, “It can be noted that the constitution does not deal with the issue of defection lightly. The third and fourth defendants cannot transfer the votes and victory of the plaintiff on March 9, 2019, to the APC. “Offices of the governor and deputy governor of Ebonyi State belong to the PDP. The option for Umahi and Igwe is to vacate office and wait for next election to contest election under the platform of its new party”, the court declared. INEC Reacts To Umahi’s Sack As Ebonyi Gov Umahi’s Sack: APC Slams Court Judgment, Says Its ‘Shameful,… Consequently, the court declared that under the democratic system operated in Nigeria, the plaintiff won the majority of votes during the election and was entitled to enjoy the same till the end of the tenure of office for which the election was made. The court, therefore, restrained Umahi and Igwe from further parading themselves as governor and deputy governor of Ebonyi State. In another judgment, the judge sacked 15 members of the state House of Assembly who defected from the PDP to the APC on the same grounds the governor was removed.