A socio-political group, Yoruba Ronu Group, has described, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) worldwide, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye as a divine gift to this generation. The group in a congratulatory message to the man of God on the celebration of his 80th birthday described him as “an extraordinary creature of Yoruba race and God’s special gift to mankind.” In the message signed by its Director of Communication, Steve Bayode, and made available to newsmen on Saturday, the Chairman of the group, Prince Duran Iyantan said: “Pastor Adeboye is a man of inestimable character and value, his passion for and commitment to raising the moral values and the excellence of mankind is exemplary. No human being with so much power and influence lives such a humble life. Buhari Rejoices With Adeboye, Lauds His Contributions To… Buhari Congratulates Pastor Adeboye At 80 “Pastor Adeboye, as a cleric and a true Yoruba elder statesman, has demonstrated uncommon humility and the love of God through his teaching, preaching and lifestyle. He is a true son of the Yoruba race. “We are so much proud of him and his accomplishment in his calling as a teacher and preacher of the gospel which he has used effectively to impact many lives saved lost souls and transformed lives. “The unprecedented growth of the Redeemed Christian Church of God as one of the biggest places of worship worldwide is breathtaking. “In spite of his modest upbringing, Pastor E. A. Adeboye was able to create a niche for himself as he was listed as far back as 2006, as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. “Pastor Adeboye through his calling has put the country on the map as one of the fastest nations in the growth of the Christian faith in the world. He has gone to establish the Redeem Christian Church in over 198 countries and territories of the world. POLL “Daddy G.O. as he is fondly called by his teeming followers and admirer is a man so, spiritually and intellectually, gifted, so revered, so respected in the continent and the world. He is humble, even, to his subordinates. This is indeed a reflection of a good servant of the almighty God.” The group also emphasised that Pastor Adeboye, “as a universal ambassador of the Yoruba race, has legacies and footprint on the sand of time that will forever live after him until the second coming of Christ Jesus.”