According to a report by Italian outlet Calciomercato, Arsenal could look to pounce for Inter Milan’s star striker Lautaro Martinez if he hits the market this summer. The Gunners have established contact with the entourage of the Argentine international, amid the Inter Milan’s touted interest in Juventus winger Paulo Dybala. Martinez has enjoyed a rapid rise since joining Inter Milan from Racing Club in the summer of 2018 for a measly €25 million. The young striker has gone from strength to strength with each passing season and has established himself as a mainstay in the Nerazzurri’s attacking unit, racking up 171 appearances while amassing a tally of 65 goals and 22 assists in the process. The 24-year-old was also instrumental in Inter breaking Juventus’s monopoly atop Serie A and winning the Scudetto last season. With Romelu Lukaku leaving for Chelsea last summer, Martinez has emerged as Inter’s most potent attacking weapon this season as they sought to defend their title, scoring 16 times and weighing in with two assists across all competitions. Martinez’s red-hot form and potential availability have attracted the eye of several of Europe’s leading clubs. In particular, Arsenal, who tried a move for him last summer before Inter held their start man firmly in the wake of Lukaku’s departure, are back in the hunt. The Gunners are expected to make a return for the striker in this summer transfer window as they search for a new front-man after letting Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang join Barcelona for free in January. In addition, there is the danger of a further mass exodus to follow. Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah are out of contract come summer, with both expected to leave the Emirates Stadium despite the former’s late resurgence in form, leaving just Folarin Balogun as Arsenal’s only recognised striker option ahead of next season. Arsenal are exploring deals for a number of strikers, with the likes of Dominic Calvert-Lewin, Alexander Isak, Tammy Abraham and Darwin Nunez all being linked with the North London outfit. To that end, Martinez is a viable target for the Gunners, who have already opened talks with the player’s agent over a summer move. POLL The Argentine international thrives upon making runs in behind the opposition backline and excellent finishing in front of goal, while he remains proficient at creating spaces for others with his sharp off-the-ball movement. His tremendous work rate and ability to win the ball high up the pitch are two of the main attributes that make him a suitable fit in Mikel Arteta’s side. Martinez penned fresh terms with Inter Milan only last October. As a result, the 24-year-old is now under contract until 2026, but as per Calciomercato, Martinez is not a non-transferable commodity at San Siro. However, Inter would not stand in his way should the suitor match their very reasonable €70 million asking price, with the Italian outfit eyeing a Bosman arrival of Paulo Dybala as an apt replacement in that event.