Human rights lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi, has urged Nigerians to stop criticizing Nigerian singer Timi Dakolo, for singing at the presidential declaration of the former Vice President, Abubakar Atiku. According to the lawyer, the singer has the right to perform for any politician as he is just doing his job, just like the event planners, caterers, ushers, and other who were at the event to work. The statement partly read, “For instance, Timi Dakolo’s performance at Atiku Abubakar’s Presidential Declaration event. It was, on the face and substance of it, a job where he got the roles to perform his songs to the pleasure of all in attendance while perhaps earning for himself, family and workers (props, back-up singers and other coteries of a singer’s craft) much need sustenance. It was a job! And one not unlike that done by the Master of Events, stage technicians, event planner and caterer in the whole programme. “It is a business with no bearing on the nature of the event itself, and any attempt, to sum up the performance of one’s duty as a form of support for the candidacy of a political actor must be backed up with irrefutable facts. “In Timi Dakolo’s case, for example, how does a song about love and women resound with political rhetoric in support of Atiku? How does he suffer criticism for doing the simple job of performing his song while giving even more visibility to his brand while the event planners, caterers and ushers do not, in full or half measure, endure equal suspicion of working to advance a political candidacy? Let people do their job! “It is an entirely different affair if such a musician or event planner is at the event announcing their support for the candidacy of a political actor and using their craft to clearly advance same through jingles or choruses. This is clearly distinguishable from an artist paid to entertain the guests of a political actor. “It is not a bad thing to be loved for one’s craft and be patronised accordingly without the hues and labours of political adoption. In much the same way a TV or Radio station will conveniently air sponsored ads, events and programs by the PDP, APC or any other political parties because it is their business, musicians must be allowed to run their businesses as deemed fit. Thus, the earlier we wean ourselves of wilful hatred and hypocrisy, the better for our society.”