Scott McTominay dismissed suggestions that Manchester United players “gave up” in the second half of their derby day defeat to Manchester City. United were competitive in the first half at the Etihad as Jadon Sancho cancelled out Kevin De Bruyne’s opener, before the Belgian restored their lead before halftime. But Ralf Rangnick’s men were blown out the water after the break as Riyad Mahrez’s brace put the Red Devils to the sword, sealing a 4-1 victory for the hosts. Hodgson Hits Back At Angry Watford Fans After Seeing Arsenal… Wenger Says Saka’s Penalty Miss At Euro 2020 Was… Gary Neville and Roy Keane didn’t mince their words when assessing United’s second-half performance and the former players reckon certain individuals “threw in the towel”. But McTominay, who was taken aback by that suggestion, insists it’s incredibly disappointing to hear those claims. He told Sky Sports: ‘From my point of view, on the pitch, it’s hard to see what’s going on around you but if that’s what people are saying then so be it. “They’re all entitled to their own opinion but, for myself, it’s incredibly disappointing if people think that. “I’ll have to watch it back and see body language and things like that but, for myself, it hurts. If you give a team like that all the time in the world in the second half, you’re gonna get punished. It’s as simple as that.” POLL Nevile was on commentary duty for Sky during the match and said mid-game that United players gave up in the second half in what was an “embarrassing” performance. He said: “The first thing to say is that Manchester City were outstanding, particularly in the second-half. But at the end of the game, Manchester United finished like an absolute shower. They were a disgrace in the last 25 minutes. “The scoreline isn’t the problem. It’s the response to going 3-1 down that’s the problem. They have thrown the towel in. It’s like they have nine men. “City have played brilliantly in this second half. But the effort and intensity from United in the last 20 minutes has been non-existent. “There can be no complaints. City have been absolutely outstanding. But as a Manchester United fan, it’s embarrassing.” Man City Thrash Man Utd 4-1 To Extend League Lead Arteta Plays Crucial Role In Third Arsenal Goal At Watford Keane echoed those sentiments, adding: “We saw all of United’s shortcomings today, the way United lost the game today they stopped running, no running back, it’s really unacceptable when you play for Man United and I think they threw in the towel. “They’re up against a top side but you have to tackle, you’ve got to run back, it was just a reflection of where the club is, they’re so far behind the other teams. “We hear about problems with the new manager coming in but your own pride has to kick in at some stage. I was getting really frustrated, I can forgive mistakes but you have to put your body on the line. Wan-Bissaka, Fred, Maguire, Rashford came on, I could go on, gave up four goals and City didn’t have to be at their best at all. Shame on them. “The worst thing that you could say about United is that they gave up. In any game if you give up, it’s unforgivable really.”