Erling Haaland is likely to be on the move this summer, with top clubs around Europe interested in his services. According to David Ornstein, two have emerged as the favourites to sign the Borussia Dortmund striker: Real Madrid and Manchester City. Ornstein said on Twitter: “Erling Haaland will soon decide on his future – sources believe #MCFC & #RMCF are in a straight contest for him. The Norwegian is Man City’s primary target, while Real want both him and Kylian Mbappe.” Borussia Dortmund might not want their star striker to leave but may have no choice in the matter. Ornstein also reports: “Although finances are a key factor, Haaland’s destination will be determined by personal choice and it is understood that the leading contenders expect to learn his decision in the next few weeks.” It has also been well documented that there is a release clause in his contract that activates this summer. Clubs can come in and pay the €75 million release clause and go into negotiations with the player directly. With this in place at a reasonable price for Europe’s biggest clubs considering the striker’s talent and age, it is likely that the wage package offered will play a significant role in determining his next destination. Manchester City will be coming for Haaland, with the club having failed to sign a striker the past summer window. City did bring in Julian Alvarez in the winter as another attacking option. This signing could mean Pep Guardiola’s side are ok with looking elsewhere should the Haaland deal fall through. POLL Real Madrid don’t want to let the opportunity to sign a big name player slip. The galactico period brought in many trophies for Real, but the recent departure of Cristiano Ronaldo brought an end to the era. The well documented potential Mbappe move to Madrid alongside Haaland could bring Madrid into a new golden age. Erling Haaland’s next club could come in the form of Real’s biggest rivals. Barcelona are reported to be in talks with Haaland as well, with Xavi keen to sign the striker. Barcelona have been interested for some time now and will look to make their move this summer if finances allow. Other possibilities for Erling Haaland’s next club exist, such as Bayern Munich and Paris Saint-Germain. Both clubs will be keen to upgrade on current options or replace outbound players.