IBADAN – The chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) Oyo State branch, Dr Ayotunde Fasunla has confirmed the death of two of its members to Lassa Fever. NMA Oyo State branch made known the development through a signed press statement made available to journalists on Thursday. Dr Ayotunde through the statement stated that this is to announce with deepest regret and sorrows the demise of two of her members from Lassa fever. ‘If Rihanna Was Nigerian’, Toke Makinwa Reveals What Would Have… 2022 IWD: NGO To Gift 100 Traders, Street Sweepers Food Items The tragic deaths occurred within the space of 24 hours! It is indeed a sad week, and our eyes are still soaked in tears. While we thought that COVID-19 had done its worst, we are now dealing with another onslaught of a Lassa fever outbreak. Furthermore, we are worried about other health workers who have had contact with the disease unknowingly. We have advised them to quarantine and report if they develop any symptoms of viral haemorrhagic fever. The NMA urges her members to treat all febrile illnesses with a high index of suspicion. We have instructed our colleagues to be cautious and vigilant at all times, not only for the sake of their health and safety but also in the interest of the patients and public health. Members, especially the frontline doctors and other health workers, must wear appropriate personal protective equipment (PPEs) at all times. POLL We appeal to the management of health institutions in the State to make the PPEs readily available, as well as soap and running water for hand-washing immediately after attending to patients, to protect our members and other healthcare workers from contracting transmissible infections. We appeal to the Oyo state government to conduct intensive surveillance and sensitization on Lassa fever outbreaks in affected communities as well as across all Local Government Areas in the state. Meanwhile, NMA Oyo commiserates with the families of our colleagues who lost their lives in the course of performing their professional duties to the service of humanity. May their gentle soul rest in peace.