Abia State Chapters of Senior Staff Association of Universities Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRAI) ledbyComradeGorgeOkogbueandNon Academy Staff Union of Educational And Associated Institutions (NASU) headed by Comrade Smart Ukairo have commenced strike against overstay in office by Executive Director, National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) Umudike, Prof. J.U. Ukpabi. The two unions are highly agitated that Prof. Ukpabi whose tenure elapses in May 2022 is still coming to office when he should have before now started three months mandatory pre-retirement leave as clearly spelt out in civil service rules and regulations. Speaking to newsmen on the strike action, Comrade Gorge Okogbue strongly condemned Prof. Ukpabi’s coming to work continuously when he should have begun his three months’ terminal leave effective 24th February 24, 2022. Nigeria’s Diversity, Blessing Not Curse – Bogoro Suspected Murder: 27-Year-Old Lady Arrested In Anambra Expressing the union’s anger he said, “We were irked by the refusal of Prof. Ukpabi to proceed on three months’ pre-retirement leave which he previously ensured compliance by all retirees of the institute. His negative action now is what compelled us to strike and subsequently block the entrance to his office to prevent him from further entering. “Embarrassed by this ugly development, the NRCRI Board Chairman, Dr. Chris Uba, and the Executive Secretary of Agric Research Council, Prof. G.H. Sharubutu intervened and appealed to the warring parties to sheathe their sword and do the needful.” He also made it clear that the unions complied with the directive believing that Prof. Ukpabi would proceed to leave but to no avail. Speaking in the same vein, Comrade Smart Ukairo, Branch Chairman of NASU, reeled out some administrative malpractices Prof. Ukpabi allegedly meted out on the institute ranging from zero staff welfare, distancing himself from the staff, non-payment of 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 staff promotion arrears, partiality in payment of claims, illegally acquisition of two houses at the expense of workers, personalisation of the institute’s vehicles, zero funding of research, among others. However, all attempts to get Prof. Ukpabi to react to the allegations proved abortive as calls put across to him were not replied.