A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Ibadan North East Local Government, Deji Aboderin has officially declared his political ambition to run for the 2023 Federal House of Representatives. He made his declaration during the Ibadan North East Local Government meeting of the PDP held at the Oluyoro Girls Grammer School, Padi, Ibadan on Thursday, March 17 (yesterday) assuring not to disappoint the party if given the mandate to run come 2023 Aboderin, who hails from ward 9 of Ibadan North East, noted that politics is not about competition said he is not joining the race to compete with anyone but to also make meaningful contributions to state and national development as a legislator as well as use his office to attract physical developments to his federal Constituency. Unmoved by his last unsuccessful attempt, Aboderin, who had made an attempt at the federal legislative seat twice (2015, 2019) maintained that he remains optimistic of clinching the PDP ticket at the primaries and winning the election come 2023. The current occupier of the federal House of Representatives seat, Honourable Abass Adigun otherwise known as Agboworin is believed to be eyeing a return for a second term of office and Makinde’s Special Assistant on Tourism, Honourable Akeem Ademola Ige is also believed to be making his first attempt at the coveted federal legislative seat. Asked what he intends to do differently from the current holder of the office to convince party faithfuls of maximum support, the young and successful businessman reiterated that he is not joining the race to compete with anyone stressing the need for politicians to play politics without sense of rivalry or bitterness. “I’m running because I want to make a good and positive change, and when I say a good I want you to know also that I’ve been in this game for about ten years and I’ve contested twice and gathered all the necessary experiences needed to run and win. “You know, if you just look at the crowd and show of support, it makes one feel overwhelmed. People are here singing and rejoicing because of my declaration, it further affirmed the level of my acceptability by my people and I can boldly say this is not Deji Aboderin’s struggle, it is theirs because it is their mandate and they can give it whoever they want but for this show of support, I feel overwhelmed.” He said POLL Speaking on the performance of Governor Seyi Makinde and its impacts on the image of the party, Aboderin explained that the Governor has drastically transformed PDP in Oyo state to what he described as a beautiful bride who every man wants to take home as a wife. “You know what the Governor is doing since assumption of office is just fantastic, he is making the job so easy for anyone aspiring to contest on the platform of the PDP because the image is already brand that is unarguably the most accepted and appealing of all the political parties in the state. “Governor Makinde is loved by the people and he’s also governing with dignity and absolutely committed to the course of humanity, and most importantly with the fear of God at heart which are what we all crave to emulate because sincerely speaking, Governor Makinde’s impacts on the public image of PDP has continued to pave way for countless politicians down to the grassroots level. “All I also want to do is to contribute my quota to my federal constituency by making sure that they benefit from their sweats and struggle.” He added. Aboderin who commended PDP in the state under the overall control of Governor Makinde said the state chairman, Honourable Dayo Ogungbenro and the party leadership are men and women of impeccable character who have a track history of reliability in terms of party administration and creating a level playing ground for all party faithful to aspire to attain the peak of their political aspirations. Present at the declaration event which also coincided with the Ibadan North-East PDP local government meeting are party leaders, elders, and members who openly declare their support for Aboderin vowing to make a bold statement at the party primaries.