Malam Ali Abdussalam, an Islamic Scholar and Director of Ali Institute For Quran Memorisation (AIQM), Ibadan has attributed children’s negative exposure to social media as a factor destroying their morale and spiritual senses. Abdussalam stated this during the third graduation ceremony of complete Memorisation of the Quran of the institute on Sunday in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. The Director said that the society is getting more corrupt on a daily basis as a result of negative exposure of children in some social aspects like music and movies that are most destructive to their moral and spiritual senses. Oyo State Assembly Hopeful, Ogunwole Rejoices With Olubadan,… 2022 Ibadan Cultural Festival: We’ve Put Our Traditional System… He said that the aftermath of the effect of these negative tools are being felt in the society and needed urgent attention by parents with the view of correcting the abnormality. According to him,  “Unfortunate, parents that are expected to explain to these innocent children the evils in the society, their effects and how to avoid them are busy seeking daily livelihood and not having enough time to guide these children. “We understand that it is not only Islam that has solutions to these problems as our religion instructs us to condemn evils and command good deeds. “Always remember that failure to give the children the spiritual diet need today will lead them to regret in future regardless of their level of western education”. POLL The Director said that the institute took it upon itself to train Muslim children to memorise the Quran and as well teaches them Islamic morals, etiquettes and values. Ali said 55 students who have completely memorised the Quran and understand the responsibilities toward the creator are graduating today at the institute. He said the institute in its five years of existence has 900 students that have passed through it for different programmes while a total of 105 students had become memorisers of the Quran. The Director thanked Allah as well appreciating those that have contributed in one way or the other to the development of the institute. The chairman of the occasion, Hon. Abba Muhammad commended parents for bringing their children from different parts of the country to the institute, saying the prophet encouraged Quran Memorisation and it was rewarded by Allah. Oyo Begins Erosion Control Project In 7 LGAs Oyo: OYRTMA Accepts Fines Into Private Company Account In Ibadan Muhammad said that Quran memorisation and understanding distance one from committing evil and being closer to the creator. He encouraged Muslims to balance Islamic education with western education.