Bandits on Tuesday attacked Nasko village in Magama Local Government Area of Niger State, killing the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Umar Mohammed Dakingari, two policemen, and four vigilantes. A source said that the bandits were on revenge mission after the recent attack on their hideouts and recovery of rustled cows. “Recently, the DPO led a police team and vigilantes in an operation leading to the killing of bandits and recovery of over 800 rustled cows. “He was having a meeting with his security team for another operation when the bandits suddenly surrounded the station and started shooting sporadically. “The DPO, alongside his personnel were ‘gunned down’ around 3p.m at the Nasko Division of the Nigeria Police in Magama town. “Though they killed the DPO, and two other policemen, other police officers who were deployed for reinforcement, however repelled the bandits, forcing them to flee with severe gunshot wounds.” The Niger State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, who confirmed the incident, said the DPO, two other policemen, and four vigilante members lost their lives during the gun battle. Abiodun said, “On 15/03/2022 at about 1300hrs, armed bandits/terrorists invaded Nasko village, Magama LGA of Niger State. POLL “Police operatives with vigilante members were immediately mobilised by DPO Nasko and engaged the bandits in a fierce gun battle in which some of the hoodlums were neutralised and others escaped with gunshot injuries. Unfortunately, during the gun battle, the DPO, two other policemen, and four vigilante members lost their lives.” He said the Area Commander, Kotangora, had drafted reinforcement with the military personnel to the area to forestall break down of law and order. He said the command condoled with the families of officers and vigilante members who lost their lives in the unfortunate incident, while reassuring members of the public that the command will not be deterred or relent in its effort to curb banditry in the state.