LAGOS – Mohamed Hayatu-Deen, former group chief executive officer of the New Nigeria Development Corporation (NNDC) and a presidential hopeful on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that it will be difficult to stamp out insecurity in the country completely because the causes are economic and social in nature. Hayatu-Deen said that he believes that the Armed Forces will only help cool down the temperature and bring insecurity to lower ebb, stressing that stamping it out completely would be difficult because the underlying causes of insecurity are basically social and economic in nature. The politician who spoke on Arise Television on Thursday said, “While we are dealing with security issues, the real causes of the problem have to be addressed, clearly, decisively and quickly, and that is to restore our national institutions, economic and cultural institutions.” Love For Humanity Driving Force For Being Medical Practitioner… Yours Sincerely Is 70 “With a good national output, expanded tremendously, bring people into prosperity; minimize poverty as much as possible, open up opportunities for the youths to get productively engaged so that they can move along the ladder of success. It will be more than a five year programme to deal with this effectively,” he said. He maintained that there are numerous challenges in accomplishing security because the Armed Forces are not customarily designed to engage on matters of internal strife. “They are constitutionally mandated to tackle the country’s external aggression, and so the entire paradigm mindset needs to be changed, with re-training and development in order to face this new enemy. This isn’t conventional warfare where the defined enemies are known, these people are all over the place and that is another difficulty,” he said. On why he wants to be President in 2023, he said, “I have the skills, experience, and character. Looking back at my life there are a couple of things that qualify me for this job, number one is that I am an economist by training. “The crucial set of problems facing this country are fundamentally economic and social in nature. Theoretically and practically I am fully equipped to understand the dynamics of the Nigerian eco-system, both from the economic and social standpoint.” POLL “I have been a very good student of strategy and strategy is about defining the strategic outlook of a country, and my experience will suggest that over the last 30 years I have been involved in a number of strategic planning exercises, both at work, in NNDC where I was group CEO and also at FSB international bank,” he said.