***Says Aspirant Does Not Share Party’s IdealsABUJA – There is growing agitation against the aspiration of Senator Abdullahi Adamu to lead the All Progressives Congress (APC) as its Chairman with APC Stakeholders insisting that the former governor of Nasarawa State does not share the Party’s progressive ideals. Addressing journalists at Yar’Adua Centre Tuesday in Abuja, on the alleged endorsement of Senator Adamu by the Presidency , some National Stakeholders of the party led by Aliyu Audu said members will resist attempt to impose a candidate on it in the guise of Consensus. Recall that the youth groups have severally expressed their objection to imposition of a candidate without proper consultation, stressing the speculated adoption of Senator Adamu falls out the norm democratic ethos . Ekiti 2022: Segun Oni Storms Ekiti With SDP Flag, Urges Ekiti To… Tinubu-Aregbesola Feud: Civil Society Groups To Set Up… “As stakeholders, we have always been against imposition in whatever guise, considering our belief that whenever a consensus option is adopted, as long as it is not predated by wide consultation, it would no doubt violate every known democratic ethos and principles. The statement read by the APC group reads in part: “The lingering and now widespread speculation as to the plan to bring a former member of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP in the person of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the APC National Chairman in the forthcoming Convention, where loyal, qualified and competent foundation members of the APC are also in the race is not only an aberration but a violation of the established principle of APC which respects long term fidelity to the party and frowns at every vestige of injustice. “While it is within his constitutional rights to vie for any position within the APC or even the country as a whole, we believe that the individuals who are purportedly behind the plot to make Senator Abdullahi Adamu the next APC National Chairman cannot sit down alone in their zones and decide who gets what, more so when the individual in question is of the PDP stock. “We believe also that Senator Abdullahi Adamu, aside not deserving of the coveted seat in the All Progressives Congress ahead of many other aspirants who have unwavering belief in the ideals of our great party and have laboured day and night for its success, he has not demonstrated any commitment of being young people inclined, especially at a time that the young members of APC who constitute more than 80% of the membership have been singing about marginalization and non-inclusion. POLL “His recent assignment as the chairman of the reconciliation committee is a case in hand. Even though he failed grossly in reconciling aggrieved members of our party, particularly from all the states he visited, Senator Adamu failed to accord recognition to the critical mass of young people in the party who are even more aggrieved by the people he consulted during the so called reconciliation process”. The group who questioned the democratic credentials of Senator Adamu having allegedly played significant roles in the third term agenda of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, they also frowned at the choice of Sen Ken Nnamani, another ex PDP Member as Deputy National Chairman South of the APC in the emerging NWC. They urge President Buhari to make good his commitment to Youth inclusiveness in the top leadership positions of the party “It is our belief that the President’s commitment to holistic youth inclusion must be reflected across board, especially in the choice of the Chairman of the ruling party which we believe must be someone who will not only represent the aspirations of young people in the party but also be willing to carry them along”.