LAGOS – In a bid to ensure improved air services to air travellers and reduce flight delays and cancellations witnessed in recent time, six Nigerian carriers have formed an alliance. The airlines, Air Peace, Azman Air, United Nigeria Airline, Arik Air, Aero Contractors and Max Air tagged the alliance: ‘Spring Alliance’ and signed the agreement on Tuesday, March 8, 2022 in Lagos. The airlines in a joint statement said that the alliance would enable them to mutually support each other’s operations and surpass the expectations of the flying public. Mr. Allen Onyema, the Chairman, Air Peace and Vice President of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), while speaking on the alliance, stated that the Spring Alliance was for the benefit of the passengers who fly with the six carriers. He said: “In the aviation world, we have so many alliances airlines key into. We have the Star Alliance; there is One World and several others. And airlines decide to key into those alliances for the benefit of both the passengers and the airlines themselves. “So, today (Tuesday), in Nigeria, the 8th day of March 2022, some airlines in Nigeria notably, Air Peace, Azman Air, Arik Air, Aero Contractors, Max Air and United Nigeria have decided to come together to form what we call the Spring Alliance. “The name of this alliance is Spring Alliance. We decided to come together to do this for the benefit of the flying public that use the opportunities provided by these airlines to fly. By this alliance our passengers are protected whenever there is a problem with one airline. It is our response to the complaints of the flying public, so this alliance will enable us to satisfy them.” Onyema stated that with this alliance, henceforth, the flying public would reap the benefit, stressing that if Air Peace for instance has a tech issue on any of its aircraft, the passengers of Air Peace needed not to be delayed. POLL He stated further that if any member of this alliance is going to the same destination, all the partners needed to do was move the passengers over to that other airline, a member of the alliance, at no further cost to the passenger. Onyema stressed that the initiative to form the alliance was a noble one, representing a revolution in Nigeria’s aviation sector, while urging other airlines to tap into the benefits offered by the alliance by joining. He said that the Spring Alliance was not limited to Nigerian airlines alone, as other African airlines may wish to join, adding that the alliance originated from Nigeria, but is open to the world. Also, Capt. Abdullahi Mahmood, the Managing Director, Aero Contractors, described the formation of the Spring Alliance as a historic move, which prioritises the satisfaction of the passenger. Besides, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, the Chief Executive Officer of United Nigeria Airline, said the alliance would revolutionise flight services for the Nigerian flying public, as passenger satisfaction is the major objective behind the formation of the alliance.