ABAKALIKI – Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi on Wednesday said he has confidence in Nigeria’s judiciary as he heads to the Court of Appeal over his sack by Abuja High Court. He spoke to a mammoth crowd of supporters at a busy Udensi Roundabout where they held a solidarity rally for him. He explained that “what people thought is for evil, it has promoted your Governor to the next level. I want to thank Nigerians, I want to thank Ebonyi people. I am just here for two things; one is to be very peaceful, number two is to tell you that we have still very serious confidence in the judiciary: Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards “NBA Chairman is a perfect gentleman and we will never insult the judiciary, we have confidence in the judiciary and I know they will do the right thing and we have engaged 8 SANs to proceed to Abuja, we have engaged 10 SANs to Enugu. Do not be angry about anything, it is for our promotion.” Umahi said: “What the people intended for evil, God has turned it for good. What happened yesterday, you will see what God is going to do, Nigerians are fighting for us. “The NBA Chairman published something that I spoke to the press and I said the Judge is biased but when we spoke this afternoon, we understood ourselves and I said that the Lawyers of PDP, they were the people that did the hatchet job and I said that the Lawyers of the PDP were the people that were doing forum shopping. “So, the blame is to the PDP Lawyers and I am using the opportunity to let Nigerians know that nobody castigated the judge and we will not. We even made comments yesterday because the matter was not before any judge. “Today, we have Appeal; we have done three things. We have done the Appeal at Enugu and when I said that we have two judgments; I said that the judgment in Ebonyi state which has equal powers with that Abuja, I said we will obey the judgment in Ebonyi state, we will Appeal the judgment of Abuja high court, we did not say we will disobey otherwise we will not Appeal”. POLL “So, we are before the Appeal in Enugu and we are before the Appeal in Abuja and we have also filed a stay of execution over there. So, we are still the Governor and Deputy Governor of your state,” he stated. “Do not comment against the judiciary at all, the same thing goes with the House of Assembly. Yesterday, I made it very clear that the Supreme Court has said that for any defection in the legislative houses, the presiding officer who is the Speaker or the Senate President has the duty and not the court to declare the seat vacant. And so, we have an appeal against that and our house of Assembly are still intact. So, there is nothing to entertain any fear, go about your business very peacefully.”