ABUJA – Screening of Aspirants for Zonal party Offices commenced last night at the Secretariat and Nicon Luxury Hotels as activities spike ahead of the All Progressives Congress APC National Convention. The screening of the Chairmanship Aspirants and other top party positions however hold Sunday evening, even as strong indications emerge that the Micro-Zoning of offices at the geopolitical level may collapse entirely in a matter of hours in most zones. Stakeholders of the party appear not to respect the arrangement. Chairmanship aspirant, Alhaji Abdulazeez Yari, former governor of Zamfara stands out as one aspirant that refused to honour the zoning arrangement of the party, insisting on contesting the position zoned to the north-central geopolitical zone. Tijani Kaura, who returned the nomination form on behalf of the former governor maintained that their camp is not aware that the party has zoned the Chairman position to any specific part of the north. According to him the much the Yari camp is aware of is that the presidency and Chairmanship positions were rotated between the North and south with the former returning to the north “Let me say again that we are all aware that the party has zoned national Chairmanship to the North and presidency to the South but we are not aware that there is specific zoning within the geopolitical zones of either the president of the national chairman of the party. “Nobody indicated whether it is Southwest, South East or South-South. The party acting Chairman has not come out officially to tell us the chairmanship has been zoned to a particular geopolitical zone. So, that is why we are here. POLL Senator Kaura stressed the former chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum has enough experience to lead this great party, having sold his aspiration to all APC Governors. The Micro-Zoning arrangement appears also to have collapsed in the North West where the National Organizing Secretary position was zoned. That position was micro zoned to Kebbi, however, Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed, the outgoing National Youth leader in the Caretaker Committee is poised to snatch the seat in an open Contest. The situation is not also rosy in the South-South geopolitical zone where the Women Leader position said to be reserved for the candidate of Ben Ayade, defected Governor of Cross River State has been seriously challenged by two aspirants. Mary Ekpere Eta, former DG of the National Centre for Women Development who returned her nomination form on Friday insisted that the purported unity list said to be coming from Cross River State does not have the blessing of the Aspirants. She warned that any attempt to smuggle anybody,a friend of the governor to take the position of APC women leader would be vehemently resisted.  Asides from her aspiration, she said the other Aspirant for the position at the close of nomination on Friday is Barr Helen Effiong.