ABUJA – Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science Technology and Innovation, on Friday, announced that Nigeria recorded a cumulative savings of N5.03 trillion as a result of import reduction in four years. Onu who stated this in Abuja at the closing ceremony of Science and Technology EXPO 2022, explained that import reduction was occasioned by the patronage of made in Nigeria products. Quoting the data from the National Bureau of Statistics(NBS) and the United Nations Harmonised System Code, the minister said the value of savings from import reduction of N613.6billion in 2017, N412.8 billion in 2018, N2.3trillion in 2019 and N1.71trillion in 2020. He explained that his Ministry contributed stupendously to import reduction through its various initiatives designed for economic transformation, job creation and poverty reduction. Some of the new policies introduced by the ministry since the inception of the present administration include the National Science, Technology and Innovation Roadmap 2017-2030; National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development; Presidential Executive Order No. 5; Methanol Fuel Technology and Leather and Leather Products Policy, among others. He noted that the implementation of these policies has resulted in moving the economy from depending entirely on commodities to knowledge-based and innovation-driven. Commenting on the Science EXPO 2022, Onu said it has provided the opportunity for critical stakeholders to showcase their Research and Development breakthroughs and findings, awaiting commercialisation and subsequent utilisation for industrial and services application. He seized the opportunity to inform stakeholders in Science, Technology and Innovation ecosystem, especially tertiary institutions, of the new window of opportunity on funding Research and Development projects. POLL He said: “The Federal Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation (FMSTI) is in a collaborative partnership programme–Horizon Europe for Nigeria, the new Africa Initiative. “This is a new European Union(EU) framework programme for Research and Innovation running from 2021 to 2027. “The programme when fully implemented will support research and innovation in all institutions in Nigeria, both public and private. “It will involve the participation of Nigerian scientists in the Diaspora, working with those at home, in addition to European scientists and institutions.” He further stated that the ministry over the years has worked assiduously to fund research and innovation from extra-budgetary means. Onu, therefore, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, for approving the allocation of 0.5 per cent of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product(GDP) to funding Science, Technology and Innovation in the country.