★We’ll Stay Action Pending Judicial Outcome – Reps Spokesman, Kalu ABUJA – Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Tuesday referred President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to re-amend the new electoral law to the Committee on Electoral Matters for due diligence despite a court order barring the National Assembly from tampering with the provisions of section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022. The Speaker however said he was conscious of the Court order, but was quick to add that he was obliged to read the communication from the President, while saying that the intent of the provision may have been misunderstood by many. The House however pointed out that even though it has referred the letter to the appropriate committee, it will wait for the judicial process to be vacated or dealt with before it will act on the letter as it was a respecter of the rule of law. While signing the Electoral Act into law, the President had asked the lawmakers to delete the provisions of the section as it was ultra vires to the constitution. But the Federal High Court in Abuja presided over by Justice Inyang Ekwo had on Monday issued an order stopping the National Assembly from tampering with the provisions of the Electoral Act recently signed into law by the President. In a letter dated February 28, 2022, President Buhari asked the lawmakers to consider deleting Section 84 (12), as it will be stretching matters beyond the constitutional limit to import extraneous restrictions into the constitution, where political parties’ conventions and congresses were to hold earlier than 30 days to the election. The letter read in part, “I write with reference to the recent assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) 2022, and to draw your kind attention to some salient issues contained in the Act and to seek your immediate legislative action thereon. POLL “I have carefully studied the content of the recently assented Electoral Act (Amendment), 2022; I must admit that there are positive provisions that could revolutionize election process in Nigeria, particularly, through the introduction of new technological innovations that will in turn guarantee the constitutional rights of citizens to vote and to do so effectively. “The recently assented Electoral Act has improved and engendered clarity, effectiveness and transparency of the election process, as well as reduced to the barest minimum incidences of acrimony arising from dissatisfied candidates and political parties. “I therefore, commend the legislative wisdom of the National Assembly, which is in line with our policy to bequeath Nigerians and posterity a landmark legal framework that paves the way for credible electoral process that we would all be proud of. “Honourable Speaker, I, however, will want to kindly draw your attention to the provisions of Section 84(12) of the Act, which I believe, constitutes a fundamental defect, as it is in direct conflict with extant constitutional provisions. “Section 84 (12) of the Act constitutes a disenfranchisement of serving political office holders from voting or being voted for at conventions or congresses of any political party, for the purpose of nomination of candidates for any election in cases where it holds earlier than 30 days to the Election. “Section 84(12) of the Act provides as follows: ‘No political appointee at any level shall be voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election. “The practical application of Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, (Amendment) 2022 is to subject serving political office holders to inhibitions and restrictions referred to under Sections 40 and 42 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “It is imperative to note that the only constitutional expectation placed on serving political office holders that qualify, by extension as public officers within the context of the Constitution is resignation, withdrawal, or retirement at least 30 days before the date of the election, as provided in Section 66(1)(f) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), among others. “Arising from the foregoing, I request the National Assembly to consider immediate amendments that will bring the Act in conformity with the constitution by way of deleting Section 84(12) accordingly.” However, raising a point of order, Rep. Herman Hembe (APC, Benue) reminded the Speaker that there was already an existing Court Order restraining them from amending the Act. Responding, Gbajabiamila said the import of the controversial section is being misunderstood, adding that the President’s letter will be sent to the appropriate committee to do due diligence on it. He said further that he was aware of the court order, adding that he was obliged to read the President’s letter, saying “I’m aware of the court process that was served on us, I’m aware of the injunction but I’m still obligated to read the President’s communication.” Spokesman of the House, Rep. Benjamin Kalu however told newsmen that the House will respect the position of the court until the injunction is vacated. He said “It is our standard practice that we don’t extend our parameters to the scope of the judiciary. The principle of separation of power and it’s doctrine specify the scope of operation. When any issue is before the court, we don’t interfere. “Like the Speaker said which is in line with our rules, When such communication comes to the House, the Clerk of the House will be instructed to refer it to the relevant committee. In this case, in the course of transmitting it, a court injunction came. By law, until that injunction is vacated, we are not expected to do anything on it. “Now, we have an interplay of the three arms. The Executive asking the Legislature to do something and the Legislature willing to look I to it and the Judiciary coming to say don’t. It behoves the Executive, if they really wanted that 84(12) to seek the attention of court to vacate that injunction before the legislature will be allowed to touch it. That is the position of our laws and we will respect the law. “The President who is the Head of the Executive is a man who respects the rule of law. In view of the doctrine of separation of power, we will comply with what the courts asked us to do. To do otherwise is to play within the arena on contempt and I don’t think we would like to do that,” Kalu added.