MAKURDI – Engr Benjamin Aernyi, House of Representatives (HoR) aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state has called on the Benue state government to set up a Commission of Enquiry to ascertain the immediate and remote causes of the crisis between Mbaviur and Mbasombo communities in Gwer-East Local Government Area (LGA) of the state that has claimed innocent lives. The aspirant who called for the cessation of hostilities between the two warring communities also called on security agencies to arrest those connected to the breach of peace in the area and check further breakdown of law and order. In a statement signed by Terzungwe Qua-Aondo, Coordinator Media and Communications, Aernyi Campaign for Reps 2023 and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Monday, Aernyi described what was happening in Ikpayongo as “a full scale humanitarian disaster.” He warned of an emerging humanitarian crisis, insisting that if the situation was not properly handled, it would lead to food crisis in Ikpayongo and its environs. Proffering solutions to the crisis, Aernyi said, “The Government of Benue state should immediately set up a Commission of Enquiry to determine the immediate and remote causes of the crisis with a view to finding a lasting solution to it and avoid a relapse of hostilities in the future. “Security services should ensure that there is no further break down of law and order and all those found to be fomenting trouble and fuelling the crisis should be brought to book in line with our extant laws. “That as the farming season approaches, it is pertinent to bury the hatchet so that all farmers can return to the farm to avoid food crises arising from food shortages in the future.” He further stated that “A great number of families are now hungry and homeless in their ancestral land. There is obviously a refugee crisis and something needs to be urgently done. Stakeholders at all levels must immediately rise to the occasion to bring succour to suffering families, women and children who are homeless and exposed to the mercy of the elements. POLL “The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Services, donor agencies, NGOs and public-spirited individuals should come to the aid of the displaced persons particularly women and children by providing humanitarian assistance to them in order to avoid a full scale refugee crisis.” While, he advised the warring communities to give peace a chance and return to the pre-crisis period, he appealed to those who lost their loved ones and properties to the incident, to leave vengeance to God, and also take solace in the Lord, Who will console them. End.