JUSTUS ADEJUMOH UAE-based Cypher Capital has launched a $100 million VC fund to invest in startups in blockchain, crypto and other digital assets. Bijan Alizadeh, founder and general partner at Cypher Capital and an experienced crypto and blockchain investor, with over 60 projects under his belt and a strong track record of spearheading blockchain and crypto adoption, commented: “We are very proud and honored to be launching our first and the biggest crypto, digital asset and blockchain private seed fund from the UAE and the Middle East Region,” “This fund reflects our vision to be the leading global partner for projects in the blockchain, crypto and digital asset community. We will collaborate closely with our portfolio projects, offering them access to our network and equipping them with our knowledge, as well as investing alongside other venture capital partners into innovative blockchain, crypto and digital asset projects,” added Alizadeh. Cypher Capital will take an entrepreneurial approach to building its portfolio and will focus on seed funding, but will also take stakes in GPs and LPs as part of its value proposition as well. Cypher Capital has already invested $1.5 million into Crypto Oasis Sentio, showcasing its belief that cooperating with other private venture capital funds builds the blockchain ecosystem. “We aim to cooperate with and expand the ecosystem by working with visionary innovators, outstanding talent and other venture capital partners to create a holistic blockchain community which will in turn, foster the growth of the ecosystem,” Alizadeh pointed out. Cypher Capital also plans to take a very hands-on approach when it comes to mentoring the projects that it invests in and equipping entrepreneurs with the tools they need to succeed. Its 10,000 square foot crypto, blockchain and digital asset hub, under construction in JBR Dubai, is anticipated to be completed in August 2022, which will welcome crypto enthusiasts, entrepreneurs and startups, and be “the place to be” offering exclusive access and get-togethers for its members and the community. Vineet Budki, managing partner of Cypher Capital noted that the company has the knowledge and expertise to mentor projects and entrepreneurs as well as equip them with the tools they need for success. “At the moment we are especially interested in projects in the DeFi (decentralised Finance), GameFi, and metaverse space but we are always on the lookout for innovative blockchain projects in general.” POLL According to Crunchbase data, pure venture funding—pre-seed, seed and all venture rounds—in the cryptocurrency space, is already at $3.4 billion after just the first two months of 2022. A PWC report revealed that $34 billion was raised by crypto companies globally in 2021. With sights set on making Cypher Capital an industry leader by working alongside other industry leaders, innovators and people with a vision, Alizadeh already has a strong track record of investing in successful crypto and blockchain startups. They include ACDX, a next-generation cryptocurrency derivatives trading platform, the Graph, an indexing protocol for querying networks that offer APIs, Near Protocol, an open-source platform that accelerates the development of decentralised apps, Skale, an open-source Web3 platform intended to bring speed and configurability to the blockchain and CasperLabs which provides enterprise solutions on Casper, an open-source blockchain optimised for enterprise and developer adoption. Cypher Capital is also working diligently to ensure that the blockchain ecosystem is an environmentally friendly and sustainable industry. One of its initiatives for doing this includes working closely with One Tree Planted, a 501 charity with a mission to help global reforestation efforts and offset carbon emissions, building a greener planet. “We are stronger as a collective than as a single unit. It is together that we can make a difference. That is why Cypher Capital is not only building its own success, but looking to help others succeed with it, imparting knowledge onto the community and partnering with strong industry leaders to make a dramatic difference and disrupt the blockchain space,” Alizadeh stated. The Cypher Capital investment team is working around the clock to find the best crypto, blockchain and digital asset projects for Cypher Capital to work with. Various investments have already been made.