IBADAN – AN Ibadan-based business man, Mr Opajobi Mohammed Adewale who deals in petroleum products has filed a suit against the Inspector General of Police, the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State, the Commander of Octopus Unit of Nigeria Police Force, Rivers State and Mr Samuel Njoku, Master Energy Company, Port Harcourt following alleged harassment after buying 90,000 litres of kerosene worth N27m from the company. He prayed a Federal High Court in Ibadan through his counsel, Mr Oritshuwa Uwawah and Timi Annabel Bozimo to grant him an order that his arrest, threat of arrest and detention over a civil disagreement is a violation of section 34(1) and section 35 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended. Explaining further, he said that he is being harassed by the Commander of Octopus Unit of Nigeria Police Force in Rivers State and the management of an oil company from where he bought 90,000 litres of kerosene. In the suit, he said in one of his business transactions, he got a call from a friend that he had one million litres of kerosene at Master Energy Company, which is located in Rivers State. He said he was later given the phone contact of one Miss Adetokunbo Oludele Adejobi who was said to be in charge of the petroleum products. Opajobi said after processing of the waybill with another N300,000, he went to a first generation bank to pay the sum of N27m into the account of Adetokunbo Oludele Adejobi who later directed one Abubakar to release the waybill to his truck driver. The money, he said, was meant for the purchase of 90,000 litres of kerosene. After loading the petroleum products and the driver was on his way to Ibadan for delivery of the products, he received a call that the products they loaded for him belonged to another customer. POLL He added that after the petroleum products had been distributed to those who paid for it, those who sold it said he should return it which he declared impossible. When he refused to return the products he had fully paid for, he alleged that one CSP Iwuh, the Commander of Octopus Unit of Nigeria Police, Rivers State command detained him despite his explanation and presentation of waybill which authorised him to load the products. After being granted bail, he said the CSP Iwuh is still threatening him to arrest and handcuff him to Ibadan where he will be forced to produce the retailers that he sold the kerosene to. Already, he has petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC over what he described as pretense to defraud him of the sum of N27m by the 4th defendant and his colleagues.