A group of stakeholders in the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, known as the Edo State PDP Stakeholders, ESPS, have condemned leaders of the party who recently backed Governor Godwin Obaseki in an open letter in the ongoing internal party strife between the governor and the party leader, Dan Osi Obih. Chief Tom Ikhimi, former governor of Edo State, Lucky Igbinedion,  Chief Mike Ogiadomeh, Senators Clifford Ordia, Mathew Urhohide, and Yisa Braimoh had taken position via an open letter on the ongoing tiff between Obaseki and the PDP in Edo, backing the harmonisation plan of the governor. Reacting to the letter, ESPS asserted that the letter was empty, and not based on reality. In a very lengthy news release signed by six members of the group, namely, Amb. Tony Okonigene  from Edo Central Senatorial District, Dcn. Darlington Okpebholo-Ray of Edo Central Senatorial District, Mr. Elempe Dele, Edo North Senatorial District, Mr. Anthony Lawani. From Edo North Senatorial District, Mr. Olamide Anifose, Edo South Senatorial District and Mr. Sylvester Matthias, Edo South Senatorial District, the group of party stakeholders claimed that the positions of the erstwhile men of power in Edo and national politics is laced with untruths. “It was an attempt to mislead  the focused National Leadership of our Party and the general public concerning the avoidable crisis in the Edo State chapter, orchestrated majorly by some of these defunct politicians who lack real leverage but now grandstanding as “Elders”, ESPS said. The group also debunked the claim that the governor has facilitated the registration of over 500, 000 members into the party. “We wish to also address this issue of registration of 540,000 members of the PDP by the Governor. “We make bold to say that this statement is nothing but an attempted hoodwink only a novice will fall prey to. Happily the National Leadership and general public are not deceived. POLL “If they say that they have such followership, let them go and register in another political party to use the over 500,000 registered members to win elections in the State going forward. “With that number, they will overrun all the parties combined together in Edo State,” the group said. They also accused the leaders of abandonment of the party in times of need. “How much have they contributed in terms of finance to mobilize PDP members for voter registration? “Out of these over 500,000 people, how many have they mobilized to register with INEC for their PVCs,” they asked.