The Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has commended the member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency of the state at the House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi, for the effective representation of his constituents. He made the commendation while inaugurating another phase of zonal intervention projects which Agbedi attracted to Sagbama, Ebedebiri, Aleibiri, Isoni and Toru-Ebeni communities in the federal constituency on Friday. The development projects included over five blocks of six classrooms each and offices for teaching and non-teaching staff; school furniture; civic centres; and concrete internal roads, among others. Ewhrudjakpo said the federal legislator had always shown concern for the progress of his people by attracting development projects from the federal budgets to his constituency. Governor Douye Diri’s deputy, who was represented by the Commissioner for Special Duties, Churson Obosi, said, “I thank Fred Agbedi, Member of Parliament, for the laudable projects; the projects are so many and they will make a serious impact on the lives of the school children. “Not just the projects, his motions at the hallowed chambers have been very vibrant and impactful.” He also thanked the people of Sagbama/Ekeremor LGA for their peaceful disposition during the execution of the projects by the contractors and urged them to continue to support Agbedi. POLL Also speaking at the various communities, a former deputy governor of the state, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha Jonah, also lauded Agbedi for always being a man of the grassroots and creating access to education for the people. “The essence of going into public service is to improve the lives of those you are representing. It is to start little by little , and education is the first place. Some have gone there but nothing to show. Those coming behind, go to Fred for mentorship”, he advised. In his remarks, Agbedi said the importance of education at the grassroots informed his concentration on such projects in his constituency to create a conducive atmosphere for children education. He described education as the bedrock of successful life and thanked the people for giving him the mandate to represent them, promising to do more. The acting chief of Ebedebiri, Plank Egemeze, and chairman of Aleibiri Community Development Committee, Felix Alari, among other community leaders, said that Agbedi had given them practical representation at the House of Representatives and vowed to vote him for higher responsibility. Among dignitaries at the various inauguration ceremonies were the South-South secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Felix Omemu; Women Leader of the PDP, Martha Ajanaku; Special Advisers to Governor Douye Diri and other stalwarts of the party.