UYO – The Federal Government has been charged to come up with appropriate legislation to regulate improper plastics and other waste disposal especially on the Nigerian beaches. A Professor of Marine Atmosphere and Coastal Research Network, faculty of Oceanography, University of Calabar, Cross River State, Prof. Francis Asuquo made the call  at the Ibeno Beach, Ibeno Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State  on Monday, when he led the Students of International Demonstration Secondary School, University of Calabar, Cross River State, who were on Research and laboratory analysis excursion to the beach. Prof Asuquo said  the chemical additives used during the production of plastics have myriads of harmful effects on humans and aquatic animals which can cause cancers, birth defects, impaired immunity, etc during ingestion of the food chains of the marine ecosystem. Nigeria To Unveil Family Planning 2030 Commitment This Week Child Maternal Mortality Rates Surpasses That Of COVID-19 In… The excursion which is the second of such exercises undertaking by the institution was sponsored by University’s Demonstration Secondary School in collaboration with the faculty of Oceanography as well as the Partnership for the Observation of Global Ocean (POGO). He said  plastics can undergo degradation by the action of heat, waves and tides during incineration process especially when they stay long in an environment. In his words “Our quest to embark on the research and excursion exercise is to allow the secondary school students have a diversified knowledge about the marine and terrestrial environment as part of their curriculum in school “Research is critical in other to obtain information, collect scientific data which can be presented to the government, environmental regulatory bodies and the legislators for laws to be made regulating the rate and the incessant plastic disposal in the Nigerian beaches and the world at large. “The most invisible impacts of plastic debris are the ingestion, suffocation and entanglement of hundreds of marine species. Marine wildlife such as seabirds, whales, fish and turtles mistake plastics waste for prey, and most then die of starvation as their stomach becomes filled with plastics. POLL “The primary sources are from inland waterways that flow into the ocean, direct dumping of solid wastes into the coastal waters and drainages, indiscriminate dropping by tourists during visits to beaches is very dangerous and should properly managed for the sake and benefit of our health system” I’m his remarks, Vincent Fidelis, an SSS2 Student of the institution expressed dismay over the attitude of individuals and tourists dumping plastic rubbers around the beach side adding that such attitude can cause cancer and other health related issues to the animals which will also affect humans and the environment. In their separate remarks, Miss Able-God Onda, Miss Agube Success and Miss Antonia Iya-Nya all researchers and students of the Institution expressed concern Nigeria is being viewed in a negative perspective in terms of waste management by other countries adding that this can affect tourist attraction by investors and invariably affect the economic growth and development in the ecosystem. They maintained that recycling of waste management in Nigerian beaches should be revived and restored for public sanity and an immediate implementation of regulatory laws should made and defaulters should be punished according to the environmental laws to serve as a deterrent to other members of the public.