Dr Dakuku Peterside, former Director General and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), public affairs commentator and 2015 All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Rivers State, recently had a chat with journalists on developments in the state, his party. CHARLES OKOH was there and brings these excerpts: You recently accused Gov Wike of embarking on acquisition of Rivers State property for himself and his friends and cronies, do you have evidence? What other evidence are you looking for? The government of Rivers State has since admitted that it indeed seized government properties and criminally allocated the same to those the government described as competent private individuals.  Now an interrogation of the statement by the Rivers State government under Wike to my statement exposed the criminal intentions of Gov Wike and his team. His response has raised fundamental questions. Who are these qualified private individuals and how were they determined? Who are those considered qualified? Did the Rivers State Government, by any means, prequalify Rivers indigenes before re-allocating those buildings? When and where was the process carried out?  The issue of transparency in selling off public assets becomes glaring. At what price did they sell our common wealth to these selected competent private individuals known only to Gov Wike? The Governor is being clever by half. Leo Stan@66: Africa’s Technology Miracle Child Comes Full Circle… Acquisition Of MPNU Is Seplat’s Strategy To Build Sustainable… The governor’s landed acquisitions are known to everyone in Rivers State and even beyond. You may have heard of the ‘unknown investor’ buying up anything and everything in sight in Port Harcourt and Rivers State. You find out for yourself who this unknown investor is. Is anybody in the Government of Rivers State the unknown investor and is the same person responsible for acquisition of properties of the University of Education? These are two different and distinct issues. You may have heard that the Governor has effectively acquired the University of Education staff quarters in D-line part of Port Harcourt and is set to give it to his political cronies. The Vice Chancellor’s lodge at Olu Obasanjo has been sold to an unknown investor.  A block of flats belonging to the same state university, located at GRA Port Harcourt also sold to the unknown investor. It is sheer madness and the people appear helpless. The Governor will soon find out that Rivers people are no fools. We are talking about common property and not his personal estate. The unknown investor is known to everybody in Port Harcourt. But the Governor is doing well. Any moment from now he will Commission the 10, 11 and 12th flyover built by his administration. This is a classic case of misplaced priority driven by greed. The government is building multiple flyovers on the same road at the expense of health care, education, pensioners allowances, employment creation, rural development and human capacity development.  Now you and I know that bridges and flyovers are supposed to be catalysts for ease of transportation, economic growth and national competitiveness. All indicators in the case of Rivers State point to the contrary. Unemployment and poverty has hit the rooftop in Rivers State. One firm, which is not a local firm, is doing all the contracts and there is absolutely no linkage to the local economy. Two, all the projects are located in two LGAs in the state capital.  Three, you are building bridges with no traffic study, no future projections and no budgetary provision. There is a crisis of governance in Rivers State. POLL Away from infrastructure, the Governor said recently that now that he has delivered on his campaign promises, he will now focus on stomach infrastructure. What do you make of this? This is another indicator of the hollowness and warped understanding of the actor in charge in Rivers State. The most important roles of government are security and welfare of the people. The import of his unguarded statement is that for seven years he did not consider the welfare of the people of Rivers State as important.  Now, he has finished building bridges, impoverished the people and is ready for politics. You are saying to their faces you want to give them a negligible portion of their wealth to assuage them and you think they are fools. It is time for politics, you want them to identify with your presidential aspiration. Our people are smarter than that. But the governor has never indicated any political interest, how did you arrive at this conclusion? True. He is consulting, speaking to people everywhere about his intentions and those persons are sharing information and comparing notes. Most importantly, when his recent actions match words going round there is inference to be drawn. He visited most PDP governors last December and early January, he has suddenly turned an apostle of the presidency-must-go to the south, he donated N500 million of Rivers money to Bayelsa State when pensioners and some workers in his state are being owed.  A plane which he never cared about for years he suddenly found because he needs it for his campaign. Wike will always be Wike. Recently over 100,000 persons were displaced at Diobu waterfront area of Port Harcourt; you have been having exchanges with the Governor. What is the current situation of things? Connecting Right Record Label At Right Time Was My Challenge… Nigeria’s Capacity To Service Current Stock Of Debt Raises… You are right. Wike’s argument is that he is doing urban renewal. My position is that you can do urban renewal following International best practice that respects the rights and dignity of those who reside at the waterfront. Wike and his government displaced these persons without giving a thought to the social consequences. They were not served adequate notice, compensation not paid and no plans whatsoever to assist them resettle.  It is consistent with his trademark impunity. You have said severally that the Governor has no plans for the youths but he has done so much for young people, like the Real Madrid Academy. Youth empowerment is not part of the Governor’s agenda and this is on all ramifications. Education has been abandoned in Rivers State. If you want to see a people with no future, look out for a society that does not consider educating the next generation important. The Real Madrid Academy project is a fraud.  Rivers State government is to pay Real Madrid Foundation and Interact Sports yearly to use its brand name to run a sports academy in Port Harcourt. Even more is the fact that the Real Madrid Academy has remained moribund; with no activity taking place there for more than three years. How do you explain that? That money would have been enough to resuscitate most dilapidated primary schools in Rivers State and provide world-class ICT facilities to pupils. It is sufficient to provide scholarships to about 200 Rivers’ undergraduates in European universities and 800 similar undergraduates in Nigerian universities. Wike should stop playing games with Rivers people. The Rivers State government has accused you of attacking her continuously because you want to run for Governor and your leader wants to run for President. Is there any truth in this? I am a Rivers man, qualified like any other to run. Is that a reason why Gov Wike and his team will appropriate Rivers commonwealth to themselves? Is it a reason why they don’t have an iota of feeling for the poor, weak and vulnerable? Does that account for the poverty, unemployment and mediocrity he is promoting in the state? The truth is that Wike is more interested in his personal agenda, which is primitive accumulation of wealth than tangible development of Rivers State. All the issues I have raised at various times are serious governance issues that a government that has the interest of the people at heart will not take lightly. Most issues bother on lack of transparency and accountability and the fact that the government has absolutely no definite vision and plan for Rivers State. Whether Rt Hon Rotimi Amaechi wants to run or not, his options are limited. Nigerians are beaconing him to provide leadership at a challenging time in the life of our country when we need the energy of the youth, power of vision and a good dose of experience. What do you have to say to those who think the presidency should be micro-zoned to the South East? The South East has a just cause and valid case but it is not enough.  However, we have not had the precedent of micro zoning in the country. The closest we had was in 1999 when two south west candidates ran for presidency as the political elite solution to the events of June 12, 1993. The people of the South East will have to show that they desire the office and have the capacity to go for it. Since micro zoning is not backed by the constitution, the south easterners must get other Nigerians to support them and that involves a lot of politicking and horse-trading. Your party, APC appears to be in disarray and is not in touch with the reality in Nigeria. What are the chances of the party in next year’s general election? APC is still the party to beat. Today, it is the only truly national party in Nigeria. It is true we may not have solved all the problems in Nigeria but people should not forget in a hurry where we are coming from. The alternative party is worse in form, content and composition than the ruling APC.  The alternative party is today controlled by one rascal Governor. The fringe parties have not shown any seriousness. Nigerians still prefer APC to any other party. The party has done well on railways and infrastructure generally. I am optimistic that when all issues are considered Nigerians will still want APC to continue. What do you have to say to those who think your party has performed badly in terms of securing the nation? Security is relative and it depends on the yardstick you choose in measuring progress. We may not have gotten the results we desire but a lot of work has been done and there are results in the North East to justify it. Security is one area you need to work on continuously even in the most advanced societies. The security challenges that the foundation was laid many years ago cannot be fixed in four years. It is work in progress. Another four years of APC I am optimistic will deliver a Nigeria that is peaceful .