Six people have been killed as a tornado swept through central Iowa, damaging buildings and knocking down trees and power lines. Emergency management officials in Madison County said four people were also injured when the tornado touched down in the area south-west of Des Moines on Saturday afternoon. Those killed were children and adults. Ukraine Winning The War Of Social Media, Say Analysts Saudi Arabia Lifts All COVID-Related Restrictions Iowa governor Kim Reynolds has issued a disaster proclamation for the county, which allows state resources to be used to assist with response and recovery efforts. She said: “Our hearts go out to all those affected by the deadly storms that tore through our state today. “Our hearts ache during this time, but I know Iowans will step up and come together to help in this time of need – they already are.” Madison County emergency management director Diogenes Ayala said 25 to 30 homes were badly damaged by the tornado. “This is the worst anyone has seen in a very long time,” he said. POLL Officials have not identified those killed but said they were not all in the same location. Wendy Burkett told the Des Moines Register she and two of her three daughters were in their house on Saturday afternoon when her husband Tony called her from a nearby shed where he was working and alerted her about a tornado warning. Ms Burkett said she came outside and joined him in front of the house, looking down their driveway towards the south-west. “And then we saw it,” she said. “There was debris flying around and it was getting louder and louder.” They hurried with their daughters to their basement as the tornado roared by within seconds. As they clung to each other, a window shattered and water began spewing from the pipes, she said. Putin Says Ukraine’s Future In Jeopardy As Cease-Fires… North Korea Claims It Conducted Test Of Spy Satellite But within about a minute, the tornado had passed. The family were uninjured but their home was in ruins amid debris all around. The National Weather Service in Des Moines tweeted later on Saturday that initial photos and videos from the damage around the community of Winterset suggested it was at least an EF-3 tornado, capable of causing severe damage, on the Enhanced Fujita scale. It said weather service teams would investigate the damage on Sunday and further assess a potential rating. 6PM: 3 tornado warnings remain active. They all have history of producing tornadoes. Seek shelter immediately in these areas! #iawx pic.twitter.com/9YTWlOLqMc — NWS Des Moines (@NWSDesMoines)March 6, 2022 Thunderstorms that spawned tornadoes moved through much of Iowa from the afternoon until Saturday night, with storms also causing damage in the Des Moines suburb of Norwalk. Officials reported a number of homes were damaged, roads were blocked by downed lines and tree branches were shredded by the strong winds. Photos on social media showed downed trees, debris and damaged roofs and vehicles. At one point, power outages affected about 10,000 in the Des Moines area.