Even though the NCAA Tournament is supposed to dominate headlines during the month of March, the NFL just won’t go away. Free agency has opened up in the NFL, this is also a time of year in which many trades are made. These roster moves are going to impact NFL picks and predictions for next season, and several franchises are going to look extremely different next year. The quarterback position remains the most important in the league and several big-name quarterbacks will now be playing with new teams in 2022. Deshaun Watson missed the entire 2021 season with the Houston Texans, but he is expected to return in 2022. When Watson returns to the field, he is going to be wearing a new uniform. The Texans have been trying to move on from Watson, but the quarterback had a no-trade clause that complicated matters. Watson finally agreed to waive his no-trade clause and the Texans were able to make a deal with the Cleveland Browns. It didn’t take long for Watson to get paid by the Browns either as they signed the quarterback to a five-year contract extension worth $230 million that is fully guaranteed. Houston will receive five draft picks from the Browns for Watson, including three straight number 1 picks. The acquisition of Watson also means that Baker Mayfield will be looking for a new team, and there could be plenty of suitors. Mayfield has had and interesting career with the Browns, but he is still better than some of the options that teams currently have. The Denver Broncos were going to get a quarterback this offseason, and many believed that it would be Aaron Rodgers. Denver has been working hard to pry Rodgers away from Green Bay, but Rodgers chose to stay in Green Bay after getting paid. POLL The Seattle Seahawks agreed to send quarterback Russell Wilson to the Broncos for a package that included three players and some draft picks. Quarterback Drew Lock, tight end Noah Fant, and defensive lineman Shelby Harris will be heading to Seattle. Wilson is another player that had a no-trade clause and he agreed to waive it in order to get traded to the Broncos. There were rumors about Wilson wanting out of Seattle a year ago, and the Seahawks finally decided to pull the trigger. Wide receiver is another important position in the NFL and several big name players have been changing teams. The Kansas City Chiefs are a team that already has plenty of offensive stars, but they just added another major weapon. The Chiefs were able to sign JuJu Smith-Schuster to a one-year deal that will pay the wide receiver nearly $11 million. Smith-Schuster played just five weeks during the 2021 season and there are some injury concerns that come with this deal. The Los Angeles Rams are the defending Super Bowl champions, and they featured one of the best offenses in the NFL. That offense is going to be even better next season as the Rams just reached a deal with free agent Allen Robinson. Robinson signed a three-year deal that is worth $45 million, with $30 million of that being guaranteed money. The Chicago Bears decided not to re-sign Robinson this offseason, giving him the chance to head West and sign with the Rams. The other big news involving a wide receiver is a trade between the Green Bay Packers and the Las Vegas Raiders in a move that shocked the league. Green Bay agreed to trade Davante Adams to the Raiders in exchange for a pair of First Round draft picks. Once the trade was made official, Adams signed a five-year contract extension with the Raiders that is worth $28.5 million per season. Adams is one of the best players in the NFL, but all of his work was done with future Hall of Famer, Aaron Rodgers.