There is something fundamentally wrong with the nation of Nige­ria. Everywhere you look, includ­ing the government and its op­erations, there is lawlessness, indolence and nonchalance aplenty. It has been said that “the only profitable business in contemporary Nigeria is criminali­ty.” It means that impunity and nepotism have overwhelmingly displaced the Rule of Law, due process, commonsense and all the elements of legality in both public and private affairs. We are witnessing political and social stampedes across the land, so disturbing that even the blind can feel the seismic vibrations and as the lyric goes: “Everything don jaga-jaga!” You do not need to be a rocket scientist to decipher the dangerous situation. Last week, the national football team, the Su­per Eagles, played their Ghanaian coun­terparts in the country’s northern city of Kumasi. Nigerians were shocked to see how Ghanaians patriotically filled up the stadium to support their nation­al team, the Black Stars. It was in sharp contrast to what we have come to ac­cept in Nigeria, i.e., undeclared boycott of our stadiums by citizens who have been alienated from the Nigerian State and its institutions by a combination of insecurity and poverty and general distrust for anything governmental. It was therefore not a surprise when late Monday we saw a government circular declaring that work stops on Tuesday at 2pm, the matchday, to enable workers to go to the stadium. That tells how far we have failed as a nation if the government would have to beg football fans to attend matches involv­ing the national team. Given the level of distrust that now exists between the peo­ple and their government it is no brain­er that most workers simply went home instead of to the stadium. Who wants to be whipped by angry and fiendish secu­rity men at the stadium entrance? Who wanted to be kidnapped on the way to or from the stadium? Who wanted to lose the side mirror or windscreen of his car because he went to watch his national team? Time was when the national stadi­um used to be filled to capacity whenever there were football matches. That is not possible today because the government has reneged on her constitutional duties of “protecting life and property” and no sane individual would willingly risk his life just to go and support the national team. Anarchy is everywhere and there is no sign at all that there is still an effec­tive government in place. I have always conceded to the fact that the failure of the Nigerian State did not start with the present administration. In fact, the rot took a long time coming but what can no longer be contested is the painful fact that whereas all previous governments tried to stem the tide of anarchy, though feebly, this administration, on the con­trary, appears to have given an official boost to criminality and anarchy by its unmistakable nonchalance. It is hard to tell, nowadays, if there is still ministers in charge of power and transportation in Nigeria when you travel across the country and discover the unsightly conditions of the roads; it is hard to tell if there is still anyone in charge of the pliability and safety of our roads when you see the crooked and anarchic ways that security personnel place primitive obstacles comprising of astonishingly crazy items like logs of wood, planks, tree stumps, stones and deliberately dug pits recklessly littering the roads all in the name of “security checks”; it is even harder to tell if indeed there is still the office of Inspector Gen­eral of Police whose portfolio includes the protection of the image of the police service because those idiotic and callous obstacles being placed on the roads clear­ly reflect the untamed and crude mental­ity as well as the wretched states of mind of those officers and the institutions that they represent. The only reason why such a huge mess should be allowed to remain on the na­tion’s highways is because government officials who are appointed to oversee these things do not ply the roads them­selves. It is most likely that Mr Presi­dent, after he was sworn into office in 2015, has not traveled along any of these roads again. Same with his ministers. A country like Ukraine that is at war right now, does not display such disgusting abuses of the highways in the guise of “security checks.” What impression are we giving to for­eigners who also use these ruffians-occu­pied roads? How can tourism take root in a country that has such a primitive way of advertising her insecurity? It is an undisguised admission of governmental failure which leaves the equally incompe­tent and barely literate security officers to devise fiendish ways and means of waylaying innocent citizens in ways and manners that are commensurate with their individual levels of intelligence. The government is aware these road­blocks that are indiscriminately mount­ed at every kilometer or even less do not serve any legitimate security purpose. It is sad that whenever they are ordered to be dismantled, the same off-duty securi­ty officers fiendishly unleash mayhem on road users thereby blackmailing the government into bringing them back for illegal on-duty toll collections. The high­way nuisance will continue because it is a booming racket that apparently has the backings of the highest echelons of the command. POLL It is therefore difficult to say now that there is a functional government in place while criminal gangs, terrorists and an­archists are holding the nation by the jugular, irrespective of the empty boasts we hear from government. Just after the nation was given a chilly ultimatum of a shutdown by the commercial airlines last week, those who could not risk travelling by roads that are fully manned by crimi­nally-minded security officers alongside bloodthirsty terrorists, robbers and kid­nappers thought that the railways might be a better option, but that hope was shat­tered last week when their trains were effortlessly attacked by terrorists oper­ating in the Kaduna sector. How does Mr President feel, when­ever he hears of such incidents that ef­fectively undermine his claim to being in charge of the country? How do the police, the military and other security apparati feel when they see these daring challenges to their very relevance and responsibilities to the nation? How do governors, their “excellencies,” cabinet ministers and the “distinguished” and “honourable” feel whenever these illegal­ities and aberrational events take place in grotesque ways that completely render their positions useless? Put simply, Nigeria has lost the sov­ereign capacity to fulfill the normal du­ties of a sovereign entity which is the maintenance of law and order in an en­vironment regulated by accountability, responsibility, administrative fairness and social justice. It is my considered view that the failure of Nigeria did not start today. What has disastrously com­pounded the already unpleasant situa­tion of Nigeria is the inexplicable failure of the present administration to rise to the challenges of stewardship, especially under a presidential constitutional order where the Buck stops at the President’s Desk? The Constitution expects whoever is elected President to dutifully assume direct personal responsibilities for the nation’s very day’s governance. He con­trols the so-called Bullying Pulpit from where he dishes out our policies and directives as well as monitors how far his ideas and policies are being put into action by his appointees. A leader in a presidential system of government can­not accord the luxury of occasional ap­pearances during intra-party squabbles for the spoils of office. Nigeria is right now at the very nadir of her descent into sovereign wilderness largely as a result of overwhelming anar­chism, widespread apprehension and dis­belief, an unfortunate situation wherein the “falcon cannot hear the falconer.” Everything government is collapsing into an irredeemable state of flux.