LAGOS  – The Nigeria Electricity Consumers Advocacy Network (NECAN), has punctured regulatory bodies in the nation’s power sector for their failure to audit the customers strength of power distribution companies eight years after investors took over the assets of the defunct Power Holding Companies of Nigeria (PHCN) Uket Ubonga, the General Secretary of the group, specifically, said failure to compel the Discos to carry out consumer enumeration to determine the actual customer strength of each Disco, eight years down the line only demonstrate the level of un- seriousness of the sector’s governing bodies. According to him, the figures often bandied by the Discos as debts owed by Non MD customers, remain questionable and doubtful, because there is no mechanism in place for verification of this so called indebtedness by these classes of consumers. CBN Playing Critical Roles In Nigeria’s Power Sector– NBET EKEDC, NDPHC, Eko DisCo Ink Deal On Improved Power Supply He said he was involved in resolving the over N500m debt allegedly owe to a Disco, but only to discover in the course of our findings that the amount in question was owed by a Steel company to the Defunct NEPA. He also said It was when he made the Discos know that they were not permitted to collect the legacy debts that the Disco stopped harassing the consumers in the affected communities. He advised that sector players must resolve to play the game by the rule, rather than the rule of the thumb, adding that sector governance structure must be strengthened as an enabler for the discharge of statutory responsibilities. He added: “Its high time a comprehensive review of all the models that were adopted in 2012/2013 privatisation exercise It doesn’t speak well of us that 8years after the unbundling of PHCN, the nation has not registered significant milestones in the power sector” He also lamented unresolved matters in the sector, saying the development was responsible for low impacts of the privatization of the nation’s power sector POLL He said: “It’s on record, and those who have the information know that pre-privatisation distribution capacity was between,7,500-8,000 MW. The capacity was developed as a strategic plan to position in coming Discos to deliver power to the Nigerians. According to those who were involved then, the distribution capacity was ramp up to leverage the installed generation capacity of the Gencos which was above 10,000 MW. But no one seems to interrogate what really happened that the Discos are not able to deliver power to the Nigerians despite the available distribution capacity. “The Gencos almost shouted their voices hoax over load rejection and stranded load. The second issue has to do with consumer population. In 2015,NERC document stated that the consumer population was 10:4miilion nationwide. Ironically, the same document put the R2 class population at 7.062Million. The remaining 3 million summed up the, R1,R3,C1,C2,C3,and,D,and A consumers classes. “Also a company called Nigeria Electricity Liability Company was incorporated by the Federal Government to handle and collect pre-31st November 2013, liability debts owe by the consumers to the defunct PHCN. Electricity Consumers Kick, Write Buhari Over Abuja Black Out Accugas Signs Gas Sales Deal With Central Horizon Gas Company The Discos came on board, defied the provisions of the vesting contract which forbade them collecting these pre privatisation debts from the consumers. No one raised a voice to question why the Discos were violating the provisions of the contract agreement.