The Lagos State Project Coordinator for the World Bank Assisted Project, Agro-Processing, Productivity Enhancement, and Livelihood Improvement Support (APPEALS) Project, Oluranti Sagoe-Oviebo, has appealed to farmers to own the project as it entered the final implementing year. She made the call during a media parley at the Lagos APPEALS office, Oko-Oba, Agege, while giving an account of the project in the state in the last five years. She said if the farmers own the project, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu would continue to support it even after it had ended. How To Invest In Meat Processing, Packaging Business Integrated Rice Millers Commend FG’s Policies On Rice, As New… She said the project is $200 million World Bank Supported project in six states, Lagos, Cross-River, Enugu, Kaduna, Kano and Kogi which started on March 23, 2017 and expected to end March 31, 2023. Sagoe-Oviebo said that the project has three thematic areas which are; food security, export potential and livelihood improvement, stressing that farmers in the state were supported in three value chains; rice, poultry and aquaculture. She said that estimate of 10,000 direct beneficiaries are expected for each states but Lagos has exceeded it’s target as it has empowered no fewer than 17,467 farmers, SMEs and agro processors. She said that the project contributed a value of N333.94million to the state GDP by 924 farmers supported by the project in 2020 from the production output survey validated by the Lagos State Bureau of Statistics (LBS) which translate to 0.07 percent. She added that the project has created 12,350 jobs across all it’s activities and also reduced the likelihood of being poor by between five to 10 percent. POLL She stated that about N199 million worth of products in Aquaculture, Poultry and Rice have been sold by some women and youth since they receive grant support from APPEALS project. She said 40 SMEs were also supported with solar market kiosks to enhance value addition and marketing. She noted that there has been a significant increase in the three value chains of the project with improved technologies adding that 26 technology demonstrations have been carried out and about 2650 are seen using the technologies in the three value chains. According to her, productivity of rice paddy in the state has increased from 2.0 metric tons per hectare to 3.5 metric tons. Tilapia has increased from 100 kg to 140 kg, while broiler increased from 1.8kg a bird per cycle to 2.35 kg bird. She said the processed output and sales of product for the value chains follow the same trend. Attacks On Okomu Persists Even As Ijaw Youths Council Visits Global Warming: Solidaridad Trains Farmers on Digital Farm… Speaking further she said the project supported farmers in the poultry value chain with pelletised feeds, nipple drinkers and probiotics, as well as helped them to now produce poultry all year round, instead of seasonal farming. On Rice she said the value chain had achieved a lot with the new Ofada strain which had multiple yields for the farmers, as the quality of rice had been greatly enhanced. She said that the Ofada rice could now be compared to the Basmati rice because of its long strain, single colour and taste. The Lagos APPEALS Coordinator stated that the project also supported some farmers with colour sorting machines to make the Ofada rice presentable and marketable. She said the target of the project was to make one of its products get into the international market, and that that had been achieved in rice and aquaculture. Speaking further she said, “APPEALS Project has desilted various drainage channels that pose perennial flooding challenges to aquaculture farmers around Erunwen, Adamo, Igbe, Ijede, Omitoro, Parafa in Ikorodu and Ebute – Afuye, Epe and others. “Over 200 farmers (direct beneficiaries) have been affected positively by increasing their fish production by over 50 percent; while over 10,000 indirect beneficiaries have also been impacted owing to the mitigation of floods around their farms.”