North East Business Forum on Thursday purchased presidential forms for former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar. This is coming few hours the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), commenced sales of nomination and expression of interest form. The PDP had on Wednesday during its National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, approved the guidelines for the conduct of its primaries for all elective positions. While the party had pegged the presidential forms for N40 million, it fixed the governorship forms for N21 million. Presenting the forms to Atiku at his Asokoro, Abuja home, Chairman of the North East Business Forum, Alhaji Dalhatu Funakaya said they pleaded with Atiku in November last year in Gombe to join the presidential race and promised to foot the bill for his nomination forms. He said: “We made a pledge in Gombe in November 2021 and we called on him to contest and pledged to purchase nomination form for him.” According to him, they fulfill their own side of the bargain and hope the former Vice President will formally declare to contest the 2023 presidential election. Responding after receiving the forms, Atiku called for unity to tackle the myriad of problems facing the country, adding, “the challenges before us are historical; our unity threatened, the economy in the worst state of affairs and our security is a disaster. POLL “This is why there must be unity to address these challenges. The challenges before us is greater than our differences of ethnicity and religion. “In 2018 or 19, some young men contributed money and bought a nomination form, the first in political history since the return of democracy to our country and truly they made me to shed tears. They put together their hard-earned money and purchased me a nomination form, that actually brought tears from my eyes. I was emotional about it. “Now again today, like the chairman of the Northeast Business Forum said, we were invited and another gesture was extended to me. It was a promise. And today it is a promise fulfilled. “The challenges before us as Nigerians is enormous and in fact, I have never faced these type of challenges in the history of our country. “Our unity is threatened, our economy is in the worst state of affairs, since the inception of this country, our security is a disaster, these are very serious challenges. These are challenges that require the unity of everybody in this country. “These challenges cannot be solved by an individual or a group of individuals, or whatever. But they require all hands on deck. So my brothers and sisters, my fellow countrymen, what is before us is not an easy job. nation-building ordinarily is not an easy job.” Atiku, who said ethnicity and religion will not define him in the cause of his duty said, “for me, what I can promise you whether I become a President or not, differences on either ethnicity or religion is not in my household and is not in my blood. “So, I want to assure all parts of this country, that there will be a sense of belonging, there will be a sense of fairness, and there will be a sense of justice to every part of this country. “Of course the North Eastern is the most backward in all human development index. We are the most backward in Nigeria. Name it, healthcare, education, infrastructure, security at all levels, we are the worst. Does that not give us an entitlement to lead?. “So my brothers and sisters, my kids, I call on you for the unity of this country. I call on you for sacrifices, it is not going to be easy for all of us. The sacrifices that have already been displayed by the Northeast business community, in this period when business is almost dead, for them to put together their money, hard-earned money to buy me a form to contest, these are phenomenal sacrifices I cannot thank you enough for this gesture. I wish you well.”