Ahead of the 2023 Presidential election, former Governor of Anambra State and Vice Presidential candidate in the 2019 general election, Mr. Peter Obi has expressed his readiness to support whoever emerged as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate. Peter Obi’s declaration is coming against the position of a group, Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF) declaring their support for the candidature and support for the CBN Governor, Dr. Godwin Emefiele to succeed President Muhmmadu Buhari next year. Peter Obi was responding to questions from journalists after addressing PDP supporters at the state party secretariat yesterday, however, said he remained the best candidate for the country’s top job in the spirit of; equity, fairness and justice for unity. Nigeria’s future of economic and political rejuvenation and progress, Peter Obi who said he is in Minna, Niger state capital on a private visit said Nigeria will forever regret allowing the All Progressive Congress (APC) to remain in power beyond 2023. Obi who however did not give details of the private visit and to who in particular said his resolve to respect the decision of PDP if he loses the ticket told journalists that, ‘the PDP is bigger than all of us’. Former Governor Obi however advised the main opposition party to ensure that only people who are not only competent but have the capacity and capability to lead are chosen as the party’s flag bearers at the local, state and national for the country to be back on course. “We need people competent and conversant with the challenges of this country and be able to return it to the right course. Someone to provide necessary changes needed to within the shortest possible time propels the country towards socio-economic and political greatness. Nigerians should ask whoever comes to them about his/her background and track records”. Both Peter Obi, the former Niger State governor, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu and the state PDP Chairman, Tanko Beji who were on the ground to receive him were unanimous in their submissions that Nigerians are waiting for the PDP to rescue Nigeria from the APC maladministration. Meanwhile, Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum UNNYF has called on Nigerians to support the aspiration of the CBN Governor, Dr Godwin Emefiele as successor to President Muhammadu Buhari for unity, economic and political progress of the country. Director General of the group, Dr. Ibrahim Bature told journalists during the group’s road walk in Minna, Niger state capital on Sunday is therefore calling on Nigerians to support Igbo man Presidency come 2023 for fairness and justice. “Godwin Emefiele has proved his worth and that is why we are calling on northerners and Nigerians, in general, to rally round him considering his policies that have rejuvenated our economy especially agriculture which is now contributing to the nation’s GDP”. The group enumerated some of the salient achievements of Emefiele to include, Anchor Borrowers and other financial incentives to the less privileged in our communities and vulnerable people support programmes which has served as a lifeline to many homes today.