LAGOS – As the 2023 general elections approach, Funso Doherty, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Pensions Alliance Limited (PAL), has called on political parties in Nigeria to allow credible individuals with character and competence to contest elective positions. Doherty, who made this call at a media parley in Lagos, stated that the country has found herself where it is today because people who have something to offer in terms of character and competence, have been forced to stay away from politics. He explained that these well-meaning individuals have seen politics as a game they do not comprehend, therefore, “They feel it’s a game that is perilous; they feel it’s a game that the rules can only be understood by those that are in it. “The interesting thing is that people who are in politics for wrong reasons love it and they want those with good intentions to stay away and remain in the private sector. “Public office is a sacred trust and therefore political parties must allow people who have good intentions to occupy elective offices,” he said. Doherty also lamented the quality of leadership in Nigeria, saying the country ought to have a critical mass of people in leadership who should drive the right outcome. “Why is it that Nigeria has been faced with a shortage of leadership? What would we say we have gained in the past 25 years since we have had a democratic elected leadership? He said the quality of leadership being practiced in the country, as that of “money politics”, adding that, “When you look at it, it becomes a commercial/criminal enterprise. When you look at the process over the years, people have felt that their votes will not count and their lives will not change.” POLL He listed some of the ways that would change the polity for the better to include; ensuring that votes count, ensuring credible alternatives that must represent the interest of the people, changing the psyche of the electorates by giving them something to hope for, as well as awakening the youths. Speaking further, the pioneer Chairman of the Pension Fund Operators Association (PENOP), described the country’s political system as a “criminal process”, which needs an urgent change for Nigeria to move forward. While lamenting that voter apathy, which plagued the last general election, especially in Lagos, may repeat itself in 2023, except the political class changes the way politics is being played in the country. According to him, “Right now, it is more like a commercial or criminal process and since the political class have a critical role to play in shaping the minds of voters and in demanding for the best, they must shape up now, in the interest of the country.”