Chikelu Luke Nnazor is the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of KEN-BENZ Auto Limited. In this interview with DADA JACKSON, he bares his mind on a number of topical issues. Excerpts: Who exactly is Mr. Luke Nnazor? Thank you very much. I am Chikelu Luke Nnazor from Aguleri in Anambra State and the helmsman at KEN-BENZ Auto Limited. I am also the Vice President of Berger Business Community (BBC). We deal with all kinds of motor truck spare parts such as Mercedes Benz, MAN-Deisel, DAF, Marine parts and General Merchandise. What exactly do you do at Berger Suya Heavy Trucks Spare Parts Market because I never heard of the place until now? We sell spare parts mainly for heavy trucks and also for Marine equipment. In addition, at the Berger Suya market, we don’t sell spare parts meant for saloon cars or SUVs but only for heavy duty vehicles. Some people have asked me if we sell Suya (Roasted Meat) and I tell them emphatically, that we do not sell such things here. Also, the difference between us and those at the Ladipo spare parts market is essentially in the weight of the kind of spare parts we sell here. Why did you choose to go into the sale of heavy duty vehicle spare parts and not the saloon or pleasure cars business, any particular reason for this? Let me say that it runs in the family. For instance, you would see a Doctor, Lawyer, or Engineer whose children take after them Even some military men want their children to be soldiers. But to answer your question directly, one of my relations introduced me to the business. It might interest you to know, that for you to learn the business, you would spend at least seven years. Another interesting thing about learning this business, is that anybody who is interested in learning this business must have a very IG passion for it. It is not about the amount of money you have but the knowledge you have for the business. Also, it requires little or no capital. Even if you don’t have money, you can go into the business and before you know it, you’ve hit it big. Let me make it abundantly clear here that if you don’t have the faintest knowledge of the business and you think because you have money and you dabble into it, you may get your fingers burnt. Having said that, what are the challenges that you face doing business here? POLL Well, let me be honest with you, as far as life is concerned, we can’t do without having one form of challenge or the other but what matters is our ability to overcome these challenges. It is important to point out here that any man who, in the journey of his life, has not encountered any challenge in life should reexamine his lifestyle. So, in a nutshell, we have challenges confronting us in the course of our business but they are, no doubt, surmountable. Let me mention here that, as for me, the major challenge is that of betrayal. How do I mean? A situation where you entrust someone with your goods and such an individual now shortchanged you or refuses to release such goods to you. What more could be a betrayal than this? There are so many challenges but as for me, I put my trust in God. Incidentally, that’s our company’s motto. How has the fluctuating exchange rates affect your ease of doing business? Thank you very much for this question. Let me say unequivocally that the fluctuating exchange rate has affected our business negatively to the extent that most time we run at a considerable loss. For example, if the rate of the Naira to the Dollar was N450- $1 and you now place your order, by the time the goods arrive the country and the rate had gone up, tell me what would be the profit margin? Absolutely nothing because what such an individual would be thinking of is how to recoup his money and not about making any profit. The exchange rate of the Naira to the Dollar is very high and this has slowed down our business activities. So, in a nutshell, it has done more harm than good to our business. I appeal to government to cushion the effect by giving us tax rebate.