UYO–  It was a pathetic sight to see children numbering over 40 in each of the classes crawl on cracked floors as revisions were on before their examination in Government Primary School, Aka Offot, Uyo. The children were seen spreading wrappers they brought from homes on the floor to enable them learn without sustaining inquiry from the dilapidated floor. Members of the Correspondents Chapel were on Tuesday attracted to the vandalised roofs, windows and doors of the Government Primary School, Aka Offot, in Obio Imo Street, adjacent Uyo Township Stadium, only to meet the children on the floor. On interrogation, the teacher who craved anonymity said the situation was met on resumption from the 2020 lockdown. The teacher explained that beyond the roof, ceiling, doors and windows removed, chairs and desks were also swept off the classes by the vandals. She added that the 60 double desks provided by the state government as palliative were vandalised within the week they arrived. “This room was full of windows and doors, but when we vacated around 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, before we resumed we did not see any window; doors and roofs were vandalised. “Since then, they continue to cut the roofing sheet every weekend, when we closed on Friday before we returned on Monday, we’ll meet a significant part of the roof cut off. The Headmistress had to report the incident to the Ministry of Education, with pictures. “The Headmistress office was not spared, they climbed through the ceiling and packed all desks, that is why you see pupils sitting on the floor. POLL “When we reported to the ministry, the Commissioner for Education and the Permanent Secretary visited the school, took pictures and promised to intervene,” she said. Though admitting that renovation has commenced in one of the classroom blocks to alleviate the plight of the innocent pupils, the teacher stressed the need for high fences to forestall future occurrences. She decried the extent of vandalism as pupils had to sit on the floor with leaked roofs to write their examinations during raining season. The Village Head of Aka Offot, Etteidung Francis Udo, who was visited thereafter, bemoaned the consistent vandalism in the school and blamed the incessant cases of theft on influx on persons to his community.