Senator representing Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, Dr Christopher Ekpenyong has abandoned his initial vow to support ‘even a crippled” that may be presented by Governor Udom Emmanuel. Remember that the former Deputy Governor had last year assured Governor Udom Emmanuel of his unalloyed support as a reward for the road network constructed by the Governor in Obot Akara. Ekpenyong had told Emmanuel that he and his people were satisfied and therefore encouraged the Governor to announce even a crippled person, as he was willing to look beyond every other factor to give his support. But, at a recent consultation visit to Obot Akara, Ekpenyong made a sharp U-turn to inform one of the Governorship aspirants, Sen Bassey Albert Akpan that ‘God revealed to him as the next governor of Akwa Ibom State’. This is the second aspirant in the lineup for the gubernatorial race in 2023 that God is mentioned to have revealed for support, the first being Umo Eno, said to have been revealed to Governor Udom Emmanuel by God. Receiving the governorship aspirant in his country home in Obot Akara, Senator Ekpenyong extolled Akpan’s qualities and laudable achievements both as the former commissioner of Finance and in the Senate. He said, “I dont know what others are saying and what they heard. All I know is that God has told me that OBA is the best governorship aspirant for Akwa Ibom at this time. OBA has the experience, he has the connection. With him, we can go to bed and sleep”. “You have been a pride to Akwa Ibom and Nigeria. Of course, if we want to follow the American system, if you were not vying for governorship, you are eminently qualified to vie for the presidency of Nigeria. I am aware that you are experienced, you know how Nigeria is and where to tap the resources for the good of our people. I know you have the capacity”, POLL Ekpenyong, who said nobody can intimidate him to accept “what is not good for my people”, added that he wants a governor who knows the peculiar problems of the people and has the wide contacts to deploy for their solutions. “OBA, since your heart is very clear, I know that you will change the circumstances of these men and women. As a former banker, you know that these people need welfare and banking investments. What they need is development. If you go to Ini, you can change the environment into a rice belt so we can also have rice pyramid. From Obot Akara to Etim Ekpo to Ika, we have the best palm oil”, he said. Earlier, Sen. Bissey Albert Akpan informed Senator Ekpenyong that his aspiration will leverage on God,  his experience, connection with the people and knowledge of their particular challenges to serve Akwa Ibom better when elected. ”The welfare of Youths is very paramount towards sustaining the peace for the development of the state. Leveraging the gains of the past administrations will provide a veritable ground for us to address Youth unemployment by generating a resourceful data bank to identify the gaps and core issues limiting the development of our Youths to enable them to become self-reliant” he noted. He assured that he had tailored a development roadmap that will enable his administration to solve local problems using local solutions if elected.