LAGOS  – Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), has assessed its roles in the nation’s gas sector with board’s partnerships in the gas sector unlocking 6,000metric tonnes of LPG storage facilities. Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote ,Executive Secretary of the NCDMB, who spoke at a conference in Abuja, said his board’s partnerships in the gas sector have unlocked 6,000metric tonnes of LPG storage facilities, annual production of 1.2million LPG composite cylinders, and infrastructure and facilities for processing of 840MMscfd of gas across fourteen states of the federation, including Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Lagos, Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Bauchi, Nassarawa, Zamfara, Niger, Plateau, Gombe, Jigawa states and the Federal Capital, Abuja. He also highlighted other board’s investments and partnerships in the gas sector to include the creation of a 10 hectares gas hub in Polaku, Bayelsa State for hosting gas-based infrastructure and facilities, LPG jetties/terminals, storage facilities, inland transportation, cylinders manufacturing, bottling, and retail. Sahara Group Drives Global Expansion With Strategic Appointments… $74bn Deals Executed In Oil, Gas Industry In 2021 – Report The board, he said has secured approval to produce Liquified Petroleum Gas (cooking gas) to ensure 10 percent of current nationwide demand, which will see NCDMB work alongside select partners to produce the Liquified Petroleum Gas. He said the board recently secured the approval of its Governing Council for a partnership to produce 123,000 metric tonnes per annum LPG, which is about 10 percent of current demand nationwide, from the Utorogu Gas Plant, in Warri, Delta State, to enhance local production of LPG and reduce import requirements. He added: “The Board’s latest efforts are geared towards actualising the Federal Government’s Decade of Gas Policy as well as the overarching Nigerian Content aspirations which are to deepen in-country capacities in the oil and gas industry, create jobs for the teeming youths and retain spending in the economy. “The Federal Government had introduced clear policies to make the nation become a gas-powered economy, one of which is the Decade of Gas that seeks to leverage on the country’s huge gas reserves to become not just a major exporter but to become a major gas consuming nation” He spoke on the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), and advised international and local operators in the industry to approve final investment decisions (FID) for new projects to justify the energies that went into enacting the business-friendly legislation. POLL He disclosed the agency’s readiness for new projects to be approved for sustainable growth in the industry and expressed hope that some new projects would soon be announced on the back of the PIA 2021.