MAKURDI – Gender Advocacy for Justice Initiative (GAJI) has trained over 80 persons in four Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Benue state on protection against Sexual Gender Based Violence (SGBV). The persons that were trained were drawn from four SGBV protection committees in Agatu, Buruku, Guma and Kwande LGAs of the state and would subsequently be linked to the state and federal level structures of SGBV. Chairperson, Board of Trustees, GAJI, Professor Charity Angya who disclosed this to newsmen shortly during the training in Makurdi on Monday, noted that key stakeholders were also drawn from the four LGAs of the project implementation. (UPDATE) Missing BRT Passenger: We Have Arrested Driver –… Domestic Violence: Kogi Man Caught On Camera Tearing… She explained that the activity was in furtherance of the implementation of the project ‘Support for Social Stability and Security of Conflict-Affected Communities in North-Central Nigeria.’ Angya also observed that the one-day linkage meeting was organised to enhance skills of stakeholders in protection from SGBV and linkage of community protection committees to state and federal level structures in the state. Speaking at the occasion, Gender Desk Officer, Benue State Command of the Nigeria Police, SP Ann Ameh, stated that issues of SGBV were becoming prevalent and should be a source of worry to everyone, adding that anyone could likely be a victim or a perpetrator of SGBV. While, she stressed the need for partnership in ensuring that peace prevails, she said, “The meeting is proactive; and links to community volunteers will be helpful, as they will be better equipped to swing into action, once a case is brought forward.” Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and the representative of state SGBV Taskforce expressed delight at the opportunity to link up with the state and federal SGBV actors for effective response towards curtailing increasing cases of SGBVs, so as to ensure that aggressors are punished appropriately. POLL The project was carried out with the support of the Government and People of Japan, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), while the Benue State Government is expected to strengthen protection committees in communities against SGBV in the state. Participants at the training were drawn from the State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Nigeria Police, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), State SGBV Committee; State Office, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), FIDA, SGBV Protection committees, as well as CSOs across the state. End.