WARRI  – A group under the aegis of Isoko De­velopment Union (IDU Youths Wing) has protested and barricaded the ever busy Emevor-Iyede- Ughelli Asaba Expressway accusing Delta government of marginalization. The youths disrupted eco­nomic and official activities due to the gridlock they caused on the expressway for hours, mak­ing travellers stranded while commuters made diversions for other routes. The protesters numbering over hundred with placards bearing inscriptions such as “Okowa failed to meet with Isoko Youths,” “We demand the release of the N10 million Social Security Fund for Isoko Youths, ” “Isoko Youths Tell Okowa to Respect Isoko Tradi­tion,” among others. Speaking on behalf of the group, the President of IDU Youth Wing, Comrade Obok­paino Fidelis, said “the protest is as a result of the marginali­sation of the IDU youth wing by the Delta State Government and the Multinationals Oil Companies operating in Isoko land. “Isoko Development Union Youth Wing was created 16 months ago saddled with the responsibility of handling all youth activities in Isoko na­tion. But since its creation till now, the state government has resolved not to give IDU Youth Wing attention. “We are being denied of our Corporate Social Respon­sibilities by the Multinational Oil Companies operating in Isoko Land. And whenever we approached the Oil Compa­nies for dialogue, they refused granting us audience. “Even the Commissioner of Police, the Army and DSS in­cluding the State Government, they all denied having audience with us which is the major rea­son why we barricaded the road today in a peaceful protest over the marginalisation being done to IDU Youth Wing by the Delta State Government and the mul­tinationals oil companies. “We the Isoko Youths are being marginalised in the sharing of N10 million Social Security Funds which the State Government has given to other ethnic nationalities across the state. Also we are being marginalised in the So­cial Corporate Responsibilities which all oil companies explor­ing Oils in Isoko land suppose to perform to our Youths, wom­en and men. POLL “That’s why we are here to express our displeasure to the State Government and all mul­tinational oil companies oper­ating in Isoko; that enough is enough, we the Isoko Youths say no to marginalisation. We are therefore demanding an interactive session with the State Government to present our demands to the Executive Governor of Delta State, Sen­ator Ifeanyi Okowa and the multinationals oil companies operating in Isoko land.”