Mr. Yushau Shuaib left a lot of loose ends untied in his opinion piece in some newspapers yester­day, titled “Air Peace, Kano Emir and Unwarranted Attacks”. And such loose ends appeared right at the be­ginning of his essay and ran through it to the end. He began by attempting to teach the public the dynamics of strategic communication and the picture he painted of himself is not salutary at all. Here is his unfortunate intro: “Beyond theory, strategic commu­nication doesn’t seek publicity in whatever ways through the media. It considers the dynamics of the envi­ronment, the target audiences, their behaviours, and trending issues for effective messaging”. That opening sentence drew out a loud “haba, Mallam, haba” exclama­tion from me. Does strategic commu­nication, even in theory, seek publici­ty in whatever it does? The Fool Called Man And His Wasteful Wars! Nigeria As A Massive Crime Scene And Jostle For Presidency, 2023… I take journalist cognizance of the fact that Mr. Shaibu sees himself as somewhat of an expert in strategic communication, for this appeared under his article: “Yushau A. Shuaib is the author of ‘Award-Winning Cri­sis Communication Strategies’”. So, it was not surprising that his very second sentence in his article con­tinued on his duty of teaching the public: “Sincerely, Creative thinking is crucial in strategic communica­tion, towards offering better ideas, and sound judgment in responding to issues in the most responsible manner”. Phew! What has Nigeria turned to? My initial reaction was to write just a single sentence repeatedly across the entire page reserved for my col­umn: TEACHER, DON’T TEACH ME NONSENSE” (apologies to Fela Kuti). First of all, Mr. Shuaibu failed to say what Air Peace should have done to meet the demands of “Strategic Com­munication” in its spat with an aide of the Emir of Kano, apart from the nasty advice that the Air Line should have played dead. I searched in vain for that suggestion of his on the route the Air Peace should have travelled to meet the dictates of strategic com­munication and found it at the end of his over one thousand words article: “Sometimes silence can be golden in strategic communication. Weighing a situation very carefully before ven­turing a statement is essential, rather than the haste for justification that can unnecessarily escalate a crisis. Spokespersons should realise that PR is not about issuing boisterous and confrontational releases but the cre­ation of channels of mutual under­standing, in a way that strengthens and further builds relationships”. It is a huge failure on Mr. Shuaibu’s part that he never said in which way or ways the Air Peace’ statement in reaction to report the palace made against the airline over the incident. To Mr. Shuaibu, the palace of an Emir is a palace and can do no wrong. Finish! And so, Air Peace should have accepted all the blame being leveled on it by the palace. In fact, Mr. Yushau Shuaib left a lot of slipups in this arti­cle that placed even himself in a poor light. Blooper number one; he wrote “Sometime in 2021, my mother was denied boarding on an Air Peace plane going from Ilorin to Abuja, even though she was among the first set of passengers who arrived at the airport very early that morning”. That is a severe charge against an airline. POLL His mother was “denied boarding”, he wrote. Then, he made another ac­cusation: “Apart from frustrating her attempt to board the aircraft, the air­line further charged her exorbitantly for the use of the same ticket for the next day’s flight”. Now, after the false accusations, Shuaibu himself explained what re­ally happened as Air Peace explained: “We discovered that Mama came ear­ly but was on the wrong queue at a counter of another airline. By the time she realised the mistake, the Air Peace Counter had been closed”. Yet, Shuaibu still wrote just this last Saturday that “Sometime in 2021, my mother was denied boarding on an Air Peace plane going from Ilorin to Abuja, even though she was among the first set of passengers who ar­rived at the airport very early that morning.” Something is seriously wrong here! Second blooper: Shuaibu wrote: “Thus, it was quite shocking when the same airline was reported to have treated the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, unfairly by not enabling him and his entourage the opportunity of taking a connecting local flight from Lagos to Kano, after having initially created a situation that led to the delay of his interna­tional flight, on another Air Peace aircraft from Banjul to Lagos”. I searched his article in vain to see Shuaibu pinpoint how Air Peace treated the Emir “unfairly”, but he failed to say so. That is bizarre, espe­cially because the author is supposed to be a communications expert. Third blooper from Shuaibu: “The Chief Protocol Officer to the Emir, Isa Bayero thereafter wrote a letter of complaint to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), seeking punitive actions against Air Peace Airline for missing their connecting flight. The leaked letter attracted needless attacks and counterattacks between the admirers of the Emir of Kano and supporters of Air Peace”. “Needless attacks and counterattacks between the admirers of the Emir of Kano and supporters of Air Peace”? A Nation’s Perpetual Self Subversion Governor Emefiele, Stay At CBN To The End What really is wrong with Shuai­bu the “strategic communications expert?” The article was aimed at showing how wrong Air Peace was in misapplying the dictates of Strategic Communications in telling its own side of the story as it pertains to the complaints an aide of the Emir of Kano levelled against it.Why should Air Peace be blamed for the views of the public? And should the views of the ordinary Nigerians, es­pecially, those active on social media and the mainstream mass media even, not be important even as they represent the opinions of the bus top man and woman? Or does Shuaibu think that the Emir or an airline is be­yond the appraisal of what is known all over the world as public opinion? Or was Shuaibu, by his article, show­ing us his disdain for public opinion when it is directed at certain persons? Haba, Mallam, haba! Shuaibu’s fourth blooper: “The so-called leaked memo from the Palace to the NCAA, which has attracted all the unnecessary bickering and unwarranted attacks, ought to have been handled more professionally and strategically from the outset of the situation”. Common, dear, dear Shuiabu, why did you not say in what way the Air­line erred in its public statement? Should there have been a memo from the palace to the NCCA in the first place? Remember you have failed to say in which way the airline erred in its actions, especially its refusal to delay its flight for just an individual, and also you didn’t say how it erred in its statement. And you were supposed to be talking about strategic commu­nications, brother. Shuiabu’s fifth blooper: “Spokes­persons should realise that PR is not about issuing boisterous and confron­tational releases but the creation of channels of mutual understanding, in a way that strengthens and further builds relationships”. I am bold to say that I have every reason to believe that the words in the above paragraph were directed, at least partly, to Air Peace spokes­persons. And I make bold to state that nothing in the statement the airline issued on that matter was “boisterous or confrontational”. In the quote in the paragraph above, the author talked about PR. So, I make bold to tell him that “PR professionals work within one specif­ic area of strategic communication: the maintenance of a positive rela­tionship between an employer and the community. They do this through the use of public-facing communica­tion, such as press releases, special events, speeches, and social media”. And the issuing of a statement that was respectful (to its reputable client, the Emir) was exactly what Air Peace did. The highfalutin Strategic commu­nication refers to policy-making and guidance for consistent information activity within an organization and between organizations. Equivalent business management terms are: integrated (marketing) communi­cation, organizational communica­tion, corporate communication, in­stitutional communication. Finish! That came from Wikipedia. Now compare it with Shuaibu’s very first paragraph: “Beyond theory, strategic communication doesn’t seek publici­ty in whatever ways through the me­dia. It considers the dynamics of the environment, the target audiences, their behaviours, and trending issues for effective messaging”. What? Whoever said that “strate­gic communication doesn’t seek pub­licity in whatever ways through the media” should be told to think again because Kjerstin Thorson wrote in his book titled “Strategic Communication”: “Strategic com­munication is a term used to denote the higher-level concerns behind communicative efforts by organi­zations to advance organizational mission. It is, therefore, inherently multidisciplinary as work in this area draws on literature from a wide array of other subfields, including public relations, marketing, adver­tising, and management”. An organization called IDEA advanced this definition: “What is strategic communications? The term, “strategic communica­tions” has become popular over the last two decades. It means infusing communications efforts with an agenda and a master plan. Typical­ly, that master plan involves promot­ing the brand of an organization, urging people to do specific actions, or advocating particular legislation. It can refer to both a process, and to a specific job title. Why strategic communications? The field of ‘communications’ is broad, encompassing professionals who create news or want to push information to the public (public relations, public information, mar­keting), people who deliver news and media to the public (journalists, audio and video producers, public speakers, educators), and people who study the interplay of media and society (researchers). Strategic communications fus­es the “pushing” and the “deliv­ering.” According to Shayna En­glin, who teaches public relations and corporate communications at Georgetown, “being strategic means communicating the best message, through the right chan­nels, measured against well-con­sidered organizational and com­munications-specific goals. It’s the difference between doing commu­nications stuff, and doing the right communications stuff.” Strategic communication will be communicating nothing if it does not communicate! Haba, Mallam, haba.