ABUJA – Akwa-Ibom state Professionals and businessmen have berated a desperate governorship aspirant, who is embittered over his rejection as the preferred successor to Governor Udom Emmanuel. Condemning the resort to smear campaign against the Akwa Ibom State Governor because of his rejection, the professionals cautioned the said governorship aspirant to desist from utterances, actions that are inimical to the peaceful co-existence of the people of Akwa Ibom or face their wrath. Interacting with newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the group under the umbrella of Professionals for Development in Akwa Ibom, said it will not hesitate to mobilize the people of Akwa Ibom against the said aspirant if he continued in his agenda to smear Governor Udom Emmanuel, with a view to destabilizing the state for his “selfish reasons”. The professionals stressed that they were alarmed by reports that the desperate but unpopular governorship aspirant, who is distressed over his rejection by Governor Emmanuel as his preferred successor, had “contracted hack writers, who he paid heavily to publish lies, baseless allegations and vile propaganda, particularly in the social media, to tarnish the good image of the governor.” National Coordinator of the group, Engr. Ufot Akan Umoren hinted that his association has details of the plot, but added that the scheme is dead on arrival as the people of Akwa-Ibom know the truth and have already moved on with Pastor Eno as the preferred successor for Governor Emmanuel. “We have been alerted that a particular disgruntled and embittered governorship aspirant has recruited some hack writers to publish lies, baseless allegations and vile propaganda against Governor Udom Emmanuel and Pastor Eno. “This particular aspirant is so disgruntled that he has resorted to “if I can’t have it, let’s destroy it mentality. “He is so embittered that he is sponsoring lies and false contract allegations to paint the governor in a bad light just because he was not endorsed. POLL “We condemn such desperation and send a strong warning to this aspirant and his co-travellers to desist from their scheme to destabilize our state or face the wrath of the people,” Umoren said. The group noted that Governor Udom Emmanuel has the right and freedom of choice with regard to a preferred successor in a democratic setting, adding that the people of Akwa-Ibom State are comfortable and at home with his choice of Pastor Eno as the next governor of the state. Umoren said: “The choice to anoint a successor is in line with democratic practice and norm across the world, so Governor Udom Emmanuel has not erred in anyway. “Governor Emmanuel believes that Pastor Eno is best suited to continue in his footsteps in developing the state and his choice has been overwhelmingly endorsed by the people. “The fact remains that we can only have one governor at a time. What we expect from every true Akwa-Ibomite who has the interest of the state at heart is to support Governor Emmanuel and rally round, Pastor Eno. Any person who thinks otherwise should simply go and test his popularity at the polls and not resort to actions to destabilize the state.”