Olusegun Koiki Lagos, Kingsley Benneth, Innocent Oweh ABUJA – The National Union of Railway Men (NUR) has said that the management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) disregarded its advice on suspension of night train service till the security situation in the country improves. Comrade Segun Esan, Secretary General, NUR, in a statement to journalists said that the union had proposed to the management to stop night train service when the train was first attacked in the same axis in October 2021, but regretted that its advice was taken with the pinch of salt. Besides, Esan emphasised that the union also advised the management to install Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras, explosive detectors and other technology-based approaches on train, which was not observed by the railway management. This is as the management of the NRC kept mute on the allegations leveled against it by the railway union. Recall that about 970 passengers on board the ill-fated train fell victims to an attack from bandits, with Chinelo Nwando Megafu, a dental surgeon; the Secretary-General of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade (Barr.) Musa-Lawal Ozigi, and Kwara State Chairman, Comrade Akin Akinsola, confirmed dead from the attack. Esan expressed shock that the deadly attack could happen on the train barely five months after the first one on the same Abuja-Kaduna passenger train, which happened about 8p.m on Monday. The statement added: “As a responsible union, we are completely touched and held in thrall that such a dastardly and unprovoked terrorist attack can befall the flagship and the essence of our operational existence as a corporation for the second time in quick succession having tasted the gall of this terrorist attack on our passenger train in October 2021. POLL “We regret that there is no proof that all our observations expressed to the NRC management on improving the security and safety of the train service were taken especially our advice that night train service be stopped till security situation of the service is improved with on-train CCTV, explosives detectors and other technology-based approaches.” Esan further appealed that the leadership of the union would make a specific pronouncement on the unfortunate incident soon, stressing that it was gathering information and processing same analytically with a view to arriving at rational convergence leading to making a definite official pronouncement. Besides, he emphasised that the President General of NUR and members of the Central Working Committee would visit the accident scene shortly for a first-hand assessment of the incident. “However, our prayers and heartfelt concern are with some of our railway workers and other innocent commuting passengers who might have been tragically traumatised or sustained various degrees of wounds in the incident,” the statement added. He, however, assured that the union would not relent in its effort at making railway truly and practically safe for all. However, when Daily Independent contacted Engr. Fidet Okhiria, the Managing Director of NRC, on the allegations leveled against the management by the union, he declined to comment on it. Okhiria in a telephone call simply replied: “I have nothing to say. I don’t have anything to say.” Suspected bandits on Monday attacked an Abuja-Kaduna bound train, spraying bullets at the moving locomotive. They also succeeded in destroying the rail track, disrupting train services. It would be recalled that bandits had on October 20, 2021 attacked Abuja-Kaduna train. The attack led to the exchange of gunfire between the bandits and security agents attached to the train and passengers sustaining injuries in trying to hide for safety. The train, which took off at its usual time, 6p.m, from Rigasa Station in Kaduna was attacked by the bandits between Rijana and Dutse Station. A staff of NRC then had said that the railway workers expected the attack, stressing that the workers saw the several signs indicating that there would be an attack. Eight Bodies Recovered, 26 Persons Injured — Kaduna Govt Meanwhile, the Kaduna State government on Tuesday said security agencies have recovered eight bodies, while 26 persons were injured during the Abuja-Kaduna train attack on Monday night. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, in a statement said documents received by the government showed 398 passengers bought tickets for the trip, but 362 were validated as having boarded the train through the recognised turnstile. The statement said the passenger manifest does not include NRC staff and security officials who were on board. Aruwan said investigations are still ongoing to ascertain the status of the passengers who were on board the train and remain unaccounted for at the time of this update. “Search operations are also being sustained”, he said. Senate Asks Buhari To Declare Full Scale War Against Bandits Following the Abuja-Kaduna train attack Monday night, the Senate has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare full scale war against bandits. This is as the upper chamber also urged the Army and Air Force to, as a matter of urgency, bombard terrorists enclaves with a view to restoring peace and stability in the country. The calls were made on Tuesday amid resolutions reached, following a point of order raised on “the continuing attacks on communities and public facilities in Kaduna State.” The point of order was raised by Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central). The lawmaker noted that terrorists have in recent times stepped up attacks on some communities and public facilities in Kaduna State. According to him, “The latest attacks by these murderous elements took place in some communities in Giwa Local Government Area, namely Angwan Sarki Yahya, Tashar Shari, Bare-Bari, Tsaunin Natal, Dillalai, Durumi and Jatin Kanwa, all in Yakawada ward. “Other places affected include Kaya community, Mai Kyauro and Fatika. They killed 50 persons and kidnapped over 100 people. They also made strategic roads in Giwa Local Government Area no go areas. “Not done with their devilish acts, they made an attempt to penetrate the Kaduna International Airport. “Although the attack was foiled by vigilant security operatives, one person lost his life. When people were trying to come to grips with a week-long wanton destruction of lives and property, the terrorists struck again.” He bemoaned the attacks by bandits on a Kaduna bound train carrying over 970 passengers around Kateri-Rijana axis in Kaduna, just a few kilometers to the Rigasa Train Station in Igabi Local Government Area of the state. “The train derailed after the first wave of attacks. Grenades and RPG were used. They rained bullets on all the coaches. Some passengers were killed, while many sustained bullet wounds. “There are reports that some of the passengers were abducted. The terrified passengers only breathed a sigh of relief when security agencies arrived and secured the train and the area. It’s been a reign of undiluted terror”, Senator Sani said. He noted that “these latest attacks are aimed at instilling fear in the people and destroying the economies of our local communities. “It is disheartening that these enemies of the people are getting emboldened by the day. They are becoming more brazen. These blood cuddling vampires have no regard for human life. They have no place in a civilised society.” He expressed concern that the unrelenting attacks call to question the strategies and tactics being adopted by our security forces. “We expected that with the declaration of bandits as terrorists by a court of competent jurisdiction, they will be degraded in no time. “This appears not to be happening. The security forces must reassess their strategies and come up with workable and effective solutions to the menace of terrorists in Kaduna State”, he added. Sani observed that the forests where the terrorists hold sway are not impregnable, adding that “a comprehensive operational plan, executed with high sense of professionalism and responsibility, total commitment on the part of our security forces and the support and cooperation of the local communities will rid Kaduna State forests of these murderous elements.” He explained that the advocacy for creation of state police would bring law enforcement closer to the people. “Effective gathering of intelligence and sustained security operations at the local level will make life uncomfortable for terrorists. “They will have no operational base; and once again draw the attention of the Federal Government, particularly security agencies comprising the Nigeria Police, the Nigerian Army and other relevant security agencies to the grave security situation in Kaduna State and other states of the federation”, he said. Contributing, Senator Gabriel Suswam lamented that Kaduna had become the new theatre of insecurity. He said the lingering activities of terrorists in the state makes it imperative for the appropriate authorities to take decisive action. The lawmaker attributed the inability by the military to curtail growing incidents of terrorism to “a clear failure of leadership.” On his part, Senator Danjuma La’ah said if the security situation in the country is not nipped in the bud, political leaders would become the main targets of terrorists. The Senate, accordingly, in its resolutions, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to declare full scale war against terrorists, so as to fully secure all our national territory from them in whatever guise. It urged the Army and the Air Force to carry out sustained bombardment of terrorist enclaves with a view to flushing them out and restoring peace and stability to our communities. The Senate further directed security agencies to always take steps to prevent the occurrence of similar incidence in the future. It added that the military should, as a matter of urgency, monitor the construction and inhabitants of new shanty buildings around the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport, Abuja. The chamber urged the relevant agencies of government to step up their information gathering mechanism to forestall these incessant attacks. It also called on the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and other relevant government agencies to assist the affected communities with relief materials. The chamber urged Nigerians to remain vigilant and report any suspicious movements to security operatives. The Senate, thereafter, held a minute silence to mourn the deceased in Monday’s attacks. It condoled the families of the victims of the attacks and the government and people of Kaduna State. Attack Victims Recount Harrowing Experience Some of the surviving victims of the Abuja-Kaduna train attack have narrated their harrowing experiences. The victims are currently receiving treatment at the St. Gerald Catholic Hospital in Kakuri, Kaduna. Maimuna Ibrahim, who was shot in the thigh, said she was coming back to Kaduna from a workshop in Abuja and decided to board the train. She said she was unable to walk after being shot and the soldiers had to carry her out of the train to a vehicle by the expressway. “We saw hell. I prayed and prayed and prayed,” she said. “Thank God soldiers came and they really helped us. I was unable to walk. It was a soldier who carried me on the back to a vehicle that brought us to the hospital. “They were able to pass over the cliff, carrying us on their backs. Seriously, they tried because it was not easy climbing the cliff. “The terrorists were moving about in the train, but they did not come to where I was seated. I was hit by a bullet that came in through the window. “They entered SP17. As they were shooting, the police security on the train asked us to lie down on the floor of the train so that the bullets would not hit us. Unfortunately, before I could lie down, the bullet hit me. “I saw the terrorists from the window. They were many; they looked to be between the ages of 18 and 20. They wore turbans. They didn’t look like Nigerians. They were shouting ‘Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar’ as they shot sporadically. “They abducted some people. I saw them forcing people out of the train. They were beating them as they were taking them out of the train.” Fatima Shuaibu, a student of the College of Education, Gidan Waya in Kaduna, said her sister was killed in the attack. “My sister, Zainab Awal, was shot in the stomach and she died,” Shuaibu said amid tears. “I was seated by the window in the train. Suddenly, I started seeing flashes of light that appeared to be from torchlights. This was around 8p.m. There was a loud bang as if something exploded, then the train went off track as if was falling down. We started shouting and praying. As soon as the train stopped, we started hearing gunshots. “The security personnel on the train announced that everybody should lie down on the floor of the train. “They attacked the VIP coach. They abducted some people and took them to the bush. They shot other people. They operated for about two hours or so before soldiers arrived and they exchanged gunshots. “The terrorists came with five Sharon buses and motorcycles. Those who were abducted were taken away in the Sharon buses.” Mohammed Isa, another victim who was shot in his right arm, said the incident was “like a dream”. All of a sudden they started shooting at the train from afar, then they started coming closer,” Isa said. “When they got to the train, they attempted to force the door open, but they couldn’t. So they shot at the door and it opened. They were speaking Hausa.” Like Nigerians I Am Deeply Pained— Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari has reacted to Monday’s night Abuja-Kaduna train attack, saying like many Nigerians he is deeply pained by the sad development. Buhari, who said the latest incident would be the second of such attacks, noted that a directive has been issued to security chiefs to hunt down the terrorists and rescue those abducted. In his reaction, Buhari said he has directed the immediate conclusion of all the processes for the implementation of the integrated security surveillance and monitoring solution for the Abuja to Kaduna railway line and that it should be extended to cover the Lagos-Ibadan railway line. The presidency also directed the Nigerian Railway Corporation management to speedily repair the damaged lines and resume normal service without delay. These directives came shortly after the president received briefs from the service chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Farouk Yahaya, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao; the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, as well as Major General Samuel Adebayo, the Chief of Defence Intelligence and the Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi, in the State House. Buhari also tasked the law enforcement chiefs to bring back all passengers kidnapped and ensure that each of the callous terrorists are hunted down and made to face justice for their heinous acts as no one or group should be allowed to make the country prostrate. “The military must deal ruthlessly with terrorists, they should be more decisive and not spare anyone unlawfully wielding the AK-47 weapon. “No one should be allowed to hold the country to ransom,” the president stated through his media aide, Garba Shehu. President Buhari also condemned the bombing of the passenger train, describing it as a “matter of grave concern.” “Like most Nigerians, I am deeply pained by its occurrence, the second of its type, which has resulted in the death of a yet to be determined number of passengers and others who suffered injuries. “The attack on the train, a safe means of transport to many is callous; and our thoughts are with the families of the deceased and prayers for the injured,” he said.