I know that some medicines could be worse than the diseases they are meant to cure, especially when the recommendation is from a quack doctor. I also know that as Chinua Achebe noted about Onitsha Market Literature phenomenon, inadequate learning has not stopped some persons from writing books to educate their fellow men and to make some profit on the sidelines. So, I know full well that quackery, even audacious quackery, did not begin today and that it has been acquiring turbulent virulence and extravagant boasting. Yet, when Mr. Dahiru M Lawal reacted to my column of 6th March, I was shocked. It lacked civility, was uncoordinated because he rambled on and on, jumping from one issue to the other. It was an unfocused chaotic clutter; a total mess. Not one error listed against Shuaib, whom he praised as his mentor, and projected as a Mass Communication genius and philosophical prodigy of Aristotelian dimensions, was refuted. Error number one: he wrote, “Sometime in 2021, my mother was denied boarding on an Air Peace plane going from Ilorin to Abuja, even though she was among the first set of passengers who arrived at the airport very early that morning. Apart from frustrating her attempt to board the aircraft, the airline further charged her exorbitantly for the use of the same ticket for the next day’s flight.” That is a severe charge against an airline. A few sentences later this appeared: “Mama came early but was on the wrong queue at a counter of another airline. By the time she realised the mistake, the Air Peace Counter had been closed”. Yet, Shuaib still wrote in that article of March 4th: “Sometime in 2021, my mother was denied boarding on an Air Peace plane”. Is that not a blunder in reasoning, if one is blaming A for B’s mistake? Is that not pure illogicality, warped thinking, self-contradiction? Oh, reader, what could have made an “award winning” Lawal to refer to the Wikipedia as a journal? Journal? Haba Mallam, haba! It is an online encyclopedia while a journal is …, no, I will leave that undefined for Lawal may want to debate me too on that. POLL Now, I will jump to three important issues; his attack on my person as a journalist and Chief James Onanefe Ibori’s defender and the awards Shuaib has been winning. Yes, some nonentity once mocked me as too untalented to work for the PUNCH, Guardian or THISDAY and not wining any journalistic awards, saying that explained why I became Ibori’s spokesman to defend a corrupt politician. I replied that I worked in the PUNCH two weeks and left to pursue an M.Sc. degree in Mass Communication at UNILAG. After that, Dele Giwa invited me into Newswatch in 1986 (and I add for Lawal’s benefit that within two months there, I won an award for Initiative and Excellence. “Oga” Ray Ekpu wrote the citation that tagged me “a child of promise” and asked others to emulate me. My next place of work was THISWEEK where I won a double promotion, rose from Correspondent to Assistant Editor within three years and headed two different Desks; National News and Politics and wrote cover stories for three consecutive weeks, perhaps a first globally in any well-seeded media house. In 1990, my fourth year in journalism, Harvard’s famed telephone call came and I became a Fellow and Ford Foundation scholar at the Nieman Foundation for Journalism, the first academic fellowship and the most prestigious one for journalists. Oh, I still remember that I was invited into Reuters office in Lagos that same year and asked if I would be free to accept the Reuter’s Fellowship at Oxford University. Stupidly, I replied that I preferred to go to Harvard; I didn’t ask if the Oxford admission could have been deferred! And for you, Lawal, I joined the Guardian in August 1999 and within a month or two the Saturday Editor, Banji Adisa, asked me if I could turn my essays into a full-fledged column; that was the birth of Abuja Notes. Do I need to add that I acted as a West African Correspondent for the second largest newspaper group in Africa then, The Daily Nation of Kenya, or that Dr. Stanley Macebuh invited me to be Deputy Editor at the Post Express? Or that I have toured Eastern Europe at European Union’s expense in service of journalism? If you want more about my writing, please say so and I may tell you how I was contributing to the Daily Sketch twice a week by 1976 and ’77 ever before I went to the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, for my first degree. Yes, I was contributing to the opinion and sports pages and was paid N7 for each article. Thank you, dear Kayode Ojo, who was Sports Editor then. Please take on me on this for I have more to say; the money the Editor of Monthly Life paid me saw me through UNILAG; thanks to you Mr. Wole Olaoye, now a businessman and columnist for Daily Trust. You said that I shamelessly defended a “the most corrupt politician in the country”. My reply is in three parts; one, only simpletons doubt that Ibori was targeted because of his politics. He supported the late Dr. Alex Ekwueme’s presidency bid in 2003. Also, only self-deceit can make a journalist think that there was an anti-corruption war during Olusegun Obasanjo’s presidency and Nuhu Ribadu’s time at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Three, I am still defending Ibori from ignoramuses too blind to see the injustice done to him. Somebody was willing to be someone’s attack dog. It is likely, too, that you may have heard of Third Term bid. I wrote on Sunday May 30, 2004 (or so) that someone would attempt to change the constitution to allow him become President for a third time, and that it would fail. That was in a special presidency two-page series that ran in the Daily Independent for one week. You stated that THISDAY heaped tributes on Shuaib; I saw where a lady interviewed Shuaib, not a THISDAY editorial, not a news item. THISDAY? I forgot to tell you that by 1995/96, I sat on the Editorial Board of THISDAY. So far, checking for the awards, reminded me of what Achebe said about a bad dictionary; you would take a confusing word to it and it would give you a more perplexing one. Remember that you wrote that Shuaib (or his firm?) won “the Most Creative PR Agency Worldwide 2020 by Global Creativity Index GCI and Statista, the world-renowned statistics portal”. Searching for Global Creativity Index, I saw “The Global Creativity Index 2020” which listed countries; “Australia takes the top spot, followed by the United States and New Zealand. I looked up those behind GCI and saw an article in BLOOMBERG; “Richard Florida is a professor at the University of Toronto’s School of Cities and Rotman School of Management. Mr. Florida explained in that 2010 article: “Earlier this week I identified the world’s leading nations on innovation, technology and the creative class. I have created, the Global Creativity Index”. Then, further mutations of GCI came up like variants of Covid-19 virus. I have to stop here to await Lawal’s reply and then, I’ll speak on my hunt for the powers behind a certain GCI award and how it led to Statisa and PRovoke. So far, I found no news of the body/bodies and the award in Reuters, Associated Press, or American or British newspapers. I still wonder how or why a certain variant of GCI which turns to Statista/PRovoke will say something and no organization will report it except your prnigerianews (which published the inanities against me) and from there Nigerian newspapers got the news, quoting prnigerianews. I know that there are awards and there are “awords”. One means something relevant; one stands for just hot air. Ade Ogidan On Late Donatus Duru Nothing saddens the soul like death. The African-American musician, Roy C (Hammond) put it succinctly in his “Fireside” pop music; “Like life when death comes around, we are so sad.” It steals laughter from our hearts. And the death of others reminds us that our own hearts “are beating funeral marches to the grave”. Please let’s lengthen that quote from A Psalm of Life by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow: “our hearts, though stout and brave, still, like muffled drums, are beating Funeral marches to the grave. In the world’s broad field of battle, in the bivouac of life, be not like dumb, driven cattle! Be a hero in the strife!” Strife? Many have called me to ask if Daily Independent was not a national paper from inception and other questions. So, as life must go on, I feel duty-bound to interrogate Ade Ogidan’s ode to himself in the Daily Independent of March 25, 2022 disguised as lamentation on Duru’s death. One, Ogidan claimed that he, Duru, Don Okere (Editor) repositioned the paper, making it circulate nationally. My reply: I was a foundation staff of the paper and Abuja Bureau Chief, so I know it had a national spread. A Johnny just come (JJC) would not have known that Daily Independent won the Nigerian Newspaper of the Year Award back to back. Well, Mr. Ted Iwere preceded Ogidan as the MD, so such fact hunters would know who is in the best position to know when and how the paper became regional if it did. Two: profitability or otherwise of using consultants to organize awards. I replied to the questioners that such will only become clear from financial reports, but I know that money has to come in first before you begin to talk about how to share it. All I know is that the cost of this and that were so prohibitively high that Ogidan’s successor in office had to take a knife and began to slash cost of hall, invitation cards, etc, for future awards. I know that an Executive member once awarded the contract for the printing of I.V. cards to his own son, who so messed it up that it was done twice. Please, don’t ask me who bore the extra cost. Ogidan mentioned how he and Duru increased revenue from advert. Wonderful! How come that an Executive could not remit some N12 million advert money? And if the paper was so solvent under Duru and him, why were the workers owed salaries and suppliers not paid? Perhaps, Ogidan should first submit his handover notes to his successor and others will pass judgment on him. In fact, someone told me that a certain Executive would ensure that he was paid in full while other staff members were not. It sounds too outrageous to be true, right? Lastly, I’m writing this because once, an Executive asked one Mr. Arowolo to supply a printing press timing-belt for N250, 000. I told him it cost just N50,000. Ogidan accompanied the late Duru to the Lagos press and insisted that that same outrageously priced belt be installed. Some few Naira was slashed off that cost and Daily Independent set a world record for paying the highest price for a timing-belt, globally. Perhaps, Donatus Duru was a good man. Perhaps, some people beclouded the star in him. Rest in Peace, Duru, and may audacity of hypocrisy have no place when we discuss your death. Amen.