It is fuel counterfeiting crime, nothing short of it. It was done to make money. To make easy money. They wanted it big and quick. That is their style, their stock in trade – to make it big and quick – to make big money speedily… Their criminal action sends the nation out bleeding. Do they care? Like someone, one commentator said not too long ago – all you need to set Nigeria ablaze, to cause anarchy, to send Nigerians wriggling in pains is just a pinch of dislocation and everything will go haywire. This is what is happening now. Like many others, I have bought at N185 per little since the current supply crisis hit the streets. I have bought at N210. I have bought at N200. Those buying in jericans (to resell and to keep their electricity generators running )  buy at N200 per litre and pay a mandatory fee of N200 per jerican because the almighty petrol station attendants believe they are doing  this category of customers a favour  they must pay for. What are our price enforcement agents doing about all these? Nothing. One afternoon, yours sincerely watched a drama played out at a neighbourhood new station in Satellite axis. A pick up van, donated by Amuwo Odofin LGA, carrying stone-faced civil defence officers- four of them, stormed the station in a gang-style fashion. Such theatrics don’t impress me any longer since the escapades of Abba Kyari hit the screens and print media. They stopped fuel dispensing because the station was selling at N200 per litre and summoned the station manager.  But within minutes, as soon as negotiations with the manager commenced with the team head, the fuel dispensers recommenced selling. That is the character of our law enforcers! Who cares? NIRSAL Credit Risk Guarantee: Support To Agro Processing Hits… Nigeria Has Over 150 Unofficial Taxes And 60 Official Taxes –… According to media reports on the trending bad fuel issue, a loophole in the system was exploited to get the fuel cargoes in question into the country.  The explanation: While most nations’ pre-shipment/pre-discharge standard test parametres include the oxygenate, methanol, the Nigerian regulatory authority has not adopted this standard. This was the loophole that was knowingly or unknowingly exploited and high level of the chemical was revealed in tanks at terminals and vehicles. The media reports revealed: According sources, there were strong indications that the PMS came from a blending facility and not a refinery, as the trader mixed the PMS with alcohol to profiteer…the chemical composition of PMS is similar to methanol. Mixing alcohol with hydrocarbon usually goes well, but high on octane level. In countries where allowed, the products are delivered completely blended. While that could be done in advanced countries, the technologies are not available in Nigeria. This is not the first time we are having this sad experience of bleeding the nation and throwing innocent Nigerians into avoidable pains. We had Sani Abacha regime’s case in 1997 when an offensive odour fuel was imported into the country. We had Umar Musa Yar’Adua in February 2008 when  Oando delivered 33,000 metric tons of gasoline imported from Gunvor International BV Amsterdam, a com modity trading firm in Switzerland. After several reports of damaging vehicles, Oando said in a press statement that the fuel was contaminated with ethanol — after confirming with the supplier. And now we are contending with  Mohammadu Buhari  regime’s January 2022 tainted fuel. Mele Kyari, the group managing director of the NNPC Ltd, said the methanol-blended petrol was imported into the country by a few suppliers through four premium motor Spirit cargoes under its Direct Sales Direct Purchase (DSDP) arrangement. POLL The DSDP arrangement is part of strategies by the NNPC to ensure a sustained supply of petroleum products in the country. So in 25 years, we have not learnt our lesson! In 25 years, we have not learnt to do it right! In 25 years, we are unable to put a stop to this calamitous crime against the nation? Haba! Product counterfeiting is a global problem. Counterfeit product have ruined economies, causing plant shut downs and heart shaking job losses. John Engler, president, National Association of Manufacturers, United States of America, says counterfeit products account for a staggering 5 to 7 percent of world trade, a volume of almost $500 billion  annually.  Counterfeiting is evil. It not only violates the intellectual property rights of manufacturers, it also puts consumers in serious danger. Dangers range from ingestion of fake pharmaceuticals to accidents caused by substandard parts. China is an unrepentant fake product manufacturer. It engages in unfair trade practices, including wholesale counterfeiting of U.S. products. It has huge factories dedicated to making products that look exactly like U.S. brand name goods. This Chinese criminal practice is not limited to business relations with the United States. World wide, China is a problem to economies. Tonnes of Chinese products, sub-standard products dominate markets. Stories are told of Nigerians who approach factories in China to manufacture fake products for them. We hear they take the originals of these products to Chinese manufacturers and instruct them to counterfeit them. NiMET, NIMASA Sign MoU On Establishment Of Marine Meteorological… Bicycle Still Mega-Business As China Exports Close To 70m In… When products are counterfeited, they cause job loss in countries where the counterfeited products are brought into. Counterfeited textile products imported into Nigeria caused textile plants shut downs and by extension massive job losses. According to Oladele Hunsu, a frontline leader in  the National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUT-GTWN), some textile factories cut down their workforce from 500 to 250, and some from 800 to 400. By 1996, the workforce (direct employment) in the industry was close to 140, 000. The figure has sharply dropped to below 25,000. In all, over 500,000 allied jobs have been lost to the redundancies and plant closures in the industry the last 25 years or thereabout. Intellectual property theft affects the nation’s movie, music and books industries with  owners of vides, DVDs,CDs and books losing billions of naira to unrepentant pirates of their products. Reports have it that in his recent study of fake pharmaceuticals,  Paul Newton of Oxford University found a disturbing amount of fake malaria drugs sold in Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam and disappointedly concluded, “…about half of the artesunate contained no active ingredient. So, logically, if malaria is a public health problem in Southeast Asia and is potentially fatal, if people are taking these drugs that contain starch and chalk, they are very unlikely to survive their malaria infection.”  Said he: “In one shop, a hundred thousand fake artesunate were offered for sale. So, they are not being produced in somebody’s kitchen. They are produced on an industrial scale. And if organised crime is involved, which seems very likely, then that makes it much harder to do anything about.” Late Dora Akunyili, erstwhile director general of National administration for Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), put her life on the line fighting peddlers of counterfeit drugs in the country. She lamented in one of her outings:” The problem of counterfeit drugs and other regulated products is rapidly rearing its ugly head in developed countries and this is fueled by purchase of drugs via the internet. The negative impact of counterfeit drugs and other regulated products knows no boundaries. Resistant strains of micro-organisms do not need visa to travel from country to country.”