Bishop Dr. Theophilus Taiwo Ajose is Special Adviser (General Duties) to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman in Lagos and State Secretary, CPFN/ PFN Block, Lagos State. Bishop Ajose also doubles as State Director, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG), Lagos PFN, and Zonal Deputy Director (South West) DPG, PFN as well as President, Organisation of Christians for Democracy (OCD). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the plans of Christians towards the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: The CAN and PFN now have political offices although they are strictly religious organizations. Could you explain this development? Government belongs to the people and the activities of government affect the people. The people who are members of the church are members of the society. Activities of government also affect the body of Christ. These include government policies and actions. Because of this, we believe that government is instituted by God and God wants only the righteous to rule so that the people can rejoice. The church has divine responsibility to get involved in the political affairs of the country. The church constitutes the majority of voters in this country and the states. So, we have the divine mandate to take care of that aspect of the church. The PFN is an arm of CAN. All other arms of CAN have the office. We come together under CAN to make decisions. How New Link Roads Are Bringing Life Back To Kwara Communities APC Presidential Ticket: Tinubu More Experienced Than Osinbajo –… It has been alleged that several men of God now are attached to political office holders and governments. How do you see the allegations? All these people are members of the church congregation. The politicians also come to the church and our members to look for votes during elections. So, we have to know that they also come to us for blessings. We also pray for God to guide them. If they give something to the church or the men of God, it is okay. But, we do not force them. Also, we do not force people to vote for them. We have to clarify all these. It is wrong for people to say that men of God are under the pay of politicians. Having said that, nothing stops any Christian leader from identifying with a political leader. Daniel lived in the king’s palace, but he always told the truth. People can say anything, but we do not operate with what people say. We have to interact with politicians if they come. We have to know the people we are to vote for. It is this suspicion that is adversely affecting the way Christians benefit from the dividends of democracy and governance. Some of the politicians are good. How do you see political activities in the country currently? The political activities in the country now are what obtains when elections are drawing nearer. During elections there are a lot of movements. At the end of the day, the politicians do not give reports of their activities or how far they are able to achieve in their manifestos. Even if they do and their cardinal objectives are not achieved, they still give. And people do not ask questions. The politicians do not even think they owe us any explanation. The PFN is the largest church group in the country with membership of over 65 million. In Lagos, we are over eight million. Pentecostals can install a government. This time we are directing our members appropriately. What is your take on the politics of religion and ethnicity in the country? POLL Man is essentially a spirit being in a physical body. The spirit man controls and directs all actions of man. That is why religion is powerful. The spiritual controls the physical. Because of that, a typical believer will believe his religious leader more than a politician. That is why politicians come to the church. They influence the outcome of elections. The church does a lot of things the government is supposed to do. The politics of religion is so important because you cannot divorce people from their spiritual leaders. They provide for the spiritual needs of the people. The politicians come during elections, after which they go, but the religious leaders are always there. The politics of ethnicity is brought by politicians. They make people feel that they have leaders. The politicians, when they come to power, take care of their people alone. It is the church that brought about the politics of ethnicity, but the politicians. How could the politics of ethnicity be checked in the country? There is something in the 1999 Constitution about Federal Character. It is gamine. We have to follow the Federal Character principles. It ensures that all regions are represented in government and establishments. Presently, there is no ethnic balance in governance, especially in the area of appointments. Politics of ethnicity cannot be checked until the government practises what the constitution says about Federal Character. This is not only in appointments, but also in development projects. This is not only in the Federal Government. It should apply in states and local governments as well. That is why there is rotation in governance in states and even in local governments. We must practice Federal Character. The people must demand for it. How ready would you say that Christians are for the politics of the 2023 general election? What we have started to do at DPG at the national and state level is to ask Christians to obtain and update their Permanent Voter Cards. Without PVCs, they cannot vote and be voted for. We get Christians to go to the grassroots to become members of political parties and register at ward levels. All churches at ward levels will form caucuses at the DPG. Each church at the ward level will get what we call the Church Officer in Politics (COP), who will represent us at that level of the DPG. At this level, we will ensure that the church is part of politics. We must determine things at ward level for all members. All our members will register with political parties. We will determine who to vote for. It does not matter the party. We can use our numerical number to determine the political equation in the country. As far as the nation’s politics is concerned, all political parties should know that it will not be business as usual. Pastors and ministers should stop going to campaign offices of political parties unless they are members of the parties. They should stop going there 2023: APC Succumbing To Internal Crisis Buhari Breaks Silence On APC Crisis, Calls Stakeholders To Order How do you see the issue of zoning and concession as they affect the two major political parties, PDP and APC? The PDP is saying zoning. That has been the tradition of all the political parties in the past. For APC, it is because a particular group wants to lord it over others that they are talking of concession. But, they should remember that the church has the votes. Seventy percent of christen voters are youths. We have knowledgeable set of people to do these things. The two major political parties, APC and PDP, are seen as corrupt. Do you foresee the emergence of a Third Force to put things right in the country? It is not possible to win elections outside the current political structure. The constitution has made it impossible for people to win elections outside the current structure. Somebody can have several millions of votes in a few states, but cannot win an election. Some people who believe that they have been called by God to rule cannot win because they do not have the structure. They cannot get the number of states to win elections. What can people do to influence the voters in the two major political parties? Even as independent candidates, how can you win votes? There must be political party offices in a certain number of states. People in those states need offices and structures to win elections. God knows we need political structures to win elections. We now have political structures to help those Christians who want to win elections. How do you see the state of affairs in Lagos State? Lagos is a metropolitan state with a stronger GDP than some countries in Africa. It has strong plans of excellence. All the governors of Lagos have always performed well. The current governor has a solid agenda called TEAMS. But, Lagos is rich. But, the people in Lagos are poor. Poverty is everywhere. There is no equity in the distribution of political and governmental positions. More Muslims occupy the top position than Christians. We call on the Lagos government to ensure that we Christians are given positions to serve. The fact that we have a Christian governor does not mean that all other positions should go to Muslims, both in the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. At this 2023 general election s, we will sit down with the candidates to see what can be done about the situation. What is your view on Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s presidential aspiration? Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been greatly blessed by the Lord to lead Lagos and be a national leader. It is not only in APC that he is recongised as a leader. A lot of people in other political parties see him as a leader. Even in the last election, a lot of other political parties worked for his party. God can use anybody as He likes. God is a God of time and seasons. He changes His time and season. So, Tinubu needs to go back to God and ask Him what He (God) wants him to be at this season. His desire to become president is no longer an ambition. It is a vision. He wants to see his political calling as a vision and not ambition. At this crossroads of his ambition, Tinubu must go back to God what He wants him to be. He is a man of the people and should also see himself as a man of God. Christians have always been backing him. All the votes in Lagos are given mostly by Christians. Tinubu needs to do more for Christians that all the Christian governors put together.