AWKA – The Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU) the umbrella body of the 179 communities of Anambra State has appealed to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to release ex-governor Willie Obiano from what it observed as illegal detention. ASATU national president Hon Barr Titus Nnabuike Akpudo who made the appeal in a press statement released to newsmen in Awka yesterday, noted that the continuous detention of the former governor was to all intents and purposes a gross abuse of his fundamental human rights as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. He said, “ASATU received with dismay the news of the arrest and detention of the immediate past Governor of Anambra State, His Excellency, Chief Dr. Willie Mmaduaburochukwu Obiano by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC) on his way to the USA for medical check-up and to observe a deserving rest after handing over to his successor. We are so sad that given the pedigree of the person of the former Governor, the EFCC would have sent him an invitation to appear before the commission rather than picking him up like one already convicted on a jailbreak. It is also appalling that the EFCC has subjected the Ex Governor to media trial by the number of images and videos being gleaned from the EFCC detention centre. We are also reading from the social media the alleged offences said to have been committed by the former Governor which to us appear more political than legal. ASATU is therefore calling on the Federal Government to direct its agency to immediately release the former Governor and respect his fundamental human rights. The EFCC had reportedly placed the former Governor on their watchlist since November 2021. This, in our view should have given them ample time to conclude their investigations to charge him to court if they have any evidence. ASATU stands by the constitutional dictum that the accused is presumed innocent until proven guilty before a competent court of law. POLL We are also not aware of any petition by the Anambra State Government against the former Governor alleging any infraction to warrant his arrest and detention. Chief Willie Obiano performed creditably in office and should not be subjected to this humiliation by any standard. EFCC as a notable body should not allow itself to be used as an agent of political witch-hunt by anybody, individuals or party for any reason at all as same will amount to gross violation of fundamental rights of the victim and fundamental breach of our enabling laws. ASATU, as the voice of all the communities and people of Anambra State believes in the rule of law and the principle of fair trial. This is a right, not a privilege. We strongly demand same in the case of Chief Willie Obiano.”