P/HARCOURT – The national convention of the All Progressives Congress, APC, held last Saturday at the Eagle Square provided a platform where the unity of the south-south and the Rivers state chapter of the party was showcased across board. In his post-convention remark, the former Governorship candidate of the Action Congress, AC, in the state, Prince Tonye Princewill said the electoral exercise did not only demonstrate the sterling quality of the leadership the party possess but an opportunity to show the whole world that there was no faction in Rivers state APC as widely speculated. “I just want to say a big thank you to the party for putting together a solid performance and showing Nigeria what party political leadership is about. Politics is not easy, but agreeing to disagree to then come to agreement, is hard work. It requires maturity, it requires patience and it requires mutual respect. I witness this in abundance. Could not have been more proud”. On the fear that the convention would not hold due to some misunderstanding among members, Princewill said “bad news travels fast, so it was no surprise to me that leading up to it, all the news was about if the convention would hold, whether it would be free of rancour and how it would lead to the breakup of the party. Now you have your answer. The ultimate test of the new electoral act, a balancing of all interests and an outcome that could not have been better”. He explained that “for those of us from Rivers state, we were especially pleased, not only because we saw South-South unity in action, but because we were given the opportunity to demonstrate Rivers unity as well. While other states were able to achieve a consensus around a single candidate, Magnus Abe’s choice for National Vice Chairman South-South, Worgu Boms, refused to step down for the South-South endorsed choice of Victor Giadom and so for this position, we proceeded to an election where Boms was resoundingly bombed and beaten to a pulp, garnering only three votes from thousands. Where then is the faction in Rivers state?” Princewill who is eyeing the Brick House (Rivers state Government House} in 2023, said it is now “time to focus on the presidency and on the governorship. I’m already back in Port Harcourt. No time to celebrate. Consultation continues and my push for an Amaechi presidency has been further strengthened. That man understands politics, he understands governance and he understands Nigeria. I learnt a lot this (last) weekend. So much. Always put God first”, he said.