Like it did in other sectors of the economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), led by Godwin Emefiele beamed the searchlight on the nation’s creative sector, a sector which has the potential to turn around the economy of the country. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI writes; The creative industry intervention of the Emefiele’s led CBN is seen by analysts as a double-edge one as there was the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI) promoted by the apex Bank and the Bankers’ Committee and also the remodeling of the National Theatre, Iganmu Lagos. The Creative Industry Finance Initiative (CIFI) targets four key areas namely the movie, music, fashion and information technology sectors which are considered as the strongest pillars in Nigeria’s burgeoning creative economy. For obvious reasons, the visual artists felt excluded. Prior to CBN’s intervention, the British Council had embarked on a survey to help map the lucrative potentials in the creative industry. Due to the under-reporting of income in the visual arts, it was difficult to ascertain the sectors’ contribution to the Gross Value Added (GVA). But, Nigerian artworks are some of the bestselling in leading art auction houses in the UK. In the survey conducted in 2013, the Nigerian film industry was found to contribute 61 per cent, while fashion contributed 26 per cent and music was estimated to have contributed 13 per cent to the GVA. Still, this result did not show the actual contribution of the music sector as many of the targeted respondents such as Psquare, TuFace and other top earners were not available to fill the questionnaires. But then, some facts are undeniable: these key sectors possess the power of the value chain. For instance, if you empower a theatre director, you have created jobs for actors, dancers, singers, costumier, make-up artist, fashion designer, musicologist, royalty for playwright and more personnel that are typically involved in a production process. POLL UNESCO has recognised Nigeria’s home video industry, otherwise known as Nollywood, as the world’s second largest with potential annual revenue of N522 billion. Despite this realisation, professionals in the creative industry still run around to secure corporate sponsorship for their projects. It is not unusual for the corporate sponsor to dictate how their product placement will be done. In an almost shylock affair, some sponsors demand to have their brand logo as stage backdrop, which is unethical in real theatre practice. There is really no freedom for an artist who has to dance to the sponsor’s tunes as a matter of financial necessity. With CIFI, creatives now have financial options. Creatives are eligible for the CIFI if they have businesses that can create jobs, build capacity and be able to make loan repayment within 10 years. This decision by the bank and the bankers’ committee to stimulate these sectors through special funding is, according to Stephen Iloba, a Lagos-based economist, is “a bold step” to encourage the spirit of entrepreneurship among Nigerian youths while creating the atmosphere for national development. This will reduce the level of unemployment in Nigeria, and improve capacity building”. In September 2019, the CBN and the banks committed N22 billion to support the growth of the creative industry, under the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI). This followed the decision taken by the bankers committee at its annual retreat in December 2018. With the disbursement, it implies that about 85.36 per cent of the fund is yet to be accessed, said a Lagos based analyst who said Nigerian youths in this sector can leverage the fund to grow their businesses, and thereby contribute to the growth of the country’s economy. When he assumed office as governor of the Central Bank in June 2014, Emefiele indicated in his inaugural address that the CBN under his leadership will be a people focused central bank. “We were determined to play an active role in supporting growth in key sectors that could create jobs on a massive scale,” the CBN governor said. This focus was put to test with the 60 percent decline in oil prices between 2015 and 2017. Given Nigeria’s high dependence on crude oil for over 90 percent of its export earnings and for close to 60 percent of government revenue, the decline in crude oil prices led to a hike in inflation, significant depreciation in the value of the naira , and a slowdown in Nigeria’s growth rate. The Nigerian economy eventually fell into a recession during the second quarter (Q2) of 2016. Indeed, people lost jobs. To resolve these problems, the monetary and the fiscal authorities made concerted efforts to revive Nigeria’s growth. The CBN also worked hard by putting in place measures that would catalyse growth in sectors that have the ability to absorb the growing labour pool, in addition to reducing import of products that could be produced in Nigeria. The CBN implemented a number of steps to spur domestic production, some of which includes restriction on access to the foreign exchange market on 41 items that could be produced in Nigeria. Through the Anchor Borrowers Program, Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme and the Real Sector Support facility, the Apex bank increased its intervention efforts aimed at supporting growth in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. Specifically, under the Anchor Borrowers Programme, the CBN has disbursed N948 billion to 4,478,381 smallholder farmers who cultivated 5.2 million hectares of farmland across the country, thereby creating 12.5 million direct and indirect jobs. For the Agribusiness/Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS), the sum of N121.57 billion was disbursed to 32,617 beneficiaries; and for the Targeted Credit Facility (TCF), N318.17 billion was released to 679,422 beneficiaries, comprising 572,189 households and 107,233 Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs). Under the National Youth Investment Fund (NYIF), the Central Bank released N3.0 billion to 7,057 beneficiaries, of which 4,411 were individuals and 2,646 SMEs. Under the N1.0 trillion Real Sector Facility, the CBN released N923.41 billion to 251 real sector projects, of which 87 were in light manufacturing, 40 in agro based industry, 32 in services and 11 in mining. On the Healthcare Sector Intervention Facility (HSIF), N98.41 million was disbursed for 103 health care projects, of which, 26 are pharmaceuticals and 77 are in the hospital services. Similarly, the sum of N232.54 million was disbursed to five beneficiaries under the CBN Healthcare Sector Research and Development Intervention (Grant) Scheme (HSRDIS) for the development of testing kits and devices for COVID-19 and Lassa Fever. In 2016, the creative industry contributed an estimated $11.8 billion to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and there are projections that the growing entertainment and media (E&M) market of Africa’s biggest economy will be the world’s fastest by 2021. Broadcasting, motion pictures, music and fashion are some of the highest contributors of the economy, according to Nike Agbakosi, consulting lead at Jobberman Nigeria. According to a circular by the CBN, interested applicants in the creative industry were encouraged to submit applications to their banks for approval and fund disbursement. The memo also explained that those interested in benefiting from the Creative Industry Financing Initiative must have businesses in any of the following areas: Information Technology (IT), Fashion, Movie Production, Movie Distribution, Music and Software Engineering. Entrepreneurs in the creative industry can get a loan up to: N3 million for Software Engineering Students, N30 million for Movie Production business, and N500 million for Movie Distribution business. National Theatre The other leg of the CBN’s intervention in the creative industry was the rehabilitation of the National Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos which was meant to stimulate economic growth. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) led by its governor, Godwin Emefiele, took a bold step in conjunction with the Bankers’ Committee to transform the National Theatre Iganmu which had suffered neglect with facilities in dilapidated state. The renovation and rehabilitation of the edifice, renamed Lagos Creative and Entertainment Centre, according to Emefiele, is to restore the glory of the iconic building by aligning most of the fabric and equipment and facilities in the building with the aesthetics of the 21st century and to develop an ecosystem of creative hubs on the adjoining 44 Hectare parcel of land. He said: “The Bankers’ Committee is providing funding for a prototype cluster located to the north of the National Arts Theatre, a development which we have labelled the “Signature Cluster”. This facility will be a conveyor – providing space, support network, business development and community engagement for the creative, cultural and technology sectors. “The Signature Cluster will consist of a building each for Music, Film, Fashion and Information Technology verticals. In addition to these, a Welcome/Visitor’s Centre, Police and Fire Stations, and structured parking for up to 500 vehicles will be built”. Seeing the determination of the Bankers’ Committee led by the CBN, the Federal Government, in July 2020, officially handed over the National Theatre to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers’ Committee for renovation after a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Federal Government and the Bankers’ Committee. Emefiele said that the reconstruction and refurbishment of the National Theatre as well as the proposed Lagos Creative and Entertainment Centre will be completed soon with 35,000 jobs created in the process.