***Knocks Bello Over Challenges, Inability To Secure State, Citizenry MINNA – Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Niger state chapter has taken a swipe at the Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello led administration over the continued loss of lives and properties to Boko-Haram, insisting that no excuse is acceptable to his failure to provide good leadership. The workers amongst others also want the Ministry for Local Government to stop forthwith all forms financial transactions with the joint local government funds that are not backed by the instrument of legislation of Niger State House of Assembly; Section 3 of the Principal Law as Amended 2001. Labour unions at an expanded State Executive Council (SEC) which took place at, Labour House IBB road Minna deliberated on salient issues affecting the state generally and resolved that no excuse is tenable from a Governor who is believed to be well versed in the challenges facing the state before contesting election and after winning election begins to give excuses. Communiqué issued at the end of the enlarged SEC signed by the state NLC Chairman, Comrade Yakubu Garba wants the Governor Bello administration to focus more on security by stepping up action to end siege by the four major terror groups hibernating in the state. “The NLC is very disturbed that security of lives and properties appears to have overwhelmed the state security apparatus despite the existence of seven well-grounded military formations across the three senatorial zones namely: Army Barracks Bida (Zone A), Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) Minna (Zone B) and the Nigeria Airforce Base Minna (Zone B), Minna Military Cantonment (Zone B)”. Other military formations in Niger state according to the communiqué is; “The 221 Battalion New Bussa (Zone C), Air Weapon Training School New Bussa (Zone C), Forte Nagwamatse Army Barracks in Kontagora, (Zone C) in addition to the almost 100% LGA coverage by Police and NSCDC formations, a number of Mobile Police base and the non-conventional security formations like the local Vigilantes”. The Communiqué signed by state NLC Chairman, Comrade Yakubu Garba argued that, apart from attacks that has rendered several hundreds of people homeless, the session deliberated on other salient issues affecting the state generally including the lingering welfare of workers and implored on the state government to rise up to administrative responsibilities. The NLC nevertheless sympathize with families of slain security men who lost their lives on the line of duty and as well citizens who suffers same fate in the hands of the deadly terror groups; Ali kawaje, Yello jambros, Kachalla Halilu and Bello Turji. The Labour leaders are also greatly concerned with the renewed escalation in insecurity leading to the sprouting of formal and informal refugee camps or Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) scattered across many Local Government Areas in the state. Nevertheless, the labour leaders encouraged civil servants and Nigerlites generally to remain vigilant at all times and as well cooperate with the security agencies especially as it concerns the provision of local intelligence on how to end the reign of terror groups in the state. While blaming the lapses to lack of establishment of real time inter-agency collaborations, synergy, coordination and intelligence gathering and sharing mechanisms without which the state will continue to remain in this insecurity mess as the terror groups boldly move about. It is important for the state government to act now. “Why are killings by the armed bandits or Boko-Haram and ISWAP going unabated? Why are existing security formations in the three senatorial zones waiting until settlements and communities are attacked before responding? “Armed banditry cum terrorism in Niger state has taken a dangerous dimension. Rural areas that support the cities through agricultural ingenuity are now deserted. Life and livelihoods that cannot be quantified have been lost to terrorism”. The communiqué further argued that, “For emphasis, we are aware that terrorist attacks has left; Munya, Shiroro, Rafi, Paikoro and Wushishi, Rijau, Mashegu, Magama, Mariga, and most recently, Lavun desolate. Many farmers have been killed and others abandon their farmlands for safety”. Workers are not have not been accorded desired attention hence resolved that, “All affiliate unions of NLC and TUC in Niger state are directed to proceed on Seven (7) Days warning strike effective from 12 midnight on Sunday the 6th of March, 2022”. Apart from paying more attention to workers’ welfare, the communiqué suggest that the Governor Bello led administration rejig the entire security architecture to ensure that communities are secured enough for citizens to immediately return to their ancestral homes, farm lands and businesses. “The position by the Ministry for Local Government and the Joint Account Committee in administering the content of FAAC redistribution which birthed the unfortunate payment of salaries on percentage to staff of some LGAs was misleading and illegal”, this according to the NLC contradicts the existing legislation of the State House of Assembly Joint Account Laws; Principal Law Section 3 as Amended 2001 and therefore must stop forthwith. The communiqué also expressed shock by the Governor’s lack of concerns over the plight of primary school pupils and teachers who have been at home for the past 8 weeks in protest of payment of salaries on percentage basis despite several appeals for his intervention to stop the illegal payment of salaries on percentage but instead allowed the trend to linger on.