Princess Lilian Odumosu, a seasoned broadcaster, is the chief executive officer of Candy Factory Production Media Event. She is also a politician. In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, she talks about women involvement in politics and why the government must encourage women if it wants to boost the nation’s economy, among other issues. Excerpts: Can you talk about your business? We give awards. The Nigeria stewardship excellent award and Nigeria women award are my baby projects. We honor distinguished Nigerians that have carved a niche for themselves in their areas of specialty. The Nigerian women award is one award that is very close to my heart. We identify women who are role models in the field where men dominate like in engineering, medicine and other areas where we see women excel and sometimes take over. In politics also, they are represented and doing excellently well. We also create jobs for people because we have those who are on our pay rolls and others who are on contract. How is your business doing in this season of economic downturn? The business is doing well and has to function no matter the state of the economy. We just have to work out a way around it that is what makes us astute business managers. We won’t close shops because the government is not doing what it should do to create an enabling environment for us as business owners. You also know that it is a mirage for any business owner to think that the government will come and restructure his or her business. If you wait for the government to do everything for you, your business will collapse because it is not something that is feasible. You just have to be creative to remain in business. If you are not creative your business will not be sustained because change is inevitable in any environment that you find yourself. The economy I must confess has not been fair to any business, not only our line of business, In Nigeria a lot of people are living in abject poverty. A lot of people who are not creative have been compelled to close their business and it is so unfortunate because if you close one business and move to another because completion is tense, you will end up moving from one business to another without any reasonable achievement because you may end up losing your capital. If you walk on the street of Lagos for example you will see the level of poverty, well dressed people turned beggars are now everywhere. Corporate begging is the in-thing now. I blame the government for inability to take care of its citizens. Micro businesses are not supported, the hairdresser cannot function well because there is no electricity, so also the small businesses. Government will do nothing but spend time to apologise for non-availability of petrol, cost of diesel is beyond the reach of business owners. The impact of these challenges is increasing crime in the society. The attack unsuspecting victims at every opportunity, they get involved in crime because of unemployment and lack of means of livelihood. We are hearing of strange things happening in our society, where young people go into cultism and ritual killings, to the extent that they can kill people for as low as N300,000 or even less. People attempt suicide because they cannot fend for themselves and families. What do you think should be done to encourage female entrepreneurs like you? I think that the best thing to do is to provide basic amenities, like water, electricity and every other thing that should be done to support business people especially women. If the government can provide an enabling environment for businesses to thrive, women and even men can operate their businesses and the economy will begin to grow. If there is electricity I can do business in the comfort of my home. I can freeze water with the freezer that I have, sell ice blocks and make money to take care of my family. These are the things that the government should do to make the economy grow. Women are very important in the society; they have responsibility to their children and their husbands and to the society at large. They are very active players in the micro business sector, but the inability of the government to play this all important role is really impacting negatively on the economy. In most homes women are the bread winners and they fill the gap, provide succor for the society. I think that crime rates can reduce if women are empowered because they have the capacity to bring up their children properly, make money to empower their children in return because there is no woman that will have money and allow her children live in poverty. I know that you are a politician as well; did you get into politics to better the lots of women, especially female entrepreneurs? POLL Yes, I joined politics to better the lives of women and even men. I always have the desire to caretaker for women and that is why I get them involved in whatever I do, and ensure that I have an opportunity to impact on them positively. I don’t like to see people in pain. I like to help women succeed in their businesses, especially for the hardworking business women. The award that I give is to encourage female entrepreneurs who have excelled in different endeavors, especially for those of them who are in the fields dominated by men, like in politics. I am a woman and God has given me the capacity to effect changes in my environment and that has made me to get into politics so that I can have a very large platform to take care of women. People misunderstand what politics means because politics is not about money sharing but about love, sharing love and impacting positively on the society. In what ways do you intend to use your position as a politician to impact on the businesses of female entrepreneurs? You know that if women get involved in politics they will also be involved in the decision making and policy making which will have a direct and remote impact on their businesses. It is an opportunity for me to take care of women. I have impacted so much on the lives of women especially those who are in business. When you look at our political leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and you see what he has done to impact on the lives of people, you will understand why politics is very relevant in business. Asiwaju knows what politics is and he has even offered himself to lead the country at the highest political level. He is a very articulate person and he knows how to help people. He knows where the shoe pinches people. He knows Nigeria very well. He has given hope to a lot of people. He knows the level of poverty in the country. He knows how many people he feeds on a daily basis during the novelty football match, you could hear what Kanu Nwankwo said about him, and how he assisted him. He gave a lot of people life. This is exactly the kind of thing that I would like to do in the lives of people, women in particular. A lot of people who are not creative have been compelled to close their business and it is so unfortunate because if you close one business and move to another because competition is tense, you will end up moving from one business to another without any reasonable achievement. You may end up losing your capital.