The Federal Government has been called upon to review the law establishing the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) to create room to accommodate private universities in the country. This is even as both the Benue and Rivers State Governments have donated N50 million each to the Development Fund of the University of Mkar, Mkar, Benue state. Prof Zacharys Gundu, Vice-Chancellor of the University made the call for the TETFUND review during the N5 billion University Development Fund raising ceremony at the university campus, Mkar last weekend. While he stated that the law should be reviewed to include private Universities in the area of facility upgrade and staff development, he called on stakeholders to prevail on the National Assembly (NASS) to review the law and broaden its scope. The Vice-Chancellor explained that the issues confronting private universities across the country were so enormous that without external assistance from organs like TETFUND, universities may not be able to surmount the challenges before them. He said, “It is my earnest plea that we collectively put pressure on the National Assembly and other Government structures to review the law establishing TETFUND to broaden its scope to include private universities in the area of facility upgrade and staff development “The University of Mkar, going forward, will maintain its stand on character and sacrifice as game changing values. We will demonstrate character and accountability. “We will sacrifice to sustain the University and shall not take whatever support given us for granted. The event to which you have been invited, is a N5 billion fund raising planned to support strategic expansion and upgrade of facilities in the university. POLL Speaking at the occasion, Senator Daniel Saror who was the Chairman of the Fund Raising Committee said, “Running a University is a capital intensive project requiring support from all stakeholders.” He observed that “The institution has been grappling with the problem of inadequate funding from inception, whereas, adequate funding is crucial to the actualisation of the goals of the institution.” Governor Samuel Ortom, represented by his Deputy, Benson Abounu stated thatthere were many things lacking at the institution and government owes it a duty to ensure that the university was developed into a world-class institution. While Abounu donated N50 million on behalf of the Benue state government, he made a personal donation of N1.5 million. Sabatine Hon SAN, who represented the Rivers State Governor Nyesome Wike at the occasion said, “We are here to see to the expansion of the University” and subsequently donated N50 million on behalf of the Rivers state government. Hon who was Chairman of the occasion however registered his displeasure at the poor turnout at the event, even as he made a personal donation of N1 million. Former Attorney General of the Federal and Minister of Justice, Michael Aondoakaa, SAN who pledged toestablish a College of Health Sciences at University of Mkar, if elected Governor in 2023 made his own personal donation of N1 million. Earlier, Prof Gundu vowed that in order to ensure the University gets a facelift, the management was prepared to make the necessary sacrifices to achieve its planned desires.