Romelu Lukaku is reportedly unhappy with his life at Chelsea and remains keen on sealing an exit from Stamford Bridge in the summer.According to Football Insider, Romelu Lukaku is far from happy over his return to Chelsea last summer. The forward has not been granted regular game-time and has struggled to offer the same level of consistency he showed during his time at Inter Milan. In addition to his underwhelming performances, Lukaku has had to deal with multiple off-field issues, with his infamous interview with Sky Italia notably fracturing his relationship with the fans. The struggling forward does not have a good relationship with Thomas Tuchel either, even though the German was quick to defend him last month when asked about his performances. Since joining the club last summer, Lukaku has scored only five goals in 19 league outings. He has failed to start any of Chelsea’s last two league matches, especially with Kai Havertz showcasing brilliant form in front of goal. If the lack of recognition in the team was not enough, Chelsea being hit by sanctions due to the Roman Abramovich connection appears to have convinced him to seek an exit in the summer transfer window. The forward has made no secrets of his desire to return to Inter Milan, although the operation could be nigh on impossible for the Nerazzurri. Although the Serie A champions could part ways with Lautaro Martinez in the summer, amid interest from Liverpool, they are unlikely to make a move for Lukaku as a direct replacement due to a shift in their transfer policy. The Belgian international, though, has no shortage of alternatives. The struggling Chelsea forward remains a potential summer target for Paris Saint-Germain as a possible replacement for Kylian Mbappe, while Barcelona have reportedly identified him as an alternative for top target Erling Haaland. One would expect Chelsea to offload Lukaku, given his poor performances on the pitch. In addition, they will be aware of the financial upsides of selling the Belgian international, who is expected to yield a fortune due to his vast experience and the fact that he only arrived at Stamford Bridge last summer for a fee of almost £100 million. A lot will perhaps depend on how Chelsea resolve their ownership issues and release themselves from the shackles of variations sanctions imposed by the UK government, including a transfer embargo.