As valid as that point of view appears, there is another school of thought that posits that if the electoral bill was assented to by President Buhari when it was first passed by NASS in 2018, by now, (which is five years after) democracy in Nigeria could have been deepened much more than the level that it is in right now. Actually, each time President Buhari sent the bill back to NASS, an opportunity to move democracy forward was lost. Otherwise, as a nation, after the 2015 election that ushered in President Buhari, by 2019 election, we should have progressed beyond the use of Biometric Voter Accreditation System, BVAS, electronic transmission of results from polling units to INEC database, and all the other innovations contained in the new electoral Act 2022, all of which were achieved under the watch of current INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu. Is it not rather disappointing that the improvements in the electoral system that we should have attained in 2018 for the 2019 general elections are what we just achieved in 2022, prior to the looming general elections in 2023? It is my opinion that the electoral process improvements such as the introduction of the concept of diaspora voting, voting by mail, and electronic voting, amongst other innovations, that could have deepened our democracy, should have already been incorporated into our electoral system in 2022 and as we set our eyes on 2023 general elections. But owing to the shenanigans that detained it for five years as it bounced between the NASS and presidency like a Ping-Pong, they are now in our front view mirror as the next electoral reform goals, whereas they could have been in our rearview mirror. Haba! Baba Buhari Tribute To Donatus Duru I know But as the saying goes, all is well that ends well, which is why Nigerians appear to be content (for now ) with the modest accomplishments of the electoral Act 2022. The only worries now are that some of the contents of electoral act 2022 would have to be scrapped so soon after it was assented to or reviewed owing to the reason that they are not seating well with President Buhari, as contained in his cover letter to NASS conveying his approval of the bill into the Act. It is a matter of grave concern to watchers of our democracy because, after 23 years of its return as the form of government in Nigeria, democracy can no longer be said to be in its infancy. Strictly speaking, democracy in Nigeria is currently in adulthood simply because a 23 years old man or woman can no longer be referred to as a kid. So why would the passage and adoption of a law by both NASS and the President be so fractious and farcical? For instance, President Buhari’s exception to Clause 84(12) of the electoral law that he assented to has thrown up new crises because he believes the clause negates the tenets of democracy. Although, there is supposed to have been a gentleman agreement between President Buhari and NASS leadership to scrap that portion after he might have appended his presidential signature to it, (a process agreed upon to avoid a constitutional challenge that was looming if president Buhari vetoed it and NASS failed to override him before the end of February ) following President Buhari’s letter requesting that legislators make good their promise, it was not expected that there would be issues. But there is clearly resistance to keeping the promise made by NASS, particularly from the Lower Chamber which comprises 360 members and therefore more difficult to manipulate than the senate with only 109 members that is less wieldy to maneuver. Often, gentleman agreements are susceptible to contention as evidenced by the controversy surrounding rotation of presidential power between north and south which is also hinged on a gentleman agreement hashed out during the 1995 national conference. At this juncture, a bit of backgrounding to put things in perspective is necessary. And as l earlier indicated that l would return to the victor and vanquished parties in birthing the electoral act amendment 2022 with respect to clause 84 (12) which is a watered-down cause of the duel between the governors’ forum and the resurgent NASS, let us look at the real reasons that the clause causing the prickly heat has remained like a fly perched on the scrotum and could not be easily crushed without severe consequences,hence President Buhari was compelled to sign the bill into law without further filibustering . POLL That the controversial clause 84(12) excludes political appointees from voting or being voted for and compels them to resign 180 days prior to Election Day, is no longer news. The contention is that the provision is contrary to the rule enshrined in the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria that gives public servants 30 days (as opposed to 180 days) to resign their appointments if they intend to contest for electoral positions as contained in the new electoral law. Since the constitution supersedes any other law, in this instance, appointees resigning 30 days to elections as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended would prevail. There would not have been the need to scrub out the 180 days requirement, were it not for the fact that clause 84 (12) also forbids political appointees from voting or being voted for during party conventions. It is needless pointing out that denying political appointees the right to vote or be voted for amounts to robbing them of their civic rights and responsibilities. But those who support the current controversial clause 84 (12) electoral Act 2022 aver that the clause is aimed at creating a level playing field for all political office aspirants in and out of public office. Their point is that being able to run for an elective office while holding public office gives undue advantage to incumbents who would take advantage of their pole positions by capitalising on public resources available to them and imperil the non-public office holders contesting against them. That concern is real. And legislators who are often at the receiving end are the architects of the controversial clause 84 (12) which, if you like is their own curved ball or panacea to the undue advantage enjoyed by governors and Mr President whose appointees (ministers, special advisers in the case of a president and commissioners, special advisers, etc ) help tilt the scale in their favor during party primaries. In light of the revelation above, is anyone still wondering why governors and the president always have a battery of special assistants or appointees with all manners of titles even in the twilight of their tenure? Hitherto, most Nigerians thought it was merely their way of creating jobs for the ‘boys’ who helped them in securing victory at the polls. Alas, it is much more than that. Unbeknownst to most Nigerians, Clause 84 (12) is also a fallout or an adjunct to the proposal by NASS that the process of producing delegates at primaries should be solely direct primaries as opposed to the three options of direct, indirect, and consensus as contained in the electoral bill 2021 vetoed by President Buhari and sent back for re-work. As the popular aphorism goes, there are many ways to kill a rat without spilling its blood. That is why the bill was in deference to president Buhari’s re-worked by NASS. But not without cleverly stripping governors of the advantage or luxury of leveraging their appointees to give them a leg up during party primaries through clause 84 (12). Akpabio’s Garment Of Honour The Imperatives Of Gender Equality In A Constitutional Society So in more ways than one, the contest for the control of the ruling party, which is, by extension, the soul of Nigeria between the powerful governors’ forum and National Assembly, NASS, did not end with the restoration of the three options of direct, indirect and consensus options in the new electoral law, as it has raged on, but in a more nuanced and subtle way sustained with clause 84 (12). Put succinctly, what the legislators could not achieve with their introduction of direct primaries as the sole process of producing candidates for general elections, which was rejected by President Buhari via a veto, they have achieved via clause 84 (12) which whittles considerably the influence of governors during party primaries via their reliance on appointees beholden to them to vote in their favor. In my piece on reforming the electoral Act earlier referenced, l had advised President Buhari to Beware of IDEs of March and more curved balls as he enters the lame-duck period of his presidency with Governors and NASS taking his two ears hostage and bombarding him with their selfish and group point of view as they try to justify their opposing views of democracy in a bid to undo each other. Below is how l had put it: “Tellingly, governors and legislators had drawn a battle line on who would outwit each other on the question of whether direct primaries should be enshrined into the electoral act in the process of amendment. I contended further by stating that “With President Buhari finally withholding his assent, the leaders of the sub-national entities seem to have triumphed over the legislators.” I then observed that “Uncharacteristically, the governors are appearing to be humble in victory by being reticent since 21/12/2021, when president Buhari communicated his refusal to append his signature to the document that had been subjected to a series of back and forth movements between the upper and lower chambers of NASS.” Then I concluded by posing the question: “Does the muteness of the governors suggest that their victory may be pyrrhic? Considering the outrage of Nigerians when they kicked against the expunging of electronic transmission of election results from the polling units to the collation centers introduced by the lower chamber, but which was watered down by the upper chamber, by basically stripping INEC of its independence, before it was finally restored in the current bill rejected by president Buhari; the legislature should be leaking its wound.” As it turned out, as opposed to licking their wounds, the NASS went back to the drawing board to conceive how they could pull more arrows out of their quivers hence they were able to come up with clause 84(12) whose efficacy has seen governors reeling in pains. Talk about he who laughs last, laughs best. Putting all together, one thing that I can deduce is that NASS is not actually totally in acquiescence with the presidency as it appears to the ordinary folks who regard our current lawmakers as mere rubber stamps of the presidency simply because the executive arm influenced the emergence of the leadership of both the Upper and Lower chambers which are supposed to be independent. Apart from the NASS initiative of forming a committee comprising of members of the Upper and Lower chambers, the presidency and the concerned ministries, departments, or agencies for the purpose of curating public policies at proposal levels which have reduced the high level of public rancor between the two arms of government witnessed during the 8th senate, the NASS particularly the Lower chamber, is not a walk-over as it tries to assert its independence, albeit in more subtle manners. That is why scrubbing off clause 84 (12) may not be a walk in the park for the presidency. Again, in my view, healthy opposition is good for the deepening of democracy in our beloved Nigeria. Even then, politicians and the game of politics never ceased to amaze and intrigue the uninitiated and that applies to most Nigerians. How on earth can one phantom why Governors who are more likely to end up in the Senate after their tenure be so intent on routing members of the Senate where they would most likely end up? And vice versa for NASS members who also are more often than not angling to be state governors after serving as senators or members of the National Assembly. In my assessment, it is all about temporary advantages to be gained by each of the groups involved in the contest for political powers. It elicits the question: is the contestation between governors and national legislators ego-driven and therefore ephemeral or altruistic? Clearly, it is the revolving door of politics in Nigeria that makes it possible for politicians to pivot between calling the shots in governors’ mansions in their home states and the hallowed chambers of NASS. That justifies the labeling of our present crop of politicians as recycled men and women that have nothing more to offer society, by youths, especially those in the vanguard of Not-Too-Young-To-Rule movements, pushing the candidacy of the likes of Kingsley Moghalu, Dele Momodu, Omoyele Sowore et al who have thrown their hats into the ring as 2023 presidential candidates. While the governors and legislators’ epic battle rages on, the import of the adage ‘when two (2) elephants fight, the grass suffers’ must not be lost on the polity which is why l am drawing attention to it via the analysis contained in this intervention. In light of the foregoing narrative, the delay in assenting to the amended electoral act until February 25 2022 is attributable to the square up between NASS and governors forum and not totally the fault of president Buhari as it has been cast. For now, it is anyone’s guess whether the battle of supremacy between our governors and elected representatives in the NASS which detained the badly needed electoral reforms for five (5) years would continue with the request by president Buhari that clause 84 (12) be deleted. Would a rebellion manifest in the coming days as the matter has now been officially tabled on the floors of the National Assembly, comprising of men and women who may be ready, willing, and able to subsume party dictates for their personal interests as the presidency enters lame-duck period? We will not know until when the hurly burly -APC convention and congress for nomination of presidential candidates by both the ruling and main opposition parties are over. Concluded. Development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA, and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.