ABUJA  – With few hours to the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari has advised stakeholders against jeopardising the chances of the party in the 2023 general elections. He insisted that the limited timeframe of the INEC timetable does not permit any room for delay or further squabbling within the party. Buhari while playing host to the APC National Assembly leadership at the State House on Thursday in Abuja, also urged leaders and members of the party to channel their energies into improving fortunes of the party in the forthcoming elections, and avoid squabbling that easily distract and create disharmony. The president reminded members of the proximity of the election dates set by INEC, admonishing that positions should be harmonised with a bigger picture of winning elections and providing good governance. “As you all know, the national convention of our party, which we have committed to, is holding on the 26th March, 2022. And we cannot afford to do anything that will jeopardise the chances of the party in the 2023 general elections. The limited timeframe of the INEC timetable does not permit us any room for delay or further squabbling. We must therefore in the light of this reality consistently keep our eyes on the ball and refuse any distraction. “A critical segment of our national democratic process is the National Assembly. Being representatives of our people from all over the country, the National Assembly especially the 9th Assembly has exhibited commitment to a peaceful democratic process in its conduct and utmost maturity in its relationship with other arms of government. I commend you, the leadership for this success. “Distinguished senators and honourable members, we have an obligation to conduct the upcoming convention in a manner that not only fortifies the unity of our party but also improves the prospects of our electoral fortunes in the 2023 general elections. You have an important role to play in ensuring that this happens,” he said. President Buhari told the lawmakers that a zoning template was produced and adopted by the party after wide consultations in order to ensure that the leadership was reflective of the diversity in unity while representing various dynamic interests. POLL “It is imperative that we adhere to that template,” he noted, adding: “The time available to us is limited and I therefore enjoin you to collaborate with the various stakeholders within and outside your respective states and zones to agree to work together and harmoniously in electing into the allotted positions appropriately, as stipulated in the provided template. This will not only produce a smooth process and limit friction but will enhance the image of the party positively and strengthen our over-all position of dominance in the political space.” The president said he met with the governors and the party national chairmanship aspirants on Wednesday, to reiterate the need to go into the convention with a united front. “It is the same reason why I invited you today,” he said, noting, “We should all do our part to ensure the success of this convention. This will fortify us for the campaigns ahead of us.” The APC lawmakers were led to the meeting by Senate President, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawal, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Convention Would Be Based On Affirmation Of Key Officers— Lawal Meanwhile, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, has predicted that the proposed convention of the ruling APC slated for tomorrow would be successful to the point that most of the candidates seeking to occupy key positions in the party would emerge based on affirmations. He made the assertion shortly after President Buhari played host to the leaders of the party from the National Assembly. According to Lawan, the president has been able to energise the party stakeholders ahead of the convention and has advised them on the need for consensus and to stay united at all times. The Senate President said, “Mr. President emphasised the need for us, in the APC to be united, to always act as a family, ensure that we remain focused. We have the leadership of Nigeria today at the national level. And of course, we have many states, about 22 states, under the leadership of the APC governors. We have 22 states including control of the Federal Government. That requires that APC as a political party should remain very focused, energetic, and purposeful, as it has always been, and ensure that we maintain the trajectory of development for our country. “Because that is trust Nigerians gave us in 2015 and renewed it in 2019. Mr. President also emphasised the need for us to ensure that we have a successful convention on the 26th of this month, March. This convention, by way of emphasis is a very important convention for us, in APC, and by the grace of God, through our processes and procedures, at different levels of the party, the convention would be a very successful one, very peaceful one. “We hope that we would have achieved so much consensus in selecting and electing the officers for this party so that when we go into the convention, most of the officers should be for affirmation or confirmation. “It is very important to also emphasise here, that 9th National Assembly has been a very stable National Assembly. It has been a very productive National Assembly and we have remained very united in the two chambers, as APC senators and members of the House of Representatives. And we have remained in very good partnership with our other political friends who are in different political parties. We have the PDP, and of course, APGA in the Senate, and I believe that they might have even more minority parties in the House of Representatives. “But our colleagues, in the PDP, for example, have worked with us to ensure that the national interest is always supreme in our consideration. And we thank God that today, by the grace of God, the 9th National Assembly has done so much in the area of legislation. We have achieved so many firsts in the area of legislation  and broke so many jinxes, passed legislations that defied passage. And by the grace of God, Mr. President, has assented to almost all those bills, all those legislations that matter for the development of this country. “Finally, I want to say that this meeting with Mr. President has given us more energy. We believe that there is a father, at least in our party, there is a president who will ensure that once there’s disagreement he is able to call everybody to order and ensure that the family continues to remain united and that is what we have been able to achieve over the years. “Well, I don’t want to be very partisan. But of course, when you have a father in the family and a mother, then you’re likely to have a stable family. And when we have only one or none in the family, you are not likely to be successful, the family is likely to be disunited, and that is what other political parties probably are facing. “I want to add here, finally, to say that we are committed to ensuring that this political party does not only have a successful convention, but a very successful, peaceful and safe electioneering campaigns during 2022/2023 general campaigns and the general elections, by the grace of God, we’ll see Nigerians voting once again, for APC, because we have so far done so much in the areas that matter for the people of this country. But that is not to say that we are not facing some challenges, we are, but we are squaring up to ensure that we deal with those challenges”.