LAGOS – Dr Kayode Ajulo, constitutional lawyer and civil rights activist on Tuesday said zoning is an integral part of Nigeria’s constitution and it is a major factor to consider, especially in the presidential election. He also carpeted a particular presidential aspirant who said zoning should be disregarded as it is alien to Nigeria’s constitution. Speaking in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Ajulo said “Let’s be real, Zoning is not an albatross in Nigeria. It was so unfortunate listening to one of the Presidential aspirants speak on the issue. This is a serial Presidential aspirant, saying zoning is not in the Nigerian Constitution, and I weep for the system that propped up such an individual. How can you aspire to be the President of Nigeria without having an informed knowledge of the intent and letters of our Constitution? Too bad! “Beyond the fuddling argument that zoning is not expressly provided for in the Constitution, it is imperative to point attention to certain provisions of the Constitution with particular reference to the fact that the Federation or any part thereof should never be governed by a minority set of persons or ethnic group”. “Section 14(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999) as amended provides that:‘the composition of the Government of the Federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out of such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few State or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that Government or in any of its agencies.” “The essence of federal character is to ensure that political office is shared in equitable proportion, and you are saying Nigerian constitution does not recognise zoning? “I think the uninformed aspirant should apologise to Nigerians for saying zoning is not in Nigerian Constitution. This is the same person that has been talking about zoning, now because the table is turning against him, he is saying zoning is not in the Nigerian Constitution. It is so clear that zoning is an integral part of the Nigerian Constitution.”