LAGOS – Dangote Group has reiterated its commitment to continue supporting all forms of investments that would help develop and empower the women personnel within the organisation in Nigeria and across its pan-African operations. The Group, through the Dangote Women’s Network (DWN) celebrated the various outstanding contributions of its female workforce while hosting all its members of staff across Africa to collectively mark the 2022 IWD celebration titled: “BreakTheBias” to commemorate the annual global International Women’s Day. International Women’s Day, celebrated yearly on March 8 since 1911, has become a day set aside for companies to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women, while speaking out against inequities including gender-based violence and workplace discrimination. Aliko Dangote , President/CE of Dangote Group, while speaking at the opening of the virtual event, described “BreakTheBias” as “the start for a gender-equal world, a world free of bias, stereotypes, and discrimination; one that is diverse, equitable, and inclusive.” According to him, “#BreakTheBias is not a slogan but a continuous fight to eliminate gender discrimination, social, cultural, religious or other forms of deliberate or unconscious bias stereotypes that hinder women from fulfilling their potential.” Dwelling on his personal experience, Dangote revealed, “I personally understand the value of women and the power of having them involved in all aspects of business, including the boardroom. I have always been a champion of women’s empowerment. I am sure that it stems from being raised by a strong Mother, who taught me about business and philanthropy. “I am also the father of three women, and grandfather to four girls. I have seen what they can do when given equal access to opportunities. My three daughters, Mariya, Halima and Fatima are all senior executives at the Dangote Group, and I can tell you they are critical to the success of our business. They have challenged, pushed, and made me a better leader. They are not alone in the Dangote Group. “We have a strong bench of women leaders across the Group. Our focus is on skills, productivity, and ability to deliver on given assignments. I am confident that they will help drive the organisation through its next stage of growth.” POLL He disclosed that the company is working hard to completely eliminate any bias against women. “Within the Dangote group, I am proud to say that women are taking up topmost responsibilities and are doing very well in contributing to the rapid growth and expansion of our conglomerate across Africa. I will continue to support women and depend on their tremendous potential to transform the organisation and societies in positive ways”, he said. Mr. Olakunle Alake, Group Managing Director, Dangote Industries Limited, said the theme of this year’s IWD celebration “BreakTheBias” is an inspiration to women and young girls all over the world. According to him, equal education opportunities remain one of the foundational steps in promoting a world free of bias. “The female child should be given equal opportunity while growing up and made to understand that she is not inferior to the male child. She should be encouraged to always put her best foot forward, and that there is no barrier against her ambitions,” he said. Halima Aliko-Dangote, Non-Executive Director, Dangote Cement and Matron, Dangote Women’s Network, said the International Women’s Day provides a useful opportunity to reinforce the fact that everyone has a role to play in forging a more gender-balanced world.