Shela rural community in Billiri Local Government Area of Gombe State has been uplifted by the provision of an equipped Information Communication Technology (ICT) centre to improve their living standard. According to Adeduntan Adewale, Manager, Social Mobilization, Action Aid in Nigeria, during a brief handover ceremony, the donation of the hub is in line with the organization’s ideals of getting closer to the people with the aim of eradicating their poverty. He said the centre will go a long way in addressing some of the challenges faced by the rural people by enabling them to get connected to the world as well as help the youth to do online registrations without travelling too far away from Gombe, the State capital. He said, “for us, we feel this will put or save more money to the parents as it can be channelled to other things. It will also build the capacity of the youth from the community as they will learn and also be able to compete or engage with their peers globally. This is an opportunity to enhance their capabilities in digital engagement.” Mr Awdewala revealed that this is a pilot programme as it is also intended to show the Government the possibility that they can do more by bringing more equipment into the hub adding that, “it will bring visibility to Shela community all over the world. Shela will be on the global digital map”. Hajara Adamu, Advisor, Partnership and Local Right Programme, Action Aid in Nigeria, while giving an overview of the centre said the organization refurbished the building and stocked it with computers, a printer, router, e-inverter with a solar system, DC fan, chairs among others costing a little above #1.3 million. She said Action Aid had been working in the community for over 10 years providing several interventions but this latest intervention was donated with the aim of bridging the digital divide between the rural and the urban community. She explained that the Shela community was considered out of many others because of its stability, as there has been no reported case of communal clashes. Another consideration she said, was the community’s suitability, access to internet connectivity as well as the interest shown by residents of Shela. POLL Chairman of Shela Community Development Association, Mr Caleb Ahmadu Dogarin, appreciated Action Aid for the intervention promising that the facility will be well utilized, sustained and secured since they had long been anticipating the provision of such facility. He expressed assurance that “with determination, we’ll learn and get the knowledge. I’m very sure that it will greatly help our youths who have been backward in terms of ICT”.