The tragedy of the Nigerian State is that the ruling elite habitually spend so much of their time sow­ing the seeds of discord within the polity as well as actively laying po­litical booby-traps against each other all in anticipation of a state collapse just the same way that parties who are trapped in a troubled marriage anticipate and ac­tively prepare for divorce. It is obvious that our politicians do not have enough faith in the long-term survival of Nige­ria and none of them is thinking about changing the unfortunate situation. So, the political environment characterized by wholesale lack of faith in the future wellbeing of Nigeria has led many into a “kill and go” looting spree devoid of social justice or ethical considerations. Right from the inception, the post-colo­nial leadership of Nigeria has remained perpetually disposed to sacrificing the future wellbeing for its immediate po­litical and material conveniences with the result that personal interests regu­larly supersede both social and national interests. That is why, for example, at­tention was not paid to infrastructural investments long-term gestation periods; a reason why all the nation’s refineries and power generation plants have been knocked out of commission, dilapidated and in ruins. All these developmental havocs were the handiwork of men as the women were systematically made to look from the sidelines or simply wait in the “order room”. You can see their primitive and insidi­ous mindset in the shameful way that the majority (feudalists and misogynists) of the National Assembly “resoundingly” defeated all the proposed constitutional amendments that were aimed at secur­ing gender justice in the composition of government bodies and agencies in the country recently. It was a blatant display of male chauvinism in a society operat­ing a constitutional democracy where the people, both men and women, are suppos­edly the sovereign. Tribute To Donatus Duru I know The Changing World Of Work! The unsurmountable problem of na­tion building in Nigeria and most of Afri­ca is traceable to the inability of post-co­lonial societies to appreciate the need to constructively align their traditional or cultural practices of yore with those of the newly established republican Con­stitutional States founded on egalitarian principles. In other words, whereas these pioneering leaders saw themselves as heirs to the overbearing and intimidating state powers left behind by the colonial masters, they were unable or refused to situate their responsibilities within a coherent and sustainable national order in which the interests of the people and those of the communities were to take precedence over the artificial entity that the new sovereign state represents. They wanted to continue to retain their primi­tive privileges while also claiming to be democrats – untouchables. Therefore, the task now is for those at the helms to always have in mind the onerous responsibility placed on them to integrate the extant nationalities with the new constitutional state with a view to creating a truly modern sov­ereign State that is constitutionally ac­countable to the people and not the other way round. It is therefore not a favour to accord to our women what was always their constitutional rights, i.e., equality of persons, male or female. It is instructive to note that politicians elected to the centre continue to be loy­al to their ethnicity and its parochial and repugnant isolationism instead of accepting the new national order obli­gating them to promote equality and so­cial justice across the entire country as a political mandate. They seem to have been caught in the dilemma presented by the fact that they arrived at the cen­tre only through the votes of their local voters and if they fail to put their regions first, they may never return to the cen­tre again. This selfish thought process permeates the entire political spectrum: greed, moral and ideological shortsight­edness. The immediate result is that this ter­ribly limited focus of attention provides them with the alibi for their obvious lack of concern for the overall interests of the nation while they are busy pursuing self­ish but divisive nepotistic agendas built around the antagonistic template of “us against them.” Corrupt leaders are aware that when the people perpetually fight amongst themselves, they will not be able to hold them properly accountable while corruption and bad governance luxuriate to the detriment of the State itself; they deliberatively promote inter-ethnic, in­ter-sectarian schisms to the highest lev­els possible all for the same exploitative reason. With attention thus diverted from the process of governance to petty person­alised and sectional concerns, corruption is able to thrive unbridled. The leftover of national resources are then miserly allocated and in the most unbalanced of ways amongst the various groups with the result that if “your son” is not in-charge you are most likely to be exclud­ed from the national largesse. It is this unfair access to opportunities caused by the gluttony of nepotist leaders that breeds the extreme bitterness now in society and spilling over to frantic and frustrated calls for restructure and se­cession everywhere. POLL The solution to these rising bitterness and mutual feelings of marginalisation and oppression amongst groups and sex­es can only be found through a conscious policy directed at attaining social justice. An official policy/disposition of fairness to every citizen, male or female, Chris­tian of Muslims, whether in government or in opposition, is at the core of Social Justice. How fairly the government is able to distribute the scarce opportuni­ties and privileges within the society are a direct function of how mentally and morally committed the citizens would be to the idea of a legitimate governing “State” that deserves unquestionable loy­alty and patriotism. It is unfortunate that the male-dom­inated leadership of Nigeria does not wholeheartedly accept the fact that half of the nation’s population is women who deserve to participate in the governing process, and we can see the myopism at play at the National Assembly recent­ly. The famous declaration by Captain Thomas Sankara that “Women hold up the other half of the sky,” abundantly highlights the idiocy in a legislative dis­position that is fundamentally skewed against women and other unfairly tar­geted groups. Politicians, usually the males, lie to their supporters that “others groups” are out there about to subdue and dominate them and that the only way to avoid such ethno-cultural catastrophe is to continue to keep them in office, the women whom they would rather objectify for mundane ends are systemically excluded from the power game, because “men are ordained to perpetuate the wellbeing of the com­munity while women leave for their hus­band’s places”. Our constitution already has enough guarantees for every person, irrespective of ethnicity, sex, religion or political opinion for equal participation in the governing process but sadly, selfish politicians have chosen to ignore these prescriptions because they refuse to ac­cept the sense and values of social justice which is simply the conscious distribu­tion of power, wealth, opportunities, and privileges within a society. It is at the moment easy for politicians to play one group against another in the imperial manner of divide and rule, but it is expected that as the society gets more enlightened about the imperatives of social justice it would progressively become difficult to defend why women, minorities and other groups are subject­ed to such cruel denials of what ought to be their inalienable rights. The ancient inter-sex adversarial men­tality in which it was fashionable to talk about women with the same patronising tone as children which often find support in Western and traditional African reli­gions, are very unhelpful. Social Justice is very much like the Ubuntu moral phi­losophy, (unlike the crass gender greed of our legislators), is key for the evolution of a stable and truly progressive consti­tutional society.