ABUJA – Former Anambra State Government Peter Obi on Thursday finally picked the expression of interest and nomination form to join the presidential race. The expression of interest and nomination form was purchased on his behalf by a group under the aegis of “Like Minds for Peter Obi.” Speaking after picking the form, the leader of the group, Ekene Nwakuche explained that they don’t belong to any political party, but decided to take the step because the country is not going in the right direction. He said: “We don’t belong to any political party. We’re just a group of young Nigeria professionals that feels that the way the country is going, the country is not going in the right direction and we need someone, a technocrat, a seasoned technocrat that can steer the affairs of the country in the right direction, and cut down the cost of governance. “We believe that if we cut down the cost of governance, the country would move in the right direction. And we’ve been following, we are different individuals in the group, professionals, businessman, public servants, a different category of contractors, artisans, we have members from everywhere in Nigeria, we’re fully represented. “We want the country to move forward. We think Peter Obi can steer it forward and we believe in him because we’ve seen what he did in Anambra when he was the governor. And we have heard him talk, he has the wealth of experience to lead Nigeria to the promised land.” Explaining further, Nwakuche said, “we’re not in this thing because of any gain. We’re doing it because of our children to come. Because if we don’t get it right this time around, this 2023, I don’t know where we’ll be. “Each and everyone of us here knows how the country is and we want a better Nigeria. And I believe that if you’re from Nigeria, be it from the North, South, East, West, and you know, you want a better Nigeria, I don’t think there’s any other person that you’ll support than Peter Obi. POLL “So we’re buying the form from our group, the Like-minds and because we know he’s a member of the PDP, that’s why we’re buying the form under the party, Peoples Democratic Party, which is his party where he belongs. And we pray that the PDP will support him and by the grace of God we pray that he will scale through the primaries and fly the flag of the PDP.” He said that there are other groups that joined them too like another nonpartisan group called Take Back Nigeria and other different groups. According to him, they want a better Nigeria and they believe that no other person can do it than Peter Obi. “The Take Back Nigeria group say they will bring 10 million votes, so if PDP gets it right and pick Peter, we know that we will deliver Nigeria to you. And we praye that he will lead us to the promised land. “The Nigerian dream we’re all looking for can be achieved and the only person that we believe that can give us the Nigerian dream is no other person than His Excellency, Peter Gregory Obi,” he said.