ABUJA  – Justice Emeka Nwite of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday remanded former Commander of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Nigeria Police Force, Deputy Commis­sioner of Police, Abba Kyari, in the custody of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agen­cy (NDLEA). The remand order followed the arraignment of Kyari and six others over alleged cocaine deal. Docked alongside Kyari are ACP Sunday J. Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirgba, Inspector John Nuhu, Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Alphonsus Ezenwanne. You’re Example Of God-Fearing, Loyal, Patriotic Public… World Cup Playoff: Siasia Faults Eguavoen On Invitation Of Some… Justice Nwite directed that the defendants be kept in ND­LEA detention facility pending the hearing of their bail appli­cations on Monday, March 14. Upon arraignment, Kyari and the three other police offi­cers charged with him pleaded not guilty to the charge, while Patrick Umeibe, the 6th and Alphonsus Ezenwanne, 7th defendants, respectively, plead­ed guilty. In the charge marked FHC/ ABJ/CR/57/2022, it was alleged by the Federal Government that DCP Abba Kyari, ACP Sunday J. Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirg­ba and Inspector John Nuhu, all male, on or about the 19th to 25th January 2022, at the Office of Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Abuja, conspired among themselves with ASP John Umoru (now at large) to deal in 17.55 kilogrammes of cocaine and thereby commit­ted an offence contrary to and punishable under section 14(b) of the National Drug Law En­forcement Agency Act, CAP N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The charge dated Febru­ary 25, 2022, was endorsed by Joseph Sunday, Director, Pros­ecution and Legal Services, Na­tional Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Abuja. Kyari and the other four po­licer officers pleaded not guilty to counts one, two, three, four and eight levelled against them POLL But Patrick Emeka and Al­phonsus Ezenwanne pleaded guilty to counts five, six and seven preferred against them. Although their names were also mentioned in counts three and four where allegations bor­dering on conspiracy were lev­elled against Kyari and others, they were not asked to take a plea on the said two counts. Umeibe and Ezenwanne are the two alleged drug traffickers that were arrested at the Aka­nu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu. Shortly after taking their plea, the NDLEA lawyer, Jo­seph Sunday, prayed the court for a trial date for the 1st to 5th defendants. Sunday also urged the court to grant a leave to review the charges against Umeibe and Ezenwanne, who pleaded guilty for the charges against them. Fuel Hike: ECTS Vows To Sustain Free Ride For Edo School… Sanwo-Olu Dedicates Independent, Silverbird Awards To Lagosians Kanu Agabi (SAN), leading other Senior Advocates that appeared for Kyari and Ubia, however, informed the court that a bail application had been filed in respect of his clients. The NDLEA’s lawyer con­firmed being served with the bail application, but said a counter affidavit had been filed in its opposition. Count two read: “That you DCP Abba Kyari, ACP Sunday J. Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirgba and Inspector John Nuhu, all male, adult on or about the 19th to 25th Janu­ary 2022, at Abuja within the jurisdiction of this honour­able court dealt in 17.55 kilo­grammes of cocaine without lawful authority and thereby committed an offence con­trary to and punishable under section 11(c) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agen­cy Act, CAP N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.