Improved healthcare services for citizens and accessibility to family planning services  remains extremely low in several African countries, including Nigeria. This is contradictory to the global recommendation for countries to use family planning as a method of population management. As an essential component of nation-building, investing in family planning is one of the wise ventures for national development given the impact of demographics on the pillars of sustainable growth. In addition, as the COVID 19 pandemic rages, development in many poorly serviced countries such as Nigeria continues to decline due to series of blockades, leading to low uptake of the use of family planning commodities. Nigeria As A Massive Crime Scene And Jostle For Presidency, 2023… A Nation’s Perpetual Self Subversion As a result, many reproductive health advocates are promoting the use of family planning in countries seeking economic growth and general population growth. It is undeniable that population control will allow developing countries to provide basic services to all citizens and prioritize medical services and proper education. As seen in most developed countries, the use of modern contraceptives is accelerating economic growth by helping women prevent unplanned pregnancies and rapidly lowering fertility in  high birth rate countries. Thanks to birth control methods, women lengthen the time between consecutive pregnancies, which improves the health and survival of the baby. The risk of preterm birth and low birth weight doubles when conception occurs within six months of a previous birth. Family planning can reduce the mortality rate of children under the age of five by 13 percent if the births are  two years apart. Such deaths would also decline by an estimated 25 percent if there were a three-year gap between births. POLL Of late, Aare Afe Babalola (SAN) raised the alarm that Nigeria is one of the fastest-growing countries in the world, with 213,635,173 as of Wednesday, December 22, 2021, based on Worldometer elaboration of the latest United Nations data. The country thereby constitute 2.64 percent of the total world population and ranking seventh in the world ahead of countries like Thailand, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Further, Nigeria’s population is currently growing at the rate of 3.2 percent per year and as estimated by the US Census Bureau, the population will be about 402 million people in the next 30 years – 2050. Nigeria is also projected to become the third largest country in the world after India and China.The overpopulation index is already staring at everyone. Cultural factors such as child marriage, high fertility leading to increased birth rates, high illiteracy rates and unstable cultural beliefs about high number of children and preference for male children exacerbate them. These are the effects of overpopulation. The devastating consequences of this are, to name a few, the inherently high unemployment rate, inadequate medical facilities, housing shortages, high crime rates, social conflicts and high living costs. The World Health Organisation (WHO) in a document entitled, “Health Benefits of Family Planning” avers, “Family planning saves lives of women and children and improves the quality of life for all. It is one of the best investments that can be made to help ensure the health and well-being of women, children, and communities. Yet it is estimated that some 120 million women who do not wish to become pregnant are not currently using contraception. By providing all women and men of reproductive age with a choice of contraceptive methods and counselling about how to use those methods safely and effectively, programmes can have a significant impact on the lives of their clients. Afe Babalola (SAN) then called for urgent legislation on the control of the population in Nigeria. Research shows that fewer children enable couples to save and make more investments per child resulting in better education and health outcomes as well as the quality of life. In addition, women have more time to be educated and effectively contribute productively to the economy. The Legitimacy Of Current ‘Amendments’ To The Constitution Electoral Amendment Act: Triumph Of Tenacity Furthermore, the rapid fall in birth rates results in a reduction in the child dependency ratio and an increase in the labour surplus. The emergent labour surplus can propel national economic growth and development if the working-age population are skilled, healthy, and gainfully employed through the demographic dividends. But, this works well with good economic policies and governance that are essential to attracting savings and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to the country. Similarly, a recent brief by African Institute For Development Policy (AFIDEP) showed that ensuring universal access to contraception despite COVID-19 would have invaluable benefits to improved health outcomes and sustainable development in Nigeria and its border countries. Truly, population control is a win-win strategy which has far-reaching benefits for national growth and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Clearly, to have good human capital and national development, Nigeria must begin to focus on appropriate education, awareness and regulation with regards to effective child spacing.