LAGOS – Organisers of the annual Bola Tinubu Colloquium have an­nounced that this year’s edition will examine emerging global development issues and the im­portance of good governance for Nigeria to be an influential and respected member of the international community. The colloquium, which is in its 13th edition will take place on Tuesday 29th March 2022 at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. It will be presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari as Chairman while the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu is the chief host. Professor Olufemi Bam­iro, the former Vice-Chan­cellor of the University of Ibadan, will be the keynote speaker, and is expected to engage the central theme, ‘Pivoting Nigeria into the new world order: Imperatives of Good Governance.’ A press statement signed by the Chairman of the Media and Publicity Sub-committee, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, stated that the colloquium will also feature a panel session where some of Nigeria’s leading technology entrepreneurs will discuss, “Technology, Entre­preneurship and the future of work.” The panel discussion to be moderated by Tomilayo Akan­ni-Aluko will have Bosun Tija­ni, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the Lead Discussant. Other panellists include Samson Ogbole, Man­aging Director, Soilless Farms, Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank, Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, Co-founder, Jand2Gidi and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Offi­cer, Madaki Shoes. Speaking on the theme of the colloquium and the plan­ning, Mr. Omotoso noted that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the man in whose honour the an­nual event is being organised, is an extraordinary statesman who has committed himself to making Nigeria one of the most prosperous nations. “The theme speaks to the person and values of Asiwaju Tinubu. To celebrate his 70th birthday, this year’s colloquium theme is most appropriate. We are talking about an outstand­ing public servant, who is an advocate of good governance in Nigeria and Africa. “He demonstrated this as Governor of Lagos in eight years where he laid the solid foundation for the progress and prosperity of Lagos State that we all talk about today.”