The Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Rev. Dr Yakubu Pam has said that sustainability is one of the greatest challenges in leadership. Rev. Pam made this assertion while playing host to Jos Divisional Indigenous Cultural Organization (JODICO) at his office in the NCPC corporate headquarters Abuja. While acknowledging the visit by the elders of JODICO, he said, “I thank you all for the effort to come to visit me not for your personal gain but for the progress of the people you serve”. He, however, charged the elders to remain steadfast in their various leadership roles. According to him “the role of a leader is a difficult one as; sometimes you may be weak and sometimes strong”. He added that “the people are always there to put the leader in check and make him rise up to his feet”. The NCPC Scribe disclosed that their coming was worth doing, as they have come to devise means of reviving JODICO, He assured them that in his own effort, he will do his possible best to restore the JODICO tribes. POLL The Executive Secretary further charged the elders of JODICO to maintain the vision of the founding fathers, adding that “the vision of the people should be checked, pursue the vision and be focused to achieve it”. Earlier, the Leader of the delegation of the Jos Divisional Indigenous Cultural Organization (JODICO), Hon. Aminu Zang, in his address, disclosed that the delegations paying the courtesy visit were carefully chosen elders who are above the age of 70 years, he said, they are in the Commission to relish their joy on the appointment of their own as the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission. According to him, “knowing the pedigree and humble nature of the Executive Secretary, his appointment is well deserved. In his words “visit may appear late, but better late than never”, and so the delegation has come to identify with the Executive Secretary. Hon. Zang described the Executive Secretary as a “true man of the People” and a leader that leads in the right direction. He also applauded the grandeur he accords to the Commission, in his words, “God doesn’t make mistakes, he looked at your track record and his elevated you to this position”. Hon. Gini Umar, one of the members of the delegation intimated that JODICA comprises 6 local governments in Plateau State that has come together as one. He pleaded with the Executive Secretary to help bring JODICO together again, adding that they have been divided for some time. He also urged the Executive Secretary to Champion the cause of JODICO in the Northern Zone without having a personal interest. They thanked the Executive Secretary for availing himself to meet with them.