AKURE – Former Secretary to Ondo State Government, Honourable Ifedayo Abegunde, on Tuesday expressed confidence that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would salvage the country’s economy if elected president in 2023. He stated this while speaking on the preparation of different support groups for the former governor of Lagos State who would be visiting the state on Friday as part of his presidential ambition. According to Abegunde, who is one of the leaders of the groups, “When we talk of who can move Nigeria forward, someone who can reengineer the economy of Nigeria to an enviable level like any other developed country, it is Asiwaju Tinubu. 2023: Why DSS Sends Strong Message To PDP’s National… 2023: Tinubu, Aregbesola Set To Reconcile “He’s a person who had demonstrated that capacity when he was governor of Lagos State. He built a template that has taken Lagos to a different level today.” The APC chieftain stated that Tinubu has acceptability across all the regions, which he said placed him in a better position to win the election. “Asiwaju is a person who has acceptability across the nation. He’s from the Southwest, but he can’t win with Southwest alone. His acceptability in other parts of the country, especially in the North is encouraging. “This is the reason I am praying every day and confident that he will definitely clinch APC ticket and would be overwhelming voted for by the people and win the election.” He, therefore, cautioned Nigerians to be careful about who they will vote to as their president in 2023, noting that age was not what it takes to manage a country. POLL He said: “The President of USA is an old man. It is not by age that Nigeria will be ruled but by capacity, intelligence and ability. Asiwaju has got it all and as such, I am convinced he will be the next president of Nigeria.” One of the coordinators of the support groups for Tinubu, Barrister Tolu Babaleye dismissed the argument that the president should come from a particular part of the country, saying the only known person who had declared his interest in the presidency was Tinubu. He declared that power was not served a la carte but struggled for. He said: “What I know is that power is not given, it is taken. When you talk about power, you have to fight for it. If somebody is sleeping in his house and is not showing interest in the presidency, I don’t know how it would be given to him. The only person who has shown interest and working tenaciously for it is Asiwaju Tinubu.”