The ongoing crisis between Russia and Ukraine may likely have negative impacts on the world’s economy, severe diplomatic relations between the two nations, among other things. Prof. Anthony Kila, Centre Director, the Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS), Lagos and Sharkdam Wapmuk, an Associate Professor in the Department of Defence and Security Studies, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, as well as former research Fellow at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Lagos, disclosed this to Daily Independent on Monday. According to Prof. Kila, “Overall, the crisis is likely to be a disaster for the world’s economy because of the importance of Russia to the global economy and the sanctions the conflict will cause. There are three crucial connect areas where these might easily negatively affect: energy, commodities prices, financial transactions disruptions.” Ukraine: Over 122,000 Nigerians Protest Discrimination At… Nigerian Returnees From Ukraine To Receive $100USD Each From FG Noting that “The conflict is likely to bring a hike in the cost of oil and gas,” Prof. Kila added that “this will be bad for countries that import crude. But it is also bad for countries that produce but do not refine their crude.” He stated that “As many are now discovering, Russia and Ukraine produce over 20% of important commodities such as wheat, maize, barley and rapeseed for the world; this conflict will cause disruptions of such productions and it is easy to see a hike in prices.” According to Wapmuk: “The Russia-Ukraine war has multiple impacts on the world’s economy. The war comes at a critical period in human history, just when the world’s economy is struggling to recover from the devastating effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The war has led to a sudden increase in prices of crude oil. Brent crude rose to US$113.02 a barrel, the highest since June 2014. Russia is a major producer of oil and gas, with the EU as the largest consumer of Russian gas and oil.” POLL Wapmuk noted that OPEC member-states such as Nigeria are likely to benefit from higher revenue from oil due to disruptions of supplies and sanctions on Russia. However, he added that “Nigeria may have to plunge back the proceeds into oil subsidy, with little or no savings going into the excess crude account at the end of the day. “This is as a result of the failure of the Nigerian state to fix the nation’s refineries that are perpetually undergoing turn-around maintenance. The war has led to higher energy costs, higher transport costs and of course, multiplier effects on the economy. “The crisis has led to a higher cost of living in Europe and other parts of the world.” IPOB: Kanu Calls On FG To Learn From Russia-Ukraine War, Says… We’re In Touch With Our Medical Students In Ukraine… “Cost of food, particularly bread, is most likely to rise due to the Russia and Ukraine war. Both countries are among the world’s biggest exporters of wheat and many countries depend on wheat. This, coupled with the higher cost of oil and gas, further worsens the cost of living,” he added. Kila noted that the “Crisis and the financial transaction sanctions will undoubtedly hurt Russia in the short term. In the mid and long term, however, it will also hurt the world as all those dealing with Russia will then have to look for alternative ways to transact with Russia during and after the crisis. “Also, in the short-term, a lot of Russian High Net Worth individuals and affiliated businesses and investments are likely to disinvest and disengage to avoid sanctions.” On how the crisis will hit the diplomatic relations between the two countries, Prof. Kila said: “The diplomatic relations is very fluid at the moment. Russia is trying to exert its influence and Ukraine is trying to exert its sovereignty. In a very strange and unpredictable future and outcome, domestic policy and international influence will determine the diplomatic future of the two countries that share more in common than those intervening in their relationship today.” Also on the impact of the crisis on the diplomatic relations between Russia and Ukraine, Wapmuk said that “Russia’s invasion of Ukraine means a breakdown of diplomatic relations. Since the end of the Cold War, Russia has resisted NATO’s expansion to Russia’s backyard. “Recall that Russia had annexed Crimea in 2014, which is Ukraine’s southern Crimea peninsula. “Since then, there has been unending conflict in eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatists control parts of the territory and many people have been killed.” Prof. Kila said that Russia’s rejection of the peace moves did not come as a surprise. “Russia’s position will be determined by what they deem good for their national interest; a super-power does not do peace for peace sake,” he stated. Kila, who said he has no fears that the crisis will cause any global refugee, added: “I doubt if it will cause a global refugee crisis for two reasons. The population of Ukraine is not that much. Secondly, I am rather optimistic that a solution will be found among threats and talks.” On Russian President Vladimir Putin’s statement that the Third World War would be nuclear, Kila said: “Well yes, the Third World War is likely to be nuclear and paradoxically that is why it is unlikely we have a Third World War.” Also on why Ukrainian President Volodymyr Oleksandrovych Zelenskyy has remained defiant, Kila said: “His action is a dutiful one. He is showing leadership and commitment. You can’t lead people while you run away. His defiance is making the symbol of the resistance.”