LAGOS – After extending her deal with the Spanish side, FC Barcelona Femini, Super Falcons captain, Asisat Oshoala has revealed why she signed a new deal with the club.The new contract will see Asisat Oshoala playing for the Spanish women’s league club side till June 30, 2024.Oshoala, 27, was seen signing the new deal with FC Barcelona president Joan Laporta and women’s team manager Xavier Puig. An elated Oshoala said on the club’s website that “I am very happy to continue in the best team in the world. Not only because of their football, but you also look outside the field of play, and it is because of how they treat the players to keep improving. “I’m a striker and I want to continue scoring more goals. Love it. The goal is to keep growing and be happy.” In a video on the official FC Barcelona Femeni Twitter handle, Oshoala stated that she was excited to continue at the club. Widely regarded as one of the greatest African female footballers of all time and one of the best in the world, Oshoala is the most decorated African female footballer of all time and a joint-record four-time African Women’s Footballer of the Year. Oshoala previously played for English clubs Arsenal and Liverpool, Chinese club Dailan, and Nigerian clubs Rivers Angels and FC Robo. She won the 2015 FA Women’s Cup with Arsenal; two league championships and a Cup title with Dalian; and the 2019/20 Copa de la Reina and 2019/20 Supercopa de España Femenina with FC Barcelona Femini. She was the first African (and Nigerian) player to score a goal in a UEFA Women’s Champions League (UWCL) final in her team 4-1 defeat to Lyon and has helped FC Barcelona Femini reach the semifinals three consecutive years and one final. POLL On May 16, 2021, Oshoala became the first African woman to win the UEFA Women’s Champions League, after FC Barcelona Femini defeated Chelsea 4–0 in the finals. Oshoala was the highest goal scorer at the 2014 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup and was named the best player at the tournament. She was also named best player and second top goalscorer with the Super Falcons team who won the 2014 African Women’s Championship (AWC). In September 2014, Oshoala was made a Member of the Order of the Niger (MON) by the President of Nigeria, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. In 2021, she was named in the Forbes 30 Under 30.Oshoala found success as a forward for Nigeria’s youth teams but made most of her early appearances for the senior national team as an attacking midfielder. She was nicknamed “Seedorf” after male footballer Clarence Seedorf and has also been referred to as “Superzee” by her teammates. It would be recalled that on January 31, 2019, FC Barcelona Femení signed Oshoala on a loan deal until the end of the season. On May 31, 2019, the club announced her full transfer to the team and extension until 2022. She scored seven goals in her seven appearances for the club during the 2018/19 season. Barcelona finished in second place during the regular season with a 25–2–3 record. There is no doubt that she has matched, if not surpassed, Perpetua Nwkwocha’s achievements. By the time Nkwocha retired from football in 2015, she had cemented her status as the greatest African women’s player of all time, and it was unfathomable to think her achievements would be matched or surpassed soon. Oshoala’s journey to surpassing her fellow countrywoman started a year before she retired. The 27-year-old’s breakout campaign came at the 2014 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup, where she finished as the tournament’s top scorer with seven goals. After the competition, it was clear that Oshoala would be a threat to Nkwocha’s title. Her profile continued to rise that same year as she finished as Super Falcons’ second top scorer at the 2014 AWCON, which Nigeria won. It is important to note that both Oshoala and Nkwocha were in the squad that won the competition in 2014, which made it seem like a passing of the baton.Both players also represented Nigeria at the 2015 Women’s World Cup, but Oshoala outshined her older rival, who retired after the competition. Although Nigeria failed to qualify for the knockout stages, Oshoala was one of the team’s scorers in the 3-3 draw against Sweden, which was the only game they picked up a point. Following Nkwocha’s retirement, the spotlight was now on Oshoala, and it is something she has taken in her stride. She has added two more continental titles to the one she won in 2014 while also playing at another World Cup. However, Oshoala’s biggest individual achievement is winning four CAF Women’s player of the year awards – the same number Nkwocha won before retiring. It is a remarkable achievement, considering the short time it took her to match her countrywoman’s record. And with Oshoala just 27, she is on course to break the tie this year. But it is not just the CAF awards that put Oshoala ahead of her older rival. For all her greatness at the international level, Nkwocha did not have a great club career. The ex-Super Falcons star played for just Sunnanå SK outside of Nigeria, scoring just 65 goals for the club.In contrast, Oshoala has had a stellar club career since leaving the shores of the country in 2015. The 27-year-old has played for some of Europe’s top clubs like Liverpool and Arsenal, while she also had a successful stint in China. Oshoala currently plays for Barcelona Femeni, who are the best club in the world right now. She won the treble with the club last campaign, and she is the club’s current top scorer this season with 23 goals in 25 games.Although it could be argued that Nkwocha played at a time when women’s football was still growing, as many of these top European clubs did not have a women’s team, it still does not take away what Oshoala has achieved in a short period. And also, considering their achievements and the fact that Oshoala still has many more years left, it is hard to deny that the Barcelona star has already cemented her status as the greatest women’s player to come out of Africa. Nkwocha will always be known as the player that changed the level of women’s football in Africa, but Oshoala will be remembered as the player that took the game to an unprecedented height.