ABUJA – Efforts to woo members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) as well as Senior Staff Association of Ni­gerian Universities (SSANU) back to the negotiating table may have hit a brick wall, as executive members of the striking ASUU failed to take part in the inauguration of the seven-man committee set up by the Federal Government to renegotiate their existing agreements. At the inauguration ceremo­ny, which held at the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja, on Monday, it was observed that itwasaone-sidedaffairas ASUU clearly shunned the event. Minister of Education, Ada­mu Adamu, who inaugurated the committee, did so with the presence of the Executive Sec­retary of the National Univer­sities Commission (NUC), Abu­bakar Rasheed, and members of the renegotiation commit­tee comprising Prof. Emeritus Nimi Briggs, Pro-Chancellor, Alex Ekwueme Federal Uni­versity, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo, who is serving as chairman. You’re Example Of God-Fearing, Loyal, Patriotic Public… World Cup Playoff: Siasia Faults Eguavoen On Invitation Of Some… The minister gave the com­mittee three months’ time­frame to renegotiate all the previous agreements entered into with ASUU, especially the 2009 pact and submit a report. It was earlier gathered that ASUU said they would not be part of any fresh negotiations, especially when the previous ones had not been met. Although ASUU is still ob­serving its month-long warn­ing strike, part of the condi­tions that necessitated the strike involves disagreements in the implementation of the Integrated Personnel Payrolls and Payment System (IPPIS), including the universities revit­alisation funds which run into several billions of naira. Minister of Labour and Em­ployment, Chris Ngige, who briefed President Muhamma­du Buhari about the ongoing strike recently, alleged that ASUU and its members have drawn over N90 billion from the government coffers. Beyond the battle of wits between the two parties, aca­demic activities in the nation’s universities remain comatose. POLL Adamu while performing the inauguration said, ‘Your nomination to serve the Feder­al Government in this capacity, is not unconnected with your track records of invaluable impacts to the development and progress of the Nigerian university system. Therefore, I have no reservations that you would conduct this all im­portant assignment with the seriousness and the urgency it deserves. This is more so, con­sidering the ongoing industrial action by one of the unions. “It is important to state that, in nominating the chairman and members of this commit­tee, the FGN painstakingly con­sidered your contributions as highly experienced university administrators from the var­ious geo-political zones. The Federal Government has also deliberately appointed other relevant ministries, depart­ments and agencies (MDAs) to serve as advisers or observers. “You will recall that the re­negotiation of the 2009 agree­ments between the Federal Government and the universi­ty-based staff unions (ASUU, SSANU, NAAT & NASU) com­menced on Monday, February 13, 2017. However, due to a num­ber of unforeseen circumstanc­es, including but not limited to the COVID-19 pandemic, the exercise has, unfortunately, dragged on till now. “There is no gain saying that the earnest desire of ev­ery stakeholder in the Nige­rian university system and, indeed, the nation at large is to conclude this renegotiation exercise within the shortest possible period. Therefore, I wish to specially appeal to this reconstituted committee to double its effort towards concluding the assignment and producing a realistic and workable draft agreements that would holistically tackle the challenges confronting the NUS and reposition it to effec­tively play its very important role in national development. “The committee, which is expected to review the draft proposed FGN/ASUU agree­ment, has the following terms of reference: liaise and consult with relevant stakeholders to finalise the position of the Fed­eral Government to the issues in the draft proposed FGN/ ASUU renegotiated agreement. Fuel Hike: ECTS Vows To Sustain Free Ride For Edo School… Sanwo-Olu Dedicates Independent, Silverbird Awards To Lagosians “Renegotiate in realistic and workable terms the 2009 agree­ments with other universi­ty-based unions; negotiate and recommend any other issue the committee deems relevant to reposition the NUS for glob­al competitiveness; and submit proposed draft agreements within three months from the date of inauguration. “I am to assure the com­mittee of the Federal Govern­ment’s maximum support and cooperation in the course of this important national assignment. It is, therefore, my honour and privilege to formally inaugurate the FGN committee on the 2009 agree­ments renegotiation with the university-based unions”. It was also gathered that the committee will have its inaugural sitting on Thursday this week but it is not clear if all the unions within the uni­versity system will honour the invitation.