As the 2023 elections gather momentum, former Governor of Enugu State and Senator representing Enugu East Senatorial Zone in the upper legislative chamber, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani has called for equity, justice and fairness in the quest for power among the political class. Senator Nnamani, who stated this when he obtained the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) Senatorial form in Abuja in his bid to return to the Senate in 2023, added that “the power we seek is the power to do good for our people.” To address the challenges facing the country ranging from insecurity, poverty and disease, he said deliberate, planned and sustained efforts must be made to surmount them just as he canvassed for politics of inclusiveness rather than exclusiveness in the scheme of things. Senator Nnamani listed his accomplishments in the Senate so far to include but not be limited to seeing to the renovation of several secondary and primary schools in the six local government areas of his constituency. Senator Nnamani also enabled the installation of solar lights in major streets and markets in his constituency. The infrastructures he has attracted to his constituency also include the rehabilitation of Agbani-Ugbawka road, renovation of health centres, drilling of water boreholes in communities and schools. In December 2020, Senator Nnamani floated an agricultural training program for 150 women and youths on fishery, snail and plantain farming and on completion of the training, he provided facilities and take off stipends for the participants. For his passion for the education of the girl child, Senator Nnamani undertook to pay the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) registration fees for 3,999 senior secondary school female students in his constituency amounting to N55 million Naira. POLL “At the moment, 20 orphans/indigent students are on his full scholarship to the university level with monthly allowances. He currently pays monthly salaries and allowances to selected members of his constituency. “In December 2020, he distributed 200 motorcycles to some youths and provided financial assistance to artisans as part of his empowerment scheme for his constituents,” he said. Senator Nnamani has facilitated the employment of scores of his constituents at the federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Before picking the nomination form, Senator Nnamani said he consulted widely with his constituents, who gave him the nod to proceed . If he clinches the PDP ticket and wins the Senatorial election, it will be his third time in the Senate. He was in the 6th Senate from 2007 to 2011 and currently in the 9th Senate from 2019 to 2023.