JOY ANIGBOGU PDP in Lagos State has been enmeshed with crisis for some time. Some people believe that the crisis is self-inflicted while others say that it is caused by sponsored moles who pretend to be members of the party but are being paid by the ruling party in the state to weaken the party structure and ensure that the party never wins elections. Recently the party held a state congress after the first botched attempt in October last year, where at the point of commencing the congress at Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) in Lagos Island, guns were shot sporadically into the air by hoodlums who dispersed delegates including journalists who were on ground to report the election. Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards Lagos Junior League, Nath Boys Made Me Who I Am Today –… After the botched election there were two failed attempts at conducting the congress, until February 28th when an election took place at Bishop Vining event centre in Ikeja which had Senator Douye Diri, Governor of Bayelsa State as the chairman of the electoral committee, which produced Honourable Philip Olabode Aivoji, a former Commissioner in Lagos State as winner, and chairman of the party in the state. That election was not without issues as some aspirants and party chieftains alleged that it was compromised. They insisted that the party leaders agreed on consensus which detailed the candidates that would emerge as state executive committee members. Unfortunately, there is still acrimony in the party even though the man who carried the day at that election said that he has the capacity to bring all aggrieved members of the party together as it was not a case of a winner takes it all, stressing that by his experience as a grassroots politician and someone who has been very close to former state chairmen of the party, he is determined more than even to win Lagos for the PDP come 2023. Aivoji in an interview with Daily Independent said that his focus is on how to win Lagos State for PDP, stressing that he would work with ward chairmen and other party leaders to ensure that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is given a red card in 2023, since Lagosians are already tired of the ruling party. “I am a grassroots politician and elections are won from the grassroots. I have gone to all the ward and local government chairmen and one thing that I told them is that if I become the state chairman, I would organize workshops and seminars for the 245 ward chairmen. Why is the seminar and workshop important? It is for them to understand how they can win their wards and their units. It will also help them to learn how they can be independent financially, because if clubs like rotary and other international and local clubs can be independent and are still serving people, I see no reason if they are trained and are better organized, they cannot be financially independent. POLL “I told them that immediately I became the state chairman, we will start working for our victory. I am not going to be a chairman who will sit in an office, I and my executive committee (exco) members will get a bus where we will have our meetings and tour the 245 wards to endear our party to the hearts of the people. People have been talking about PDP even before our congress because APC has failed the people. You know that everything starts from the grassroots and it is what you collate from the wards that you take to the local governments, then to the state level and so on. “In my administration as the state chairman, we will be doing something collectively to encourage the grassroots, help the party win elections. We will encourage collective participation, whatever the people at the local level will decide will be what my exco will stand on. We are not going to impose candidates on them which used to be the order of the day in the past. If you understand the dynamics of the grassroots you will not have people disappoint the party and if there is no justice, fairness, people will do whatever they like. “I also told them that in PDP there is no reward system but all that will soon change. I have told them that anyone who has served in this party since 1999, I am going to call them to come up with ideas. They are all going to be useful. Most of the local government chairmen who served the party in the past left, even though they didn’t go to other parties but today they are back and they are active. Even former Ministers who served the party, how many of them still come around to find out what is going on in the party, they left because of the leadership, but I will ensure that they return.. “We will do the right thing and bring everybody on board. What politicians need is recognition. There must be discipline and there must be a reward system for those who do well. It will be easy for us to win Lagos State because of this congress that was conducted. We are also going to have a similar congress for the governorship. I also told them that the best way to win an election is that once the governorship candidate emerges; other positions should be spread, and zoned across the local governments for the purpose of inclusiveness. While speaking on his relationship with Chief Bode George, who was said not to be happy with the way the congress went since a specific decision was earlier reached with the party leaders in the state, Aivoji maintained that the former deputy national chairman of the party is his leader and nothing will come between them. Plateau 2023: Govt House PermSec Biggs, Joins Guber Race Removal: Umahi Heads To Appellate Court, Says I’ve… It will be recalled that after the congress which produced Aivoji as the state chairman of the party, some party members alleged that the election was compromised as the party leaders had earlier agreed on consensus which was said to have been jettisoned by the Governor Douye Diri led electoral committee. Aivoji maintained that everything is under control since he is ready to do everything possible to ensure that the right thing is done to bring the party members together and to also prepare to win the 2023 election in Lagos State. “Chief Bode George is our father and as a man who cherishes elderly people, I will always respect him. I have never insulted any of my elders and nothing will come between me and Chief Bode George. He is our leader. We have had communication one-on-one and I have told everyone that no one will stand between Chief Bode George and me.” In that congress Dr. Amos Fawole who was said to have the support of Chief Bode George lost to Aivoji with a few votes and aggrieved party members demanded that the leader’s position must be sacrosanct. However, Aivoji who is said not to have the blessing of the former deputy national chairman is insisting that there is no cause for alarm as he has always maintained a good relationship with Bode George On his relationship with the other aspirants, he said, “I have spoken to the other aspirants except Dr. Amos Fawole whose telephone number was switched off. I am planning to pay him a visit. I have stretched my hand of friendship to all of them. We are going to work together. It is not a case of a winner taking it all; we will work together for the success of the party in 2023. “They all have something to offer based on their abilities. I am Fawole’s leader politically. The last time we met in Chief Bode George’s place. Bode George is our leader. People say different things and I must say that those people shouting are in minority. The masses are in the grassroots who will win the election. You could see how the voting went, I got 839 votes and Fawole, my closest rival had 800, plus which means that it was keenly contested,” he said. Niyi Adams, one of the aspirants for state chairmanship position in the just concluded Lagos State PDP congress has congratulated the newly elected chairman and appealed to him to carry everyone along for the success of the party in 2023 which according to him should be his priority. In a statement from Adams which was made available to Daily Independent, he urged Aivoji to ensure unity, pointing out that he will give him 100 percent support in his quest for a greater Lagos State PDP. “Please ensure that you do everything humanly possible to bring unity to our party. We have the best chance of winning now, please avoid all forms of distraction. You should be rest assured that I am going to give you 100 percent support in achieving this. Once again, congratulations to all of us. It is our victory,” he said.