Last Saturday after Roman Abramovic put up Chelsea FC for sale that this column asked a pertinent and at the same time probing question, what next for Chelsea. As if his instinct for danger has started ringing the alarm bell, Abramovic tried to forestall the ham­mer falling on his beloved club, but all to no avail, as within a week, pre­cisely last Thursday, the British gov­ernment descended on him, freezing all his asserts, Chelsea FC inclusive. Underlining his love for the club, Abramovic stated, while putting up the club for sale, “Please know that this has been an incredibly difficult decision to make, and it pains me to part with the Club in this manner.” Ighalo: Stop Being Controversial! Importance Of Gender Equality In National Development The billionaire had initially in­tended to hand “stewardship and care” of Chelsea to the club foun­dation’s trustees, in a move aimed to protect the club, but changed his mind to avoid British government sanctions because of his perceived relationship with Russian President, Vladimir Putin. But what he tried to avoid has come to pass as the UK government descended on the club last Thursday. Considering the degree of sanctions, it does not rain on Chelsea, but pours. While announcing the sanctions, U.K. Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, said “There can be no safe havens for those who have supported Putin’s vicious assault on Ukraine.” The statement describes Abramovich, 55, as a “prominent Russian businessman and pro-Krem­lin oligarch.” What are the immediate conse­quences of these sanctions on the club? The first is that Abramovic’s plan to sell the club has been put on hold, with the future of the club un­known for now. POLL The Blues could lose millions in sponsorship revenue following the development. For example, Shirt sponsors, Three, have put their £40m agreement on hold and kit suppliers Nike, who agreed a 15-year, £900m deal with Chelsea in 2016, are con­sidering walking away. That would see the club miss out on £540m. As part of the sanctions, Chelsea club shops have been closed; match­day tickets cannot be sold, although, fans that bought season tickets or in­dividual match tickets before Thurs­day can attend games. Though the U.K. government is­sued the club a licence under which it can operate, however, no new play­er sales or purchases will be permit­ted, and discussions on new deals for players who are out of contract in the summer – such as men’s team captain Cesar Azpilicueta – are on hold. To top it all, Chelsea’s rivals are lining up to take advantage of their plight, with two players who were due to sign for the Blues’ academy already approached by other high-ranking Premier League clubs, given the ban on the Blues bringing in fresh talent, reports mailonline.com. Chelsea can play games and pay staff — around 1,000 employees in to­tal — but the club essentially cannot generate fresh revenues from this point on. The club cannot sell match tickets; they have been forced to close the club shop and blocked from The club could lose over £600,000 per game with fans not being allowed into the stadium. Given Chelsea’s five remaining home games for the season, this would amount to a loss of at least £3 million. Haba! Baba Buhari Electoral Act 2022 Clause 84 (12): When Two Elephants Fight (2)… The club can no longer buy or sell players, or offer new contracts, and were restricted to a maximum spend of £20,000 on travel to away matches. They can only pay ‘reasonable costs’ towards hosting home fixtures, ‘not exceeding £500,000 per fixture, per team’. However, the club will continue to receive funds from existing broad­cast and sponsorship deals, though that money will also be frozen in ac­cordance with the sanctions. Howev­er that money can be used for things like employee wages, travel costs, taxes, payments to other clubs and matchday logistics. As a club, who depend largely on player sales to offset operating losses; the club has averaged a £75m annu­al profit since 2014; and denied such revenue opportunity is heading for collapse. Chelsea chiefs held urgent talks with the government in the hope of lessening the impact of stringent re­strictions placed on the club, amid fears they may not be able to com­plete the season. With sponsors suspending their relationship and the club cannot buy or negotiate contract extension with players; No new ticket sales and with the club’s income stream halted, how can Chelsea survive? The club survival is hinged on who buys the club. With the U.K. gov­ernment effectively taking control of the club, and with those interested in the club asked to approach the Brit­ish government, as at Friday up to 10 parties are considering making bids with British property develop­er Nick Candy one of them. Turk­ish businessman Muhsin Bayrak claimed he was close to agreeing a deal to takeover on Friday, while Hansjorg Wyss and Todd Boehly are heading up another potential consortium. However, according to ESPN this barely scratches the surface of the interest in Chelsea. They report that since Abramovich announced he was selling up, the Raine Group – the bank in charge of the sale – have received hundreds of approaches, though not all are realistic proposi­tions. Chelsea, 117 years old on March 10, have won 21 trophies during Abramovich’s 19-year tenure — more than any other English club — but his ownership is coming to an ignomin­ious end. That said, the pace of any nego­tiations over a sale is impossible to determine, and without further concessions from the government on their licence to operate, the more this pressure will grow if Abramovich remains sanctioned and Chelsea do not have a new owner.