A political pressure group, Ekiti-Oke Progressive Allies (EPA) has called on the leadership of the ruling All  Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State to ensure the return of the former Chairman, Senate Committee on Privatisation, Senator Ayo Arise back to the red chamber. The EPA Coordinator, Mr. Tunde Babalola while addressing  journalists in Oye Ekiti, headquarters of Oye Local Government, on Sunday said APC needs popular candidates like Arise to make the  2023 General elections less taking for party. EPA  maintained that the achievements of  Arise  at the Senate cannot be downplayed stressing that the former senator was instrumental for establishment of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, with two campuses created at both Oye and Ikole Ekiti. The group warned  APC not to gamble with the ticket as it was  convinced that Senator Arise stands a bright chance of winning having a deep retrospect of his superlative performance as the Chairman, Senate Committee on Privatisation  between 2007 and 2011. It however urged the party  to microzone the ticket  to Oye LG and adopts Senator  Arise, who  parades enviable records of exemplary representation to guarantee victory for the party. “We have ruminated deeply on how our party, APC can overcome the coming onslaught occasioned by the disappointing representation we are getting and the level of despondency it has brought to our people and realised that the party can get the best recovery, by fielding Senator Arise. “Within four years he was in the Senate, he succeeded through deft political moves and networks  in etching his name in gold by working hard for the establishment of  the Federal University,Oye Ekiti in Ekiti North Senatorial district. “This was besides the series of empowerment programmes he initiated that benefited the widows, youth groups, elderly people and other vulnerables to give them solace and buffer to survive economic crunch and hardship. POLL “Today, FUOYE has become a pride of Ekiti and one of the best employers of labour that has succeeded in radicalising the local economy of Oye and Ikole Ekiti. FUOYE’s influences are also resonating relief in other adjoining communities like Itapa and Ayegbaju Ekiti. “Except the APC is deluding itself, the party’s popularity is now at the lowest ebb in Ekiti North. The people were already disillusioned with the lacklustre representation they are  getting from the current occupant of the seat and the best way to escape the dungeon of defeat is to field a popular candidate like Senator Arise”.Babalola said . Babalola stated that Senator Arise with wide networks and strong personality would be a veritable and staunch  ranking Senator that can contest for principal positions at the Senate. The group’s leader said the coming election offers veritable platform for the representatives of the progressive party from Ekiti to compete for viable and well- placed principal position, adding that only a strong character, with magnetic national appeal like Senator Arise can be considered for such. Periscoping the trajectory of National Assembly  representation in Ekiti North, Babalola, posited that the time is ripe for Oye Council to be accorded a second chance at the Senate, as done to representatives from Ido/Osi and Moba local governments. “A copious deconstruction of the past and present representions under progressive party accentuated the fact that Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi from Ido/Osi Local Government, and  the late Senator James Kolawole from Moba Local government were given a second chance to recontest for Senate. “Taking cognisance of the foregoing, it would only be fair , just and apposite, for the leadership of APC to microzone  the ticket to Oye Local government and unanimously adopt Senator Arise to fly the party’s flag and do Ekiti proud, the way he did in the past”, the group advised.