The Mogaji Ogun Elu, Aare Alaasa dynasty, Alhaji (Prof) Sabit Ariyo Olagoke (JP) has called on traditional title holders to use their position to unite the family rather than concentrating on sharing and disposing of their family inheritance. This according to him will strengthen the family bond and bring meaningful development to their families, the community and the country at large. Prof. Olagoke who is also the founder and spiritual head of Shafaudeen in Islam worldwide disclosed this while hosting his kinsmen from the Ejemu family from Ejigbo. Olagoke since his investiture months ago began the search for his kinsmen based on his research to locate the roots of the Ogun Elu’s which was later traced to Ejigbo. According to him “We should not allow our history to go into extinction and this should be inculcated in the younger ones because children of nowadays did not know their roots because their parents failed to tell them and some that told their children did not allow them to go there. “I am particularly moved to embark on this project so as to pass a message to other traditional title holders because the primary aim of many Mogajis is to have a say t and probably to sit on their family’s inheritance”. The family reunion meeting which took place at the newly constructed first customary court in Ibadanland had in attendance the representatives of the family from Ejigbo and their kinsmen who had been in Ibadan since inception. It would be recalled that prof Olagoke became Head (Mogaji) of the Ogun Elu family home and abroad months ago and he has since his investiture begun bringing members of the family together for the development of the family. POLL While speaking at the reunion, Pa Jimoh Lawan of over 80 years who led the team from Ejemu compound of Ejigbo to their Ibadan family settlement expressed his pleasure to see the family house again having left Ibadan since he was 12 years old. He however thanked the initiator, prof Olagoke and other family members who did not allow their family name to go into extinction. “If not for all of you who have been flying our family flag, the name would have gone into extinction and our family will not be traced again”. Pa Lawan who was moved to tears however thanked prof. Olagoke for not forgetting the roots and prayed that God will give him good health and long life to continue the good work he started with the family and the Nation at large. Other members on the entourage of pa Lawan are Abdulkareem Salaudeen Ishola, Sulaimon Ogunwaye, Hassan Kolawole, Abdul-Razak Kareem and Alfa Yahya Yusuf. The re-union was also witnessed by members of the Shafaudeen in Islam worldwide.