LAGOS – The Southern and Middle Belt leaders are inditing that the existing Constitution and Structure of Nigeria are grossly flawed, therefore, demand on the fundamental restructuring of the country, to reflect true federalism, and enthrone equity, fairness and justice, before the 2023 General elections; It Noted in particular, that local government affairs are state matters and that the listing of local governments in the Constitution is inconsistent with the principle of federalism; stressing that the Reports of both the 2014 National Conference and the Governor Nasir El-Rufai – All Progressives Congress  (APC) Committee on True Federalism of 2018 recommended that the Federation of Nigeria should remain as constituted by the Federal Government and the States, and specifically excluded local government from being a tier of government in the federation but only subject to the creation and administration of the states; They noted that the legislation of the National Assembly granting local government autonomy are superfluous and exercise in futility; Ex-Zambian President, Banda Dies Of Cancer At 85 Gowon Flags Off Construction Of British-American Junction… The forum in a press statement on Friday declared that State Police is a sine qua non in a Federal System of Government; pointing out that there is no government, properly so-called, that is without the Instrument and capacity to enforce its Laws and maintain security within its Territorial Jurisdiction; The statement reads, “Posits that the resultant effect of the monopoly of internal security by the Federal Government is the unprecedented dire state of insecurity in the country; “Emphasizes that the designation of Governor of a State as the Chief Security Officer of the State is a ruse without being in control of the State’s Security Apparatus; . The leaders demand the harmonization and immediate implementation of the Reports of the 2014 National Conference and the 2018 APC Committee on True Federalism aforesaid rather than the current cosmetic Constitutional Amendment, which is a drain on the resources of the country and do not address fundamental issues including fiscal federalism. POLL “We maintain that the basis of any viable democracy, especially in a diverse and complex country such as Nigeria, is fair and even sharing of power; While insisting that the presidency be zoned to the South, the forum called on all lovers of peace and equity in Nigeria, particularly people of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt region to reject any political party that fails to zone its presidential ticket to the South and consequently caution political stakeholders from Southern Nigeria against aspirations or actions that would compromise the shared Resolve of thr people. On the worsening state of insecurity in the country, the Forum, particularly, decries the continued kidnappings and killings of innocent citizens and wanton destruction of livelihoods across the country by terrorists and criminals, especially in the North West, North East and Middle Belt region; It condemns, in the strongest terms, the ongoing massacres and decimation of indigenous populations, especially in Zuru, Kebbi State, Southern Kaduna, Benue, Plateau and Southern Gombe, where an untold number of citizens have been killed and communities deliberately displaced,  by Islamic Extremists and foreign Fulani Herders, with plausible official complicity. Nike Remain ‘Committed’ To Chelsea, Despite Three… Lagos NAWOJ Demands Speedy Trial Of Bamise’s Alleged… It urges the Federal Government, to be alive to its primary duty of protecting the lives and property of citizens; safeguard all Communities across Nigeria, and ensure the immediate return of displaced citizens to their ancestral homes. The group also  demands, in the national interest, the immediate release of Nnamdi Kanu and a stop to any further persecution of Sunday Igboho, who is currently on a conditional release in the Benin Republic, It also warns that the continued detention and trial of Nnamdi Kanu on charges of terrorism and treasonable felony while known Boko Haram terrorists are being given VIP treatments and hosted in Government Houses is not only provocative and perfidious but a bizarre double standard on the part of the Nigerian State. Delegations of the constituent Organisations of the SMBLF were respectively led by Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Leader of Afenifere (South West); Dr. Pogu Bitrus, President of the Middle Belt Forum ( Middle Belt); Professor George Obiozor, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo represented by the Secretary-General, Ambassador Okey Emuchay, MFR (South  East); and Senator Emmanuel Ibok Essien, FNSE, National Chairman of Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF (South-South). The Meeting was also attended by former Governors, Ministers, Federal and state legislators,  top politicians and professionals from the Southern and Middle Belt regions, including His Excellency, Senator Jonah Jang, Senator Femi Okurounmu, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Professor Ihechukwu Madubuike, Professor Charles Nwekeabu, Chief Gary Igwariwey (former PG Ohanaeze), Senator Bassey Ewa Henshaw, HRH Eze Cletus Iluomanya, Dr. Solomon Arase, Chief Supo Shonibare, Chief Sola Ebiseni, Chief Edozie Ezeugwa, Eze Dr. Ibe Nwosu, Engr. Bekinbo Dagogo-Jack, Nze Ozichukwu Chukwu, Elder Steven Bangoji, Dr. Akin Fapohunda, Dr. Alabi Femi, Dame Betty Igbeyi, mni, Hon. Dr. Stella Dorgu, Nella Andem-Ewa, SAN, Dr. Ebun Sonaiya, Hon. Edward Pwajok, SAN, Dr. Alex Ogbonnia, Eze Charles Olisakwe, Hon. Keftin Amiga, CP Iorbes Ihagh (Rtd)- PG MUT, Dr. Mrs. Esther Mangzha, Mrs. Beatrice Eze, Elizabeth A. Jibrin, Engr. Bayo Adenekan, Elder Mac Emakpore, Chief Douyi Douglas-Naingba, Akin Osuntokun, Hon. Jonathan Asake (SOKAPU), Comrade Jare Ajayi and Ken Robinson, among others.