“Where does Nigeria go from here?” Mr. Bola Olowo, a journalist friend and brother sent that question to me in reaction to last Sunday’s column. Bola’s entire reaction ran thus: “Where do we go from here? And how do we go (to that place) from here? Yes, the season of anomie (is here), but is that the lot of all of us now, and even that of our children, too? The youths no longer believe in Nigeria. So, where do we go from here and how do we get there… from here? The answer to the question must come in two parts; where Nigeria is headed for the 14 months the Gen. Muhammadu Buhari presidency will last is crystal clear; Nigeria will sink further into the gutter. The direction the country will take after May 29 next year, unclear but there is a danger that it may also lead to nowhere good, if…! Now, to handle the first part; recently, a statement signed by Mallam Garuba Shehu, Buhari’s spokesman, conveyed to Nigerians the President’s apologies for the pain Nigerians were going through, especially, because of the continuing petrol scarcity. That statement contained no reassurance for the future. That apology came almost two months after the petrol scarcity began, when toxic petrol was imported into the country. That was in January. This is mid-March and Buhari the President as well as the Petroleum Minister has not punished anybody for that national calamity. Yet, someone in the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) must have betrayed his country before such toxic petrol would have been allowed into Nigeria. To show how bad things were, NNPC’s big man himself announced that the percentage of the Methanol addictive contained in the Nigeria-bound petrol imports was not among the things checked for by those who are paid by Nigeria to ascertain that the petrol that comes to Nigeria meets certain standards and purity. POLL Two months after, Nigeria has all but forgotten that importation of that load of toxic petrol. Yet, the greatest disappointment I had on reading the President’s apology was what I saw as a confirmation from the highest office in the land that there was no solution in sight. That statement said nothing about when the nation’s four petrol refineries would become functional again. Yet, it is public knowledge that just last year, hundreds of millions of dollars were approved for the rehabilitation of those refineries! So, in effect, Nigerians were not told how soon their commonwealth being spent on making the refineries functional would bear fruit. Why did I start the article by dwelling on petrol supply? The answer is simply this: The sheer volume of imported petrol makes the highest demand on our foreign exchange usage, which in turn pulls down the value of our national currency, increases the price of every good, thereby fueling inflation and destroying the economy.  And as Buhari said nothing about when the refineries will begin to hum again, he gave no indication that petrol problems, as we know them, will ever end. May we leave petrol and its problems and check the situation in the electricity sector. It is another shameful story there. In mid-March 2022, electricity has forsaken Nigeria as all the electricity generating plants produced just 2,301 megawatts, as reported in the newspapers of Saturday 19th March, 2022. Homes and offices got just a few hours of electricity daily for a while now. It is a shameful fact that in this same month of March, the National Grid collapsed two or three times within a week. Yes, that meant that the entire nation was bereft of electricity! And then on Friday March 18, the President returned from London, where he had gone for what is curiously called “health tourism”. The electricity and petrol supply emergencies were biting hard when the President left for London, and they have even become worse when he returned. Yet, all that his spokesman, Femi Adesina, had to say in a press statement that Buhari, now in “his top form”, will address, is the internal problems of the All Progressives Congress (APC) political party. From the Vanguard: “Asked what Nigerians should expect from the President as he returns, Adesina said “he will continue what he’s doing. 14 more months and the administration breasts the tape. He’s going to give in his very best so that he lands safe and sound. And now particularly that APC has, or has had issues, and it has its convention ahead of him, the President has come at a good time to bring back better cohesion into the party and get the party to hold a successful convention”. Finish? Yes, finish!!! Nigeria is being crippled by petrol scarcity, dying electricity sector, acute foreign exchange problem, debilitating runaway inflation, national insecurity, collapsing national infrastructure, and all that Adesina would say is that “Buhari would continue what he is doing. 14 more months and the administration breasts the tape”. Please note that I have not brought up the vexed issue of corruption. Discussants often go emotional when discussing corruption, so I will just give an example of how a gigantic issue of corruption was handled just this week, to give you an insight into the seriousness with which corruption is viewed under Buhari’s watch. Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, has forced two immigration officials who extorted the sum of N8000 from a 14-year-old girl traveling on Lufthansa airline to refund the money and banned the two officials from operating in any of the country’s airports. This is a heinous crime especially as it was committed against a 14-year-old girl who was travelling alone. Under a corruption-fighting administration, the Immigration Department would have sacked the corrupt and heartless officials. There should be something in our law books that should land the dubious duo in jail. It is not only when state Governors are jailed that signifies that an anti-corruption fight is on. Any person who would not mind defrauding a 14-yearold girl traveling alone deserves to be put behind bars. The two were not punished in any way; asking a thief to refund what he stole is not punishment. And how was the hellish crime discovered: “Following a tweeted allegation on the 19th of February 2022 by the mother of a 14year old girl travelling on Lufthansa Airline that two officials of the Nigerian Immigration Service extorted the sum of eight thousand naira from her daughter, a team of FAAN Aviation Security officers were commissioned to investigate the allegation.” “Upon investigation, they found the allegation to be true, as the officers involved were identified with the help of footage on our CCTV facility, and the cooperation from the Nigerian Immigration Service.” On Duty Cards were also withdrawn permanently, and they have been banned from working in any Nigerian airport, to serve as a deterrent to others”. That was how a newspaper reported the punishment which is a show of shame worse than the original crime. Since when has not being posted to the Airport become punishment for Immigration officials? And why were the terrible two, who could attack and commit such a heinous crime against a solitary 14-year-old, not named? Well, the Immigration office should please do what should be done in any NORMAL country – sack the terrible Immigration two, unless extortion is the new normal in the Immigration Department. I’m watching out for information on the kind of punishment meted out to them. And if nothing is done about that national disgrace at the Lagos Airport within a week, Buhari should please sack the Immigration Comptroller-General, if he wants to send a serious message to the world. Now that it has been shown that nothing is likely to change within the 14 months left in the life of the Buhari administration, the question to face is this: Where does Nigeria go from here when the next president is sworn in. That really is my major concern. Nigeria has been so shamed and devastated within the past seven-plus years that Nigerians have seriously lost hope that their country could ever be salvaged. The administration has been borrowing and borrowing money from foreign lenders as though foreign exchange could only come through borrowing. Even with just months to its exit date from national governance, it is still talking about borrowing some more. The disappointment of the common Nigerians is terribly deep-rooted in that Buhari was presented as a messiah. Now, if a much-touted messiah has failed so colossally, what hope could there be for Nigeria? Unfortunately, under Buhari, the killer-herders appeared and splattered blood across the nation and their atrocities have shredded the seams of the country like never before. And regrettably, those in government never seemed to understand the trouble such wanton killing was sowing against the country’s very unity. I fear that many Nigerians could refuse to vote in elections. The result? That is the worst part; that Nigeria was more united when Buhari became President than now. So, whoever comes in should face the first task of uniting Nigeria. The country’s very survival is at stake because many Nigerians no longer believe in Nigeria. The “2019 Poverty and Inequality in Nigeria” report placed 40 percent of Nigerians, (83 million people) below poverty line of 137,430 naira ($381.75) per year. In 2004 World Bank President, Jim Yong Kim, said Nigeria ranked third in the world while India ranked number one with 33 per cent of the world poor”. Now, under Buhari, Nigeria ranked NUMBER ONE! Back to Bola’s question about the youths in this season of anomie, I say what do you expect from the youths given the unemployment rate in the country? Quartz Africa published this in August 2020, using materials from Nigeria’s Bureau of Statistics: “One in every two Nigerians in the country’s labour force is either unemployed or underemployed. With a labor force of 80.2 million, that means about 21.7 million Nigerians are unemployed, a figure that exceeds the population of 35 of Africa’s 54 countries. Among young Nigerians aged between 25 and 34, the largest bloc of the labour force, the unemployment rate currently stands even higher, at 30.7%. The report is particularly damning for the administration of Nigeria’s president Muhammadu Buhari, which has struggled to deliver economic policies to drive growth and create jobs. The unemployment rate has more than tripled since Buhari first took office in May 2015”. That was in 2022. Today the national unemployment rate is 33 percent. So, who blames Nigerians, especially the youths, for surrendering to anomie? Ashley Crossman in an on-line publication of July 2, 2019, explained anomie as “a social condition in which there is a disintegration or disappearance of the norms and values that were previously common to the society. The concept, thought of as “normlessness,” was developed by the founding sociologist, Émile Durkheim. People who lived during periods of anomie typically feel disconnected from their society because they no longer see the norms and values that they hold dear reflected in society itself. This leads to the feeling that one does not belong and is not meaningfully connected to others. For some, this may mean that the role they play (or played) and their identity is no longer valued by society. Because of this, anomie can foster the feeling that one lacks purpose, engender hopelessness, and encourage deviance and crime.” This is where the APC government of change is leaving Nigeria when its life expires in May 2023.