OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA News emerged on Wednesday March 9, of the indefinite suspension of the very powerful Musiliu Akinsanya, properly known as MC Oluomo as the Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Lagos chapter, over alleged misconduct, insubordination, and inciting members of the state chapter against the apex body. The development follows a query sent to the NURTW boss in Lagos over alleged meddlesomeness in Union matters, as well as protest staged by Mc Oluomo supporters during which they accused the union at national level of unnecessarily interfering in the state affairs. It was gathered that the national body of the union had, therefore, directed MC Oluomo to immediately hand over the mantle of leadership to his deputy chairman and release all property belonging to the transport body in his possession to the State Secretary, in a bid to avoid any leadership vacuum in the state. According to the national body, the decision to suspend MC Oluomo, as contained in a letter sent to him, was aimed at preventing possible breakdown of law and order after it came to its notice that he was already inciting members against the national body and the union, “an act that is completely against NURTW constitution,” the national body maintained. “Your orchestrated plan to attack branches that may disobey your orders aforesaid will ultimately endanger public peace and order in Lagos state. It is also very likely to threaten and/or affect the lives and property of the peace-loving people of Lagos state, particularly those doing their legitimate businesses within motor parks, hence the urgent need to take drastic actions against him. “It is on record that you were earlier issued with queries on February25, 2022 and March3, 2022 respectively in which you were directed to explain the circumstances surrounding your untoward actions, and to also show reasons why disciplinary actions should not be taken against you for such acts of insubordination. You bluntly neglected/ refuse to respond to the second query, while your response to the first query was unsatisfactory. “In view of your suspension, you are hereby directed to hand over the mantle of leadership of the Lagos State Council to the State Deputy Chairman and also surrender all Union properties in your possession to the State Secretary of the Union forthwith.” POLL Following the news of his suspension he quickly countered the news with the withdrawal of the Lagos chapter from the Abuja control, stating that with the failure of all attempts to have an amicable resolution, the Lagos State Council of the union with over 200 branches has resolved to immediately withdraw its membership and operation from the National body of NURTW. The council’s members argued in the statement that as law abiding and responsible citizens, they have decided to explore all avenues for peace in the interest of all. They pledged not to support any action that could threaten the peace in the state. The union has written to the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and other relevant agencies about its decision. The release stated further: “Being law abiding and responsible citizens, we have decided to explore all avenues for peace in the interest of all as we will not support any action that can threaten the peace that we cherish so much in Lagos State. “Therefore, I, Comrade Musiliu Akinsanya Ayinde, on behalf of the State Administrative Council (SAC), State Executive Council (SEC) members and the entire Union Rank and File members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State Council with over 200 Branches and Zones hereby resolve to:” Immediately withdraw our membership and operation from the National body of NURTW for peace to reign in Lagos State and to 2. Write to Lagos State Governor, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and other relevant agencies about our decision “It is important to state that our action is in line with section 40 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended, which provides the following: “Every person shall be entitled to assembly freely and associate with other persons, and in particular, he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his or her interests, this means that every person shall be entitled to join an association and exit freely without molestation. “To many residents of Lagos state, this is a welcomed development owing to many years of agitation by them to have the union scrapped and introduce a saner means of administrating transport unions operating in the state”. Mr. Layi Adoga, a constitutional lawyer said, the state should tow what the Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde did in his state, who scrapped the unions and introduced what he called the Park Management System (PMS). He said: “The decision to establish the PMS is paying off, as the hitherto frosty relationship between the government and public drivers has improved. The PMS was introduced in the wake of the leadership tussle that rocked the proscribed National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Oyo.” Barrister Adoga revealed that some spirited moves were embarked upon by some leaders of the transport union in several bids aimed at truncating the inauguration of the PMS. “Soon as Governor Seyi Makinde announced the ban on the activities of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state upon his inauguration on May 29, 2019, his administration immediately went to work to design the measures to tackle the perennial challenge to security posed by the issue of control over the motor parks and garages. “Sources confirmed that as soon as the transport leaders and stakeholders in the sector heard of the plan to inaugurate the PMS initiative, they launched an intense lobby aimed at dissuading the government from going that route. “It was gathered that a lobby team inaugurated by the transport chiefs went as far as promising huge monthly payments to critical members of the administration if they could convince Makinde to drop the PMS idea. “At least five top officials of the government were promised a guaranteed payment of N2.5 million per month if they could provide the excuses that would dissuade the governor from implementing the PMS and assist in returning the status quo ante at the parks,” a source close to the administration” Barr. Adoga added. Aliyu Ojekunle a driver who plies Ibadan and other towns in Oyo state said: “Each time I see Governor Seyi Makinde’s park managers in action in parts of Oyo state, they remind me of the suspended National Union of Road Transport Workers in the state. “When he placed a ban on the NURTW in Oyo, many residents was reasonably puzzled as to the consequences of such an unexpected move. While the majority of the residents would probably have openly welcomed any move to phase out the union, but feared how its members and leadership might react to the governor’s action.” It would be recalled that before the ban, there was a plan by a rival group to seize the motor parks (invariably take up the leadership of the union) from another. In fact, the plan was openly flaunted because the group angling to take over the union had thrown its weight behind the current government in the state. Although it was rumoured that Makinde would do something drastic about the union, nobody had expected an outright ban. The Lagos State government through its House of Assembly has in its wisdom has said there should not be any contention over the steps being taken by the state government following the crisis rocking the National Union of Road Transport Workers. Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation, Temitope Adewale, who made the position of the Assembly known, said the legislative arm had been very proactive as it already passed a law creating the Lagos State Parking Authority, which should now oversee activities at all the parks in the State. “The House is fully aware of developments in the transportation union and now that the crisis has resulted in the banning of NURTW activities in Lagos, it is clear to state that all parks, garages and parking activities will be under the Lagos State Parking Authority as stipulated by law,” he said. “At the stage the NURTW has found itself, the State has to take charge of the situation to avoid a breakdown of law and order. “By law, the state’s Parking Authority has a General Manager on whose shoulders the responsibility now falls to manage the parks at the moment. “The law approves a General Manager for the Parking Authority. Lagosians should be calm. The situation is under control as the government takes necessary actions,” he added in a statement.