LAGOS  – For the Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), this is not the best of times. The union has just been expelled by the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) over issues connected with alleged extortion. The RTEAN, before its recent expulsion, was one of the transport unions and associations in the maritime industry under the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA), a collaboration which before now had stood the test of time. These unions and associations include the Amalgamation and Container Truck owners’ Association of Nigeria (ACATOA), Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Container Truck owners Association of Nigeria (COTOAN), Kirikiri Truck and Park Operators Forum (KKTPOF) and Logistics Practitioners Association of Nigeria (LPAN). How New Link Roads Are Bringing Life Back To Kwara Communities APC Presidential Ticket: Tinubu More Experienced Than Osinbajo –… Others are the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW, Heavy Duty Section), Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN, Haulage Section), Truckers and Carriers’ Association of Nigeria (TACAN) and Young Truck Owners Association of Lagos (YTOAL). The COMTUA is governed by a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed by members, most of whom are registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). It has its Board of Trustee (Advisory Council) and management committee (among whom the executive members were elected) as the leadership structure of the collaboration. Currently, the COMTUA BoT chairman is Otunba Olaleye Thompson, while Comrade Adeyinka Aroyewun is the National President. COMTUA’s National President, Comrade Adeyinka Aroyewun, in a statement dated March 10, 2022, made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT, notified that the body had expelled Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) from the collaboration. According to Aroyewun in the statement, the leadership of the BoT and Management Committee of COMTUA met on Wednesday March 9, 2022 and took some vital decisions. POLL First, that the creation of points on roads within Lagos by members of RTEAN for the purpose of extorting truckers was condemnable. It added: “The harassment and intimidation of members by RTEAN members on the road is unacceptable and several complaints letters to the leadership of the association have not yielded any positive result. “Trucks are often vandalised by members of RTEAN, especially where there is reluctance by a driver to yield to their extortion.” According to the association, “All these and many more are violations to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by federating units of COMTUA.” Aroyewun, therefore, gave the verdict: “COMTUA have therefore decided to expel RTEAN from its collaboration and shall not hesitate to institute a legal action against RTEAN and it National President, Alhaji Musa Muhammad, whom the extortionists allegedly claimed is behind their actions, if the criminal acts persist.” 2023: APC Succumbing To Internal Crisis Buhari Breaks Silence On APC Crisis, Calls Stakeholders To Order Also, COMTUA advised that members of the collaboration should desist and resist being coaxed into payment of unofficial dues or levies on the road to any union or association. On March 5, 2022, Temilorun Komolafe, COMTUA, Director (Legal) in a letter to the Area Commander, noted the creation of extortion points at the DENCA/ABC Junction, Amuwo, stressing that the development could lead to crisis by members of RTEAN. The development was also notified the AIG, Zone 2, Zonal Headquarters, Onikan, Lagos. Komolafe stated: “I am using this medium to officially report the conduct of members of Road Transport Employer’s Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) led by one Alhaji Musa Muhammad (aka Alh Mala). “At exactly 12 noon today Saturday, March 5, 2022, thugs numbering 100, wielding weapons accompanied by mobile policemen, created extortion points forcefully collecting money, harassing our drivers and conductors, vandalising our trucks, especially anyone who is unwilling to give them money. “This conduct is likely to lead to breach of peace, especially when we shall not hesitate to challenge them. The said Alhaji Musa Muhammad, who doubles as both State Chairman and National President of RTEAN is found using police wilfully to harass people claiming to be close to the Inspector General of Police. “He is responsible for the deployment of thugs to various points on the road to extort monies. We wish to put you on the know that as I send you this message at 4pm, the crisis between the RTEAN members and the Taskforce of Amuwo Odofin Local government is contesting the control of the said territory. “A prompt intervention of your command can save the situation from further escalating.” The unending back and forth that had been going on with the issue of the difficulties being experienced by vehicle owners, especially truckers on Lagos roads might continue to linger unless the problems are correctly identified and properly nipped in the bud. Feelers from truck owners who under the aegis of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) who had been complaining, writing and meeting with the different state and federal authorities in order to find solutions to the several huddles that tend to negatively impact their business and which they felt was the responsibility of the authorities to clear. A letter already been addressed to the Lagos State government, titled, ‘Complaints against the unlawful and illegal collection of dues/levy on the highway, intimidation, harassment, assault and threat to life of members of the Kirikiri truckers and carriage operators association by members/workers and or agents of the Amuwo Odofin local government and the Oriade local government areas of Lagos State: An appeal for timely intervention to prevent a total collapse of law and order within the State’, The letter dated November 18, 2021 to the state government, contained a list of alleged atrocities being perpetrated in the area. The Kirikiri Truckers and Carriage Operators Association (KKTCOA), a pressure group made up of COMTUA members, who as a unit, had taken the responsibility of writing to the state government over the activities of the RTEAN members. In response, the Lagos State government on March 3, 2022, through the Director, Local Government Administration, in a letter signed by one Razak O Amodu replied to the KKTCOA on the various issues of harassment, extortion and threat to life. The government’s response indicated that a necessary investigation had been made over the issue. This, it added, resulted in letters written to the two named local government areas and that they denied having any of their staff, agents, franchised revenue collectors or contractors mounting any ‘road block’. The letter also explained that the Amuwo Odofin and the Oriade local government areas denied being privy to any of their staff or agents mounting such roadblocks to harass or impound trucks or for revenue collection from the truckers. With the expulsion of the RTEAN by COMTUA, it is feared that the situation may escalate, leading to tension in the sub-sector. Observers believe that all seemed not to be well in terms of the relationship between the truckers and the various levels of government within these areas, especially with the government agencies behaving as if all had been well. They maintain that what had been existing had been peace of the graveyard following alleged continued harassment and extortion of the people by people said to be members of the RTEAN. However, Alhaji Musa Muhammed, the RTEAN National President, did not pick several calls put through to his line for him to respond to expulsion of his union by the COMTUA. He also did not respond to text messages sent to him by SMS and by WhatsApp.