Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura representing Nassarawa Central Senatorial District on Saturday visited Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State to solicit his support in his (Al Makura’s) bid to succeed Governor Mai Mala Buni as the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC). The former governor of Nassarawa State sought the support of the chairman of the Southwest Governors’ Forum to help him woo other APC governors ahead of the party’s national convention in order for him to sail through in his bid to become the next chairman of the party. Al-Makura, who was received with members of his campaign organized by the Governor at the Government House, Alagbaka, Akure said he came to inform the governor about his aspiration to be one of the leaders in the country and the conscience of APC due to his sincerity and courage. Confusion As Lagos APC Members Frustrate Igbokwe’s Attempt… 2023 Presidency: New Tribe Lobbies APC Over Osinbajo He said: “We are here with members of my campaign council to see you as one of the leaders of this country. As one of those who believe in a true democracy. As one of those who have championed the inner mind of the people when it comes to justice, fairness and just cause. “We feel you have a role to play in determining and shaping how this party (APC) is put together, especially in this critical time of transition. We must ensure the continuity of the gains we have had from President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is the motivating factor that has made me throw my hat into the ring to consider contesting the office of the National chairman. We must give this party a principle, a good policy and raise the hope of our people. There is something that gives me comfort when I think about APC, it’s a party I am faithful to, to a fault. Never in the history of this country has different parties come together and worked together and put harmonious and united focus to drive the process of unity in the country. “President Buhari has held that tenaciously and made that the resolve and the sanctity of his administration. It has added value and we will just sustain it. We are here to solicit your support and cooperation.” In his response, Governor Akeredolu described Al Makura as a competent and committed party man. POLL He emphasised that APC must establish a core value and there must be a general understanding among leaders and members of the party. Akeredolu said: “One thing that comes out is APC value. We must be able to establish one, or else we are only just wasting time. What are our core values? Do we really believe in democratic principles? “Even if we are going to have consensus, it is consensus and not ‘one person census.’ So, if we must have consensus, then it must be consensus, and that is my own approach. “Recently, there was a by-election in Ondo state here, some people said they wanted to contest and I asked all of them to go and contest and whoever wins would be supported by all. A young man that won I didn’t know him. Very, very young. I have never seen him before. “I would not know what would have happened if we had imposed someone on the people. So, the young man won the primary and the general election. So, we must establish our principles and  core values, I stand by that.”