MAKURDI – Dr Kohol Iornem, a contestant for the Kwande/Ushongo, Federal House of Representatives (HoR) seat on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described as worrisome, the low literacy level in his constituency and Benue as a whole. Iornem who is also the President, of the Mutual Union of Tiv in the United Kingdom (MUTUK) has therefore pledged to establish adult education centres to address the low literacy level in the constituency if elected in 2023. Speaking on his programme of action at a press conference held in Makurdi on Monday, Iornem noted that part of his manifesto for the people of the constituency, if elected would be to establish vocational and community training centres, with special emphasis on out-of-school children in the state. Iornem who spoke at the occasion to mark his birthday celebration explained that the programmes would particularly target those who are interested in learning or ‘going back to school’ through part-time or non-formal education. He believes that as he exposes out-of-school children to non-formal education as well as vocational skills, it would help take young people off the streets and make them self-reliant. According to him, “When I am elected, I’llestablish adult education/vocational training centres/community centres for out-of-school children. “The adult education centre will have a wide range of programs designed to enhance the literacy, numeracy, technological, and general life skills of adult community members who are interested in learning or ‘going back to school’ through part-time, non-formal education. “We will also train people in various crafts ranging from baking, hairdressing, fashion/tailoring, and crafts making. We will support those who graduate from these vocational centres with start-up funds or equipment, including sewing machines, baking ovens, hairdressing and barbing salon equipment. POLL “I will also set up community centres for out-of-school children who are unable to join the conventional schools. We believe that these learning and vocational training centres will help to take our young people off the streets and make them self-sufficient”, he stated.