A Presidential Aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sam Ohuabunwa, has alleged plots by forces within the major political parties to block the chances of Nigeria producing the President of Igbo extraction in 2023. Ohuabunwa who stated this in an interview, on Saturday, in Abakaliki, however, said the plot won’t succeed. “The plot will not work. God, Himself will not sanction injustice. I am still hopeful that wise counsel will still prevail as most God-fearing Nigerians are in support of justice. They support a shift to the South East and by God’s grace, it will happen,” he said. According to him, the insinuations that Igbo Presidential aspirants had lost stem and were fizzling out of the presidential race. He said he had worked harder than any other presidential aspirant in terms of consultations and reaching out to Nigerians, and deserved to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, come 2023. Ohuabunwa said, “It’s not true that Igbo Presidential aspirants have lost stem and are not consulting again. Yesterday, I was in the South-East. On Thursday, I was in Delta and I meet with the PDP caucus there. On Monday, I will be going to Oyo and from Oyo, to Kwara. We are moving. “It’s just that we don’t have the resources the way Tinubu has-he has so much money and if he coughs, everybody hears about it. But we are doing much more than he does. Our move is towards the delegates because we are not in the general elections yet. It’s the PDP delegates we are focusing on now; we are not entertaining the general public. “Therefore, we are strategic in our moves. It’s not true that Igbo Presidential aspirants are not doing anything about their ambition. If anybody is not moving, I am moving and strategizing. I must tell you that in the last two or three weeks, I have done so much to ensure I clinch the PDP Presidential ticket. POLL “So, I’m pushing seriously. Of course, I can’t speak for anybody, I’m speaking for myself and I’m doing a lot. Two weeks ago, the PDP NEC and members of the Board of Trustees met in Abuja. I was there and I met everybody. Chief Onyema Ugochukwu, when I met him in Umuahia yesterday, he was telling people how I shook hands with all the PDP NEC members and he told them that I’m the most dogged and resilient Presidential candidate in Nigeria currently. “I have evidence. For the first time, I have gone to 26 states of the country and my last visit was Abia, because it’s my state and I keep going there. And in any of these visits, I keep consulting and talking to PDP members and beyond. “I was with the Chairman of my party, the PDP, in Abia State, Chief Onyema Ugochukwu yesterday. I’m working hard to win. You may not be seeing me or reading me for whatever issues. What is critical is that I’m not loosing stem. “Why I’m doing this is because I’m going to be President of Nigeria, in 2023. This is not a matter of, “Shall it be?”. By the grace of God, it will be. That’s why I’m competing in PDP. I’m not going to be part of any of these small political parties around. PDP is big and that’s where I’m competing from.”E