The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), with the theme for this year’s retreat “Improving Insurance Access through Market Development and Innovation in 2022 and beyond’, has reiterated its commitment to the development of insurance market and penetration. Mr Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance (CFI), while speaking at this year’s edition, said his cardinal agenda is developing insurance market and deepening penetration for growth. Thomas was optimistic that the development of the risk management sector would translates to the growth and development of the nation’s economy “Our collective efforts at ensuring the development and growth of the insurance sector will definitely translate to the growth and development of the Nation’s economy. As you are aware, the Commission has been implementing various market developmental initiatives to lift the insurance sector to a global standard through Risk Based Supervision Framework. “Encourage investment in digital capabilities and automation ,launching of NAICOM Portal, launch of the Bimalab Project on the 9th of February, 2021, Enforcement of the compulsory insurance products in Nigeria – via partnership with agencies and states, Capacity development programmes – Actuarial, competency framework, Sensitisation of various stakeholders – MSMEs on benefits of insurance, MDAs Insurance Desk Officers as well as Introduction of regulatory reforms and policies e.g issuance of web aggregators’ guidelines. “We can gladly say that the Nigerian Insurance market has undergone substantial structural and regulatory reforms over the years following the market development initiatives being implemented and the evolution of Nigeria’s financial sector in the last decade which has been characterised by digital transformation. “The Commission is trying to open up the market across the geo-political zones by reaching out to the states where insurance penetration is perceived to be very low. ‘We expect the industry to respond to these efforts by bridging the supply gap and ensure they follow up on the Commission’s move to create awareness among high ranking policy makers in order to prove that the industry is ready for the booming opportunities awaiting them across the country. As I said earlier, the project with the Kano State Government is a litmus test for us as an industry. POLL “The importance of insurance post COVID19 and the aftermath of endSARS protest cannot be overemphasise hence, the marginal increase in the uptake of policies boosting the retail market and the annuity component. The recently released industry statistics has shown some growth in the sector. The Nigerian Bureau of Statistics figures has shown that the sector has recorded positive increase in almost all parameters and have rated the sector as one of the fastest growing sectors in activities. Even though we are climbing the ladder, we all know that there is need for us to do much better as our potentials are huge. “Our efforts in the development of the market are an all-inclusive one from the creation of avenues to deepen insurance penetration to increasing access to insurance products via digital platforms and increasing visibility of insurance across the nooks and crannies of the country. The Commission recently partnered with Financial Sector Deepening Africa, FSD Africa to launch the Bimalab Nigeria, a programme aimed at accelerating the insurtech innovation.