OSOGBO – The internal crisis rocking the Osun State Chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) appeared getting messier by the day with litigations and counter suit from the two factions that made the party. Investigation conducted by Daily Independent revealed that the crisis was responsible for the emergence of two flagbearers for the July 16, 2022 poll in the state at a governorship primary election held last week. All efforts to reconcile the two camps before the governorship primary election were not successful because of series of court orders and counter orders obtained from courts by the two camps in the state. A faction loyal to the Adeleke dynasty held its primary election at Osogbo Township stadium where Senator Ademola Adeleke emerged the flagbearer of the party. The primary election was supervised by national officials of the PDP and representatives of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). However, the Hon. Soji Adagunodo’s faction of the PDP which is populated with elders of the party, held different primary at WOCDIF centre, Osogbo and produced Prince Dotun Babayemi as the candidate of the party. Among the PDP leaders at the WOCDIF primary are: former governor of the State of Osun, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, former deputy governor, Erelu Olusola Obada, Alhaji Shuaib Oyedokun, former National Deputy Chairman, South of PDP, Chief Olu Alabi, Alhaji Tajudeen Oladipo former National Vice Chairman (Southwest) of PDP among others. Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, Mr. Dele Adeleke and a representative of Mr. Sanya Omirin, Mr. Jide Bakare and the party acting chairman, Barrister Wale Ojo were also part of the primaries. POLL It was further revealed that attack on former Governor of the state, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola by people suspected to be members loyal to Senator Ademola Adeleke at a reconciliation meeting held in an hotel in Osogbo worsen the crisis as Party leaders and members especially from Odo Otin Local Government where Oyinlola hail protested against the harassment and humiliation meted out to their leader. The humiliation without public apology from Senator Ademola Adeleke, his camp and show any sign of remorseful for the action forced some of the party leaders in the state to dump Ademola Adeleke. And members of Adeleke’s camp were bitter with Oyinlola accusing him of not supporting the course of their preferred candidate. Unfortunately, the party leaders could not settle for Bamidele Adeleke, a cousin to Ademola Adeleke, as the only governorship aspirant to contest the party’s ticket with his uncle because they thought adoption of Bamidele despite his intellectual prowess among other considerations, was not appropriate having two serious contenders for the party’s ticket from the same family. Twenty four hours to the governorship primary election, the party elders however settled for Prince Dotun Babayemi and pledged their support for him. In a communique issued where they declared their support for Babayemi, four other governorship aspirants including Bamidele withdrew from the race to back Babayemi as candidate of the party. Some credible top members of the Adagunodo’s faction of the PDP confided in the medium that the faction was ready to participate in the primary election held at stadium until few hours to the exercise. According to the sources, the Adagunodo’s faction and governorship aspirants were not considering a parallel primary because they were ready to match Ademola Adeleke in ‘buying delegates’ at any amount. But the faction later resorted to parallel primary to avoid embarrassment. Another member of the PDP in Osun attributed the parallel governorship primary to litigation on the legality of the delegates used for the governorship primary election. It would be recalled that a State High Court had last week Thursday recognized the ward executive produced by the Adagunodo faction of the party as those eligible to participate in the governorship primary. The judgement of Justice A. Aderibigbe of the High Court in Ijebu-Jesa reads in part: “An order of mandatory interim injunction of this court is granting, recognising the ward executive officers elected on the 25th of September, 2021 in the following wards listed as (a) – (y) on this application as the only authentic and/or authorised elected ward executive officers permitted to vote delegates at the party’s governorship primary scheduled to take place on the 8th of March, 2022, the state congress, state assembly primary, National Assembly primary and presidential primary respectively in full compliance with the judgment of the court delivered on the 22nd of November, 2021 affirming all actions taken by Hon. Olasoji Adagunodo as the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Osun State chapter which include the conduct of the ward executive congress on the 25th of September, 2021, pending the determination of the motion on notice.” Speaking on the development, the court recognized Chairman of the PDP in the state, Mr. Wale Ojo, described the primary held at stadium as illegal. Ojo said: “We had a court order that recognizes the congress conducted in September 2021 which was supervised by Hon. Soji Adagunodo, the present South-West Chairman of the party. There was an earlier High Court judgement delivered by Justice A.A Aderibigbe which validates the same congress supervised by Adagunodo. “So, the party at the national level was running away from court judgements and we don’t want to join others in supporting illegality. Because if the party failed to use the delegates recognized by the court, it will amount to illegality and we don’t want to support illegality. “The primary we held at WOCDIF was in tandem with the ruling of the High Court and in actual compliance with the provision of our constitution.” Ask if the national secretariat will accept the candidate produced at the WOCDIF primary, Ojo said: “It is not compulsory for the national secretariat to recognize our primary as long as we are on the side of the law. If the national secretary does not comply with the ruling of the court, then definitely we know what next to do. “We will try to first exhaust the internal mechanism of the party and if that fails, we will not have any other choice than to approach the court to compel the party to do what is right”. Meanwhile, the National Secretariat of the party had eventually issued certificate of return to Senator Ademola Adeleke as the party flagbearer for the July 16 governorship election and he is billed to face the incumbent Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola of All Progressives Congress and other candidates from other registered parties. However, the Wale Ojo led Faction of the PDP has raised alarm that suspected members of Ademola Adeleke’s camp have began to allegedly harass and intimidate litigants particularly plaintiff’s in the suit before the court. A statement issued by the group signed by Wale Ojo, state acting chairman alleged that within the last seven days, many of the PDP plaintiffs in a pending suit before the Osun State High Court at Ijebu-Jesa have been offered bribes in cash and kind to frustrate the pending suits. Where they failed, they resulted to intimidation and harassment of such litigants and witnesses. One of the victims is Yekini Adediran. “Specifically, a PDP leader in Oluponna had in the past six days been assailing Yekinni Adediran, a   Litigant from his Oluponna community, over his refusal to withdraw from a suit pending in a court of law.” “Another PDP Leader and House of Representative Aspirant has been assailing another litigants who is also a PDP Ward Chairman in Orolu Local Government, Mr. Muibi, intimidating and harassing him over the same pending suit in the Osun State High Court.” “After all these have failed, attempts have been made to use the Inspector General of Police, the Assistant Inspector General of Police and the Police Commissioner in Osun State to harass the plaintiffs with trumped up charges over pending civil cases.” “Lately, these nefarious activities have been extended to even judicial officers over their judgements in recent times. What is disturbing is the caliber of moneybags and personalities involved in these nefarious practices, who have turned themselves into dogs in the manger due to a failed gubernatorial aspirations.” But the All Progressives Congress (APC) has told the opposition PDP to expect a smashing defeat in the July 16 gubernatorial election in the state. It said neither Senator Ademola Adeleke nor Prince Dotun Babayemi can withstand the status of Governor Oyetola. There is no doubt the fact that the Ademola Adeleke faction of PDP is also banking on the performance of the former senator who was the 2018 governorship candidate of the party and was defeated Adegboyega Oyetola of APC by less than 2,000 votes. The APC’s Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Barrister Kunle Oyatomi had said in a statement issued that that the PDP has made Osun APC job very easier because neither Senator Ademola Adeleke nor Prince Dotun Babayemi can withstand the status of Governor Gboyega Oyetola who is always busy putting efforts together to make the state of Osun far better than he met it. Oyatomi stressed that none of the factional candidate of the PDP can compete or serve as a threat to the re-election of governor Oyetola. “With what we have seen so far, PDP is not an alternative to APC; that party is in a big mess. It’s is dogged with crises and won’t be free from it even after July gubernatorial election.” Oyatomi explained that Osun has been a progressive reference in the country and good people of Osun are happy and not ready to allow a reversal. The party also expressed confidence that none of PDP’s factional candidate jostling for the governor’s seat has political value to make any serious impact in the race against the people’s Governor, adding that, put together, governor Gboyega Oyetola will defeat both of them to emerge victorious in the election. According to Oyatomi, “it is as certain as daybreak that the PDP controversial primaries that produced two factional candidates have no doubt marked the beginning of the end of the opposition party, and today, we are serving notice to the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, as the main opposition party in the state and to expect another round of disheartening defeat in the July 16 gubernatorial election,” he said. The party stressed that the entire citizenry of Osun have seen the difference when comparing the destabilised PDP days of hardship and pains with development driven progressive-led administration in the state, adding that it is like comparing hell fire with Paradise.