LOKOJA – In his determination to forge unity and brotherhood across ethnic and religious affiliations in Kogi state, the president of Enemona Jose Foundation, Gabriel Enemona David Onoja has commenced the construction of a mosque for the Muslim communities in Obehira-Eba in the Central Senatorial District. The president who could not hold back his joy as a result of the mammoth crowd grace the foundation laying ceremony, held on Sunday at Obehira-Eba, Okene Local Government Area of the state, vows to do more for the poor. This is just as he presented one million and five hundred thousand naira cash to cover surgery bills for one Ibrahim Abdulmalik who was diagnosed with a strange ailment.1While flagging the construction of the mosque, the president said, his passion is to bring smiles to the widows, orphans, elderly and the vulnerable. Onoja, who also used the occasion to donate 250 bags of rice for the vulnerable in the five Local Government Areas in the central senatorial District, also supported imams with a stipend of five thousand naira each on a monthly basis, promising to increase the stipends as long as he lives. He disclosed that his childhood life was largely spent with an Ebira man from the Central Senatorial District living at Akure in Ondo state, adding that he considered himself as an Ebira man, for the man’s impact on his life. Onoja averred that society will be better when people begin to show love to each other, not on the basis of religion and ethnicity. According to him, the Enemona Jose Foundation has been impacting lives in the Eastern Senatorial District which he said, was not good enough, until he extend the gestures to other parts of the state to contribute to the overall peace and unity of the state. POLL He said his admiration of the Ebiras is based on their large hearts to accept those outside their tribes. He hinted that his foundation is non-political, but essentially to uplift the socio-economic status of the widows, orphans, people living with disabilities PLWD to live a normal life. He advocated for violence-free elections even as he challenged electorates to vote for candidates with integrity, capacity and empathy that can engender good governance rather than voting on party lines. He called on the people to bank on their Voters’ cards, which he said is their strength in ushering in the government of their choice. He charged other wells to do individuals to cultivate the attitude of sharing the little with those with special needs in the society adding that rendering helps to one another is a great injunction of the Almighty God. Presenting the cars- Pontiac Vibe and Toyota Corolla S to the beneficiaries, Momoh Sule an upcoming artist and Ayuba Umoru an online broadcaster, charged them to work hard to be the best in their vocation, saying the gift is from God as they won the cars through raffle draws.  He commended Gov. Yahaya Bello for his developmental strides across the state which has helped in a great deal in stemming the tide of crimes and criminality. In their separate remarks, the central Coordinator, Abdulmumuni Saleh, and Imams that graced the occasion prayed God to grant him good health and prosperity as he continues to touch the lives of the less privileged. They called other citizens to emulate his kind gesture which has brought a facelift to the 65-year-old mosque even as he kept restoring hopes to the hopeless. They commended him for payment of the surgery bill as all entreaties to get the money failed, forcing them to resign to fate until God in his infinite mercy brought him for the rescue.