LAGOS  – The Association of Micro-Entrepreneurs Nigeria (AMEN), has said that more than 68 percent of small businesses in the country have collapsed as a result of the energy crisis currently facing the country. It added that the remaining 32 percent are on what it described as being on life support. It urged the federal and state governments to help businesses cope with the country’s erratic power supply and rising diesel prices. Speaking at a meeting to protest the energy situation in the country, Comrade Saviour Iche, the national president of AMEN, said there was an urgent need to save businesses from collapse and investors from the impending losses and workers from the orgy of unemployment. He stated that while the small businesses are still recovering from the massive strangulation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the continued energy crisis is a death sentence on Nigerian businesses, small and big. He said that there has not been an increase in quantity of electricity supplied to the national grid over the years, adding that this is negatively affecting activities of members of the association.. The association called on the state and federal governments to bail it out small businesses, which it said, is the engine room of the Nigerian economy and contributes a huge percentage the country’s gross domestic product. The association said banks are charging high rates and asked that interest rates on industrial loans be reduced by commercial banks, widen the window of foreign exchange to industries and a drastic reduction of interest rates, as it was done with the Covid-19 era palliatives to 2.5 percent. POLL AMEN argued that inflationary pressures have further plunged the buying masses into extreme poverty with concomitant erosion of customers’ disposable income and hence culminated in low patronage of industrial finished products. “Foreign Exchange scarcity has worsened significantly, even as industry players continue to experience a sharp and growing shrink in the foreign exchange windows. This has led to a major downturn and stress in the purchase and acquisition of foreign components for production,” it said. The Business Management organization posited that the unfriendly operating environment and inconsistent business and investment policies of government has further paralyzed small business leading to weak results in the sector, all of which were further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. It said a gas-powered energy distribution plant exclusively supplying power to industries should be installed, adding that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should give directives to commercial banks to reduce interest rates on industrial loans. “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should further widen the window of foreign exchange to industries,” it stated. The association called for significant and drastic reduction of the interest rates charged on industrial loans and other loans released as COVID-19 interventions or palliatives to 2.5%, because the challenges arising from the ongoing energy crisis are far more biting than during the COVID-19 period. It said that the Bank of Industry (BoI) should approve and urgently roll out further reductions in the bank’s lending rates to industries. Iche disclosed that before the outset of the energy crisis, the number of his members was more than 800 and the situation has forced a majority to collapse, adding that only a little over 20 are still operating. He added that those that are still operating are doing so below their installed capacities. “The cost of diesel is more than N700 per litre; how many small business owners can afford the commodity at that price?” he queried. He stated that the situation has been worsened by the low supply of electricity to homes and businesses in the country. “Some areas do not have electricity supply for days and businesses have located in them have to depend on diesel to power their operations and since most of them cannot afford the commodity, many of have reduced their operations and some have shut down,” he posited. Mrs. Yetunde Babajide, the chief executive officer of Yefadot Group of Companies, also speaking at the event, said that in the last one month, her companies have closed down because of the energy crisis in the country. She explained that she could not afford to pay over N700 for a litre of diesel. “My companies have ceased operating in the past one month because of the exorbitant cost of diesel in the country. I have had to shut my operations and sent my workers home as a result of the inability to afford diesel to operations. “The situation is worsened by the low supply of electricity in the country and we have been forced to shut down our operations,” she lamented. Babajide, who is the Iyalode of Ojodu Kingdom, accused the government of implementing policies that hurt small businesses in the country. She stated that she recently visited five other companies in an association she belonged only to discover that they had all shut down because of the energy crisis in the country. Maltida Olatundu Taiwo, chief executive of Nigeria Recycling Hub, said that many companies are dying as a result of the activities of Ikeja Electric, which she accused of not supplying power to residents and businesses and presenting outrageous bills for payment. She also accused the Distribution Company and Eko Electricity Distribution Company of being responsible for the collapse of over 90 percent of small businesses in Lagos State. She alleged that the electricity companies have refused to distribute pre-paid meters to customers in the bid to rip them of through estimated bills. She argued that, if Lagos, being the industrial and business hub of the country, got it right, there would be a multiplier effect on other parts of the nation. Taiwo called on the government to partner with the private to provide alternative source of power for businesses in the country. She urged the Lagos State government to help business people to develop alternative power, adding that if there is electricity, the fortunes of the Nigerian economy will change for good. The industrialist said. “I have a 100KVa generator, how do I fill its tank at N750 per litre. We have asked our workers to stay away from the company for now. Where are we going in the country,” asked The secretary of AMEN, Mazi Nwokoro, said the energy crisis has led to increase in the cost of raw materials. He said that the cost of foreign exchange has gone beyond the small businesses. He urged the government to ensure that there is adequate security so that farmers can go to the farm and produce raw materials for entrepreneurs’ use.