The Lagos State Government on Saturday sealed Havillah Event Centre where kegs of petrol were given as souvenirs at a  party. According to a media aide to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Jubril Gawat disclosed that the event centre was sealed through the Lagos Safety Commission and the Rapid Response Squad for contravening public safety rules. Daily Independent reports that a viral video surfaced on the internet on Saturday morning where party guests were handed litres of petrol with a sticker on the petrol kegs that reads, “Erelu Okin Installation Foundation Party.” CBN Mulls Fresh Funding For Lagos Free Zone After N100bn Support 2023: Southwest Youths Storm Lagos, Vow To Change Political…  Daily Independent gathered that the party which was held on Friday was a coronation party of Chidinma Ogulu as the Erelu Okin of Orile Kemta. Taking to his Twitter handle to react, Gawat revealed that the Lagos Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, has ordered the immediate arrest of the culprits. He tweets, ‘Lagos seals event centre’, the police said, “Rapid Response Squad working in conjunction with Lagos State Safety Commission has sealed Havilah Events Centre, Victoria Island for hosting a party during which litres of premium motor spirit (Petrol) in jerry can be given out as souvenirs. POLL “Two officials of the centre were arrested today while Lagos Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi has directed that all those involved be arrested. “The arrest was on the directive of the Lagos State Government that the centre be sealed and all parties involved arrested.” Meanwhile, Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, had said Saturday morning that the state government would probe the use of petrol as a souvenir at a party. Omotoso said in a statement that the government’s attention had been drawn to a viral video showing kegs of petrol being handed out as souvenirs at an events centre in Lagos. He said there was no doubt that the action was dangerous and could lead to loss of lives and property, and it was against all safety measures in such places. Lagos Remains Committed To Quality Service To God, Humanity… LASG Will Continue To Support CAN, Better Life – Sanwo-Olu According to him, the Lagos State Government, through the Safety Commission will ensure that all parties to “the reprehensible action are made to account for it”. “The safety of lives and property of Lagosians and visitors remains a top priority to government. “We, therefore, advise that actions that can lead to loss of lives and property be avoided,’’ Omotoso added. Details later…