YOLA – The people of Guyuk/Shelleng Federal Constituency in Adamawa State have notified the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with 50.000 signatures of their desire to recall their member in the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Gibeon Goroki. The federal legislator has during a session with newsmen accused Fintiri of betraying Christians by reneging an agreement to make a Christian the speaker of the state house of Assembly. Recall that Goroki had alleged that the state governor had secretly moved against electronic transmission, adding that the governor was an arrogant and autocratic leader who imposes candidates while always working against the interest of former vice president Atiku Abubakar amongst other accusations. Man Utd To Recall Alexis Sanchez From Inter Loan Recall : Melaye Thanks Constituents For Shunning Exercise The interview has generated considerable disquiet as friends and associates of the Governor accused the lawmaker of trying to cause seismic implosion in the party. The caretaker chairman of Guyuk local government, Solomon Abafras alongside the member representing Guyuk constituency, Adamawa Donglock and other stakeholders condemned the action saying that it represents the view of the lawmaker not PDP as a political party in Guyuk or Shelleng LGAs. In a letter seen by our reporter and addressed to the Adamawa resident commissioner of INEC, the constituents said they were compelled to take the decision because the action of the lawmaker represents gross misconduct, letting the people down and betrayal of trust people imposed on him. The letter signed by the quartet of Philemon Ishaku, Brother Godil (Rarah), Hajimna D. Robert and Muhammad Bello cited five grounds for their move to recall the lawmaker. The five grounds include; failure by the lawmaker to effectively represent his constituents; inciting religious tension; dereliction of responsibilities, reneging of his contract with the people and a loss of mutual trust and confidence.