LAGOS – With 10.6 million Nigerian women lacking  access to contraceptives due to  growing demand, stakeholders have urged the Federal Government to increase funding for family planning. The 2018 Nigeria Demographic Health Survey (NDHS) confirmed that 10.6 million  women in the country do not have access to contraceptives, despite growing demand for family planning. The 2018 report further showed that Nigeria has a low modern contraceptive prevalence rate of 13 percent. This is below the sub-Saharan average of 24 percent. The Federal Government had in 2011 rolled out a policy meant to enable women access contraceptives free of charge, however, only 14 percent of Nigeria’s estimated 42 million women use modern contraceptives. Speaking at a three-day capacity building workshop three-day Orientation Meeting for Media Editors, On Air Personalities (OAPs) and Producers on Advanced Familiy Planning (AFP) Media Advocacy organised by Pathfinder International, on Wednesday, stakeholders charged the Federal Government to increase funding for family planning. The stakeholders who noted that this would enable Nigeria to  meet the increasing demand for contraceptives, further called on media practitioners to intensify advocacy campaigns on timely release of funds. One of them and a facilitator at the event, Chima Azubuike bemoaned the unmet need for contraceptives among Nigerian women. He decried existing gaps between women’s reproductive intentions, contraceptive behaviour, unmet contraceptive needs and funding. POLL The 2018 NDHS estimates that currently, of the 42 million Nigerian women of reproductive age, only 14 percent use a modern contraceptive. It added that about 10.6 million women who have a need for family planning, do not have access to modern contraceptive. However, commenting, Azubuike said, the 2018 NDHS puts South-South as the highest for unmet need for family planning in Nigeria with 28 percent and lowest in the North West with 14 percent. He decried the failure of the Federal government to allocate and release substantial funds for the provision of family planning services for women who need them, noting that this is one of the gaps hampering the effective provision of such services in the  country. Pathfinder International Nigeria has continued to raise concern over the development, saying available statistics show that more still need to be done for women to effectively and efficiently access family planning services. Azubuike said that in 2017, the Nigerian government, through the Federal Ministry of Health, has committed N1.2 billion, noting that constant delay and inconsistency in funds discharged has created a gap of N2.1 billion. Nigeria has a low modern contraceptive prevalence rate (mCPR) of 13 percent, which is below the sub-saharan average of 24 percent. During the last five years, the uses of modern methods has increased from 10 percent to 12 percent, while total demand for contraception has increased from 31 percent to 36 percent. “Indeed, in Lagos, almost half of married women use a method of contraception, as compared with only two percent of currently married women in Sokoto and Yobe”, Azubuike said. Also speaking, Dr. Sekina Amin Bello, Senior Programme Advisor, Pathfinder Nigeria, said family planning allows people to attain their desired number of children and determine the spacing of their pregnancies. Bello noted that couples can only attain their desired number of children and determine the spacing of their pregnancies through use of contraceptive methods and treatment of infertility. “Indeed, it is the ability of individuals and couples to anticipate and attain their desired number of children and the spacing, and timing of their births, and it is achieved through use of contraceptive methods and the treatment of involuntary infertility,” she said Another speaker, Seyi Bolaji, added that modern contraceptives contain hormones which could cause certain side effects in some women, saying that depending on the method being used, these may include, breast tenderness, headaches, weight gain, lack of regular menstrual bleeding and many more. She added that fear of side effects, both real and imagined, was a major reason why women discontinue using contraception, noting that all these could result in unintended pregnancies. In his remark, Bayo Ewuola, Media and Communication Officer, Pathfinder International, Nigeria, said the meeting is aimed at strengthening relationships with the media for increased visibility around family planning post-graduation.