On Thursday last week, precisely the 17th of March 2022, the nation wit­nessed the quiet inauguration of Prof Chukwuma Soludo as the new Governor of Anambra State who exception­ally hit the ground running unlike the usual lackadaisical approaches by some newly elect­ed State governors. Recall that Gov Obaseki of Edo state could not form his Cabinet until after 11 months of his inaugurations! I was also impressed about the simplicity and so­lemnity of the occasion unlike the wayward fad that we have become accustomed to where inauguration rituals of elected public officials became occasions for obscene and expensive carnivals with inconsiderable pomp and pag­eantry at great cost to the dwindling treasur­ies. Soludo, the economist and as he personally introduced himself to his people, a “progres­sive”, chose to break away from the wayward tradition of the past and, instead, opted for a serious and purposeful inauguration. The most remarkable thing about the event was not how quiet but the subject matter of his speech which, in my view, amounts to a Polit­ical Covenant which he called his “Contract with Anambra”. For sometimes now, we have been routinely subjected to verbal ramblings, incoherently delivered speeches that are devoid of sub­stance by semi-illiterates in power. This was different but it was such a horrible shame that it was not broadcast live by the mainstream Media (except Arise TV) ostensibly because they were not paid as was the case in the past when they would enthusiastically inundate us with live coverage of mundane events hosted by government officials. It was an abdication of the Press’s professional responsibility to ed­ucate and inform the public about governance. Show Of Shame Perhaps, the greatest disservice to Soludo’s inauguration was the show of shame that was put up by Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano, who left her seat to confront and verbally assaulted the widow of the late Dim Ojukwu, Bianca, who in response slapped Mrs. Obiano in what is now popularly referred to as the “Dirty Slap”. It has to be said that both the insults and the result­ing slap were quite disrespectful of the august occasion and quite unbecoming of them as everything was devoid of class or self-esteem. It was particularly bad for Mrs Obiano, osten­sibly already the subject of communal hatred, who decided to give her husband such an ig­nominious sendoff. I should add that the widely reported arrest of the fugitive Willie Obiano at the Muritala Mohammed International Airport a few hours after handing over in Awka was a harrowing diversion from the significance of the day’s constitutional event. Those shameful displays suddenly became the butt of weird jokes and ugly insinuations in the Media instead of focusing on Soludo’s beautiful inaugura­tion. Why, for God’s sake, would ex-Governor Obiano be fleeing Nigeria just a few hours after handing over the reins of power if he didn’t think that he has a case to answer? A normal person would have first gone home to his people to say: “Thank you!” for the rare opportunity to serve them. Instead, he turned himself into a fugitive. It is remark­able that he became a guest of the EFCC the same day he left the Anambra Government House. Gov Obiano should have known that the EFCC only come for their own share of loots because they hardly get their deliberate half-hearted prosecutorial stampede right in court. So, why run prematurely like someone under the spell of the proverbial Sokugo – the wandering disease? The agenda-setting inauguration speech was in the circumstance unfortunately relegat­ed to the back pages as the headlines yielded to the sensational and embarrassing story of the “two fighting” Anambra ladies. I honestly believe Nigerians need to hear what Soludo said on that occasion in the Aristotelian man­ner of the proverbial philosopher-king so that they can rationally hold him accountable to his promise later. If Soludo can just achieve 50% of his outlined dreams and, more importantly, finds a relatively conducive political and secu­rity environment within which to perform, Anambra State may someday be seeing a bit of Dubai and a semblance of Singapore. For the records, here are some of what he said: POLL “Today is my first day at work. …Now is the time to work, and there is no minute or kobo to waste in fanfare…Within the next one week, the list of commissioners will be laid before the House of Assembly. “People ask me why we are not celebrat­ing today as it has become customary. My response is that we all—party members, supporters, family and friends– celebrated in thanksgiving and prayers after you decided to employ me last November 6 and 9. But today, …is not a day for celebration…as a matter of personal philosophy and as a true progressive, I do not subscribe to using the paltry tax col­lected from the women selling pepper on the roadside or the okada/keke drivers on a fleet­ing fanfare and banquet…this event must not cost the government of Anambra one kobo. In a country where we now shamelessly celebrate failure in government, Soludo on the contrary is saying “We will celebrate when: security of life and property is guaranteed and law and order restored; every child of schooling age is in school; every school child is receiving the 21st century education for the digital age; everyone, especially children and women can access quality healthcare; the cost of doing business is down to near zero; our roads are tarred and we have an efficient transportation,… we have access to 24 hour electricity; …etc. “The Anambra State Government will only patronise Made in Anambra products and services unless such goods or services are not currently made in Anambra, … When you see me in Innoson vehicles or in my Akwete dress with a pair of shoes made in Ogbunike/Nkwelle Ezunaka and Onitsha, we are mak­ing a statement. In some years, we will seek not only to export palm produce but also fresh palm wine from Anambra State”. Saying The Unpopular Truth “To IPOB/ESN, the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), as well as the disparate armed groups in the forests, it is time to interro­gate both the purpose and means of your campaign. To the politicians playing politics with the insecurity, you are riding a tiger. The current trajectory is a road to desola­tion. The conspiracy of silence by the elite and some community leaders must end. If you see something, say or do something! “A significant part of our state economy is powered by artisans, keke drivers, vul­canizers, hairdressers, cart pushers, petty traders, bricklayers, women frying akara, and all those who depend upon daily toil and sweat to feed their families. Every day, there is a “sit at home”, these poor masses lose an estimated N19.6 billion in Anambra alone. Due to the protracted breakdown of law and order, businesses are relocating outside Ig­boland. Who is losing?” A Message Of Hope: “As I close my eyes and visualise our future, I can see millions of Ndi Anambra holding hands and working hard for a glo­rious future; I see the skyscrapers along the banks of River Niger in Onitsha, Nnewi, Awka, Ekwulobia, etc. For me, this agenda is also personal: I am here to build a society where I would be proud to live in after leav­ing office”. It is unfortunate that instead of Nigerians reading and digesting what Gov Soludo said at his inauguration, inordinate attention is being paid to salacious and mundane talks about “Ashawo” and “dirty slaps” reprisal. Nigerians need to sit up and reflect soberly on what is holding this country down de­velopmentally. Soludo just touched on a few of them but instead of reflecting on them we’re excitedly engaged only by what two intemperate women said or did to each. Sad.