Following the recent industrial action embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), the Federal Government has on Thursday reconstituted a team to renegotiate the 2009 agreement it had with the lecturers. The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu who made this known in a statement said there was the need to speedily bring to a conclusion all outstanding issues in the 2009 agreements. According to him, the seven-man renegotiation team, categorised into substantive members, advisers, and observers is headed by Prof. Emeritus Nimi Briggs, the Pro-Chancellor, Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo. MASSOB Accuses FG Of Killing Pro-Biafra Leaders To Provoke Civil… ASUU Strike: Students Call For Education Minister’s… The terms of reference of the team included re-negotiating the residual issues in the 2009 Agreements between the Federal Government of Nigeria and the University-based unions towards a workable and implementable agreement between both parties, such that will facilitate repositioning of Nigerian Universities for greater responsibilities in national development. Daily Independent gathered that the decision was said to have been sequel to controversies that have trailed the terms of the agreement between the government and trade unions in the nation’s ivory towers. The new renegotiation committee is part of the government’s effort towards finding a lasting solution to the disagreement which recently led to a strike action that commenced on February 14, 2022. The statement read in part, “There is need to speedily bring to a conclusion, all outstanding issues in the 2009 agreement in order to achieve the desired industrial peace on our campuses.” Members of the reconstituted 2009 FGN/University-Based Unions Agreements Re-negotiation Team are:“Lawrence Patrick Ngbale-(Pro-Chancellor, Federal University. Wukari -Member (North East), Prof. Funmi Togunu-Bickersteth-(Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Birnin Kebbi) -Member (South West), Sen. Chris Adighije- (Pro-Chancellor, Federal University. Lokoja -Member (South East). POLL Others are; “Prof. Olu Obafemi -(Pro-Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Minna) – Member (North-Central), Prof. Zubairu Iliyasu-(Pro-Chancellor, Kano State University of Science & Technology)-Member (North West) and Barr. Matthew B. Seiyefa, mni-(Pro-Chancellor, Niger Delta University, Wilberforce Island)-Member (South-South). The statement further said the team will be inaugurated by the Minister on Monday, the 7th of March, 2022 at the Minister’s Conference room, headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja by 12 noon. “All advisers and observers in the Federal Government/University-based Unions 2009 agreements Re-negotiation Team are expected to attend the inauguration,” it added. The 2009 agreement reached with the Union included conditions of service for university lecturers, funding of universities, university autonomy and academic freedom, and was an adaptation of an earlier agreement reached in 2001.