A professor of Educational Foundation, Faculty of Education, University of Lagos, Ngozi Osarenren has linked the sanctity of public examinations, including the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) to supervisors and invigilators appointed to man the process. Buttressing her claims, she said there is a greater need for all examination bodies to pay serious attention to the personalities selected to supervise examination, adding that they play a key role in ensuring that the integrity of such examinations is not compromised. Osarenren made the assertion while delivering the 27th annual WAEC Endowment Fund lecture in Abuja, with the theme: Assessing the Assessors; Looking Back and Looking Forward”. She also listed subject teachers, examiners and students as also being critical. According to the former Commissioner for Education in Edo State, teachers as invigilators too were expected to always be in the examination hall in time to ensure that all the guidelines governing such examinations were strictly adhered to. “Examination bodies must make concerted efforts in selecting people to serve as supervisors during each examination. We must focus on the integrity of the supervisor “Supervisors must be able to live above board, in terms of credibility and integrity. We must ensure that they are not compromised in the face of juicy offers by principals and school administrators. Once they compromise, it becomes a problem. Their integrity must be top-notch. “We must refrain from selecting and appointing people we cannot vouch for their integrity. ” Poor and very low pay, however, has proven to be one of the reasons why some examiners, script markers and supervisors would want to compromise the integrity of examinations,” the don noted. POLL Osarenren noted that the quality of teachers too was also considered essential in determining the quality of learning outcomes. She backed her point by citing some quotes by a renowned educationist, Prof. Pai Obayan, who noted that a qualified teacher was not necessarily a competent teacher, just like a competent teacher was not also necessarily an efficient teacher. According to her, a subject teacher must be an effective teacher, who would adopt flexible teaching techniques, during the presentation of his lessons. She noted that such teachers must also be able to exhibit creativity, by making use of a variety of techniques that would assist in enhancing teaching and learning activities. “Unfortunately, oftentimes, some subject teachers do not reflect what is desired. Some of these teachers do not even adequately cover the syllabus, just as some difficult topics are not taught. “This may primarily be due to the fact that the teachers themselves do not understand such topics, hence their inability to teach same to the students,” she stated.