LAGOS  – The National Directorate of Employment (NDE), has commenced a five-day training in enterprise and finance counseling for unemployed graduates of higher institutions in the bid to increase the rate at which businesses succeed in the country. The training is taking place at the office of the directorate in Yaba, Lagos State. Speaking at the orientation ceremony of the event on March 1, 2022, the Director General of NDE, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, said the objective of the training was deepen the knowledge of participants in enterprise and finance management in the quest to reduce the number of business failures in the country. Fuel Scarcity Hurting Small Businesses In Nigeria Olamilekan: Creating Wealth, Opportunities Through Beading… Fikpo, who was represented by the Lagos State Coordinator of the directorate, Mrs. Serena Olayebi Edward, stated that statistics show that three out of every five businesses fold up in the first five to eight years of establishment due to financial mismanagement. He posited that starting up a business and pumping millions of naira into it does not guarantee the survival and success of the business, adding that a sound knowledge of enterprise and finance management is key to sustainability of a business. Fikpo stated that one could start-up a business with as little as N10,000 and the business would thrive and blossom leading to recruiting of more hands it was properly managed. He argued that what makes the difference is the knowledge and skills in record keeping, accountability and proper financial management, which he said was the essence of the training. HRH Olori Esther Oni Ashafa, wife of the Onijanikin of Ijanikin, admonished the participants to make good use of the opportunity afforded them by the Federal Government, adding that as youths and young adults, they should be good citizens of Nigeria so that other participants in the near future can emulate them. POLL A beneficiary of the training, Mr. Olaoluwa Bamigboye, Chief Executive Officer of Heirs and Heralds Agro-Allied Limited in Epe, encouraged the participants to take the training seriously as he did, adding that with his NDE certificate and NIRSAL training, he obtained a loan to the tune of N9,000,000 from Central Bank of Nigeria and is now a manufacturer of feeds for livestock. Also present at the event were the Director of Small Scale Enterprise Department Dr. Akpakasa from the headquarters of NDE, Abuja; Miss Patience Gbaje; Dr. Oludare Mark, Deputy Director, Human Resources Management; Mrs. Elizabeth Omatsola, Deputy Director, Inspectorate Department; Mrs. Nkechi Iwuh, Deputy Director, Small Scale Enterprise (SSE) department;