ABUJA – Senator Sani Musa, All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairmanship aspirant on Friday submitted his nomination form and stressed the need for the party to use the opportunity of the forthcoming convention to put in place a vibrant leadership that will bring positive change in the country. He said such leadership should be able to be cohesive to bring about needed direction, building consensus between different organs of the party. Addressing journalists and supporters shortly after submitting his nomination form, Senator Musa said he wants to see a party that is self-funded, adding that political parties need to be strong to sustain democracy. He noted that while democracy is gradually firming up and building strong roots in the country, he regretted the requisite leadership to drive the building blocks that have been lacking and expressed hope the APC Convention will provide the opportunity to change the trend. “I’m looking forward to this convention on 26 March and on that day there will be a new beginning in the APC. In which there will be a transitional change, we will bring digitization into the APC. To be cohesive, the APC needs leadership that will bring direction. The APC needs a leader that will be able to build consensus between all dividing organs. “The executive governors are there to support the party and the party is there to work with the governor. We want to see a party that will become an institution in Africa. APC is the largest party and all we need to do is to put the structure. That is, the political parties need to be very strong. ” We have a democracy in this country that has a very strong foundation but what we are lacking is the leadership that will be able to transform our party structure to what it should be. A platform to groom leaders. That is what I’m bringing new to APC. And APC will not be dependent on anybody to fund it. With the number of 43 million members, we have no business going cap in hand to beg anybody for money. That is what I’m bringing to APC.” On the rumoured endorsement of one of the Aspirants by president Mohammadu Buhari, Senator Sani Musa said there would not have been needed to sell forms to other aspirants if that is the case adding that all he needs is the endorsement of APC stakeholders. POLL “Why did the party sell forms to us? You sold forms to us. And as far as I’m concerned, there’s never been anybody that officially contacted me or any other aspirants. Nobody! And the spokesperson to Mr President, Femi Adesina had said that there is no endorsement. “So, we want a vibrant leadership. We want leadership that will change the status quo. What are we talking about, the endorsement I want is your endorsement. I want the endorsement of 43 million APC members. That is what I need.”