The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi on Wednesday called on Nigerians to raise funds for the treatment of those who sustained injuries during the Abuja-Kaduna train attack on Monday night. Daily Independent had reported that at least nine persons were killed while many sustained injuries when bandits attacked a train heading for Kaduna from Abuja. The incident has, however, triggered reactions from notable Nigerians since Monday, as individuals lament the level of insecurity ravaging the nation at the moment. Amaechi, who had visited the scene of the attack on Tuesday, said it would have been foiled if the procurement of the N3 billion high capacity rail track cameras and sensors was not blocked. He said the equipment would eliminate all blind spots on the train corridors across the country. Speaking when he visited the victims who are being treated at the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital in Kaduna, Amaechi revealed that the army treated them without charging a dime. However, he said some of the patients need drugs that are not manufactured in the country, therefore seek Nigerian support to assist in raising the money. He said, ”The CMD and I have been talking, the army has not charged one kobo on any patient, and they have given the maximum medical treatment that they can give to any patient.” POLL ”You saw the patient with burns and then the one that has a bullet located in her heart. They are bringing an expert tomorrow for that one to see if there will be surgery or not to take out the bullet. ”They said they have only seven (patients) left and the rest have been discharged. The ministry and I think the federal government, are grateful to the Nigerian Army for providing such services. “But one thing I have said to the Nigerian people is to liaise with the hospital management and see how much money they can contribute for the treatment of the patients. ”Obviously those drugs are not manufactured here, the experts they are bringing from outside don’t work with the army, so they definitely have to pay them. We will try as much as possible to see what contributions we can make to the management of the hospital to assist in taking care of the patients.”