LAGOS – The newly elected national youth leader of the All Progressives Congress  (APC), Dayo Israel has hailed his fellow contestants who aspired for the same office but dropped their aspirations to support him to emerge as the national youth leader through consensus. Dayo who through a victory message on Sunday, urged the co-aspirants to support him, pointing out that he has begun to collect the manifestos of most of them to fuse them into his agenda. He said, “Greatness is never achieved alone and it takes collective effort to experience collective growth. I have begun by collecting the manifestos of most of my co-aspirants and fusing them into our agenda; and by the Grace of God, I will reach out to them and other stakeholders in our implementation effort. “In the light of the above, I call on my co-contestants, my brothers Ibrahim Alli-Balogun, Olalekan Smart Edwards, Dada Olusegun, and my sister Rinsola Abiola, all who gave a good account of themselves in the run-up to the national convention. Let’s come together because in unity we grow. We have a lot to offer for the progress of our party, the youth constituency and Nigeria as a whole. The national youth leader added, “I have also set up a committee to help coordinate our first series of events and engagements with young stakeholders and I have approached most of my co-aspirants and blocs including support groups in Abuja to send a representative to serve on that committee. I would reach out to others to do the same. “As an aspirant, I demonstrated my readiness to work with everyone by personally reaching out to all co-contestants. I held meetings with them. I also began the conversation of collaboration with them, to see how we can go into the convention with a united front. This is because I believe that collaboration is key. Dayo stated that it is his joy to announce that a “Thank You Reception” is being put together tonight in Abuja to provide an opportunity for all young delegates and stakeholders who have come from far and near to celebrate with us as we share our vision and agenda with them. “We want our administration to be all-inclusive, from bottom up, and not just reflective of Abuja. After all, it is the office of the National Youth leader, and not Lagos, Oyo, Nasarawa, Kano or Abuja youth leader,” he added. POLL “Today, after all the resilience and tenacity, I am delighted to be elected as National Youth Leader of the APC, the first from the South West of Nigeria. I recognise the huge responsibility of this office and I promise to carry them on my shoulders with all the might in me and the support of the great youths of our party. As such I covet your prayer and support, knowing fully that my success is your success. Let’s build together and spread greatness across the nation,” he said “Let me state very unequivocally that this race presented No Victor, No Vanquished, just a representative-a servant leader to oversee your affairs! The party, APC belongs to all of us and I can assure you of inclusive leadership, carrying everyone along. We will work together, hand in hand to ensure the greatest good for the greatest number. This is what I will do with God on our side,” he added.