***Says My Second Term Undisputable AWKA – Okwudili Christopher Ezenwankwo, the representative of Orumba-North and South federal constituency at the National Assembly says he has functional projects in all the 31 communities of Orumba-North and South contrary to insinuations that he has not done much since he assumed office in 2019. Ezenwankwo who spoke with our correspondent in his country home Nanka in Orumba-North local government area of Anambra state, maintained that it would be most unfair for anyone to insinuate that he has not done much since he was inaugurated because he believes that in just 2 years and a few months in the House of Representatives, all the communities in Orumba-North and South have functional projects instituted by him. He said prior to his sojourn in the Federal House of Representatives as the member representing Orumba-North and South, he has been involved in philanthropic services, building houses and providing lifelines for people as a private person, adding that in as much as he would not want to join issues with anyone, any person who feels he wants to campaign should focus on issues telling the people why he wants to contest and not to cast aspersions on his person and office. Ezenwankwo who was the former President-General of traders in Anambra, Southeast and the entire country, explained that before becoming a federal lawmaker, he has been providing scholarships, grants, building civic centres, constructing roads, water boreholes and providing other social amenities for the people of Orumba-North and South local government areas, stressing that no community in the area has not felt his presence as a private individual and as a federal lawmaker. He said he joined politics because those who represented Orumba-North and South in the past didn’t meet the yearnings and expectations of the people; that a lot have changed eversince he became the representative of the constituency. He said he has been involved in philanthropic services through Okwudili Ezenwankwo Foundation for over 16 years empowering and uplifting the lives of the people of Orumba-North and South even as he mentioned completed and ongoing road projects in the two council areas powered by him. The ace business mogul and astute politician noted that his utmost belief is to bring the dividends of democracy to the people of Orumba-North and South irrespective of the criticisms of his political antagonists, noting that his constituency projects in all the 31 communities of Orumba-North and South makes his second term bid undisputable. POLL Ezenwankwo said, ” By the special grace of God, I will go to the House of Reps for a second term because the people of Orumba-North and South deserve the very best of representation which has been my primary responsibility since I came into office. I am a politician and a business man. I know what my people need and I know how to get it done for them. You will see what will happen in Orumba-North and South between now and December this year. All my projects are functional, viable and verifiable with concrete locations across Orumba-North and South federal constituency. Every community has one, two or more projects in my name.”