LAGOS – Partners of telecommunication giant, Huawei have commended the company for its impact on the Nigerian oil and gas industry and their businesses on the heels of the just concluded 5th Nigerian International Energy Summit, NIES 2022 in Abuja. “Huawei has been a wonderful opportunity for my organization based on the nature of their technology, product and solution portfolio that it has which speak directly to my customer needs from different industrial verticals; the online gas, FSI, public sector and also manufacturing,” Executive Director, Emecom Technology and Consulting Limited, Mr Ayodele Afenifero, said in a media chat during the energy summit. Ayodele said the firm’s technology solutions were not just the best for his organization but also for other organisations in the oil and gas sector. Huawei had received an award for Best Technology Provider in the Offshore Oil and Gas category during the event. Kano PDP LGA Executives Resign, Join Kwankwaso Nigeria’s Reputation Declining Globally, Says Anyaoku “You can see that in the area of oil and gas – which is the reason we all came for this event – quite a number of customers have been going to the Huawei stand just to see what Huawei is offering to the industry. People have been looking at the pipeline monitoring solution, the pipeline intrusion solution, and also the E and P storage infrastructure; talking about the storage Eldorado, and many other storage applications,” Ayodele remarked. Also looking at the Huawei cloud where many oil and gas companies in Nigeria today are on the journey to be part of what cloud offering is, many of these organizations have been talking about how they would want to have their own storage in their environment, but with the new technology that many organizations are looking into presently today is for every organization that wants to scale up to have a hybrid environment, and when you have a hybrid environment which Huawei offers, you have the leverage to get support directly from the OEM and also get to update your firm well at no cost to you. And when you compare Huawei’s solution to the other OEM, Huawei actually speaks to the needs of the organization. And today, everybody that comes to the program knows the importance of Huawei to the oil and gas sector. Chinyere Okonkwo, the MD/CEO Monac Global Investment Limited, revealed that she has been a partner with Huawei for more than ten years, stressing how her relationship over the years with the company has remained the best. “We’ve been Huawei partners now for over ten years and we have come a long way, and I can tell you Huawei remains the best in having to get such strong durable technology, solutions and devices to meet the needs of your customers, especially in the oil and gas sectors like NNPC, PPMC, and others. Huawei has always been there to support its partners. So there is this strong customer, partner’s relationship. POLL “This OEM, partners, customer relationship is like a trinity. It’s a bond that has been solidified by the constant support of Huawei. It’s been amazing being partners of Huawei and we look forward to a more successful relationship,” she noted. Meanwhile, Huawei IP product Manager, Mr Chinedu Emekekukwu maintained that the company is committed to continuous support and collaboration with stakeholders in the Nigeria Energy industry. “We will continue to revolutionize the industry with cutting-edge technology innovations that promote safety, Productivity, value and nature,” he said.