‘For more than half a century, Marks & Spencer was the epitome of enlightened capitalism, dominating the British high street and providing shoppers with quality and value clothing unrivalled by competitors. A role model for business practice in its treatment of staff, its unique partnership with manufacturing suppliers and in its returns to shareholders.’ I remember the company very well because I was privileged to be a Nigerian customer at one of its stores in London. I managed Warri Mini Market, Warri/Sapele Road, near Ginuwa Junction Warri. I went on trade trips with my boss, Late Chief F. Omo Okotete, to the UK and Italy to buy foot-wears and clothings for sale in the shop. Warri Mini Market (a unit of Metropolitan Business Consultancy Services) was the delight of fashionistas in Warri between the mid 70s and early 80s. It was a wholesale and retail store. The Warri job which included the management of a rubber factory and a poultry in Ekrerhavhen, Agbarho was my second job after school certificate in 1969. The first was in Nigerian Breweries Limited (Now Nigerian Breweries Plc) Lagos (1969-1974). My boss trained at the famous London School of Economics and so knew the UK and London very well. So I became very fond of Marks and Spencer. I tried as much as possible to replicate Marks &Spencer in Warri Mini Market. I couldn’t do much but one aspect of it I enjoyed most was the liberty given me by my CEO to model new stocks. It was dressing to kill for me, a young man in his 20s, donning Italian and English suits and other trending apparels. In bubbling Warri for that matter. Colleagues and junior ones were fond of hailing me: ‘State man!!!’ meaning ‘United States specie, or UK spec’. A head-swelling accolade it was for a budding youth. My CEO believed as a sales man, I must walk the talk. He would tell me, “When they see it nice on you, they will buy it”. That was it. I left Warri Mini Market 1976 or thereabout for school – to do A-Levels and to University of Lagos – this was eight years after school certificate! Why? My dad wanted me to go work for two years before furthering my education. But after the two years in question, he passed on. So I was stuck. Back to Marks & Spencer. Only recently, Judi Bevan reminded me of Marks & Spencer with her book ‘The Rise and Fall of Marks & Spencer’. With her, I have come to know M & S deeply. With Judi’s story, I have come to know that the Rich Also Cry (recall the popular telenovela produced in Mexico in 1979), or more appropriately, no one, no corporate, is ‘Too Big To Fail’ (recall also Andrew Ross Sorkin’s ‘Too Big To Fail’) – the inside story of how Wall Street and Washington fought to save the financial system and themselves. Judi writes: For more than half a century, Marks & Spencer was the epitome of enlightened capitalism, dominating the British high street and providing shoppers with quality and value clothing unrivalled by competitors. A role model for business practice in its treatment of staff, its unique partnership with manufacturing suppliers and in its returns to shareholders, Marks & Spencer was the ultimate stakeholder company – a benchmark of excellence and the subject of no less than three Harvard Business School case studies. POLL Then in November 1998, profits began to fall and an attempted boardroom coup rocked the company to its core as a tale of ambition, treachery and incompetence unfolded. Within a few months, the press declared open season on what had been its favourite retailer and suddenly, the company that had been unable to do any wrong, could do no right. New management and armies of consultants have worked frantically to reverse the trend and in the autumn of 2001, George Davies the creator of Next, launched a new range of fashionable clothes to tempt shoppers back. Whether or not he succeeds, Marks & Spencer may never regain its former status. NEXT WEEK: Can M&S become the nation’s favourite shop again?