AWKA– At last the much awaited swearing in of Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo and his deputy Dr. Onyekachi Ibezim as Governor and Deputy Governor of Anambra State took place on Thursday, March 17. It was a day of great expectation, considering the sharp difference between Governor Willie Obiano administration and his predecessor,  Mr. Peter Obi. Although Obiano recorded some legacy projects, it was obvious that except for those who were enrolled as Executive Assistants, Special Assistants, Senior Special Assistants, those who were ‘dashed’ revenue windows and the likes that ran into thousands, the rest of the people eagerly awaited an end to Obiano era. And it came on March 17! The Obiano era, however, did not end without some unexpected. First, Soludo demanded a low profile ceremony whose audience would not exceed 50 people, forcing Obiano to change his elaborate inauguration ceremony earlier billed for the controversial International Convention Center (ICC),  Awka. Again, the ceremony was to be held at the conference hall of Government House. But on D-Day the plan was changed so that it was held at the parking lot in front of the Governor’s office. You need to see how security agents struggled to keep the 50 people maximum number. Even journalists had herculean task gaining entry. Secretary to the State Government Professor Solo Chukwulobelu used the opportunity to tell journalists the newspapers he reads and radio and television stations he watches or tunes to. The occasion also portrayed his lack of knowledge of the media and how they function. It took the intervention of the former Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. C.Don Adinuba for journalists to gain entry. The rest of the surging crowd at the gate had to wait for arrival of dignitaries namely: the Speaker of the House of Assembly, The Deputy Governor Dr. Onyeka Ibezim, the Chief Judge, Justice Anyachebelu,  Prof Soludo and Obiano when the gates were thrown open to push themselves into the arena. The event was underway when Obiano’s wife Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano came in, perhaps to carry out her last act. She had demanded to be chauffeured into the arena but her request was turned down because of space constraint. She then came in just as Soludo was about to be sworn in. She went straight to the seat of Iyom Bianca Ojukwu, a woman she allegedly frustrated her Senatorial ambition and demanded to know why she attended the ceremony after vowing never to attend an event organised by the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). As Iyom Ojukwu ignored her she, shook her shoulders to make her answer her queries upon which Ojukwu now slapped her. It took place at the speed of light because it was the scuffles that attracted the attention of the audience. However, what happened is now at the public domain. Iyom Ojukwu reportedly stated that: “as the inaugural ceremonies for Prof. Charles Soludo and his deputy began and all guests were seated, the Former First Lady of Anambra State, Mrs Ebele Obiano, was noticeabley absent. She then arrived some one-and-a-half hours later while the ceremony was on. I did not pay any particular attention to her arrival. “Surprisingly,  she then walked towards me and I thought she was coming to greet me. Instead, when she got to where I was seated, she verbally attacked me with her voice raised, taunting me and asking me what I was there to do and using unprintable vile language. She asked if I had come to celebrate their last day in office.  But I ignored her completely. Then, she kept aggressively putting her hands on my shoulders and shouting. “While I ignored her verbal onslaught, as advised by those sitting around me, I requested twice that she refrained from touching me with her hands. She proceeded to do so yet again and went further to grab at my headtie, which she attempted unsuccessfully to remove. This very act is considered a sacrilege to a titled matriarch such as myself in Igbo culture. It was at this point that I stood up  to defend myself and gave her a dirty slap to stop her from attacking me. As she made towards me, I then pulled away her wig. She held on to her wig with her two hands and tried to take the wig away from me. “The former APGA chairman, Umeh (Chief Victor Umeh), told her to leave me and told engaged APGA members that had gathered at the spot to lead her away, which they did and took her to the seat next to her husband Chief Willie Obiano who sat through the entire episode completely speechless. POLL “What struck me through the whole episode was the fact that she was clearly intoxicated. I was stunned by the stench of whisky in her breath at such an early hour of the day. How could a first lady be so drunk and proceeded to turn up in that state at an Inauguration ceremony that began at 9 am? “It is unfortunate that she threw all caution to the wind and imported this kind of melodrama to a state ceremony. This was highly embarrassing to the Governor who left the venue almost immediately, taking her along with him. Luckily, this did not disrupt the proceedings and I stayed back to witness the ceremony to the end after which we were treated to a sumptuous reception at the Government House.” On his part, Victor Umeh, former APGA Chairman said Obiano’s wife verbally attacked Bianca at the event.He said, “Yesterday was not a pleasant day for us because we were at the inauguration ceremony of Professor Soludo as the governor-elect. Something unimaginable happened and it overshadowed the storyline yesterday.“From Ambassador Bianca’s narrative, she was correct in her narration of what actually happened because we were all seated in good time for the event.“The former governor drove into the arena and when he alighted from his car, we noticed he didn’t come with his wife. He came and exchanged pleasantries with everybody and went and sat down. Everything had gone on. The deputy governor had been sworn in.“The Chief Judge was on the verge of swearing in the new governor and midway into that ceremony of swearing in Governor Soludo, the former first lady came into the arena and walked to another place to sit down away from where the husband sat. We also observed that that was a strange situation. She ought to have gone to sit with her husband but she didn’t do that.“The video footage has shown everything to everybody that she left where she was sitting and walked straight to where Ambassador Bianca was sitting calmly and started verbal attacks on her. I was seated away but within a very clear view.“When the exchange of blows as I would call it started, I had to rush to that place to restrain them and separate them to ensure that no harm was inflicted on Ambassador Bianca Ojukwu who was seated very calmly for that ceremony.” Also speaking on the incident, Ohanaeze National Publicity Secretary, Chief Alex Ogbonnia said the fight between Bianca Ojukwu, the two women does not represent the Igbo people and should not affect their bid for a stint on the presidency. “On the reconciliation of Ebele Obiano and Bianca Ojukwu, I want to believe that with time that matter will be over. Two people will always quarrel and they will reconcile. It is hoped that time will heal whatever wound that they have inflicted on themselves.” “It is not expected to be a prolonged quarrel. So, by the grace of God it will end like that but if we discover that it continues, for example now, if after today, Mrs Obiano begins to make some comments or Bianca begins to make some comments, that is when it becomes so obvious that the matter is still lingering. By next week, they should be sympathetic to each other. It is only when there is a lingering crisis that there is a need for reconciliation.” “Any person who uses that incident between Bianca Ojukwu and Ebelechukwu Obiano to join the Igbo is not being fair. We have to be sensitive. It is very unfortunate that one would use what happened between two women to judge the Igbo, especially in relation to 2023,”. Also commenting on the fracas,  former Senator who represented Imo State (Owerri) Constituency in the senate, Chris Anyanwu, said both women should apologise to Anambra people for the unfortunate incident. “But, above all, they both should apologise to Anambra people and Nigerians at large. That vicious slur on Bianca’s character was a slur on all hardworking women; that loud slap was a slap in the face of Anambra State. “By that ugly behaviour, they dragged the headlines away from the inspiring vision that Soludo presented; the hope he promised the people and took world attention away to a place of banality and ugliness,” she said.