Bamidele’s emotional pain is so deep he no longer trusts women. He goes about with a distrustful mindset. Having been betrayed once, he considers every woman a cheat. Indeed, the pain of losing his childhood lover to his friend has made him very distrustful. Now he is into another more serious relationship, and without any proof he is beginning to think his fiancée is cheating. He claims that she receives calls secretly and deletes her chats and messages before she visits him. He is definitely afraid of a repeat of what happened to him in his first relationship. “I have had two broken relationships. In my first relationship, I caught her with my friend making out. For many years, I had this hatred for girls. Then I was younger. I was down in spirit for a very long time because I loved the girl so much. “We started dating when we were in secondary school. It started as a platonic love. We were very close and did things together but we never had sex. We had this dream of having sex on our wedding night – you know, those childish dreams and imaginations. Even after secondary school we continued the relationship but all we ever did was to kiss; we never went beyond that. “I was guarding her jealously. Everyone in her house knew about our relationship. In fact, it was her father that called me aside and advised me not to mess with her daughter. That we must wait to avoid unwanted pregnancy. I took that to heart. I never suspected her of cheating, it was shocking the day I saw her with my friend having sex. I lost my mind. I was devastated. I almost went mad. It took me five years to recover. I went into another relationship, this time I was a bit skeptical. By then I was already masturbating and into other negative vices. When I started dating this new girl I already knew girls cheat, so I never bothered whatever she did in my absence. All I was interested in was to sleep with her. My inner mind always told me that she was cheating. Maybe because of my attitude towards her, she left me and I never cared. “Now I am mature and need a serious relationship. I met this girl who is a worker in my church. I decided to go for her because I felt she is a born again and won’t cheat. We have been together for a year. I have even proposed to her, but I always feel she is cheating. The other night I saw a message on her phone. Somebody chatted her and called her sweet names but she didn’t save the number. I don’t know who the person was. And she receives some calls I am not comfortable with. I have asked her to swap phones with me. She will be with my phone for a week and I would be with hers. She has refused. Why will she refuse if she is not cheating? Now, before she comes to visit, she would delete all her chats and text messages so that I won’t see anything. Recently, we almost broke up because I slapped her. We were quarreling over the same matter. Someone called her and she went outside to pick the call, she said it was a business call. During the quarrel she talked back at me. I don’t know when I slapped her, but it was not a hard slap. She dropped the ring I had given her and left. It took the intervention of our parents for our relationship to be restored. I love her but I feel she is cheating yet I don’t have much evidence to prove it and I don’t want to be caught unawares.” Dear Bamidele, I won’t want to say you are not healed completely from your previous broken relationship – sometimes a little trigger can bring back the memories of past ugly incidents. But in this case, I think you might be suffering from the Othello syndrome: Othello Syndrome is said to be a delusion of infidelity of a spouse or partner. It is characterised by recurrent accusations of infidelity, searches for evidence, repeated interrogation of the partner, tests of their partner’s fidelity, and sometimes stalking. I strongly believe you need psychological help. You can go for marriage counseling with your fiancée. Finally, you don’t have to allow past ugly events to rule your life. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.