***Congratulates New APC Exco ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) Rebirth Group has congratulated the new national chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and his team on the new National Working Committee (NWC) even though as the group noted, the Convention fall short of expectation on issues of transparency and management of the entire exercise. Aliyu Audu who issued a statement on behalf of the group said despite the flaws, the group is glad the Convention held under a peaceful and crisis- free atmosphere, stating that it accepts the outcome of the Convention as victory for their insistence that the Convention hold with the constitutionally allowed cycle. “While the convention itself falls short of our expectations with regards to issues of transparency and proper management of the entire process, we accept the outcome as a victory to our campaign for the convention to hold within the legally allowable time, and particularly that this was done before the primary elections. “We expected that the convention would be an avenue for the Party to undergo the much needed rebirth, but we could not say this has been achieved to the satisfaction of our call and to the desire of many members of our great Party, largely due to the way and manner the process was conducted”. The group commended members of the party and especially the Aspirants for.the.maturity they exhibited the exercise.. ,While we understand that it is only natural to be disappointed when one fails to attain his or her goal, we are not unmindful of the incremental steps towards the attainment of this goal which the APC has recorded in the convention. We are also quite aware that reform is a tedious and long journey that can be broken down and handled time after time, and one administration after the other. “Indeed, while we believe specifically that the consensus arrangement favoured by the party to elect the new executive could have been better managed particularly with regards to timely consultation of all aspirants in the race and securing not only the withdrawal of their ambitions but also securing their supports for the eventual choice of the party in advance of the convention, this could have been much tidier with less need for further reconciliation exercises and surely more respectful of the withdrawing aspirants and all stakeholders. POLL “However, we acknowledge the maturity displayed by a good number of the aspirants who placed the collective interests of the whole Party above their own personal ambitions. We applaud their doggedness, excellent display of good sportsmanship and urge them not to give up on the party, notwithstanding their misgivings about the convention. As committed Party members, we believe this is not the time to relent, rather a time to redouble efforts towards achieving the goal of building a stronger and all inclusive party.” APC Rebirth Group charged the NWC to hit the ground running. “Now that the convention is over, it is time for the new National Working Committee (NWC) to hit the ground running and begin in earnest the process of giving new life to the party so that members can be re-energized for the huge task ahead of the 2023 general election. “For a start, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and other members of the party must reflect on the process that threw them up as the consensus candidates of the party and work towards ensuring that those processes are cleaned up and strengthened in preparations for future activities in the party.” “It is not in doubt that party supremacy and not necessarily the choice of most party members resulted in the emergence of almost all members of the newly constituted National Executive Committee of the party, but party supremacy must be derived from the majority of members of the party and the only way to ensuring that is to take decisions that puts the pulse of members into consideration, outline clear agenda that will promote the party name her members and set out timetable for activities of the party with the plan to adhere strictly to them.” “Specifically, the National Working Committee must immediately Constitute a Reconciliation Committee or begin the process of reconciliation that will truly and genuinely settle all internal bickerings that may have aroused from the convention and even the ones that had bugged the party from the ward, local government and states Congresses conducted by the outgone Caretaker Committee. “While the process of reconciliation is ongoing, the party leadership must also begin a genuine process of Institutionalizing internal democracy in the party, one that will guarantee level playing field for all and sundry, especially as we move towards various primaries in the coming weeks. The party leadership must realize that President Muhammadu Buhari as the unifying factor in the APC will not remain on the saddle forever. As such, we must hasten to the need of ensuring that party members are provided all opportunities to become what they desire to become in the party without having to defer to anyone.” “The issue of youth and women inclusion must also be high on the agenda of the new National Working Committee of the party by ensuring that these demographies are not only represented across board, but that there is an adequate reward system for them and other members of the party, especially for those who have proven their loyalty, commitment and dedication to the success of the party”.