UYO – There is every likelihood that the ongoing consultation moves by Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel’s preferred successor has not fully diverted focus from the Governor’s completion agenda. This could be deduced from excerpts of yesterday’s State Executive council meeting of Akwa Ibom State government which reported a general review of projects handled by all the ministries, with timelines for commissioning proposed. The excerpts signed by the Hon. Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong and made available to newsmen in Uyo on Thursday also reported the Re-Award of Contract for the Construction of 5.0Km T-Junction-Mary Slessor Hospital road with 30M Span Bridge in Itu Local Government Area. 2022 IWD: NGO To Gift 100 Traders, Street Sweepers Food Items Kwara South Residents React As SDP Roads Link Communities With… Governor Udom Emmanuel, according to the report also approved the award of contract for the construction of 13.6KM Orukim-Unyenghe-Universal Energy Road to Ibom Deep Seaport with two Bridges in Mbo Local Government Area. The construction of a 6.6KM outfall drain, construction of Pedestrian Bridge and construction of service ducts on Oron-Airport Road, Uyo, was also approved by the council. Apart from road infrastructure, the state government also took steps to sanitize the capital city as the Commissioner for Environment & Solid Minerals and his Transport counterpart were charged to ensure that illegal markets along roads are removed. To address ongoing agitation by the labour union in the state,  Governor Udom Emmanuel also directed the payment of one year leaves grant to primary school teachers, “as a compassionate intervention by the State Government”. “Update on the Akwa Ibom State University Teaching Hospital was received from the HC-Health. POLL “The update on the completion of the Coconut refinery was presented by the HC-Agriculture. She informed that the factory was ready and will be having a test run soon and commissioned thereafter. “The report on the reconstruction of General Hospitals in the state was given by the HC-Health. He informed that the General Hospital in Ikot Abasi will be ready for commissioning soon. “HC-Youths and Sports reported that Eket Stadium is nearing completion and will be set for commissioning, soon,” the excerpts further listed