Bukola Saraki, former Senate President on Tuesday picked the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) nomination and expression of interest forms to contest for the presidential seat in the much anticipated general elections. Daily Independent had on Monday reported that Young Professionals of Nigeria raise N40 million to purchase a presidential from for Saraki ahead of the 2023 general election. Reacting to the development, Saraki disclosed that if elected president in 2023, he will appoint ministers below the age of 35 years. According to him, the plan was in line with his long-time belief that the younger generations have a lot to contribute to Nigeria’s development. Speaking shortly after receiving the nomination form, Saraki said, “With your action today, I do not have an option but to listen to the voice of the youths who represent 62 per cent of the over 200 million Nigerians. “That is why I want to promise that if I become the President of Nigeria, all positions of ministers of state in the cabinet will be occupied by youths. “This is a promise that I will not fail because I believe the ideas of the youths are needed to drive modern development efforts. “I am told that in buying the forms, many of you contributed N200,000, N500,000 and the highest is N2m. The initiative and noble effort are perhaps unprecedented in the history of Nigerian politics. POLL “What you have done is a symbolic message that you are mandating me to go out to the field and work hard among all our leaders, delegates and other stakeholders to win the PDP presidential ticket come May as well as subsequently follow up with decisive victory in the general elections in February 2023.” Taking to his Twitter handle, he wrote, “Last night, I was truly touched by the gesture of the young professionals convened by Abubakar Danmusa, who helped to raise the N40 million for my Presidential Expression of Interest Form and my Nomination Form. “These young people, who went out of their way to rally their friends, family, and coworkers, made contributions of N500,000 to N2 million to reach their desired goal. “This symbolic gesture, a first of its kind in the history of our nation, is also a challenge to me. Now, I promise to work twice as hard as I originally intended. “I promise to meet the yearning and aspirations of all our young people to run a modern government. “As it stands, this is a clarion call. This is why I make this promise: “When I become President on the 29th of May 2023, all the Ministers of State in my Cabinet will be experienced young people who are under the age of 35. “We have our work cut out for us. But the battle to fix Nigeria has just started!”