YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Government has waded into the crisis between four communities in the Ogbia Local Government Area of the state and the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) over nine years of blackout in the area. Among others, the aggrieved host communities are demanding the immediate operationalization of the 2.5 MVA generator installed by Morpol Engineering Services Limited, and the award of contract for the Oruma high tension line. The host communities namely, Otuasega, Elebele, Oruma and Imiringi, under the auspices of the Kolo Creek Cluster Development Board, had issued a 14-day ultimatum jointly signed by their paramount rulers to the SPDC to fulfill its agreement with the cluster board on restoring electricity to the area. They alleged that the SPDC had “deliberately refused to honour the agreements it had with the cluster communities on several occasions since 2013,” warning that they had unanimously resolved to shut down all the oil installations and platforms in Kolo Creek at the expiration of the 14-day notice. Disturbed by the face-off, the state government convened a meeting at the Government House, Yenagoa, on Monday, with community leaders, executives of the cluster board and other representatives from Otuasega, Elebele, Oruma and Imiringi. At the meeting, the State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ehwrudjakpo, while addressing the communities, appealed to them to exercise a little more patience over the oil firm’s protracted delay in restoring power to the area. Ehwrudjakpo, in a statement on Tuesday, urged them to soft-pedal and allow the government to make last-ditch frantic efforts to resolve the issues. He said the government was not happy with the attitude of the SPDC for repeatedly reneging on its promises to restore electricity to its host communities in the Kolo Creek Cluster. POLL The Deputy Governor pleaded with the communities to give government the very last chance to get round the long-drawn blackout in the area, adding that “nobody would blame the communities for shutting down the oil installations if the SPDC failed again for the umpteenth time to fulfill its part of the agreement.” Speaking on behalf of the communities, the paramount ruler of Elebele, David Osene, lamented that they had been suffering without light for nine years, precisely since 2013. He said the cluster communities had been very peaceful, inspite of the provocative attitude of the SPDC for almost a decade, warning however that they had resolved to shut down the oil installations in their area in two weeks’ time, if nothing substantial was done. The Chairman of the Bayelsa State Electricity Company, Olice Kemenanabo, said if all the necessary materials were provided, the power project could be delivered within the timelines reached at a recent meeting between Shell and the state government. He noted, however, that only the SPDC could cause any further delay in the restoration of power to the communities as government had already done its part.