LAGOS  – Dana Air has introduced Roving Check-in Agents, a new customer-centric s that is meant to ease passenger facilitation and check-in processes. A statement by Mr. Kinglsey Ezenwa, the Communications Manager of the airline, described the new addition as a cutting edge innovation, which would supplement the self-check-in kiosk at the airport and would aid speedy check-in for passengers travelling with just hand luggage. He, however, clarified that the roving agents mainly cater to passengers with hand baggage, issue boarding passes to customers with check-in luggage. He added: “They do this strapped with two mobile devices, a palmtop to punch in the PNR number and a mini printer that prints the boarding passes; walk around the check-in counter issuing our customers their boarding passes instantly.” Ezenwa promised that the airline would continue to invest in technology for ease of reservation, booking and check-in for its guests. He recalled that Dana Air a few years ago introduced the self-check-in kiosk and also came out with roving. He declared that the airline was slowly moving away from dedicated check-in counters for passengers with hand luggage, to more innovative methods. Meanwhile, Dana Air has announced exclusive cash plus miles deals for members of its loyalty program called Dana Miles Club. POLL Speaking on the new deals for Dana Miles Club members, Sukhjiner Mann, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer (DCEO) of the airline, emphasised that its customers had been through a lot with the ongoing scarcity and hike in cost of jet A1. He expressed apologies for the inconveniences these recent issues may have caused the passengers, noted that these are exciting times for its frequent flyers and intending members of the Dana Miles Club. “With one mile selling for N3.00, members can now buy miles and part-pay for ticket using miles plus cash. Existing members get 20 per cent discount when they buy miles to pay for tickets while new members get 3,600 bonus miles when they buy 14,400 miles to get an economy ticket. “This is surely the best time to be a member of Dana Miles as your accrued miles is now the game changer. And if you are a new member, it’s time to buy miles to get instant economy or business Class tickets as your desire. All you need to do is visit www.flydanaair.com or send a mail to danamiles@flydanaair.com to register.”