As part of its Sustainable Development Project, SDP, endorsed by federal government and multilateral bodies, the Kwara State government started a first of its kind urban-rural roads reconstruction project anchored on a bottom up consultation with the aim of linking rural businesses to urban opportunities. NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE took a tour of some far flung long abandoned communities to ascertain extent of work done and what the rural communities say. Oladiran Awade, deputy chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, in Oro-Ago, a sleepy, largely agrarian community, is an Oliver Twist; always asking for more when it comes to road construction and reconstruction within the axis where his transport business takes him in Irepodun, a local government in Kwara State. Business has been good ever since the completion of work on Oro Ago to Oyate, a farming town, with a stretch of 2.3 kilometer roads in between. “Until recently when the road was repaired by the state government, commercial vehicles from Ilorin dump their passengers in Oro-Ago, never willing to proceed to Oyate,” he said. According to him, the 2.3 kilometer road to Oyate was so bad that transporters don’t contemplate taking passengers to the town. So commuters have to pay more in transport fare. But with the new road, passengers now travel from Ilorin to Oyate with just a stopover at Oro-Ago. There is also of spinoff in other economic terms, especially in the area of supply of food items from Oyate. APC Presidential Ticket: Tinubu More Experienced Than Osinbajo –… Extortion: COMTUA’s Hammer Falls On RTEAN “At some point, you could buy just two tubers of yam at N2,500 in Oro-Ago when the road was so bad because farmers from Oyate had to pay more to bring their produce,” Awade narrated. But he said that things have changed. “The same number of yam tubers now sells for a little less N700 in Oro-Ago,” he said. He is thankful but hastily reminds that government work is not yet completely done in the area. “Orisa Bridge which leads to this place is still under construction and we urge the state government to do something before the rains starts. “There is also the matter of completing the road from Oro- Ago to Oreke,” he added. Esie, also in Irepodun, has started bubbling with economic activities, too. Before 2019, it would have been unthinkable, from economic point of view to set up a small shopping complex like the one now situated along Museum Road, a part of the Esie-Iludun Expressway. “As you can see for yourself, there are business activities already going now because of this new road we have leading up to the famous Esie Museum,” said Mrs Ayo Grace, who, herself, though not an indigene, lives in the museum town. POLL According to her, the bad state of the road totally collapsed economic activities, making rural-urban drift faster. Esie Museum, though famous and a historic landmark, could have been a nectar pot for local tourism, academic researches but for poor state of roads which stymied such interests. “But we now see more excursions from schools and tourists to the place. Estate developers are even prospecting for lands in the area to build hotels and resorts to complement the museum,” said Michael Olanrewaju, who claims to be an estate agent in the area. Before reaching Esie, there is another historic town of Erin-Ile, this time in Oyun Local Government where there has been perpetual economic buzz along communities and towns connected by the new 20 kilometer Station Road. Until the road was built, agrarian communities that are sources of palm product, cashew nuts, maize and livestock breeding and supplies to much of the bigger towns like Ilorin, Offa, Omuaran where linked by a small bridge built by communal effort back in 1973. This is was because Station Road, the link highway was in terribly bad shape. But with its reconstruction by the state government, a new lease of life has since begun, say residents and users of the road. “The new road also serves Oyan and Igosun, both agro based communities in Osun State, not even Kwara alone,” explained Asiwaju Tajudeen Olabisi Abioye, a community leader in Erin-Ile. Those who travel into Kwara from the southern end of Osun and Ekiti would understand the import of what the community leader just pointed out. 2023: APC Succumbing To Internal Crisis Buhari Breaks Silence On APC Crisis, Calls Stakeholders To Order Identifying Kwara’s border from the South West end is made easy not by any milestones or signboards. Where Kwara begins is clearly marked by where the bad roads, desolate rural communities begin. Over the years, with total emasculation of local/municipal authorities in most states by the state governments, infrastructural decay had quickened, destroying local infrastructure. But with what appears as the bottom up rural-urban road reconstruction that has happened in Oro-Ago, Esie, and Erin-Ile, that depressing border landscape might be changing not only for better view but also for less stressful journey. Abioye, however, begs that the state governor, Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak, not relent in the road constructions. “We will also like to beg him not to forget to firm up the roads with drainages to help preserve them,” he said. But for High Chief, Malachi Atolagbe in the remote Owode, also in Kwara State, it’s a case of mixed feelings on the state of Owode-Ofaro Road. While there are works ongoing, the elderly man who has lived 19 years in the town after retirement is worried at pace of work at the Awere Bridge after it collapsed in 2018. “We are grateful for the commitment shown so far in reconstructing the bridge. But work stopped after 2020 shortly after it started,” he explained. Owode and Ofaro are home large farming communities who mostly of Hausa Fulani stock. They came south to escape insurgencies and banditries up north of the country. According to the high chief, the farmers now resort to using camels, donkeys and even their cattle as beast of burden to evacuate their farm produce through hilly terrains. “Government has to do something fast before the rains start,” said High Chief Atolagbe. But the state government says that it will fulfill its commitment in all its entirety. “The the infrastructure works in these communities are tied to a bigger SDP plan which we execute in phases,” explained xxx, the state commissioner for works. SDP is anchored on four pillars of governance and institutional reforms, economic development, social development, and infrastructural development. When it was launched, the federal government, United Nations Development Programme, UNDP, Afreximbank, and the organised private sector players endorsed the entire program. They described the document as a deliberate and robust effort of the AbdulRazaq administration to set Kwara on the path of sustainable growth and development. “Early in 2021, we unveiled a five-year agricultural transformation plan which revolves around our comparative advantage as a state with vast arable land. That agribusiness plan was the first of its kind in our state in many years. However, it was just a standalone, one-sector-specific plan. The SDP is part of a 10-year sustainable development plan (SDP: 2021-2030) upon which hangs everything we need to do to place Kwara on the path of inclusive and sustainable growth,” he said. Speaking on the plan, Minister of State for Budget and National Planning Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, said it was first of its type in the country. “I am pleased to note that Kwara State has indeed become one of the first States to do this as the Plan being launched today is sufficiently aligned with the National Development Plan, 2021-2025 and indeed Nigeria Agenda 2050. The Kwara State Sustainable Development Plan, just like the National Development Plan, focuses on developing critical infrastructure, strengthening institutions of governance, developing human capital, addressing security challenges and leveraging on the power of the private sector as pivot of development.