KANO – The Kano police Command on Wednesday night released to the press an alleged confessional statement by an 18-year-old Abdulsamad Suleiman who allegedly killed her aunt, Rukayya Jamilu, 21, in her matrimonial home, handed fatal injuries to her children and stole her phone. The affected toddlers left with grievous injuries by the suspect are Anwar Jamilu, ‘m’, 3 years-old, and Amina Jamilu, ‘f’, 1-year-old. The statement which was signed by Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, a Superintendent of Nigeria police said the gruesome act was executed in concert with an accomplice named Mu’azzam Lawan aged 17 years. SP Kiyawa who also had one-on-one interview with the principal suspect while in the police gulag also backed his claims with 4 minutes 34 seconds audio. The Police Public Relations Officer in the signed statement said, “Investigations conducted by the Command’s Criminal Investigation Department and DSS led to the arrest of the Principal suspect, one Abdulsamad Suleiman, ‘m’, 18 years old, of Dorayi Chiranchi Quarters, Gwale LGA Kano State and his accomplice, one Mu’azzam Lawan, ‘m’, 17 years-old of the same address. “ The police local Image maker explained that the suspect “on discreet investigation, the principal suspect confessed that on 12/02/2022 at about 1600hrs, he went to the house of the deceased as his relative and met her on the bed. After he greeted her, he saw three (3) Mobile phones and took them.” Speaking further on the heinous crime, the police said the suspect “having realised that, she recognized him, used a wooden-made pestle and repeatedly hit her on her head and also hit her two children and left with the Mobile phones.” The police said, “He further confessed that he gave one of the Mobile phones to his friend and sold the other two at N12,000. “ POLL Kiyawa disclosed that “his friend was arrested and also confessed to having sold the mobile phone given to him belonging to the deceased at N2,000. The case will be charged to court upon completion of the investigation.” The Kano police Command therefore assured residents of “rigorous patrol, raids of criminal hideouts, and black spots throughout the state, as the Command would sustain the ongoing “Operation Puff Adder.”