The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu and the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola is set to settle their feud ahead of the Osun State governorship election and 2023 presidential poll. Daily Independent learned that some party members, influential leaders, as well as concerned stakeholders in Yorubaland have waded in and are already exploring ways to broker a truce between the two erstwhile good friends. Highly placed sources within the privy to the reconciliation efforts revealed that in particular to the peacemakers was the implications for the victory of the APC in the upcoming governorship election in Osun State and of course the overall best interest of the Yoruba race ahead of the 2023 general elections. 2023: Tinubu Will Turn Nigeria’s Economy Around  –… 2023: Why DSS Sends Strong Message To PDP’s National… “I can say authoritatively that reconciliation efforts to close the rank between Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola are underway, and already beginning to yield positive results. “I am confident that sooner than expected, the two APC chieftains will embrace each other and continue to work together as brothers. “A reconciliation has been fixed. There are two layers to it: one is with traditional rulers and another one is with the Muslim communities,” the source said. The reconciliation meeting is scheduled to take place between Tuesday, March 1 and Wednesday, March 2. Several stakeholders in southwest politics are expected to be in attendance at the meeting. The source added that to underline how important the peace movement has become, the concerned stakeholders have given the reconciliation of Tinubu and Aregbesola top priority. POLL “The truce is being arranged to ensure that the matter is put to rest as fast as possible in the overall interest of the Yoruba people and the APC victory in the forthcoming Osun governorship election. “It is a top priority, and there is no doubt that the reconciliation will pacify the aggrieved parties,” the source added.