LAGOS – As the All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders strategise for a successful National Convention, the six state chairmen and leaders of the defunct All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the ruling party’s caucus in the Southwest have expressed their support for Chief Iyiola Omisore for the position of the APC National Secretary. It would be recalled that when former Governor Rochas Okorocha defected from APGA for the APC during the ruling party’s formation, he left with a chunk of the APGA’s members across the country to his new platform. According to a statement signed by Hon. Prince ‘Segun Adefioye, Coordinator of the group, Omisore who hailed from Ile-Ife in Osun State, should be given the post of the National Secretary, a position zoned to the geo-political zone of the party, as a sole candidate. The group stated that it believed that the position of the APC National Secretary should be given to Omisore, who they saw as a man of proven integrity, grassroots appeal and a dedicated party man. According to the statement, “The National Leadership of our great party should be sensitive to various tendencies within the party in the Southwest to ensure inclusiveness.” It lamented that the defunct APGA in APC caucus in Southwest APC under the leadership of Okorocha, had been neglected over time, yet they had remained loyal and committed to the party. “We use this medium to appeal to all and sundry in the Southwest to please let us advocate for the person who can represent us well, do the job diligently and passionately and not advocate for any mundane issues or personal interests, but should consider the general interest of the Southwest in this political equation. “Let us put the best man forward for the job. It will be for the benefit of all and not just a minute few pursuing personal Interests over the public good. POLL “At this stage, please let us all respect the decision of our leaders of note for doing a yeoman’s job by searching for Chief Iyiola Omisore to represent us as our choice in the Southwest,” the statement added.