…wants the station sanctioned Motorists and other petroleum products users in Niger state have accused the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) mega station along Nnamdi Azikiwe way, Minna of collaborating with black marketers to deny customers of the products. While customers, including transporters queue for hours and in some cases for days without getting supplied, the management of the station collaborating with black marketers make brisk business by siphoning the products and sell at cut-throat prize to helpless citizens. One of the customers, a civil servant who would not want his names printed to avoid victimization recalled how he spent two days at the station before getting fuel as some black marketers always commandeer the entire facility at the detriment of other buyers. The black marketers will simply work their way into the filling station and et served while some of us queue sometimes from morning till night without being attended to, another customer who said she was at the station as early as 5am and ended up leaving by 9pm without getting fuel from the station laments.  Efforts to get the station Manager to comment on the allegations proved abortive when our correspondent visited. One of the attendants simply told our correspondent, ‘the Manager is not around, and I don’t know when he is coming back’. Meanwhile there fears among customers, that the activities of black marketers doing brisk business around the facility could spell doom if nothing is done and urgently to stop the ‘illegal business’ in fuel and other petroleum products going on therein. A shop owner within the NNPC vicinity, Marcel said they are always afraid of fire outbreak whenever there is supply because black marketers use the back of their shops as a hide-out where they make brisk business transferring fuel to jerricans and under-ground tanks. “Black marketers with in-built fabricated tanks in their cars that can take up to 418 litres at one and the attendants will serve them. It is as if the black marketers even have a dedicated pump that attends to them, the Manager cannot claim that he doesn’t know about that”. According to him, “With what is going on at the NNPC we are always in fear of the unknown. Fuel will be pouring out from some of the fabricated tacks and it will seem as if they don’t know that what they are doing is risky”.    It will take the time that would have been used to serve about 20 cars to fill just one car with in-built tank belonging to black marketers and that is why some innocent customers spend days on queue without getting fuel, he said and therefore called on the relevant agencies to call the management of the station to order.