Following the alleged imposition of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, as the All Progressives Congress (APC) new National Chairman, President Muhammadu Buhari has faulted the possibility of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) trusting those who previously left the party with its 2023 presidential ticket. Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu pointed out that the most important leaders of the PDP previously left the party and later returned, noting that the issue ought to attract criticism from the media. The President who formally congratulated the newly elected National Chairman and other members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) said that it was unbelievable that one of such politicians may now emerge as the presidential candidate of the main opposition party. Three prominent leaders of the PDP who have already collected their expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for its presidential tickets including former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, had left the PDP to join the APC but later returned to the opposition fold. He also commented on the allegation that the new Chairman of the APC and some of the executive members were former PDP members said, “That some of the APC’s new leadership were once in the opposition was the new line to take to the media, somehow suggesting that those who have left one party should not hold positions in another. Yet, do the Scriptures not teach us of the virtue of sinners who repent and change their ways? The statement partlyread, “The APC Convention hosted this weekend sets the scene for an APC victory in the presidential and general elections next year. It is a victory over naysayers who believed the party was divided but are now disappointed,” said the President. “We believe that it is equally a victory for the president who has ensured unity across all party positions, and it is a victory for the voters of Nigeria who can now be assured of a smooth succession to new leadership in 2023. “What the Convention made clear was how the media has been peddling fake news of division, when the hard reality of unity, cohesion, and indeed personal warmth between members of the party’s leaders – incoming and outgoing – was evident for all to see. POLL “Of course, the blame for this mindset ought rightly to go to the opposition who in all these years had done the work to only divide the country, leading to all manner of separatist agitations. “But this is not the wish, nor is it in the character of the citizens, as was clear for everyone to see at the Eagle Square. “When their fake news of disunity was undone by the facts, some in the opposition could not help themselves but take to the newspapers and the airwaves to find another way to shore up their reputations. 