ABUJA – The battle of witts in the federal civil service may have gotten heightened as a number of civil society organisations have backed the reform measures allegedly being put in place by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan. Recall that the Head of Service was alleged to have shut out some top directors from taking the mandatory promotion examinations on the accusation that they failed to fully comply with the requirements of the Personnel Payroll and Information System (IPPIS). Trouble started when some of the directors were disqualified by the screening committee from taking the permanent secretary examination slated for 21st February 2022 on grounds that they were “ghost” workers even though they were allegedly denied the opportunity to print out their online Integrated Personnel Payroll and Information System (IPPIS) information slip. NAHCON Commends Katsina Pilgrims Board For Improved Facilities PMQs: Johnson Struggles To Defend Refugee Policy Angered by the development, the aggrieved directors approached the National Industrial Court of Nigeria before Her Ladyship Hon. Justice O.A Obaseki-Osaghae in suit No.NICN/ABJ/47/2022 with motion ex-parte seeking to be allowed to participate in the permanent secretary selection process as well as carry out the other processes. Over 17 directors were allegedly affected while most of them complained of being denied the opportunity to participate in the exercise. But Taiwo Adeniran, who spoke on behalf of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups in Abuja, on Wednesday, said the actions of the HoSF is not misplaced as its a justification of silent reforms being carried out by the Muhammadu Buhari administration. According to Adeniran, the system is gradually transiting from a paper-based administration to an ICT driven one. “As a joint coalition of civil society organizations, we decided to intervene by holding this press conference in support of ongoing reforms in the Nigeria Civil Service initiated by the Administration of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari. POLL “It is on record, that the Federal Civil Service under the current leadership has witnessed many remarkable achievements. Most prominent among these is the great work being done to transform the service from a paper-based system of administration to one that is driven by technology. “We also acknowledge the work done by the Administration on the upward review of Duty Tour Allowances which is benefiting all civil servants and by extension their families and Nigerians. “This is in addition to the implementation of Insurance cover for Public Servants through the Federal Government Group Life Assurance scheme for the years 2021-2022 and the introduction of Performance Management System in the civil service,” he stated.