LAGOS  – The Federal government has promised to provide efficient and affordable power to Nigerians in line with its agenda to power the country. It said notwithstanding the current power hitch, it’s working round the clock to fix same in order to serve Nigerians with efficient power in the country. Sanusi Garba, chairman of Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), who gave the hint at a press briefing at the first Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry meeting in Lagos, said part of the energy recovery plan of the government was the energization of the 450MW Calabar plant and 600MW from 6 plants from South West . He said his commission also expects incremental power when Total lifts the force majeure on some of its operations He spoke on the commission’s readiness for the Phase 1 of the National Mass Metering Programme, saying local distributors have submitted their bids for the supply of the meters. The commission, he said, has reviewed performance investment plans of power distribution companies in Nigeria aimed at ensuring value addition in the distribution segment of power value chain. He reiterated his commission’s commitment to the protection of investors and consumers of electricity in Nigeria. He disclosed that the commission is also working hard to bridge the metering gap substantially in three years. POLL Garba faulted reports that his commission was implementing tariff review in secrecy He explained that NERC will conduct a minor tariff review every six months to reflect the economic situation, especially the disparity between naira and other major currencies, specifically the dollar. Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz ,the new Ag. MD/CEO of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), while speaking, apologised to Nigerians for the recent power outages in the country, saying keeping Nigerians in the dark was not deliberate on the part of the federal government Abdulaziz, who disclosed that the nation’s current generation capacity is 3500,said the incumbent administration had invested over N1trillion to improve the capacity of the grid which was earlier neglected. He noted that the frequent collapse of the grid recorded lower frequency last year due to the improved investment in the sector by the government. He added that the country cannot afford system collapse now that it’s making moves to improve the economy, adding that the Transmission Company of Nigeria would double its effort to guarantee reasonable supply of power to Nigerians in line with the agenda of the federal government Folake Soetan, Managing DIrector of Ikeja Electric,IE, in her remarks, commended regulators for supporting power distributors in closing the metering gap sector. She also said the federal government’s National Mass Metering Programme was in order, adding that her company metered over 11 customers during the O phase of the initiative. She also disclosed that most power distribution companies have received over 30percent intervention fund from federal government, adding that they do not have reasons to perform below par. Soetan also told journalists that her power firm would redouble its performance in terms of service delivery to customers on account of support it has received from the government as well as its quest to build everlasting customer experiences.