Ruud van Nistelrooy has been appointed the new manager of PSV Eindhoven, taking charge from the beginning of next season. The Manchester United legend will replace Roger Schmidt at the Philips Stadium for the 2022-23 campaign when the coveted German coach’s contract ends. Van Nistelrooy has agreed a three-year deal with the Dutch giants, having scored 62 goals in just 67 appearances for the club between 1998 and 2001 before his move to Old Trafford, and is currently honing his craft in the dugout in charge their under-23s. As PSV announced the news on Wednesday, the ex- Real Madrid striker told their website : “It has always been my dream to be head coach at PSV. I’ve worked intensively with Toon Gerbrands, PSV’s current General Manager, the past few seasons. I was convinced I could pursue a professional coaching career and originally thought I needed one more year to gain experience. “But sometimes things do go their way and you find out that life is not completely manageable. This is the right moment to take the next step.” Van Nistelrooy added on how the dream opportunity came around: “A few things have come together the past few months. “The appointment of Marcel Brand as PSV’s General Manager and the conversation we’ve had were the final push I needed to make a conscious choice and take this step. PSV are ready to embark on a new path this summer and I am ready to play my part. Talks with the board of directors have reinforced the idea that we are ambitious and look to create something special in the long term. I am excited for the task in hand at PSV.” PSV Director of Football John de Jong has given the 70-time Netherlands international a glowing endorsement, declaring: “We are delighted to confirm that Ruud van Nistelrooy is our new manager. All of us, including Marcel Brands, who will be PSV’s new General manager this summer, have great confidence in his abilities. “He is a strong, inspirational leader and his commitment and work ethic will be second to none. Van Nistelrooy has gained valuable experience within the PSV organisation but also with the national team and we are highly confident he is ready for his first senior managerial role. We are sure that he has a great and successful career ahead, with the backing of experienced Fred Rutten and the coaching staff.” As well as the Red Devils, PSV and Real, Van Nistelrooy turned out for Den Bosch, Heerenveen, Hamburg and Malaga before retiring in 2012. United paid a club-record £18.5million for his services in 2001, despite the Dutchman missing much the previous season after rupturing his anterior cruciate ligament. POLL Van Nistelrooy bagged a whopping 95 goals in 150 games under Sir Alex Ferguson, winning one Premier League title, one FA Cup and one League Cup. Aiming to emulate his former boss’ success in his first post as manager of a senior team, his assistants will be announced over the coming weeks.