LAGOS  – The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET), has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), which would enable the former to set up marine meteorological stations in the country. The MoU would also enable NiMET to provide the marine meteorological products and services for maritime activities in Nigerian territorial waters. At a ceremony held in Lagos yesterday, Prof. Mansur Matazu, the Director-General, NiMET said the partnership with NIMASA was for all Nigerians and for the interest of the country at large. NIRSAL Credit Risk Guarantee: Support To Agro Processing Hits… Nigeria Has Over 150 Unofficial Taxes And 60 Official Taxes –… Matazu also said that the MoU would lead to enhanced weather forecast for NIMASA, just as the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) in the aviation industry has been receiving regular and prompt weather information from the agency. The content of the agreement sighted by our correspondent stated that the partnership was in line with Part V of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974 requirement for contracting states to encourage the collection of meteorological data by ships at sea and to arrange for their examination, dissemination, and exchange in the manner most suitable for the purpose of aiding navigation. The agreement stated that the MoU would remain valid for a period of five years and renewable on terms and conditions to be agreed upon by both parties in writing. Matazu assured that NiMET would extend and standardise its services to the marine and maritime sector, just as it entails in the aviation sector, bringing credibility to the nation’s indigenous skills, products and services. He said: “We are very happy to have this ceremony today, we have been trying to get to this point for some years now, but we are happy it is happening today, even-though we have been providing the services some months ago before fanmalising the partnership today. POLL “I want to tell you that the services you have so far received is a tip of the iceberg. NIMASA will be receiving real-time information just like the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) does. The essence of all these is for the betterment of our nation”, he said. While introducing the quarterly bulletin of the agency to the NIMASA management, Matazu said Nigeria was the first to introduce such publication and described it as a very useful bulletin. He also hinted that the NiMET forecasts were translated into various languages for easy comprehension by stakeholders In his remarks, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, the Director-General, NIMASA, enjoined Nigerians to watch out, not only for daily forecasts from NiMET, but a forecast for maritime safety and security through the agency from NIMASA.