ABAKALIKI – Ebonyi Elders’ Council has warned against any attempts to destabilize the government of Governor David Umahi. The Council said this at a press conference held in Abuja on Thursday, which suggested that the governor Umahi should hand over to an individual, whereas the matter was still in court, was capable of causing a major division in the State. The Council maintained that Umahi remained the only Governor of Ebonyi contrary to insinuations in some quarters that he was no longer the governor. Ex-Zambian President, Banda Dies Of Cancer At 85 Gowon Flags Off Construction Of British-American Junction… Chief Ben Okah, Chairman of the elders who addressed Journalists on behalf of his colleagues at a press conference held at the Ebonyi old Executive council chambers, on Friday, expressed worry over the political development in the state following the Abuja Federal High Court judgement which ordered Governor Dave Umahi and his Deputy to vacate their offices for dumping People’s Democratic Party(PDP) for All Progressives Congress (APC). The Council advised the political actors from the state, whom they said are based in Abuja to retrace their steps and stop indulging in actions that could throw the state into violence, reminiscent of what happened in Ebonyi in 2003. Okah said: “We are Ebonyi State elders Council. Our job is to advise everybody to maintain peace and support the government to develop Ebonyi State. Our call is to the generality of Ebonyi people, not to ferment troubles that will limit our development. “I believe that they should look at it dispassionately and see that we are not biased. We must say what we have seen and advise using our language. “All of you were here when we have serious violence in this State that led to loss of lives and properties. We do not want that in this state now. A stitch in time saves nine. We want to put everybody on notice. It doesn’t matter the party you are and what your aspiration is, but it must be done properly to avoid any violence and destruction. POLL “We know that people have been making statements insinuating that there are two governments in Ebonyi State. We do not have two governments in Ebonyi State. It is never true. “A press conference held yesterday suggested that the government should hand over to an individual, whereas the matter is still in the court. Such a statement if you read it on social media, elicited comments that can divide the State. That is why we are advising that people should wait until final pronouncements are made. “What we are asking for is to have peace in Ebonyi State. Nobody should use the situation to cause problems. And I want to say I am so happy with the state of security in the state. The security people are all over the state. “We are however very disturbed by the antics of some elements based in Abuja and those who belong to the PDP. Those people are hell-bent on distracting the smooth running of the Ebonyi State government and hence, attempting to ruin the peace and tranquillity existing here. “We cannot stand akimbo while these destructive elements whose track records are well known to ruin Ebonyi State. We condemn vehemently the action of these people who have taken their fight to an Abuja court to canvass for the removal of the governor and his deputy for the reason of crossing from the moribund and crisis-ridden PDP to APC which has a great leader like President Muhammadu Buhari. Nike Remain ‘Committed’ To Chelsea, Despite Three… Lagos NAWOJ Demands Speedy Trial Of Bamise’s Alleged… “These people who are guided by inordinate ambitions are employing every form of blackmail and fake information to cause mayhem in Ebonyi State. We note also their ignoble intentions to distort the long-agreed gubernatorial zoning in Ebonyi State. And this will not be accepted at all. We will not allow it. “While they have their right to use legal means to pursue their ambitions, they are warned not to visit the state with the mayhem of the past, whose memories are still with us. “We appeal to every Ebonyian to remain calm and go about their businesses. Ignore fake media posts and pray for peace. We also appeal to the governor not to be distracted but remain focused,” he stated.