As the presidential zoning of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) get intense, the leadership of the party in the South-West geopolitical zone has vowed not to support candidates from the northern region who wished to contest the 2023 presidency on the platform of the party. The party leaders insisted that they will support only candidates from the Southern region to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2023 general election. The meeting which was attended by a former Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Olabode George; former Governors Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Olusegun Mimiko and Ayodele Fayose of Osun, Ondo and Ekiti states was held on Tuesday in Ibadan, Oyo State. Others are; PDP Deputy National Chairman (South), Ambassador Oladejo Arapaja; former governorship candidates of the PDP in Ogun and Ekiti states, Hon. Ladi Adebutu and Professor Olusola Eleka. The party chieftains noted that they were in support of the position of the Southern Governors’ Forum that Southern Nigeria should produce the next president. They added that the need for the Southern region to produce the next President is necessary in order to ensure fairness, justice and equity. Speaking further, they reaffirmed their position on restructuring the country. Making the stance of the leaders known, the National Vice Chairman, South-West PDP, Olasoji Adagunodo, in a communique on Wednesday insisted that the leaders of the party resolved that the unity of its members in the zone is non-negotiable. POLL He added that the leaders also resolved to do everything within their power to win the forthcoming elections in Osun and Ekiti states. He said, “The PDP South-West Zone is in support of the Southern Governors’ Forum that the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria should come from the south. “The Zone has agreed that we should do everything possible within our power to deliver Osun and Ekiti states to the party in their forthcoming offseason governorship elections. “The Zone is desirous of fairness, justice, and equity in the distribution of Federal positions and appointments and will support all efforts geared towards national cohesion through equitable distribution of federal positions and appointments amongst the geopolitical zones of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The South-West Zone reaffirms its position on restructuring of Nigeria.”