ABAKALIKI – The member representing Ezza South State Constituency in Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Chief Chris Usulor, who is aspiring to be Governor of Ebonyi State in 2023 on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said he is the right man to succeed Governor David Umahi in 2023. Usulor, a three-term member of the State Assembly, said for the PDP to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State in 2023, it needed a candidate with a track record of excellence, selfless service and courage, which according to him, he possesses in good measure. He appealed to his party, the PDP, to zone the gubernatorial ticket to Ezza clan and support him to return the party to Ebonyi Government House in 2023. National Convention: APC Inaugurates 20 Sub-Committees March 7 Groups Urge INEC To Review Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency… Usulor who spoke on Thursday with Journalists in Abakaliki, said he had the requisite political experience and followership needed to galvanize the party to victory. The governorship hopeful, urged all governorship aspirants in the PDP to drop their aspirations and support him to lead the party to victory. “While we are over 80% sure of victory in 2023, our party,the PDP, must be careful not to mismanage this opportunity. What PDP needs to return it to Ebonyi Government House in 2023 is a credible candidate with track record of excellence, selfless service and courage, like my humble self. “I assure members and leaders of PDP in Ebonyi that I have the support and goodwill needed to secure victory for our party in the election.” “All I want from them is their support and prayers. These 2023 governorship election is going to be different and tough, and the party requires good candidate with large followership and appeal to make a difference. And that is where I stand a better chance than other aspirants.” POLL “Give me one year in office and I will restore the dignity of every Ebonyi man.” “I therefore use this opportunity to enjoin all aspirants under the platform of PDP to consider dropping their ambitions to support me to lead the party to victory in 2023. This is for the best interest of the party and the generality of Ebonyi people”, Usulor concluded.