The New Tribe, a collective of Nigerians said to be motivated by the conviction and belief in the nation’s rebirth has reiterated its call on the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to nominate Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (PYO) as the party’s presidential flag bearer for 2023 general elections. The movement believes Vice President Osinbajo has over the years demonstrated competence and capacity to lead Nigeria,  as the nation’s currently fragile economy, policy and security would make any attempt to experiment with fresh hands-on the Presidency a risky venture. The call was made in a communique issued at the end of a one-day declaration conference by Osinbajo support groups/professional bodies across Nigeria in Uyo on Saturday. APC Chairmanship: Al-Makura Visits, Solicits Akeredolu’s… Confusion As Lagos APC Members Frustrate Igbokwe’s Attempt… Signed by Chairman and Secretary of the communique drafting committee,  Chief Williams Omoviro and Chief Omeh Matthias respectively,  the conference resolved to mobilise funds to purchase the APC expression of interest and nomination forms for Prof Yemi Osinbajo. The decision, according to the communique was in furtherance of the total commitment to the noble course of compelling the Vice President of Nigeria   Prof. Yemi Osinbajo to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Having consulted  Nigerians across the Academia,  Civil Society groups and national delegates of the party, Professional bodies, Religious Leaders,  Youths and Women Organisations, the conference called on President Muhammadu  Buhari stood solidly behind Osinbajo whom they described as a tested, loyal and true apostle. “As the clock ticks, leading to 2023 general elections, the conference, after a thorough appraisal of current political trends in APC and INEC timetable, decided to engage more prominent Nigerians, the  Academia,  Civil Society groups and national delegates of the party, Professional bodies, Religious Leaders, Youths and Women Organisations on the need to elect this competent and reliable Nigerian with a proven track record, integrity, transparency and honesty in the person of Prof Yemi Osinbajo as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in order to realise the VISION of The NEW TRIBE and a New Nigeria. POLL “The conference enjoins Nigerians from all walks of life to embrace the VISION of The  NEW TRIBE and put their words behind the clamour for Prof. Osinbajo to run and be elected as President of Nigeria in 2023. Finally, the conference strongly calls on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to bow to the clarion call of Nigerians and declare to run for the office of President of Nigeria without further delay. “While we await his decision we shall intensify our drive across the country to raise partners and supporters for him. We shall equally continue the process of building structures in all the wards to bring to reality our dream of Osinbajo presidency. “We call on all our members from across the length and breadth of Nigeria to storm Abuja on March 26 to demonstrate to the party their love and support for this patriot and nationalist. “We call on Mr President to stand solidly behind this tested, loyal and true apostle of him and ensure that a man of conscience like him who truly abhors corruption succeeds him to continue where he stops. 2023: Insecurity Can Scare Voters From Voting – CAN Warns 2023: INEC Reassures EU Observer Mission The conference expressed optimism that with the love Nigerians have for Prof Yemi  Osinbajo and Mr President, his sheer strength of character and the strength of the People’s power, he (Osinbajo) is the man who can ensure that APC carries the day in the forthcoming presidential election. Host of the event and Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Niger Delta  Affairs, Sen. Ita Enang applauded members and supporters of the party for conducting themselves decently and with mutual respect and stressed the need for the same attitude to be replicated to all activities of the electioneering.