LAGOS – As politicians continue to strategise about the  2023 general elections, Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, has insisted that the nation’s presidency should be zoned to the South East geo-political zone. Kalu, National Coordinator, Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), maintained that if the country would be guided by equity and fair play, it was good to allow people from other ethnic blocs the opportunity at the centre for the sake of unity and advancement. He stressed: “Denying the Igbo man an opportunity to be elected the next president of Nigeria is a serious cankerworm against the survival of democracy and national unity. “There is no reason why Igbos should not be given an opportunity in the presidency and it calls for glued unity of Igbo political stakeholders to stand and fight for this agenda. “We must unite to conquer. Gone are the days Igbo men would be used by other folks to truncate the chances of their fellow brothers. “Igbos are detribalised and carry all Nigerians along even when it comes to employment of the citizens in their various industrial establishments. “Not providing a window for Ndigbo in  the seat of power at the centre is a clear calumny on the part of Nigeria political bigwigs. “The country belongs to all of us and there is no way some ethnic blocs will dominate the entire citizens out of their inordinate desires, selfishness and power drunkenness. POLL “All well meaning Nigerians should rise to champion the course of changes in the system and manner through which Nigeria is governed.” Kalu maintained that in 2019, Igbos fought for and supported  Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, a northerner and he succeeded in getting the presidential ticket to run under PDP. “We did not leave any stone unturned in fully supporting him because he was needed then as situations demanded. “Based on the position of things in the country today, the situation demands that an Igbo man be given an opportunity to be elected to govern Nigeria at the centre.“Competent men of natural endowment gifted in public sector administration are of large numbers in Igbo land. So, why wouldn’t they be considered as capable hands to lead Nigeria into a new glory? he asked. Kalu advised the PDP and other political parties to zone their presidential tickets to aspirants from Igbo ethnic group to enable them have a sense of belonging to one Nigeria.