The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi has vowed to deal with the members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state while insisting that Governor Mai mala Buni of Yobe State is the authentic Caretaker Committee Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Governor Umahi who stated this on Wednesday urged party members to dispel the rumour that there is a crisis and the ruling APC is divided. Daily Independent had on Tuesday reported that the Federal High Court in Abuja asked Umahi and his Deputy to immediately vacate their seat as the governor/deputy of the state following their defection to the APC. PDP Holds NEC Meeting On Tuesday PDP Gives Notice Of National Caucus Meeting Speaking to newsmen in the statehouse, Umahi said, “Do not be angry about the judgement, say thank you to PDP. It is a joke that was carried too far. And today, we will say to the PDP in Ebonyi State that enough is enough. Anybody that goes against the law of Ebonyi State, will get it very hot from today. “You know, I have been concentrating on my work, and I said if they want to fight one year to the end of my tenure, I will fight, but I have seen that I can be doing my inspection, doing my work and also be fighting. So, the fight is set in Ebonyi State. “If you want to destroy this government, if you want to destroy this State, let me tell you, you will not have your way from today. Let me tell Umuekumenyi, nobody is going to steal your mandates. “The north and central senatorial zones have ruled for 8 years. The south is about doing 7yrs, it remains very small it will be 8 years. POLL “I’m a man of justice, I will not allow another person from the south senatorial zone to come and take your position. I don’t want you to go against the law. The evil that people thought about your governor has promoted him. “We are battle-ready, this is not about the governor of Ebonyi State; Nigerians are fighting for us. I want to thank the national chairman of APC, and let me tell you that there is no division in APC. The chairman went on medical leave. And we were there when he asked the governor of Niger State, Mr Bello to act for him. “If there will be change, it will be notified. But for now, there is no change, and there is no crack. It is the PDP that is doing everything to destroy this country, and let me tell you, the attention of our party, APC has been drawn to all their antics, where they are misleading this country. “We know very well, so many of them are very corrupt, carrying money up and down, but God is going to catch them, let me assure you, that there is no PDP in Ebonyi State. There can be PDP in Abuja, these are APC members.”