Ukraine has accused Russian forces of hitting a psychiatric hospital near the eastern Ukrainian town of Izyum, but emergency services said no one was hurt. “All 30 staff and 330 patients were in a bomb shelter at the time of the strike,” Ukraine’s State Emergencies Service said in a statement. Oleh Synegubov, governor of the Kharkiv region which includes Izyum, described the Friday attack as “a war crime against civilians” and repeated allegations that Russian forces had been carrying out “genocide” in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion began on February 24. Ex-Zambian President, Banda Dies Of Cancer At 85 Gowon Flags Off Construction Of British-American Junction… Russia has denied deliberately attacking civilians in what it calls a “special operation” to disarm and “de-Nazify” Ukraine. The attack near Izyum followed the bombardment of a hospital in the southern city of Mariupol in which Ukrainian officials said three people were killed on Wednesday, including a child. Russia has said it will look into the incident but some officials dismissed reports of the attack as “fake news”. There have so far been 27 confirmed attacks on healthcare centres since the Russian invasion began, according to a World Health Organization database, which did not name the perpetrators. Synegubov said separately that Russian forces had repeatedly shelled residential areas of Kharkiv, and Kharkiv Mayor Ihor Terekhov said 48 schools had been destroyed in the city, which has a peacetime population of about 1.4 million. POLL Synegubov said there was no danger to civilians after an institute containing a nuclear laboratory was hit. An adviser to the Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs had said on Thursday that Russian planes bombed the institute in Kharkiv, which is home to an experimental nuclear reactor. All Ukrainian nuclear power stations are operating stably but staff in the Zaporizhzhia plant are facing “psychological pressure” at work following its capture by Russian forces, the Ukrainian state nuclear company Energoatom said. Radiation levels at all plants had not changed, it said.