ABUJA – An aspirant for the position of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Sani Musa, has promised to ensure that the party works its policies to support women and youths if given the opportunity at the forthcoming national convention. Mustapha said this during his consultation with the House of Representatives APC Caucus on Wednesday in Abuja ahead of the party’s convention slated for March 26. He said the gesture would create a process of mentoring the younger ones in the country, adding that it would be the direction of APC to give competent young women and youths the opportunity to lead. He said, “What this country is lacking is that there is nobody that is building or mentoring the younger ones to take over. We must have a new approach to things and do things differently.” He assured that if given the opportunity, he would create a progressive party where lawmakers would be able to archive their achievements. He also said that there was the need to preach and enthrone internal democracy, adding that once there was no justice the party would not have a healthy house. He stressed that the party was at a very critical stage of its transformation, adding that the party needed a strategy on how to win elections. “If we don’t win election as a ruling party some of the good works we are doing may be truncated. So do not look at me a face value but what can guarantee our party victory in general elections,” he said. POLL He stated, “One of the major problems we have is the lack of fairness, justice and equity in our party, so as a party we must adhere to and promote free and fair contests. “In a free atmosphere where people can vie for positions and allow internal democracy and once internal democracy is not allowed the party will be in crisis,” he said. Mustapha said that if given the opportunity to lead the APC, there would be a quarterly meeting with the lawmakers, adding that this would help to know what the legislatures are going through.