The Bayelsa State Government has said that it will implement the outcomes of the education summit it held last month to achieve a workable 15-year education plan and policy for the state. Commissioner for Education, Gentle Emelah, stated this on Monday in Yenagoa at a press briefing on the final communique of the summit which was themed, ‘Optimising the Delivery, Performance and Sustainability of Outcomes in the Education Sector. Also present at the briefing was the permanent secretary in the ministry, Christopher Ehwrudjakpo; the education summit committee co-chairman, Alice Atuwo; secretary, Stella Ugolo and the technical adviser to the commissioner, Warmate Idikio. He said the implementation would be aimed at achieving the broad objectives of the summit, including partnerships and collaborations, to address educational challenges on a short, medium and long term bases. Emelah said, “The summit generally agreed that Bayelsa State has taken a very bold and right step to address its educational challenges for improved education delivery. “It was stated that the outcomes of the summit should be adapted, conscientiously followed and implemented to achieve the broad aims of providing a concise and workable state education plan and policy, including future partnerships and collaborations.” He described the summit as very successful as it reiterated the need for the critical evaluation of current educational structures, practices, objectives and principles to align them with new aspirations of government for educational transformation. The Education Commissioner also stated that the summit affirmed the appropriateness of the 10 themes that were framed to x-ray the issues, problems, prospects and the way forward in the education sector. POLL He listed them as access to education; school administration; financing and funding education; infrastructural situation, requirements and needs; quality assurance and quality control; curriculum; establishment and management of primary and secondary schools; establishment and management of higher institutions; standards and stipulations in education delivery, and issues on teacher emoluments, incentives and motivation. He further noted that the summit proposed the setting up of a committee of professionals, technocrats and stakeholders to carefully examine all the presentations, opinions and recommendations, and come up with an actionable report. Emelah commended Governor Douye Diri for his support and applauded former President, Goodluck Jonathan, for delivering an outstanding keynote address as well as other eminent scholars, partners and stakeholders for their contributions toward the success of the summit.