A few hours after the 36 state governors reached a consensus that one of them should emerge as the next President of the country, the founder of One Love Family, Satguru Maharaj Ji has said all of them should forget nursing presidential ambition. Maharaj Ji who stated this during a press conference on Sunday in Ibadan also said considering the 2014 gentleman agreement among the various political parties, it is now the turn for the southern president. Recall that a source at the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), disclosed that both political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), have already perfected their plan that the presidential candidate must be taken from amongst the governors. 2023: Use Technology To Mobilise For PDP, Ayu Charges Youths 2023: Why Nigeria Is Not Moving Forward – Fayemi The source further said that the 36 state governors had reached a consensus that one of them, irrespective of the party, should emerge as the next President of the country. The governors may have to support any party that takes its candidate from their forum, in the case that one of the political parties picks its candidate outside the governors. Their argument, according to the source, is that they have the competence, experience, age advantage and contemporary connections needed to rebuild the nation. Reacting to the development, Maharaj Ji maintained that none of them is worthy of being the president, advising them to forget nursing the ambition. Maharaj Ji stressed that Nigeria leaders should always remember that they are in that position for the common good of all Nigerians and not for personal gain. POLL He urged the government to take care of the youths for the rapid peace and development of the country. According to him, “All 36 state governors should forget nursing presidential ambition, they are all spiritual bankruptcy. What are they doing with security votes, there is insecurity everywhere. “The next President should come from the South, we have people like Asiwaju, we also have people like former Secretary-General of United Nations. All political parties should honour the 2014 gentleman agreement before the presidential election. “For Nigeria to move forward there should be independent of Judiciary and we should have the government that will respect the rights of the youths,  youths should be properly taking care of, to combat any sorts of criminal activities”.