The Medgar Evers College (MEC), City University, New York City (CUNY) the United States, from October 31 to November 14 will host the intercontinental migration summit being put together by the Journalists International Forum For Migration (JIFORM) and other partners across the globe. Apart from attending the summit targeted at harnessing the potential of migration and its benefits to humanity, some of the participants are also billed to undertake a certification course on migration and diaspora matters at the university according to the President/Executive Director of JIFORM, Dr Ajibola Abayomi. An elated Professor Byron Price from the Department of Public Administration at the City University who doubles as the Global Director of the Diaspora Innovation Institute confirmed the readiness of the institution to partner with the JIFORM. BREAKING: American Varsity Apologises To Ganduje Over Fake… Floyd: New York City Declares Curfew Price, Ph.D is a professor of Public Administration and the former Dean of the School of Business at MEC. The don who had featured in both the African migration summit and the West African media migration summit organized by the JIFORM in Ghana and Togo respectively in 2021 conveyed the excitement of the Chairman, Department of Public Administration, Professor Zulema Blair, PhD about the summit saying “all of us at the CUNY, including Prof Blair, are looking forward to receiving everyone in October in the US”. “Having worked with you people over the years on migration matters, I am passionate about the JIFORM great campaign on regular migration. You are serving humanity. On this, I am willing and happy to work as one of the lead promoters of this summit in America” said Prof Price. Ajibola, President of the JIFORM comprising over 300 Journalists covering migration across the continents said the body was happy about the development. According to him, the JIFORM was willing to actualise the collaboration with the CUNY through a memorandum of understanding to be signed in the US in April as a prelude to the summit and other working arrangements. POLL He explained that the MoU would give an annual opportunity to at least 60 JIFORM members across the continents to be trained on media management and migration governance. “We are committed to knowledge transfer that will improve the career of our members. This is a massive opportunity between the JIFORM and CUNY, particularly for us to further develop the academic side of our profession as Journalists” he noted. JIFORM with headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria can be reached through www.jiformalert.org It was founded in 2018 and has been organizing a series of workshops and training for Journalists and stakeholders on migration matters. In 2019, the media body commenced an annual global migration summit in Abuja. The third edition of that comes up in Toronto between July 1-10, this year. In 2021 between February 25 and 26 in Accra, Ghana it organized the African Migration Summit in collaboration with the Nekotech Center of Excellence Ghana and later initiated the West African Media Migration Summit in partnership with the Organization Pour I’integration Africaine, Lome, Togo between June 22-23, 2021. Rihanna Attends NYC Dinner In Fur Coat, Glittering Gold Chain US Trial To Tell Epic Tale Of Mexican Drug Lord “El… In the second quarter of the year, JIFORM will host the National Media Migration/ Human Trafficking Dialogue in Lagos, Nigeria.