LAGOS  – The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has described Pastor Enoch Adeboye, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), as a great blessing to the world, saying his prayers and that of few others have kept Nigeria. CAN, in a message on Thursday to rejoice with the RCCG leader on his 80th, acknowledged Adeboye’s support and respect for the body, testifying that he was a man of integrity. The statement signed by Barrister Joseph Bade CAN General Secretary, reads: “…Daddy GO, You are a great blessing and gift not only for the body of Christ, but to the whole world where God has been making use of you as His Vessel of Honour. Nigeria Youths Should Take Up Leadership Roles – Cleric Lagos Catholic Faithful To Honour First Indigenous Bishop “Unarguably, your emergence as the General Overseer of your Church was ordained by God as it is being manifested in the unprecedented spreading of your ministerial impact globally. “We congratulate Daddy GO, the Father of Fathers, the Teacher of Teachers, the Pastor of Pastors, Bishops and many General Overseers, a man with impeccable integrity, an epitome of holiness, faithfulness, miracles, and humility. “May God continue to use you in winning souls and setting captives free in Jesus name. “Despite your tight schedule yet, you always honour our invitation whenever there is a need for it and your ministry and RCCG are great and reliable allies of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). You are fond of reminding those who wanted you to speak on national issues that once CAN has spoken, no Church leader should speak again.” POLL The statement added: “We are fully persuaded that it is the prayer of Daddy GO and a few others that is keeping Nigeria going despite all the self-inflicted problems that are threatening our existence as a nation. “You will continue to flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Because you are planted in the house of the Lord; you flourish in the courts of our God. “You are still bearing fruits in old age; you are ever full of sap and green (Psalm 92:12- 14 paraphrased). Congratulations Daddy GO. Wishing you good health, sound mind and greater exploits in Jesus name.” The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) also described him as an example to the Pentecostal community in many ways and a huge inspiration to the body of Christ around the world. In a letter on behalf of the Board of Trustees, the National Advisory Council, the National Executive Council and all the members of the PFN, by the National President of the PFN , Bishop Dr Francis Wale Oke, to Pastor Adeboye in commemoration of his 80th birthday, he congratulated him. He expressed gratitude to God Almighty for His grace and faithfulness in the life of Pastor Adeboye, who is one of the founding fathers of the PFN and the second National President, having led the fellowship from 1992-1995. Justice, Good Governance Won’t Admit Evil – Owoyemi The Ark Of The Covenant “Not only do you stand out for your humility, your unwavering commitment to the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, almost 30 years after you left office as the National President, is worthy of commendation. We salute you for consistently supporting the PFN through the years, always ready to offer the much needed support and advice at all times. “Your impact in the over 40 years of your leadership of the Redeemed Christian Church of God is evident across all the continents and many generations, making you a global icon and one of the most influential people in the world, of whom we are proud. “Our prayer is that God will continue to keep you strong and healthy to continue to serve as an inspiration to millions all over the world, within and outside the Christian fold. “We wish you many more returns of the day, as you continue to make impact in the lives of many across continents and generations, advancing the Christian faith, to the glory of God,” reads the letter made available by, Simbo Olorunfemi, Director, Media, PFN.