LAGOS – There is a common saying that the secret of successful people is in their stories. Their stories become inspiration, template for those coming from behind to scale heights. Adewale Adetona, a UK-based B2B Product Marketing Specialist, is a young tech expert impacting young Nigerian entrepreneurs, showing and leading by example. Adetona, popularly known as Islimfit, occupies a lot of enviable positions home and abroad by the virtue of what he has accomplished as a digital technologist. Islimfit is vastly experienced in delivering multi-channel content-driven campaigns leveraging the power of digital media platforms, email marketing and campaign reporting to increase brand awareness and convert prospective customers. Consequently, he got endorsed by TechNation in 2021 for the UK Government Tier 1 Global Talent Visa (Exceptional Talent) under Digital Technology category. Islimfit has worked in various capacities in the digital tech circuit, previously occupying the position of a Digital Marketing Manager before rising to become the head of Marketing. Islimfit is the convoker of the Lagos Digital Summit (LDS), a platform that gives start-ups, techpreneurs, digital media strategists, Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) owners, yearly platform to come together, interact and leverage on networking. Adetona has continued to show himself as a worthy example for budding entrepreneurs by focus in his career. His regular vlog entitled ‘Tech Chat with iSlimfit’, in which he hosts achievers in the industry, is a pointer to what drives him. “My desire to make an impact and contribute to the growth of upcoming Tech professionals birthed the YouTube Channel. Also, I wanted to replicate what I do offline with Lagos Digital Summit, in an online manner”, Islimfit said of his vlog during a question and answer session. POLL Revealing the secret of why he has managed to come this far, Islimfit credited diligence, prudence and the right attitude to work. “I’m a man of many hearts. The ability to function in different capacities as and when due is the premise of my career journey and experience over the years. I started off my professional career by working in a Media and Advertising agency, after which I moved to the client side of the divide – a Fintech brand in Lagos,” Islimfit stated. Continuing, Islimfit said, “I spent a few years as the Digital Marketing Manager before climbing the ladder to become the head of Marketing. My mentorship and social commentating activities outside my regular job also makes it easy for me to wear such various hats. “My best kept business secret is diligence, prudence and the right attitude to work. No matter how good you are in your field, without the right attitude, you might not go far. The right attitude coupled with the spirit of excellence is what will make potential customers want to have anything to do with you. Also, the devil is in the details. Paying 100% attention and ensuring excellence delivery and implementation are key for me”, Islimfit added.