The members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has responded to the call of the newly inaugurated Governor of Anambra State, Prof. Charles Soludo that the group and it’s security outfit, ESN to work with his administration in tackling insecurity in the state. The pro-Biafran group in a statement issued by it’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful said that it is open for truce if Soludo kept to his words by paving way for peace without endangering any of their members. The group assured Soludo that as long as he kept to his promise and do not toe the line of his predecessors whom he claimed disrespected and betrayed so many innocent youths from the South East, IPOB will never fight him or let him down. The statement read, “We wish to assure South East and South South governors that IPOB members are human beings and we don’t have plans to suffer our people but any of them who decide to approach us with harsh manner will receive us with harsh manner.” “We were here when he came and we would be here when he would be leaving. His predecessor, former governor Willie Obiano allowed himself to be used by Fulani people and allowed them to kill his people at Nkpor in 2016 during our annual remembrance of our fallen heroes and heroines who paid the ultimate price for our freedom between 1967 and 1970. We won’t accept such to happen again with our members and citizens of Biafra nation. “IPOB is a peaceful movement only seeking freedom of their people and nothing will make us to stop unless they give us a date for referendum to ascertain where everybody wants to belong, either in Nigeria or elsewhere. “We are ready to work with any government who wishes to give our people peace. If you dare us, you will regret it. We are peaceful and cannot jeopardise his government. “This call for a dialogue will pave the way for resolving a whole lot of issues. The innocent ones will be identified and saved from languishing in detention. POLL “The genuine self-determination groups will be identified and through dialogue properly and gainfully redirected; the renegades, mischief makers, purveyors of heinous acts of arson and brigandage, and their ilk would be fully identified and dealt with decisively so that peace and security will return to the South-East zone. “We fully identify with this call and will do our quota, if needed, to see to the fruition of this noble process. We urge the other governors in the South East to immediately identify with and adopt this call as their general position.”