Riding high in the polls, French President Emmanuel Macron rolled out his re-election platform on Thursday, vowing to strengthen France’s sovereignty and steer the country through what he called a new era of crisis. Macron’s lead ahead of next month’s election has grown in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. He has pulled clear of rivals ahead of the first round on April 10 and is seen comfortably beating any opponent in a run-off. “We are at a tipping point where we can make a real difference,” Macron told a news conference in Aubervilliers, north of Paris, highlighting the war on the European Union’s doorstep and the global challenge of climate change. “Many of the things that we have to do today, in a time of crisis, and that we will have to do in the coming months and years will structure the life of our country in the long run,” he added, before outlining a slew of measures that included a new business tax cut and labour, pension and energy market reforms. Confirming proposals that had already been leaked to the media, Macron said he would raise the retirement age from 62 to 65, lower inheritance taxes, and step up public investments in green energy and new technologies. As he launches his campaign, he can count on an economic boom that French voters have not seen the likes of in a generation – a point he stressed at the start of his news conference. “I had promised to lower unemployment – despite the crises, we did it,” he said. “The rate of unemployment is at its lowest level for 15 years, the youth unemployment rate is at its lowest level for 40 years, and the participation rate is at its highest level since we’ve been measuring it. [But] none of these results can be considered enough.” POLL The 44-year-old, who delayed declaring his bid for a second term until the last possible moment, was under pressure to engage with voters and challengers ahead of the election. Rivals across the political spectrum, who have struggled to make an impact in recent weeks amid the war in Ukraine, have accused the incumbent of attempting to bypass the election campaign. “The president wants to be re-elected without ever really having been a candidate, without a campaign, without a debate, without a competition of ideas,” the conservative head of the Senate, Gerard Larcher, complained on Tuesday. “If there isn’t a campaign, then there will be questions about the legitimacy of the winner,” Larcher, from the opposition Republicans party, told Le Figaro newspaper. Macron has taken a leading role in Western diplomatic outreach to stop the war in Ukraine, holding around 20 hours of talks with Russian leader Vladimir Putin in the last five weeks. His efforts have given him a personal ratings boost at home, while sidelining his rivals in the campaign. The most recent voter surveys suggest Macron has gained between 5.0 and 6.0 points over the last month and could be on course to win the first round of the election with a score of around 30 percent, a significantly higher margin of victory than in 2017. On average, the incumbent is polling more than 10% ahead of his closest challenger, veteran far-right leader Marine Le Pen. She is trailed by three candidates on around 11-12 percent – conservative candidate Valérie Pécresse, far-right former TV pundit Eric Zemmour and leftist Jean-Luc Mélenchon. The top two candidates in the first round will progress to a run-off vote on April 24. Polls currently suggest Macron would triumph by a large margin, irrespective of his rival. However, the head of state remains a highly divisive figure, owing to pro-business labour law reform and his abrasive personality, which led to violent anti-government demonstrations in 2018 by so-called Yellow Vest protesters. A survey by the Odexa polling group, published by Le Figaro on Wednesday, suggested one in four people might abstain in the first round of the election, the second-highest rate since 1965.