Concerned about the growing catastrophes of building collapses in Lagos state, the state government has moved to put in checks the plight of the victims through compulsory purchase of occupiers’ liability insurance policy for public buildings. This, according to Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC) through which the state government has mulled the initiative, occupiers liability insurance would be digitalised for easy access to the policy without the rigour of physical visit to an insurance company. Disclosing this at the stakeholders engagement organised by the state safety agency, Mr Lanre Mojola, the Commission’s director general and chief executive officer said the action plan would include to digitalize the purchase of occupier’s liability insurance in Lagos State, enforcement and creation of awareness about benefits accruable from making compulsory occupiers liability building insurance a culture in Lagos State as well as domesticating insurance of Laws in the state and continuous awareness and sustenance after implementation of the compulsory occupiers’ liability building insurance culture in Lagos State. The event themed: ‘The digital implementation and the enforcement of the compulsory insurance act on the public buildings in Lagos State had as its component theme:’ ‘Safer Lagos Insurance.’ In his keynote address, Mojola noted that there has been numerous accidents such as natural disasters, building collapses, fires and other calamities that resulted in permanent disabilities, loss of lives and properties and to protect the citizenry from the vagaries of these incidents there should be a measure of risks management architecture for compensations. He said: “There had over the years been, numerous accidents and incidents such as natural disasters, building collapses, fires, explosions that have resulted in injuries, permanent disabilities, loss of lives and property. To protect Nigerians and their businesses from vagaries in the event of unfortunate incident leading to injury, property damage or death the Federal Government through various Acts of parliament have over the years promulgated laws making seven insurance policy compulsory across the federation. However, due to several factors, some of these compulsory insurance laws have not been fully implemented; as such when dangerous occurrences and disasters happen, the citizenry look up to the government for compensation.” POLL Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003 stipulates that public buildings must be adequately insured ostensibly to cushion the impact and reduce burden and liability on property owners/government. He added that there is need to support this initiative to achieve the noble objective for which the compulsory insurance act on building was enacted. Action plans, he said, include; digitalising the purchase of occupier’s liability insurance in Lagos State, also to creating awareness about benefits accruable from making compulsory occupiers liability building insurance our culture in Lagos State. He stressed further that the was need to domesticate laws passed by the Federal Government by the various states and enforce them as well as continuous awareness and sustenance after implementation of the compulsory occupiers’ liability building insurance culture in Lagos State. Mrs Yetunde Ilori, Director General, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), also speaking at the event, debunked the impression in some quarters that insurance industry lacks the capacity to pay claims when an unfortunate occurs.