LAGOS – Coach Austin Eguavoen has said the Super Eagles would take Tuesday’s decisive 2022 World Cup qualifying playoff at the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abuja to their opponents, the Black Stars of Ghana. Recall that in the first leg of the two-legged games played at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi last Friday, the Super Eagles forced their hosts to a goalless draw which has made Tuesday’s match in Abuja very tricky for both countries. However, speaking to the media after their training at the Nigerian capital ahead of the game tomorrow, the former captain of the team, now the coach, said they would take the match to their opponents and force a win. Eguavoen noted that Nigeria was half way to the first FIFA World Cup in the Middle East. “We have to take the game to Ghana; we actually tried to take the game to them (in Kumasi) but they were very tough at the back, especially the defence led by Amatey. “Amatey was good I can confess but in Kumasi we had two, three clear cut chances we would have buried; we were not just calm enough in the box. But we will work on how we can have those final ball to our attackers to have easy passage “We are in high spirit and we are half way through; the boys know it. I had a word with them a while ago and I doff my cap for them and I will continue to do that because they were resilient (in Kumasi); they worked tirelessly in such an atmosphere. I think it was a very good result we got (in Kumasi). “Now (at training), one or two players weren’t involved because they had knocks (in Kumasi). POLL One or two of them that had knocks, we just want to rest them (at training),” Eguavoen said. Super Eagles are seeking for their seventh World Cup appearance since they debuted in the United States of America in 1994 while Ghana are seeking to qualify for their fourth after appearances in the 2006 in Germany, 2010 in South Africa and 2014 in Brazil. The Black Stars are the third country from Africa to reach the quarterfinal of the World Cup, a feat they achieved in 2010 in the former apartheid enclave. The Indomitable Lions of Cameroon were the first to reach the quarterfinal when they braced all odds to achieve that in Italy in 1990, while the Teranga Lions of Senegal followed 12 years later in 2002 when the World Cup was hosted by South Korea and Japan.