BENIN  – No fewer than nine per­sons, two soldiers and seven civilians, were reportedly killed over land tussle in Obayantor Community, off Benin-Sapele Road, about 11 kilometres from Benin City. A youth leader of the com­munity told our correspondent in Benin that before he escaped, he counted nine lifeless bodies of two soldiers and seven civil­ians at the community centre, adding that the entire commu­nity had been deserted since Saturday. He said, “Our community is currently under siege over land dispute as two soldiers and nine civilians have been killed as a result of the situation. “Right now, more than two hundred soldiers have taken over our communities. “More than a hundred peo­ple have escaped from the clash with bullets wounds with other communities in the neighbour­hood abandoning their homes. Those involved in the cur­rent clash are not immediately known. When contacted, the Edo State Police Public Relations Officer, Bello Kontongs, said it was a military operation and as such, the police didn’t have any information on it. He however promised to call back immediately he gets the information. POLL But the Nigerian Army, 4th Brigade, Benin, on Monday said that the Brigade never car­ried out a reprisal attack in the community, rather it said that the brigade only carried out operations in the community based on intelligence from the Department of State Service (DSS). The Brigade’s Public Re­lations Officer, Capt. Yemi Sokoya, said that against some reports making the rounds, soldiers were not in the com­munity because of reprisal, adding that the personnel of the brigade were guided by rules of engagement and code of conduct for internal security. He further explained that the brigade got a report from the DSS about hoodlums dis­turbing the community, and of weapons been stockedpiled which “we found out that it was true, and as soon as we got there, some of the hoodlums engaged the troop. “However, even if there was a communal issue before now, with what is happening in the country today, if you are a commander and you are told people are stockpiling weapons somewhere, you will go there and ensure that those weapons are seized and those involved arrested. “I think that is the right thing to do and that is exactly what the commander did. “The issue of communal crisis is not part of why we went there. It was basically on the hint report that hoodlums in that community are stock­piling weapons and terrorising the community. He disclosed that in the course of the operations, some weapons which include two AK-47 rifles, three English pump Action guns, one dou­ble barrel, 32 cartridges, five mobile phones and an ID card belonging to the state vigilante were recovered by the soldiers.