Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov, who has commercial ties with Everton, has seen his assets frozen by the European Union as the ramifications continue following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Usmanov’s company, USM Holdings, sponsors Everton’s training ground whilst he also has an exclusive naming-rights option on the club’s new stadium. Toffees owner Farhad Moshiri is chairman at USM Holdings. Tuchel Claims Chelsea Have Too Many Injury Worries To List Fuel Queue: Lagos Govt Warns Motorists Against Traffic… The restrictions placed on Usmanov, who is a former shareholder in Arsenal, include a “prohibition from making funds available” as well an EU travel ban. It is unclear how this will affect the Merseyside club. An EU Council said on its decision: “Alisher Usmanov is a pro-Kremlin oligarch with particularly close ties to Russian president Vladimir Putin “. They also claimed that the 68-year-old “actively supported materially or financially Russian decision-makers responsible for the annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of Ukraine”. Roman Abramovich, himself a member of Russia’s elite, has stepped back from Chelsea with the spotlight very much on him due to his links with Vladimir Putin. POLL The billionaire, who has owned the Blues for almost two decades, handed over “stewardship and care” of the club to its charitable foundation on Saturday – although that plan remains in doubt. Despite that decision Abramovich has continued to be questioned, with some criticising the statement he and Chelsea put out. However the Russian is attempting to play his part in peace talks. “I can confirm that Roman Abramovich was contacted by the Ukrainian side for support in achieving a peaceful resolution, and that he has been trying to help ever since,” Abramovich’s spokesperson said. “Considering what is at stake, we would ask for your understanding as to why we have not commented on neither the situation as such nor his involvement. Thank you. Constitution Review: Reps Back Inclusion Of Former NASS… Russia Blocks Foreign Investors From Fleeing Labour MP Chris Bryant called on the Chelsea owner’s assets to be seized last week and doubled down on that stance since. Two oligarchs, worth more than £11bn, have spoken out against Putin’s actions however. Oleg Deripaska, previously Russia ’s richest man but now under US sanctions, and Mikhail Fridman, worth £9.6bn and named by the US treasury in 2018 as linked to Putin, have both called for an end to the Ukraine invasion. On Sunday Deripaska tweeted: “Peace is the priority. Negotiations must start ASAP”. Fridman, who was born in Ukraine, called for an end to the “bloodshed”. Russia said on Monday that it would hit back against the EU after it came out in support of Ukraine and warned against arming the country with weapons.