The People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCo) has called on politicians to respect the tenet of equity of all regions as the country moves nearer to the 2023 general elections. The group also reiterated that it was the turn of the South-East to produce the next president of Nigeria, adding that a president outside the region could cause disaffection in the country. Dr Emeka Kalu, the National Coordinator of PDPCo in a statement issued to journalists said that it was morally right for politicians to provide a level playing ground for an Igbo man to be elected as the next Nigerian President. Kalu alleged that some groups were already making attempts to truncate the freedom of Ndigbo in taking the topmost political office in the country. He regretted that the people from the Southeast have been politically marginalised for decades, especially in appointments and elective offices, but noted that other regions in the country have consistently produced men for the number of offices in the country. Kalu insisted that by so doing, the greedy politicians were gradually plunging the country into an avoidable crisis. He added: “Leadership never prospers in the hands of some oligarchic group of persons who see themselves as utopian plutocrats or self-anointed lords. We are in a liberal democracy where leaders are chosen and selected based on equity and fair play. “A person who truly loves justice and whose conscience is not dead must see the reasons he or she should advocate for equity in the sharing of our national political offices. Critics of our daily drives towards achieving equity in our political system are those who hardly see anything good in common sense and logic. POLL “It is a pity that most of our people have not learnt their lessons from the previous happenings, but arrogantly ignore the truth in place of falsehood.” He also lamented that some of those working against the emergence of the Igbo presidency are from the South East, stressing that their action was plunging the region further into destruction in exchange for peanuts. He challenged the Southeasterners and all well-meaning Nigerians to unite, defend and speak up the truth for the sake of the common prosperity of Nigerians at large. “It is full of darkness and backwardness for Igbos to keep silent in the face of abnormality and gross ethnic marginalisation. It is the turn of Igbo man to be elected the President of Nigeria; it is time to give equity a manifesting space; it is time for Nigerians to rise in favour of fairness by combating ethnic selfishness, bigotry and domination,” he said.