UMUAHIA – An academic crisis engendered by an accusation of plagiarism levelled against a lecturer in the Department of Political Science, (name withheld) at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) is currently rocking the university as some of the lecturers have insisted that the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Charles Igwe, must set an open panel of eminent academics to investigate the matter. Briefing journalists in Umuahia on Friday, a Professor of Political Science in the department, Johnson Uko, alleged that the culprit, who also is a lecturer in Political Science Department, is being shielded by the school authorities because he is from a particular section of the country. Professor Uko, who was in Umuahia because of the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), disclosed that despite a petition written by one Dr Uche Okonkwo of the Department of Political Science in the university to the VC alerting him of the incident, the culprit, a Master’s Decree holder who is pursuing his Doctor’s Philosophy Degree (PhD) in the same department still walks around freely. Plagiarism: TETFund To Begin Thesis Digitisation In Tertiary… Power Outage: UNN College Of Medicine Dean Debunks Interaction… “The rule is that if a student and is involved in this, you lose your studentship; if you’re a staff you’ll be dismissed. It was during the presentation of the academic seminar for PhD students the fraud of plagiarism was discovered. The accused presented a project that had 56 pages of an academic work that belongs to another, Professor Benson Osadolor, former Vice-Chancellor, Ambrose Alli University and presently a lecturer at the Hamburg University, Germany. “Dr Uche Okonkwo who was in the team of academics supervising the work raised the alarm and before you know it, Uche Okonkwo searched in Google and printed out 56 pages and presented them to the academic team as proof that the work was stolen. “Surprisingly, instead of setting up an open panel, Dr Uche Okonkwo was asked to withdraw the petition and before we know what was happening, they said a panel had been constituted and the man was not found guilty. “This panel, if actually, it was constituted, did not bother to ask the petitioner to testify at the panel”, he contended. According to Prof Uko, another vexatious issue that is bugging the university “because it’s becoming a norm in the 61-year-old university is the alleged dominance by people from Anambra State. “The whole place is in a state of disrepair. Classrooms are dilapidated; hostels are nothing to write home about. Some lectures are even held under the tree and that’s what ASUU is protesting against and people thought they were demanding too much. But the case of UNN is worsened by this dominance because for many years now only Anambra State professors have been appointed VCs”, he alleged. POLL Contacted on phone, Dr Okonkwo revealed that as a member of the academic panel that supervised the alleged culprit’s project, he discovered that many pages of the work were copied, pointing out as an academic that believes in excellence and quality control, he raised an alarm and thereafter followed it up with a petition to the VC, asking for a panel to be set up to investigate the man’s misdemeanour. “I did a petition to the VC, but to my greatest surprise, nothing came out of it except the rumour that later came out that a penal had already been set up and that the panel had finished its work and found him innocent. I said that that cannot happen. By next week, I’ll do a reminder to the VC. “In a normal academic environment, a panel would’ve been set up and the petitioner invited to substantiate his claim and the report published and appropriate punishment meted out, but that was not the case in this instance”, he declared. On whether he was not afraid of being victimized by the school authorities, Dr Uche Okonkwo said “at my level for scholarship what is important is to do the right thing and save the university system from the hands of charlatans, after all that’s one of the issues ASUU is campaigning against. “Any university teacher to the rank of a professor who supports or covers academic fraud to the tune of this shouldn’t be a university teacher. I’m not afraid of being victimized”, he maintained.