The capacity to service the current stock of debt raises serious sustainability concerns. For instance, the debt service provision in the 2022 budget was a whooping N3.8 trillion.’ Muda Yusuf, CEO, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), and immediate former Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), poured out his mind on the state of the economy and business in Nigeria in a robust interview with SIAKA MOMOH. and Medium Enterprises (NASME), The Most Export Friendly Newspaper in Nigeria organised by Multimix Export Academy, Fate foundation Best SME Journalist 2007, Citi Journalistic Excellence Award 2011 organised by Citi Group, U.S. and The School of Journalism, University of Columbia, etc. Siaka Momoh currently publishes EnterpriseNow in Association with Daily Independent newspaper and Realsectornow online. He caught his teeth in journalism in Vanguard and has had stints with Daily Times and New Telegraph. Yours Sincerely Is 70 Euromonitor Highlights Top Global Consumer Trends 2022 Siaka is married with four children and his dream is to make all his children entrepreneurs. He is close to achieving this 100%. Manufacturing Challenges Some of the current challenges which manufacturers are grappling with include the following: • The economy is still at a recovery phase, many manufacturing companies are yet to recover from the shocks and dislocations inflicted by the pandemic and the recession that followed. • Manufacturing contribution to GDP is still less than ten percent. The growth recorded in the sector in the second quarter of 2021 was a mere three percent (3%). Giving the strategic importance of manufacturing to an economy, what the sector needs at this time is more stimulus to ensure better contribution to the GDP. POLL • Manufacturers are currently contending with a serious crisis resulting from liquidity in the foreign exchange market and sharp depreciation in the exchange rate which is impacting adversely on the cost of production. Many manufacturers are not able to import vital raw materials, a situation which is severely inhibiting their production and productivity. • Manufacturers are suffering from intense pressure on cost of production arising from numerous structural bottlenecks. This situation is creating sustainability challenges for investors in the sector, especially those in the SME segment. They have experienced significant spikes in the cost of raw materials, cost of fund, high import duty, elevated energy cost, prohibitive cost of transportation and high cost of logistics. A huge proportion of these costs cannot be passed on to the consumers because of high consumer resistance. • The economy is currently characterised by weak purchasing power which is taking a huge toll on sales and turnover of many manufacturers, leading to high inventory of manufactured goods. • Many manufacturers are currently struggling with unfair competition, especially from products imported from Asia which has flooded the Nigerian market, largely because of the porosity of the borders. These imports are often much cheaper than goods produced locally. • Energy cost is currently at an all time high, the cost of diesel is already at the threshold of three hundred naira (N300) per litre as against two hundred naira N200) per litre a year ago. The cost of gas is on the increase, availability of gas is an issue. Industrialists are also experiencing sharp increases in electricity tariffs provided by the Electricity Distribution Companies, the Discos. Del-York Wins West Africa’s Media Agency Of The Year Award NAICOM Set To Institute Sanction On Firms Not Uploading… • The cost of logistics has continued to be on the upward trend. Some of the reasons for this are the states of the roads, the limited freight capacity of the railway system, the crisis situation at our major ports, the traffic gridlock around the Lagos ports, the numerous check points around the ports and beyond. Debt Burden The growing National debt is a cause for concern as public debt grew from N12.6 trillion in 2015 to N92.6 trillion as at September 2021, an increase of over 600%. Although 11% of these are debts owed by the state governments and the FCT. The capacity to service the current stock of debt raises serious sustainability concerns. For instance, the debt service provision in the 2022 budget was a whooping N3.8 trillion. Debt service to revenue ratio was 76% as at November 2021, with an actual debt service payment of N4.2 trillion. This is certainly not a healthy fiscal position and should be a cause for concern. With the weak revenue performance and the growing recurrent expenditure, the capacity to fund capital projects has become severely constrained. The opportunity costs of high debt service for the economy and citizens are very high as the economy is denied desired funding for critical social and economic infrastructure projects which are needed to build a globally competitive economy and advance the welfare of citizens. There is also the exchange rate risk inherent in the exposure to mounting foreign debt which we need to worry about. As the currency depreciates, the burden of servicing foreign debts would intensify, especially when productivity in the economy remains low. This is a major concern with spike in the stock of foreign debt. Commercial debts are the costliest components of external debt, and the Euro bond is one of such debts. The less commercial debts we incur, the better for debt sustainability. Concessionary debts are generally much better. These are debts from multilateral institutions such as the African Development Bank, the World Bank, IMF, and Bilateral debts. Their interests’ rates are extremely low, and their tenure are quite long. Most often, these concessionary debts are specific to projects which reduces the risk of inappropriate public expenditure. This Fiscal Responsibility Act underscores this position Way out of the debt burden There are reform imperatives to reduce recurrent expenditure, especially the cost of governance. It is critical as well to ensure appropriate policy choices to attract equity domestic and foreign private sector capital for economic and social infrastructure financing. Reducing the burden of debt and the risk of a debt trap also demands appropriate policies to incentivize private investments. Investment growth would boost economic growth, enhance the growth of revenue, and reduce the prospects of fiscal deficit and consequent borrowing. Creating an enabling environment for private investment is therefore very critical to reducing the burden of public debt. Economic reforms are imperative to ease the fiscal burden of government in the provision of infrastructure. Bankable infrastructure projects should be identified for private sector investment. but this should come with the right incentives, especially around the minimization of risk exposure by the private sector. Quality of government spending and appropriate expenditure priorities are crucial to the creation of fiscal sustainability by the government. There is need to address corruption risks in government projects and general government expenditure as well. Depreciating exchange rate situation The reality is that what we are witnessing with the naira exchange rate is a reflection of our macroeconomic fundamentals and the prevailing policy context. Oil revenue accounts for about 85% of foreign exchange earnings and is the major driver of accretion to the foreign reserves. The slump in oil price and the associated adverse expectations has put unprecedented pressures on the reserves and weakened the capacity of the CBN to defend the currency. Reserves is at an all-time low. A significant part of the reserves are portfolio inflows, many of which are desperate to exit. These are the real issues. You cannot give what you do not have. Implications of current forex situation for business • Weakening of investors’ confidence • Generation of speculative pressures on the currency • Further depreciation of the naira exchange rate • Heightened inflationary pressures on the back of currency weakening. • Likely increase production and operating costs for businesses • Weakening of purchasing power with adverse implications for the welfare of the citizens. Over the years, most investors in the economy access the foreign exchange at a much higher rate than the CBN official rate. The unification of the rates is an important move to stem the looming liquidity crisis in the foreign exchange market. Many manufacturers are currently facing challenges of access to foreign exchange to import raw materials, there remittance issues being faced by many importers and other investors that need to pay their foreign suppliers, foreign credit lines have been lost as a consequence of this situation. The effect on business is quite profound. Multiple exchange rate could be a major source of distortion in the foreign exchange market. It complicates the management of the forex market; It perpetuates a rent economy, creates opportunities for arbitrage, engenders resource misallocation, impedes the attraction of investment, inhibits the inflow of forex, and create transparency issues in the allocation of forex. The good news is that the CBN is already take steps at unification of the rates. It is imperative for the exchange rate to reflect the market fundamentals in order to ensure sustainability and promote efficiency in allocation mechanism. This is also critical for investors’ confidence. This should however be complemented with appropriate trade policy regime, fiscal policy measures and institutional strengthening to achieve the objective of enhanced self-reliance and economic diversification. This would serve the dual purpose of easing the demand pressure for forex and boost the capacity of the economy to boost supply of forex through increased remittances, export proceeds and private capital inflows. These are some of the short to medium term measures that could be put in place to mitigate the current challenges in the foreign exchange market. Second part of this interview titled ‘Nigeria Has Over 150 Unofficial Taxes and 60 Official Taxes’ will be published next week Thursday.