Unity Bank has received commendations for its commitment to women empowerment at the National Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, NASME’s International Women’s Day, IWD celebrations held in Alausa, Lagos recently to push the frontiers of sustainable and inclusive development in Nigeria. Otunba Gbemisola Oduntan, the National Deputy President of NASME, gave the commendation while addressing participants at the event. She said the partnership with Unity Bank enabled NASME to roll out an engagement programme for women entrepreneurs in commemoration of the IWD, adding that the programme specifically targeted those in MSME sectors and provided a platform for corporate partners to join collaborative initiatives that will impact positively on the businesses of individual members of NASME in Lagos. Mrs. Oluwatomi Somefun, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Unity Bank, who was the Chairman of the occasion, while delivering a keynote, said Unity Bank Plc would continue to support pioneering efforts with genuine intent on inclusivity, removing biases and unlearning stereotypes, even as the Bank continues to introduce innovative banking solutions that support and empower Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, MSMEs operated by women in Nigeria. According to Somefun, Nigerian women continue to play a pivotal role in driving the growth of the Nigerian economy through their overwhelming involvement in economic activities as major operators of MSMEs in Nigeria as they account for 41 per cent of MSMEs in the country. Referencing the Bank’s latest retail solution, Yanga Account, which is targeted at women-owned MSMEs, Somefun reiterated the Bank’s commitment to introducing innovative products and services that support and unlock the true potentials of Nigerian women entrepreneurs. Represented by Head, Personal and SME Banking, Dr. Opeyemi Ojesina, Somefun said the bank’s quest to grow retail segment “has enabled us to pay extra attention to women-led businesses more than any other financial services provider in Nigeria”. She said: “Just recently, we launched the Yanga account, which is a new retail product designed to deepen beneficial impact on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, MSMEs operated by women in the mass market retail space.