Hon. Hellen Taiwo-Adebakin is a staunch member of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). The secretary of the former and serving National ex-officio members of the PDP ,in this interview with YAQOUB POPOOLA spoke about the place of women in politics and the need to mainstream them in leadership positions. She also decried the anti-gender posture of the National Assembly. Excerpts. From 1999, we saw women participation in politics but the trend suddenly dropped. What do you think is responsible? It is quite unfortunate and a big shame to us as a nation. I think the National Assembly needs to change its anti-gender posture .Let the lawmakers revisit all gender Bill recently rejected .Women groups should be more United in their advocacy for gender inclusion and women mainstreaming in governance. Above all ,women must take advantage of their voting strength to deepen their political networks .Women should not wait until men show them the direction to follow. Let them show capacity for leadership. One of the factors responsible for this is the pulling down attitude of some women against their colleagues in leadership positions. Women who excelled in their chosen careers should be role models and mentor the younger ones . What are you doing currently to encourage more women in politics? What I am trying to do basically is to demonstrate my capacity as a women .And I think this is one important culture women need to imbibe .We must always prove to men that we are equal to the task, if not better .Before now I had led many advocacy aimed at given women more space, particularly in our party(PDP). It is on record that I was the first person to challenge the seeming lopsidedness in the line up of the National Executive Council of our party. And anywhere I found myself ,I try to speak for women .But it is very sad women now seemed to be their own enemies nowadays. What do you have to say about the Nigerian Constitution as some people claim the real problem of Nigeria is the Constitution. They believe the current Constitution cannot bring development to the country. I don’t think the constitution is our problem,if we want to be sincere with ourselves. The major problem is our negative attitudes to national issues . We have the challenge of bad leadership and followership .Every nation gets a leader it deserves. We cannot all be indulging in corrupt practices and expect saints to lead us as a people. If we are sincere and honest with ourselves the current constitution can bring about the much needed development. What can you say about the issue of restructuring or call for Sovereign National Conference for a new Constitution? POLL You see when there is a failure of leadership, people will continue to come up with all manner of agitations. The people are frustrated already. So, if the system is working, nobody will talk about all these big grammar. We have had several National Conferences, what was the result? What can you about the APC led-federal government since 2015 considering the current reality across the country? To say that the APC government is a big disappointment to Nigerians would be an understatement, infect it is a disaster. Where do we want to start from. The effect of bad governance is felt in every sector of our economy .The economy is in deep mess and near collapse. The security architecture has collapsed with scores being mercilessly slaughtered by bandits or ritualists. What is even left for us to talk about as a nation. I pray that this people will not end the entity called Nigeria .Because the situation is deteriorating day by day and which is why Nigerians are yearning for the return of the PDP into power. Nigerians have seen the difference now and I don’t think they would want to thread this dangerous path again. There seems to be cracks on the wall of PDP now, do you see the party coming to power in 2023? I don’t believe there is a crack. But I will agree with you of you say there were misunderstandings which is normal in every setting or political parties. There would be need to argue on issues but at the at end of the day we arrive at a common ground. Nobody ever believe the PDP could have a rancour-free national convention which produced the present crop of leaders being led by our amiable National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu.I want to assure you that the PDP Presidential Primaries would be rancour free too. Do you have confidence in INEC to conduct free and fair elections come 2023 and what is your expectation from INEC before, during and after the elections? The PDP as a party ,shall compel INEC to do right thing on the issues relating to the general elections. We shall put the electoral umpire on its toe.The 2023 Presidential is very crucial to us nation and this is when Nigerians shall choose whether to end the current sufferings or live with it perpetually. In a nut shell, we expect the INEC to do the right thing by conducting free fair and credible elections that will b acceptable to all stakeholders. For equity and fairness, what do you have to say about South-East producing the next President of Nigeria considering the fact that no one from the South-East has govern this country in the history of Nigeria? Politics is about negotiation and I am sure the highest hierarchy of our party in handling all issues pertaining to elections, zoning and power sharing. I am sure they would come out with a position on this. There is insecurity everywhere; inflation is on the high; ASUU on strike; ritual killings on the rise; Nigerians are groaning, etc. What do you think is the way forward? The way out is to have a responsible government. And you can only have a responsible government by returning PDP back to power in Nigeria. Nigerians have given APC the opportunity and they mismanaged it . What encouraged you to go into politics and what has been your experience for you so far? The desire to make impact in the nation building, assist the less privileged members of the society and the marginalised, were the motivating factors. I believe politics offer a broader opportunity where one can impact on the lives of the downtrodden. With the active participation of some us in politics, the men are beginning to realize that women cannot just be relegated to the background or restrained to the kitchen . What is your advice to Nigerians at this time of the country’s history? My advice to Nigerians is for them not to loose hope yet .There is a solution in the corner and the solution will be to vote for PDP in 2023 Presidential election .So that we can return to the good old days.