LAGOS – Charitable Network for Community Empowerment (CHANCE), a Lagos based non-governmental organisation (NGO), on Wednesday, disclosed its plan to reach out to a minimum of 100 female traders and street sweepers with packs of food items. This gesture, according to the Founder and Programme Director of the NGO, Mrs Olajumoke Saliu, is in commemoration of the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD). Saliu at a press briefing in Lagos to announce the NGO’s lineup of activities in celebration of the 2022 IWD, explained that the day is an annual observance, one in which women are recognised for their achievements without regard to divisions and is celebrated in many countries around the world. Lassa Fever: Oyo NMA Confirms Death Of Members ‘If Rihanna Was Nigerian’, Toke Makinwa Reveals What Would Have… She further stated that the growing international women’s movement, which has been strengthened by four global United Nations women’s conferences, has helped make the commemoration a rallying point to build support for women’s rights and participation in the political and economic arenas. “In line with the objective of Charitable Network for Community Empowerment (CHANCE) in finding effective strategies to create social impact for women and youths towards attaining sustainable development, we have organised a programme in commemoration of the International Women’s Day 2022, slated to hold on Tuesday, March 8, 2022. “The event will hold in two phases and the first will be the fulfilment of Project 100 Smiles, a 1-hour market outreach between 8 am and 9 am at the popular Bariga Market close to the University of Lagos, where a minimum of 100 female traders and street sweepers will be gifted packs of food items to celebrate their strength and drive for economic independence and the support of their families. “The main program – the Youth Outreach, will follow and this will be held at the Afe Babalola Auditorium, University of Lagos, Akoka, organised in collaboration with the Faculty of Arts Students’ Association (FASA). “The programme is designed to empower the youths with skills to help them aspire to be more, make the up-skill move and live intentionally to create a truly gender-equal world, free of bias, stereotypes and discrimination. POLL “To achieve this, we have carefully selected topics to discuss issues such as Breast and Cervical Cancer: All there is to know; Savings, Investment and Budgeting: Prerequisites to Financial Independence; a panel discussion on Gender Equality: The Experiential Perspectives and a keynote address in line with the International Women’s Day theme of the year ‘Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow’. These will be examined by seasoned facilitators from Nigeria and the Diaspora like Dr Femi Olaleye, Mary Izobo, Florence Hungbo, Ayotunde Ogunmuyiwa and Titilope Adewusi among others,” she said. She explained further that the panelists to discuss “Gender Equality: The Experiential Perspectives”, are young professionals and business owners with compelling success stories, some of whom have convincingly carved a niche and name for themselves and brands in the seemingly male-dominated spaces in which they operate. The panelists, according to Mrs Saliu, would share their inspirations, experiences, challenges, success tips and growth maintenance mechanisms, to help other youths make their success move towards achieving gender equality. “On a similar note, the keynote address will be taken by a young award-winning international human rights and gender advocate. This was so designed to ensure that it resonates with the youthful audience and invigorates their spirits. “Alongside other exciting programmes listed to make the celebration memorable, other highlights to look forward to include: free health screening – blood pressure & sugar level check, eye screening & free eye glasses, breast & cervical examination, free hygiene packs, among others,” she added.