LAGOS – The financial threats landscape in 2021 witnessed positive changes where the overall number of users affected by malware reduced significantly, including a 35% drop in PC malware, Kaspersky’s new financial cyberthreats in 2021 report, has stated According to the report, attacks are becoming increasingly corporate rather than consumer focused, adding cybercriminals’ most lucrative targets, financial organisations,  will continue to face massive threats. In 2021, every third (37,8%) PC banking malware attack targeted corporate users, representing a growth of almost 14% since 2018. FCCPC Partners NCAA To Curb High Airfare, Consumers Rights… Julius Berger Wins Nigeria’s CSR Company Of The Year 2021 Award While 2021 saw an expansion in threats to financial organisations on a global scale, there was a continuation of the downward trend of PC and mobile malware previously seen in 2020. In fact, the number of users who encountered PC malware decreased by 35% – from 625 364 in 2020 to 405,985 in 2021. “The risk of cyberattacks, although the overall statistics look reassuring,  is far from over, especially for corporate networks”, it said. Kaspersky experts report a continuation of this decade’s emerging trend of banking Trojans targeting corporate users. Between 2020 and 2021, corporate users’ share of banking malware attacks rose by almost 2% and increased a significant 13,7% points between 2018 and 2021. Notably, in recent years the growth of corporate users’ share was slower than in pre-pandemic years. Kaspersky experts attribute this to the continuing shift towards remote and hybrid work modes. POLL It would be recalled that the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) raises alarm over malware that steals banking app login details The Xenomorph malware masquerades as a legitimate application called “Fast Cleaner” on Google playstore. The NCC has alerted the Nigerian public to a newly discovered malicious software that steals users’ banking app login credentials on Android devices. The commission said that its Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), in security advice said that the malicious software called, Xenomorph, has been found to target 56 financial institutions from Europe as well as has high impact and high vulnerability rate. It stated that the main intent of this malware is to steal credentials, combined with the use of SMS and Notification interception to log-in and use potential 2-factor authentication tokens. Dana Air, Travelstart Partner On Seamless Booking, Deals For… CPS An Antidote To Police Pension Plight –PenCom While the pandemic saw both the rise and fall of mandatory restrictions, many companies have decided to continue with remote or hybrid work models and not return to the traditional office work mode. During the pandemic, some organisations’ employees resorted to using home devices protected by consumer solutions, which are insufficient for working purposes. Because attacks detected on home devices are counted as “consumer” threats, regardless of whether the device was being used for working on corporate networks, there is a likely possibility that cybercriminals are even more interested in corporate users than Kaspersky statistics reflect. What is more, only four malware families were responsible for the attacks on about half of all affected users. While Zbot maintained its position as the number one used malware among financial cybercriminals, SpyEye surged from the eighth most common banking malware, at a 3,4% share in 2020, to the second most common at 12,2% in 2021. At the same time, Emotet (9,3%), described by Europol as “the world’s most dangerous malware”, saw a drop of five percentage points between 2020 and 2021. This coincides with law enforcement agencies’ global collaboration to obstruct the botnet’s infrastructure at the beginning of 2021, which limited Emotet’s activities for at least part of the year. “The growth of attacks on corporate users demonstrates that good security measures and high levels of security awareness are integral to the safety of organisations. Successful financial attacks directed at corporate users often impact the whole organisation, not just a single user. And, from our experience, large botnets, such as Emotet, do not target particular users or companies but instead go for the low-hanging fruit, penetrating any organisation that they can and later determining whether it is worth expanding its attacks further. Once a cybercriminal penetrates a corporate network, the whole system is at risk. The target does not even have to be connected to devices in the accounting or finance departments – by infecting any device on the same network, attackers can often access devices from those departments. To prevent such attacks from happening and spreading, organisations must make sure that users are aware of the risks that phishing emails or untrusted websites present,” says Oleg Kupreev, security expert at Kaspersky. This disclosure by the NCC is contained in a press statement issued by the commission and signed by its Director, Public Affairs, Dr Ikechukwu Adinde, as can be seen on its website. What the NCC is saying about the Xenomorph Malware NCC in its statement said, ‘’Xenomorph is propagated by an application that was slipped into Google Play store and masquerading as a legitimate application called “Fast Cleaner” ostensibly meant to clear junk, increase device speed and optimize battery. In reality, this app is only a means by which the Xenomorph Trojan could be propagated easily and efficiently. ‘’To avoid early detection or being denied access to the PlayStore, “Fast Cleaner” was disseminated before the malware was placed on the remote server, making it hard for Google to determine that such an app is being used for malicious actions. ‘’Once up and running on a victim’s device, Xenomorph can harvest device information and Short Messaging Service (SMS), intercept notifications and new SMS messages, perform overlay attacks, and prevent users from uninstalling it. The threat also asks for Accessibility Services privileges, which allow it to grant itself further permissions.’’ The commission’s CSIRT stated that the malware also steals victims’ banking credentials by overlaying fake login pages on top of legitimate ones, noting that since it can also intercept messages and notifications, it allows its operators to bypass SMS-based two-factor authentication and log into the victims’ accounts without alerting them. Where the Xenomorph Malware has been found to target It states, “Xenomorph has been found to target 56 internet banking apps, 28 from Spain, 12 from Italy, 9 from Belgium, and 7 from Portugal, as well as Cryptocurrency wallets and general-purpose applications like emailing services. ‘’The Fast Cleaner app has now been removed from the Play Store but not before it garnered 50,000+ downloads.’’ NCC’s advice to Android Phone and Internet users The NCC in its advisory message urged telecom consumers to be on alert in order not to fall victim to this manipulation. It asked telecom consumers and other Internet users, particularly those using Android-powered devices to use trusted Antivirus solutions and update them regularly to their latest definitions. The Commission also implore consumers and other stakeholders to always update banking applications to their most recent versions. hat you should know Recall that in January, the NCC warned the public against a new high-risk, critical and Short Messaging Service-based malware, TangleBot, infecting Android mobile devices. The TangleBot was said to have employed more or less similar tactics as the recently-announced notorious FlutBot SMS Android malware that targets mobile devices, adding that it equally gains control of the device but in far more invasive manner than the FlutBot malware. Also 2 weeks earlier, the commission warned members of the public against the activities of a cybercrime group that has perfected a New Year scheme to deliver ransomware to targeted organizational networks.