The Association of Licensed Telecommunications Opera­tors of Nigeria (ALTON) has expressed concern about the shutting down of telecommu­nications facilities in Kogi State as a result of disputes arising from unusual taxes and levies demanded by the Kogi State Government through its Kogi State Internal Revenue Service (KIRS). ALTON in statement by Gbenga Adebayo, Chairman and Gbolahan Awonuga Head, Operations, said the issue is likely to lead to a total commu­nications blackout in the entire Kogi State, parts of Abuja the Federal Capital Territory and possible impact on service availability in some parts of the following States: Nassara­wa, Benue, Enugu, Anambra, Edo, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara, Niger States. These, the association said, are states sharing borders with Kogi State. The association said this situation arises as a number of critical telecommunications sites belonging to its members have been closed and sealed up by Kogi State Government in an attempt to increase its internally generated revenue IGR collection. “This action followed an ex-parte court order obtained by the KIRS over unsubstanti­ated allegations that our mem­bers are in default of tax pay­ments to the state government (which is not the truth) and access to these critical telecom sites has been denied. “As result of these actions by the state government, our members are unable to refu­el power generators in these sites, a situation which has led to outage of over 70 sites including hub sites across parts of Kogi State. Now, with likely impact on Nine States surrounding Kogi (namely:- Nasarawa, Benue, Enugu, Anambra, Edo, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara, Niger States. These are States sharing borders with Kogi State), and Abuja the FCT inclusive. “We are very concerned that this indiscriminate action has the potential of further leading to a total telecommunications outage in Kogi State with neighboring states and parts of the Federal Capital Territory adversely impacted. “To the best of our knowl­edge, our members have settled all statutory levies and taxes due to the Kogi State Govern­ment and have taken necessary steps to comply with local laws that govern business activities within Kogi State. “These are charges de­scribed as; Annual Right of Way (ROW) renewal, Social Services contribution, Em­ployee Economic Develop­ment Levy, mast site premises renewal and Fire service yearly renewal. POLL “Others are from the Kogi State Environmental Protec­tion Board on; Payment of environmental levy, Failure to submit an environmental im­pact assessment report; Failure to register industry; Failure to submit environmental audit report every 2 years; Storage of petroleum products and radioactive materials with­out written permission from KSEPB; Failure to comply with setbacks to roads, power lines and rivers/streams; and Dumping of toxic or hazard­ous substances or hazardous substances or harmful waste without KSEPB approval.” ALTON expressed worries that the action by KIRS will jeopardize communication services provided by its mem­bers to security agencies such as the Nigeria Police Force, the Armed Forces in addition and to other emergency and social services in Kogi and other neighboring states, stressing that this will include affecting communication links to Bank automatic teller machines (ATM) across those states. “The outage currently being experienced is already affecting the ability of our members to provide uninterrupted service delivery to Commercial Banks, Central Bank of Nigeria, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and other critical agencies of government in the aforementioned locations. “It is pertinent to note that the office of the National Secu­rity Adviser to Mr. President has in the past communicated to the 36 state governments on the fact that telecommunica­tions sites are Critical National Infrastructure (CNI). They are critical socio-economic and security infrastructure. The agency had strongly advised against sealing them as such actions would have negative implications on national se­curity. “State Governments were encouraged to explore oth­er means of resolving tax related disputes rather than sealing telecommunications sites. It is therefore worri­some that the KIRS contin­ue to ignore such advice.”