Is it safe to expect a bonus issue from Julius Berger? Yes, it is possible, but also don’t forget that this company has given bonuses twice in the last three years. There was one-for-five and 1:99, and based on the latest developments as regards the requirement of the amended Companies & Allied Matters Act (CAMA), I will confirm if Julius Berger still has any unissued shares in its books that can be converted, in line with that law. But, if a company has given bonus issues twice within a space of three to four years, I don’t see the directors proposing any dividend again. The company has strong earnings that can pay a dividend now which will support the price, instead of proposing another bonus. It depends, however, on the requirements of the new CAMA. If the company decides to capitalize, fine, but let’s wait and see. However, my expectation on the strength of its numbers, is that the company will pay a good dividend. With the new rule, we don’t yet know those companies that will capitalize their unissued shares immediately. Based on hints from Presco and NPF Microfinance Bank, it is possible, but we have not received any sign from Julius Berger and some others that are likewise affected. That notwithstanding, if Julius Berger should go ahead with another bonus issue, it will be nice, and further support its share price. What is actually driving the recent rally in UACN? When it started, two members of this town hall called my attention, but I didn’t immediately see any tangible reason for the rally, even after I called people I thought could have one explanation or another, but I believe someone is positioning in the stock. I do not have any information just yet, but the strength on the numbers as of Q3 is enough reason for the rally, not just the dividend information… It is not dividend expectation that is driving the price of this stock. It is beyond that, because I don’t see the directors paying as much as the N1.20 that was paid at the end of the previous financial year. PARTICIPANT I: Since all listed companies with a difference between their issued and fully paid share capital, have up till December 31, 2022, to capitalized such unissued shares, quite a number of listed companies so affected are likely to do what Presco is planning in the months ahead. They will give their unauthorized shares as bonus, and it may come any time before the end of this year. There is nothing wrong with giving a bonus. They may decide to give it at a later date, and they don’t need to call any general meeting to do that. I think that possibility is what is responsible for the rally we saw in UACN last week… The expectation is that the board may decide to convert the unissued shares into bonus issues. (We need to) check all of those companies listed on the NGX that still have unissued shares and how many they are. This will be the yardstick that would determine which companies are likely to give bonuses, either now or sometime in the year. Everybody should be alert for any possible hint, because the companies have up to December to do it. Moreover, companies do not require audited accounts to do that because it is from their reserve, it is only an issue of taking from the left hand and giving it to the left. All they need to do is to call a meeting via Zoom and you can rest assured that the shareholders will approve. As such, investors should watch out for those companies that are affected by the requirements of the amended law. PARTICIPANT II: Still on UACN, from data available to me, its unissued shares is very, very insignificant to have warranted that massive rally, which points to the probability of some other information driving the rally. How will the hyperinflation due to the hike in AGO impact Q1 results of listed companies? I mentioned in passing earlier during the market review that because of what is happening in Europe (the war between Russia and Ukraine), there is a hike in the cost of raw materials (imported inflation), and for us to invest wisely, we have to look at which sectors of the economy is good to invest in, despite the high cost of operations and which the hike in energy cost will not affect much. Don’t forget that there are companies that will be significantly impacted by the high cost of diesel, because of the increased cost of freighting their products across the country. We need to look for sectors that will also benefit from all of the turmoil. There are those the hike in commodity prices- crude oil, wheat prices etc will affect more also. As such, you should begin to ask ‘who are the net beneficiaries, or losers from what is happening? For now, we can say that players in the oil sector will benefit most from the crisis, although crude oil price has fallen to US$107 per barrel. We need to look at sectors whose players can export their products, for instance, biofuel is in short supply, because Malaysia is unable to cope with demand. That is why, companies in the oil palm business like Presco and Okomu can rise to the occasion and help to bridge the gap by engaging in exports, a situation that will impact their numbers at the end of the day. In the coming days, our research team can look deeper into it and tell us which sector will do well or not, based on the ongoing developments. We will also be looking at the impact on the expected Q1 results. POLL Are there any further developments in Honeywell Flour, and hope Fidelity Bank will not disappoint us? We have said it repeatedly that Honeywell has the probability of giving you more return over a shorter time frame. Investors are traders are closely observing both Honeywell and Flour Mills of Nigeria in expectation of the approvals by the regulators. It means that if you are in these stocks and you want to hold your position and watch for further developments, go ahead. But, if you have made money and met your investment expectations, nothing stops you from taking profit now. Also, if you want to jump in at this price, you are likewise free to… It is not only earnings news that is drive the price of Honeywell, there are other developments like positive news that we are expecting would come to the market. That means if there is positive news regarding the merger by Flour Mills and Honeywell in the market today, it will change the face of both stocks first of all, before we start considering whether or not the developments in the global space will impact the sector, or not, and to what magnitude. But, I expect that every investor should be interested in where there is positive sentiments and uptrend because I believe in equity investments there are three things that are important: positive sentiments, improved numbers, and increased volume. Once you discover the combination of these three factors in any stock, it is a pointer to where the particular stock is going, and should guide your decision at any given time. As for Fidelity Bank, the stock has shown strength over time, the number has been good and will also support a good payout. You compared Fidelity to Access Bank and the lean payout. I believe it is not the making of the Access Bank board, but could be based on what the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), as the primary regulator of the banking sector will approve, rather than what the board recommended, depending on what metrics the apex bank uses to determine how much a bank should pay from its earnings. For example, if in the estimation of the CBN, Fidelity Bank is okay, it can be allowed to pay a higher dividend. Its earnings per share of almost N1.00 as of the unaudited Q3 is strong enough for us to get 27 kobo dividend. If they pay more, good for investors. One important thing we must not gloss over is the fact that the bank has been consistent in dividend payment. Also don’t forget that all the stock needs now is a trigger. You saw what moved the price of Presco to where it is, just as you saw the recent 10 percent jump in the price of NPF Microfinance Bank. We need positive information to also lift Fidelity Bank, such as CBN approval of a higher dividend payout in the neighbourhood of 40 kobo each, which will set the stock literally on fire. Let us wait, after seeing good fundamentals and volume in Fidelity so far, which is a sign of positive sentiments. So let’s wait for more numbers that will come between now and March 31, to change the face of the market again. If you are in Fidelity, I will not advise you to jump out, instead hold your position and watch. If, on the other hand, you want to enter, do so if you an income investor. But, if you are a trader, you need to watch if you wish to enter now, and be conscious of your stop-loss and profit target. Don’t enter and start looking for 30 percent returns on investment… 15 to 18 percent is good enough for you. If you enter now at N3, and it is able to touch N3.40 or N3.50, that should be good enough for you. Also, don’t enter with all your capital, should the market ever move against you, such that when your expectation is not met, it is easier to jump out. What future is there in UCap after it is marked down for dividend? I must tell you that the likes of United Capital, ETI (Ecobank Transnational Incorporated), and Fidson Healthcare, made me research into how to take profit in some stocks. Before now, if GTCO had this trend that UCap is trying to develop (we can’t say yet that it is a trend because this is the first time it is occurring)… The first time its price dropped post-markdown, but by the second time, it gained on the same day after the adjustment for dividend payment. You would have noticed the way UCap is resisting further decline. If it repeats this over another two-year period, it is safe to say it has become a trend. But for now, on the strength of the buying sentiment we saw at this time, as well as the numbers that delivered the N1.60 dividend per share, such that between the third quarter and full-year we saw a great improvement in performance that supported the company’s number, and that has been a trend into the full-year. If it is sustained in the 2022 financial year… We would have noticed also that in the sector where it operates, nothing has changed, in addition to the bond issued to expand its business. That said, the probability that the stock would slip further down from here is very slim and if the Q1 result comes and is on the same trajectory, it is going to propel the stock higher. For me, therefore, it is a stock to hold. Don’t jump out in a hurry, even if you are getting the dividend, watch for the Q1 result in April, before you decide, which is why I say earnings seasons have a way of shaping stock prices. Trade earnings season, because that is the time you see momentum in the market and everybody will be watching to see where the market is going. That is the time also when you see PFAs (Pension Fund Administrators) looking out for companies with good fundamentals to start accumulating positions in gradually. In the same manner, you too must look for stocks with good earnings, volume, and positive technicals in terms of good sentiments, among others. To answer your question directly, UCap has a future, you can hold on to the stock. At the end of the 2022Q2 Master Class on Saturday, April 2, participants will learn how to take profit, which they can then practice, especially those that have their technical toolbox, especially those I use for the daily live class. If you have these tools, I assure you that your portfolio will not remain the same, because you will know exactly what to do at every point… and you will not be following the bandwagon. Instead, you are looking at the sentiments of the people (which feeds into the overall market sentiments) – their behavioural patterns… and psychology to help protect your capital and take profit at the right time. It will also ensure you will not exit positions prematurely, or even run away from the market. Another challenge is that most of us when we make 30 percent returns we want to hurriedly sell everything down. If you see a stock that has potential, with good strength, even if you are taking 15 percent profit, you should not sell everything at a go, if you have the money you buy back such that you average up, depending on your investment objective. Make up your mind on a monthly basis to say, this is what I want to achieve. If you make that target you can take profit and leave that stock, because every investment is against a future expectation. Based on its 2021 audited result just released and investor reaction yet, is our price target of N30 still realistic? That target price is still achievable, even if not immediately. You already also said that the market reacted to it negatively to the payout. That, notwithstanding, however, the company has shown strength. The payout might not be pleasing to the investing public, but the bank has the capacity. It has shown that it is at the same time a mature, value stock, which at the same time is a growth stock. You have to analyse the payout along that prism. For a growth stock, you don’t necessarily pay a dividend the way the market expects you to often. But for a value stock, you can pay a good dividend in line with market expectations. Access Bank is in between the two. It is a growth and at the same time a value stock. My advice is that you should be patient with Access Bank and at the end, you are going to smile. I have repeated it here over and again that after applying your technical and fundamental analysis, one virtue you need is patience. I see potential in Access Bank and as such, I will advise that you take your dividend and wait, unless this war between Russia and Ukraine drags on for another six months and beyond the middle of this year, before we can say the war is becoming something else. But the way it is going, I expect that common sense will prevail because everybody is afraid of allowing the war to plunge the global economy into another recession at a time it is just emerging from the telling effects of one, added to the COVID-19 pandemic that has not fully gone away. In summary, if you are in Access Bank, it has shown strength, so hold on to your position yet, take your dividend and watch, unless you want to sell half of your portfolio to return again. The price of Lafarge Africa was nosedived after the company announced a dividend, and most of us are caught in between. Any hope of a rebound? This is one example of surprises that the market pulls on investors. Sometimes, such surprises are pleasant, at other times they are not. However, this is a company, I assure you that has done well, moving its earnings per share from around N1.18 to almost N3.11 each, from which the directors paid a dividend of N2.00, but unfortunately, the market is not satisfied and treated the stock the way it has. I will tell you, be patient with this stock and you will make money, especially with the resolve by the government to drive our economy and narrow the nation’s infrastructural gap… If you are in Lafarge Africa, hold your position, because there is potential… There are positions you will exit at a loss, and then the price starts to rally, but by that time you have already lost your funds and it becomes a problem. Also, let your stop-loss guide you. But, unless you have an urgent need for funds and you need to sell, wait because there is potential, especially now that all of its lingering debts have been settled and now the company is uptimising its operations at the moment, in spite of which the company continues to make a good profit and pay dividends. What is happening to Livestock Feeds? It is pure market sentiments as you can see from the results of the company, aside the fact that its business is different from oil palm business, it is sentiments that took the price as low as N1.50, so let’s see if that price will be an attraction for new entry. Also, the market is on the lookout for the company’s numbers. For almost five years Livestock Feeds has not paid a dividend. Now, we are seeing a rally in the price of the major stakeholder in that company (UACN), so let’s see what they do between now and March 31, to see whether it will propose a dividend. I assure that you are not the only one disappointed with the company, because it went against all of our expectations. Let us see the result first, but if you have cut your loss before now, it is fine, but if not, I won’t advice that you do so now, just wait to see what comes out of it. What is your view on MRS Plc? Based on what I can see from the chart of that stock, it is not looking too good. It is neither volatile nor trending for you to consider trading it, because it has side-trended over a long time, meaning that if you are in this kind of stock, volume is a problem, just as the price movement is not too good. The company might grace the market with good earnings and payout, but as of Friday (March 19, 2022), all the indicators are looking down. The weekly chart has been on a steady downtrend, even when others in the sector, like Eterna, Total, Conoil… are oscillating up and down. I may have to look at the fundamentals, so as to combine them, because with what I am seeing now technically, MRS is not good right now on both the weekly and daily timeframes as we speak. How about Ikeja Hotel? We all remember that that particular sector was negatively impacted owing to the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020, and is yet to fully recover from the effects of the lockdown. But, the various operators are gradually trying to return to the pre-COVID period, like we saw in the case of Transcorp Hotels. I do not have the fundamentals of Ikeja Hotels, but let’s look at the chart to see what is happening there… The daily chart for Ikeja Hotel is almost the same pattern as we saw in MRS. You would notice that this kind of stock moves once in a while, rather than regularly. You would notice the side-trending, which for me is not too good. However, when there is information on the stock, the market can react to it. The weekly chart is also showing the same downtrend pattern. You can see, it is not looking good at all, hence my advice that you stay away from tit for now. Just watch, don’t jump in at this time, despite the pullback that we saw recently. What is your take on Eterna Plc? Eterna Plc is a stock that is volatile and from which you can make money as a trader while it moves up and down. Those who attended the last Master Class have made money in this stock. It has already formed that up and down pattern, just like NGX Group is trying to develop, by touching N25 per share, coming down to N21, even when it did not propose a dividend for the 2021 full-year, yet we are seeing a pattern that if sustained, could mean the stock has become one to trade often, going in and out. Will Union Bank declare a dividend before the merger? I cannot offer a yes or no answer at the moment, but there is a board meeting around March 29 and the outcome of which will answer that question. But on the strength of the bank’s Q3 financials, the directors could propose a dividend as parting gift to shareholders. Don’t forget that over the last few years, the directors have been paying 25 kobo per share. Let’s see whether the recent development will inspire the bank to offer something before the consummation of the marriage. We have not seen the audited result yet to give us a clearer picture of what is possible. Is it advisable to buy GTCO now, and what are the chances of a rally soon? If you are an income investor, it is a stock to be in, but for traders, wait until it is adjusted for dividend first, because last year, the price was not sustained like it normally happens that when marked down, it begins to rally on the same day. Last year, that trend did not hold, which tells you that the sentiments towards it may be changing. I don’t see it rallying this time around, immediately after markdown. That means, if you are a trader, don’t jump in now. Let those taking dividend do so first, then when they markdown, we shall then confirm the pattern. May be, before the Q1 or after the markdown, we could see a number that will support the trend, so that we can start buying. For traders, jumping into GT at this time is not advisable, but for income investors, go ahead and buy-in. PARTICIPANT III: In addition to that, majority of us that bought the shares are at a loss at this point, as such we don’t know whether it is going to improve or not, such that we can bailout. Somebody who entered at N30 per share cannot bailout at this price (the stock closed at N26.20 per share on March 18, 2022). AMBROSE: If you are a long-term investor, exercise patience, take your dividend and wait, unlike the trader that cannot wait for the stock to drop to the current price from N30 without doing something. I believe you should have exited at N28, but let’s see what will happens… For traders, wait until after the markdown first, and for income investors, take your dividend, at least the bank has been consistent in dividend payout. EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION is an excerpt of the weekly free question and answer session by Mr. Omordion, Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting Ltd (February 19, 2022), with select equity investors and traders on Zoom. For questions and clarifications: +23408028164085. Email: ambrose.o@investdata.com.ng.