P/HARCOURT – The Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mine and Agriculture, (PHACCIMA), has played host to the meeting of Forum for Coalition of South-South Chamber of Commerce Industry, Mine and Agriculture FOSSCCMA at the Chambers secretariat in Port Harcourt. Eze Mike Elechi, the President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce Industry, Mine and Agriculture, (PHACCIMA), in his remark, thanked the leadership of FOSSCCMA for the choice of Port Harcourt for their meeting and called for the review of FOCCSSIMA’s constitution to address the gray areas. Eze Mike Elechi, who is the Deputy Regional President of FOCCSSIMA explained that” by political nomenclature of Chamber movement, we have regional Chambers so South-South should not be an exception. “As we share our positions with our brothers in South-East, it means that we should also be a block and by demarcation we have South-East and South-South, therefore each block should speak for itself. That is where FOSSCCIMA stands for in this game and having justified the need to be a member of an organization that covers commerce and industry. Port Harcourt is a major stakeholder in the organization. “Just as the president rightly said, we occupy the National second Deputy President at the NACCIMA, therefore PHCCIMA is supposed to be the leading Chamber in the region”. The PHCCIMA president recalled that during the last administration, they took a decision that before returning back to FOCCSSIMA, that there were certain things that ought to put in the right direction, especially when it has to do with the FOCCSSIMA’s constitution. Eze Mike said they had brainstormed to host a meeting which is aimed at restoring the lost glories and pushing forward to achieving the expected development. Earlier in his speech, the President of Forum for Coalition of SOUTH SOUTH Chamber of Commerce Industry Mine and Agriculture, Dr. Okone Emma thanked PHACCIMA President and his team on the warm reception accorded them, saying that it bothers him that PHACCIMA has not been active over the years, hence, the hosting of the meeting in Port Harcourt to address their differences.