LAGOS – Dana Air and Travelstart have indicated readiness to partner on seamless booking and exciting deals to provide customers with smart fares as soon as the ongoing systems integration is concluded. Mr. Kinglsey Ezenwa, the Communications Manager, Dana Air in a statement said that Amanpreet Singh, Global Chief Operating Officer of Travelstart and Bukky Akomolafe, the Country Manager Travelstart Nigeria, made this known when the company visited the airline. Singh described Dana Air as a huge player in the Nigerian market and one of its biggest clients. FCCPC Partners NCAA To Curb High Airfare, Consumers Rights… Julius Berger Wins Nigeria’s CSR Company Of The Year 2021 Award He emphasised that with the continuously growing demand for Dana Air tickets on its platforms, the company felt it necessary to enter into this integration to provide seamless booking options for its customers, which would in turn make it easy for Travelstart to also partner on very exciting deals for local air travelers. He noted that Dana Air has a lot of customer-centric online products and services and Travelstart would consider a lot of partnerships and business development initiatives that would not only be beneficial to the customers, but would also accentuate the brand essence of both Dana Air and Travelstart Nigeria. Sukhjinder Mann, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dana Air, also commenting, said the airline was always super-excited to consider anything and everything that would empower its customers or offer them a hassle-free service from the point of booking to flying you to your destination. He said: “’Travelstart is a global brand and one of our biggest agents doing very well in terms of daily sales and we do appreciate this. As soon as the integration is completed, our customers can be rest assured of getting more seamless options and better deals from this partnership. “We have a lot also in the kitty from our gradual strategic fleet renewal plan to route expansion drive to provide reliable options to customers on certain routes in Nigeria. We are building a brand everyone will be proud of and I can assure you we will get there. We are glad to have you onboard as our strategic business partner.