TONY EZIMAKOR; TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI There was confusion at the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) national secretariat on Monday as Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State proclaimed himself as acting Chair­man of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Commit­tee (CECPC). Sources at the secretariat were shocked at the turn of event. They said no one knew Niger State governor as depu­ty to Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State and Chairman of CECPC. You’re Example Of God-Fearing, Loyal, Patriotic Public… World Cup Playoff: Siasia Faults Eguavoen On Invitation Of Some… The coup allegedly hatched by some APC governors at the weekend filtered out as ru­mour until it became a reality on Monday. Governor Bello’s arrival at the party secretariat about noon on Monday had caused more than a stir as armed po­licemen in a show of force, es­corted the governor and some of his aides into the secretariat causing workers and visitors to scamper to safety. Governor Abubakar Bello, who sat on the seat usually re­served for the chairman, Mai Mala Buni, immediately pre­sided over a meeting of nine of the 12-member CECPC, who were on ground, before inau­gurating the state chairmen of the party. He told journalists that the meeting was called to review preparation for the forthcom­ing convention of the party as well as receive the report of the party’s zoning com­mittee headed by Governor AbdulRazak AbdulRahman of Kwara State and expressed satisfaction with the report. Asked why the stir and the fate of Mai Mala Buni, the CECPC Chairman, Governor Bello said he learnt that he travelled, and that he (Sani) will be taking charge as acting chairman of the CECPC. POLL Daily Independent had re­ported of a crack in the CE­CPC as some APC governors reportedly called for a meeting of NEC of the party. When the report of a pos­sible leadership change broke early Monday morning, Sen­ator John James Akpanudoe­dehe, CECPC secretary, char­acteristically dismissed it as fake news. A source at the party’s sec­retariat also hinted that he was alleged to have rebuffed ap­proach by the Niger State gov­ernor to arrange a meeting of the APC Caretaker Committee. Our source disclosed that the secretary vehemently told the CECPC now acting chair­man that he was not answer­able to him. Asked for his explanation of the rapid development in the APC, Senator Akpanud­edehe said the reality is that Governor Mai Mala Buni is away on medical leave, hence the need for somebody to step in as chairman on acting ca­pacity. Fuel Hike: ECTS Vows To Sustain Free Ride For Edo School… Sanwo-Olu Dedicates Independent, Silverbird Awards To Lagosians He added that on his return, Buni will return to complete his role. The fact though is that the party has kept tight lips over the fate of Mai Mala Buni, who from all indications has been sacked from his role as CECPC boss. Whether or not Akpanud­edehe’s deposition was true raised questions when consid­ered against the backdrop of APC governors that thronged the party’s secretariat to give support to the Niger State gov­ernor. Among the governors of the APC that turned out in their numbers at the party’s secretariat in a rare show of solidarity with the new acting chairman were Borno State governor, Umaru Zullum; Governors Babajide San­wo-Olu (Lagos), AbdulRazak AbdulRahman (Kwara), Hope Uzodimma (Imo), Inuwa Ya­haya (Gombe), Dapo Abio­dun (Ogun) and Yahaya Bello (Kogi). They were joined by Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo- Agege, and Deputy Chairman of APC Zoning Committee, who submitted the report of the committee. Asked to know why some of the governors came at short notice, Governor Sani Bello said it is not unusual, adding that what happened has the full blessings of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Most of my colleagues are here to support me to receive the report. You know the zon­ing committee report is a very important one. And all the gov­ernors here are here to support me. Now, at zonal level, they can go and do their work. Of course, what we are doing has the blessings of Mr. President”, he said. A source in the party, how­ever, hinted that what may have happened was a smooth “coup”, allegedly executed by the pro-Bola Ahmed Tinubu members of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, adding that the last of the develop­ment has not been heard. “Look at the governors that arrived here at short notice and you will understand what is going on in the party”, the source stated. In a related development, former Director-General of Progressive Governors’ Fo­rum (PGF), Salihu Mohd Luk­man, has said Governor Mai Mala Buni betrayed the trust of party stakeholders and has to be removed. He accused Mai Mala Buni and John James Akpanude­dehe of deliberately deceiving the party while trying to hatch an ambition at self-succession. He said Buni had several­ly blocked efforts to hold the national convention and had allegedly perfected plan to con­duct the presidential primary of the party, among other alle­gations. “Mai Mala Buni and his associates blocked the APC convention from holding based on alleged personal ambitions. Between November 2021 and January 2022, the APC conven­tion had to be postponed three times because of deliberate refusal to initiate most of the processes required, such as booking the venue for the convention and serving the statutory three weeks’ notice to INEC. “In addition, there were oth­er serious allegations against the leadership of His Excel­lency Mai Mala Buni, which include the discovery that his group, since November 2022, had obtained a court injunc­tion against the convention and are waiting until three or two days to the convention be­fore serving it on the party to succeed in blocking the March 26 APC convention from hold­ing. “The plot is that His Excel­lency Mai Mala Buni wants to continue to run the affairs of the party and conduct the party’s primary where candidates for 2023 elections would emerge. Based on that there are specific allegations of His Excellency Mai Mala Buni striking some deals with some presidential aspirants to ensure their emergence as the presidential candidate of APC for the 2023 elections. “Some of the allegations suggest extorting monies from these aspirants, includ­ing someone who is yet to join the party. It is being alleged that campaign offices for the aspirant are already being opened even before such a person joined the party. All these highlight problems of trust, which the leadership of His Excellency Mai Mala Buni represented. “A good confirmation of why it will be difficult for party leaders and members to continue to invest any trust on His Excellency Mai Mala Buni leadership of the Caretaker Committee is the attempt to constitute another zoning committee after there is decision between President Buhari and Progressive Gover­nors on zoning, based on which stakeholders of the party at zonal levels are to finalise ne­gotiations on positions to go states”, he said. Buni’s Removal As APC Caretaker Chair, A Welcome Development – Sagay Meanwhile, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Pres­idential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), has hailed the removal of Gov­ernor Mai Mala Buni as Chair­man, Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Commit­tee (CECPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying it is a healthy develop­ment for the party. Governor Sani Bello of Ni­ger State took over control of the APC on Monday following the removal of Buni who is currently out of the country. Speaking with Daily In­dependent, Sagay said with Buni’s removal, the APC can now make progress and look forward to conducting a proper national convention. He said, “I believe Buni’s re­moval is a very healthy devel­opment for the APC. Now, we can look forward to a proper convention for the election of the new party leadership. Af­ter that, we can have a proper convention for the primaries. “Buni is a man who has too many axes to grind and instead of working for the interest of the party which asked him to do a six months job he turned it into a permanent job. He had too many unknown agenda which he was slowly carrying out. “So, it was clear to all that he was no longer operating on behalf of the party but for his own selfish interest. His removal to me is a very good news and I believe we can now make progress as a party”. It would be recalled that Sagay in an interview last week had singled out Buni and John Akpanudoedehe, nation­al secretary of the committee, as persons to be held responsi­ble if the party loses the 2023 presidential election.