AWKA – Counsel to Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and the Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB), Aloy Ejimakor, has asked the Attorney- General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), to investigate cases of torture of his client. Ejimakor, in a request addressed to the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, said he made the request based on relevant sections of the constitution. Ejimakor averred that Kanu’s travail began when he entered the Republic of Kenya on his British passport on May 12, 2021 and was admitted as such at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Nairobi. After his admission, he settled- in at a temporary location in Nairobi, Kenya, he said. He was, thereafter, abducted, handcuffed, blindfolded and bundled into a vehicle and sped away. The abductors, according to Ejimakor, allegedly turned out to be agents of the Federal Government of Nigeria. While there, he alleged, Kanu was chained to the floor, and his abductors took turns beating and torturing him to the point that he fainted several times and was intermittently revived when they poured cold water on him. “During the tortures and beatings, his abductors taunted him, verbally degraded him and called him a “separatist Igbo Jew”. They also told him he will be “expelled to Nigeria to face death”. He was chained to the floor for eight (8) days and was thus forced to relieve himself of urine and excrement where he was chained”. POLL Also, throughout the duration of his secret captivity and torture, Ejimakor continued, was not allowed to bathe and was fed only on bland bread once a day and given non-sanitary water to drink; and except for the presence of his abductors, he was in solitary confinement the entire eight days. He said that Section 3(2) of the Anti Torture Act states that “Secret detention places, solitary confinement, incommunicado or other similar forms of detention, where torture may be carried on are prohibited”. Ejimakor averred that Kanu has since June 29, 2021 to date, been subjected to solitary confinement, lasting for 23 hours each day at the headquarters of the State Security Services in Abuja. He added that since then, Kanu has repeatedly requested independent medical examination by a physician of his own choice but the requests were denied. Ejimakor concluded: “It is our considered position that the totality of what happened to our Client as enunciated above unarguably met the definition of Torture under Section 2 of the Anti-Torture Act, 2017, which also states at Section 9(1) that “A person who contravenes section 2 of this Act commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 25 years.”