LAGOS – Lately, building has been collapsing in Lagos State like pack cards and this worrisome development has continued to be a source of great concern to professionals and stakeholders in the built environment. The Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA),is the agency of government saddled with the statutory responsibility of regulation building development in the state. A critical function of LASBCA is the responsibility of enduring that the construction process is followed from the beginning of development to the completion of such development with a view to conforming to International Best Practices (IBP) without any for of compromise. Expunge Governor’s Assent To Land Titles In Land Use… Engage Local Professionals In Major Contract Jobs But over the years, the agency has not lived up to its core mandate in view of recent happenings in the state due to the rate at which buildings are coming down in every nook and cranny of the state. Daily Independent spoke with dome professionals and stakeholders in the built environment. Mr.Chucks Omeife said that the agency responsible for regulating the construction process is Lagos State, that is, LASBCA has not been discharging its statutory responsibility ad it ought to. According to him, over the years, the spate of building collapse in the state, had led credence to the notion that ‘something was wrong with the total architecture of the agency’ He said: “Let us not delude ourselves that everything is alright with the workings in that place because if truly the agency is doing the proper thing, we won’t be experiencing these incessant building collapses in the state every now and then, I want to say without mincing words, that the agency is either under staffed or the personnel are not doing their job as spelt out in the mandate establishing the agency. POLL The state government needs to beam its searching on LASBCA because its activities have something to do with maintaining standard”. Corroborating the position of Omeifeyge Chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Quantify Surveyors (NIQS),Lagos State Chapter, QS. Ayo Alao pointed out that the agency no doubt is ‘grossly under staffed considering its inability to properly monitor the numerous construction sites springing up(almost on a daily basis) in the state. His words: “If you ask me, I would tell you, that the agency is not having enough personnel to monitor the massive construction sites springing up in the state. I suggest that the state government should employ more hands to complement the  already existing staff strength in addition to engaging professionals in the built environment to assist in the monitoring of on-going building development in the state. By so doing, the incidence of frequent building collapse in the state would be reduced’ to the barest minimum’. The NIQS helsman said that the present personnel of the agency no doubt, had been overstretched and a lasting solution to this quagmire, is the involvement of more professionals to complement the existing personnel of the agency in order to mitigate this embarrassing situation of building collapse every time. We Are Poised To Deliver More Housing Units To Lagosians This… Urban Development Policy Underway – LASG Speaking in similar vein, the Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Surveyors(NIS).Surv.Kolade Kasim noted ,that LASBCA over the years, performed ‘creditably well’ but was quick to add that lately ,the volume of work has definitely overstretched the personnel hence the inability of its personnel to monitor various construction sites that are coming up on the state. He said: “The truth HSS to be told, LASBCA has done well in the past but the incessant building collapse that had been witnessed lately is a clear demonstration that its personnel can no longer cope with the volume building development springing up in the state and the earlier the state government stepped into the matter the better it would be for everyone. “Don’t forget that the agency role affects the total wellbeing of the people. When a building collapses, lives are lost; lives that cannot be replaced”. On her part, a Chartered Builder, Bldr.Adenike Idowu opined, that the agency needs a total overhaul in order for it to perform optimally. According to her, Mr.Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu should reinvigorate the agency by injecting fresh hands if only he is desirous of making the agency do its job diligently. She pointed out, that LASBCA has started to diminish in its responsibility adding that now is the time to make the place reclaim its lost glory by bringing new people to manage the place in order to stem the incidence of collapsed buildings in the state.