As the 2023 general elections are fast approaching, we have seen a barrage of political alignments and realignments as politicians are poised to jostle for one political position or the other. As such, many politicians have been seen jumping ship. For sure, when I think of the frequency with which politicians in Nigeria oscillate between parties, especially whenever the election season beckons, it gets me exasperated and wondering if it really matters that we have different political parties and what informs the decision of individual politicians to join a particular party. Yes, section 40 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provides that “Every person shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with another person, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any other association for the protection of his interests”.  In other words, individual politicians are just free to belong to any political party of their choice to enable them vie for any elective office of their choice. But the issue of party ideologies, philosophies and character has been in the front burner of political discourse since 1999 in the life of this democratic dispensation. As such, the lack of a clear cut ideological leaning has continued to pose a threat to the deepening of democracy in Nigeria. In fact, it has been advocated in different fora that the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, should put in place a mechanism to ensure that political parties in Nigeria are identified with a clear ideology, philosophy and certain set of principles. It is sad that political parties in the country have repeatedly been described as mere political platforms rather than real parties. This notion obviously stems from the idea of the lack of identifiable ideologies among the political parties in Nigeria. This is why it is very easy for politicians to go back and forth between parties as they jostle for opportunities to actualize their political ambitions. So if he does not win an election in party ‘A’, he joins party ‘B’ where he feels there is an opportunity for him. For example, after the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, dislodged the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, at the 2015 general elections, the exodus of politicians from the PDP to the ruling APC began. Even some of them who defected to the APC then, have also returned to the PDP. This kind of anomie leaves a fundamental question about the motivating factor/s for these frivolous defections. The simple answer is definitely for electoral convenience and some other mundane considerations but political principles and ideologies. Ideally, a political party should consist of members with like minds; with similar political principles and ideologies such that they cannot fit in easily in other parties with different political beliefs and principles. But this kind of ideal party politics do not have a place in the Nigerian political space. Only recently, a federal high court sacked Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi state for defecting to the ruling APC from the PDP.  The Court reasoned that the votes that won Umahi the governorship seat belongs to PDP and that there is nowhere in the constitution where it is provided that such votes are transferable from one party to the other. I am not a lawyer. But I think that that judgment makes a whole lot of sense. That scenario is indeed an aberration, considering that an opposition party suddenly becomes a ruling party. Nevertheless, this seeming incongruity has been occurring in Nigerian politics uncontested. This scenario also played out in the case of the defection of Prof. Ben Ayade, governor of Cross river State, who defected from the PDP to the ruling APC. Again, in 2008, the then Senate President, Bukola Saraki of the APC, returned to his erstwhile party, PDP, without relinquishing the office of the Senate Presidency. Other instances abound. It would have been better if a politician finishes his term in office and then defects to another party to run for a fresh election. Defecting to another party while the term is still running is, for me, a political aberration. The point here, really, is that these incongruities are reflective of the fact that there is something fundamentally wrong with our politics and our politicians. These incongruities must be addressed for our democracy to be deepened and be able to throw up quality leadership who will in turn provide quality governance. Unfortunately, a peep into the two major political parties – PDP and APC, one finds the same people. The only thing that changed is the nomenclature of the party. This is not how advanced democracies like the United States of America, the United Kingdom etc. developed.  I think that Nigeria can never have a robust democracy if the status quo remains. This is no wonder we have poor governance in the Nigerian political system. It was in a bid to improve on our political system the National Assembly, NASS, embarked on the electoral Act amendment. At first, then the issue of the mode of conducting party primaries by only direct primaries mode did not sit well with the presidency. They wanted the NASS to also include the indirect mode and consensus candidacy. The NASS obliged them; but not without including section 84(12) which mandated government appointees to resign their positions. But the presidency wants that expunged. But the NASS would not yield to that request. At the moment, the attorney general of the federation, Abubakar Malami, has engaged in a legal battle to get the NASS to extricate that controversial section. Ordinarily, the so-called section should not be a source of concern. It is meant to provide a level playing ground for politicians who intend to vie for any political post not to have undue advantage over other contenders. As such, if any political appointee intends to run for an elective office, the law demands that he resigns his position to do that. This is what obtains in developed climes. And I think it is reasonable. It is a pity that those who are averse to this section of the electoral Act, are those who want to gain it at both ends. It is my wish that the NASS would put its feet down and ensure it would not happen. POLL Indeed, for there to be a robust democratic system in Nigeria, it must be such that the political elite must respect the demands of the electorate whose influence must be unprecedented. In democracy, power belongs to the people. But in Nigeria, the political class has appropriated the entire political space even as the electoral umpire, INEC and other relevant institutions that should ordinarily ensure that the excesses of the politicians are tamed are weakened. The INEC, which ought to be independent, is not truly independent as it suffers the influence of the political class. Such a distorted political system, of course, cannot produce value based politicians; ethical politicians who have the capacity, competence and character to produce higher levels of democratic outcomes. Shame.