The National Universities Commission (NUC) has approved the upgrade of Shehu Shagari Colleges of Education, Sokoto, to the Shehu Shagari University of Education, making it the first university of education in the 19 northern states. Prof. Rasheed Abubakar at the presentation of a recognition letter for the university in Abuja on Monday said that the university would make it the 58th state and 206 universities in the country. He also said that the university would be the first university of education in the northern states and the fourth in the country. ” Upon your recent letter on March 4, I write on behalf of NUC with effect from Monday, March 21, 2022, to make the Shehu Shagari University of Education recognised as the 58tg state university and 206th university in the country. ” This university is the first university of education in the entire northern states and number four in the country. “The Tai Solarin University of Education, Ogun State as the first, Delta State University of Education, Lagos State University of Education and now the Shehu Shagari University of Education,” he said. Abubakar said that other education agencies such as JAMB, TETFund and NYSC would be notified accordingly for the establishment of the new university. He, therefore, congratulated the state governor, Aminu Tambuwal and the people of the state for the new university. POLL Responding, Gov. Aminu Tambuwal expressed gratitude to the NUC while assuring to abide by the rules and regulations governing the running of the public universities as prescribed by the commission. Tambuwal, while presenting the academic brief before the commission, promised to support the university for its smooth running. ” We have been managing our resources as a state but we know how difficult it is to fund state university. ” I can say that certain things are in place. The university will generate revenue and also get subventions from the state government. We shall continue to support them in this regard. ” I gave my commitment that we are going to comply with rules and regulations governing the running of the university,” he said. The governor said that after calls from stakeholders to upgrade the College of Education, a committee was set up to look at how feasible the upgrade would be. He said that the committee issued a recommendation which was brought before the state executive council and was passed. He added that the draft bill was later processed and sent to the State House of Assembly for a law establishing the university. He said that the university would be entrepreneur based in terms of training manpower that would be self-reliant. He said that there was a need for a functional effective education in the area of curbing the skills gap saying that the university would address such gaps.