LAGOS – Nigeria is under threat, laments Professor Imumolen, urges Nigerians to speak up against bad leadership. Professor Christopher Imumolen, the owner of Global Wealth System and Unic Foundation, a presidential hopeful who has built three universities, has lamented that Nigeria is under threat and has urged Nigerians to begin to speak up against bad leadership. Imumolen, a philanthropist who has given out 60 cars to individuals and thousands of scholarships, a presidential aspirant under the Accord Party, made the declaration at a press conference which was held at Lagos Travel Inn Lagos State on Thursday. He said, “Nigeria is under a serious threat and there is the need for concerned Nigerians like us to begin to speak for the liberation of the country. “A few days ago, you would see what is happening in the country, the security architecture of Nigeria has totally collapsed, you can see that the state of Kaduna is messed up, Nigeria is no longer safe, we can no longer travel through the road, through air or railway,” he stated. He maintained that the problem Nigeria is facing is a result of the lackadaisical attitude and incompetence of those who run the affairs of this country “The big question is, how did we get here, how did we get to this situation? You know this situation is actually a result of the lackadaisical attitude and incompetence of those who run the affairs of this country,” he said. He noted that if 1,000 people were kidnapped with no trace of where they are, no one is safe again, then war has been declared on Nigeria. “We need to revive this country, if 1,000 people can be kidnapped, many killed, and nobody knows where they are at this point, it means the country at large is not safe. Now the President, Vice President, Governors, Senators should not be sleeping because the country is under attack and war has been declared on this nation. If we decide to keep quiet, it might just be your turn, who knows. These men move in hundreds of themselves just to hold siege of any location they find themselves,” he said. POLL Imumolen disclosed that he was not just speaking as a presidential aspirant, but as a concerned Nigerian. “I am speaking not just because I am a presidential hopeful, I am speaking because I am a concerned Nigerian. “In 1983 Malaysian Government came to Nigeria to learn oil palm plantation, today, the Malaysian government is one of the best in oil palm plantation in the world. Nigeria as a country has lost it, because of the greediness of those that lead us. And if all of us even the pressmen who should speak continue to wallow in fear, and not to speak up because of fear of what will happen to us if we speak the truth, then we leave this country to a total collapse. “A lot of people ask, if the security has collapsed, no. the security of Nigeria did not collapse, we never had security. There was no plan to reinforce security in Nigeria since 1960 to match the population growth. It is not a matter of collapse, it is a matter of there was no deliberate planned growth to ensure that the security of Nigeria can match up with the geometric rate at which Nigeria is growing,” he maintained. He said Nigerians must speak up to avoid imminent disaster, adding that the common man should stand for good leadership. ”So Nigerian government and Nigerian people should begin to work very fast to ensure Nigerian lives are safe. Imagine a minister saying he warned that lives could have been lost because he needed an N3billion, a minister, this is a government that was blaming the previous government now they are blaming themselves for the failures that happened. “The lives that were lost is more than N3billion. How can Nigeria be so negligent, to people that have been lost within a year, I am not speaking like this because of my position, I have been speaking like this for the past 15 years so that our nation, Nigeria, can get back itself and regain its position in the comity of nations. I have travelled to many nations. I have seen how nations are been run, and I understand that the only way we can move this country forward,” he said. Meanwhile, he talked about the train attack, stressing that the lives that were lost is more than N3billion. How can Nigeria be so negligent, to people that have been lost within a year, I am not speaking like this because of my position, I have been speaking like this for the past 15 years so that our nation, Nigeria, can get back itself and regain its position in the comity of nations. “I have travelled to many nations. I have seen how nations are been run, and I understand that the only way we can move this country right is to begin to think of leadership, for common Nigerians who are hungry, who I know they have deliberately made to be in that position because when it is time to vote, they can easily sell off their votes, to begin to stand and say we need to ensure that the right persons are put in those positions. “We have 200million Nigerians, if this number decides and stands genuinely, even we do not have differences, the differences we think we have are caused by the politicians who use those tools to divide us so that they can have their gain.” He decried the state of education in the country and condemned the government for not empathizing with the students “We talk about the ASUU strike, ASUU is on strike, the government does not show any concern about students who are supposed to be in school, the security infrastructure is being threatened because these young ones are supposed to be learning, they are left out there on the street, we need to start having serious government, we need to start having those that value lives, that value education, that value the system, that will be able to digitize the economy, that is what we stand for. “I am calling this press conference to speak and add my voice to every concerned Nigerian out there who is crying, to every parent that has lost a child, to everyone out there who has lost a husband, the Nigerian road is a death trap, there is a warning also because very soon we might be shocked that aircraft might be brought down in this country and nothing will happen. “Even if I am going for this election and I try my best it is not enough for me to keep quiet, we must still speak against the terrible things we have found ourselves in this country. “How would we have a country where a priest would be kidnapped, 44 people in Niger, and no comment from all nations of the world, we have been abandoned to ourselves as a nation, because the problem we have in Nigeria is a self-made problem, from every person, even from the military, people in government. “Nigerian people need to begin to speak because we are losing millions of lives, even Ukraine, ever since they have been fighting the war with Russia, they have not lost the number of people we have lost this year. “So we need to begin to see federal jets moving in the north, helicopters moving on the roads, we need to see serious action taken to combat security; these people can enter anywhere, they can even enter Lagos, nothing will happen because we don’t have the strength.”