ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Monday Impounded 27 motorcycles popularly known as Okada. They also demolished shanties and batches built on road corridors that obstruct the easy flow of traffic along Airport roads. This, according to the administration is to restore order on Abuja roads, especially the airport road. The cleanup exercise which was carried out by all relevant agencies in Abuja, started from the Karamajiji end of the road corridors. Director, Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), Dr Abdulateef Bello while briefing newsmen at the venue, hinted that his agency was able to seize 27 motorcycles on the airport road stretch for various offences, from driving against the traffic to driving on the express road. He, however, stated that the administration is not trying to put a hardship on anybody, but the administration is more concerned about the safety and security of its residents. According to him, “We have done a lot of engagement building social trust, with the Okada riders so that they will be law-abiding but as at today there are some stubborn riders that are not willing to comply with our directives. Today we have over 27 motorcycles that were seized and they will pass through normal forfeiture and they will put them for crushing. POLL “The FCT Administration is not trying to put a hardship on anybody. But the administration is more concerned about the safety and security of residents. Riding against traffic, riding on the highway is anti safety and the fact that we know everyone is trying to put food off their table they should obey the rules and regulations of the land”. Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister on Monitoring Inspection and Enforcement, Comrade Ikharo Attah said there is no going back on the operation, which would last for a month. Attah said: “Right now is the extremely massive cleanup of airport road here. Starting from the traffic here, seizures of motorcycle, pin down points. “We removed illegal structures, shanties, batches, especially those that built shops under the high tension cables. We touched so many communities here, we did so many cleanups here in view of the directive of the FCT Minister. “We are working on the entire airport road stretch. So much work will be going on here in the next one month, we will be working on the airport road, keeping it clean and ensuring free flow of traffic at the stretch. “You know airport road stretch is the gateway to the city. We came here last week some have tried to return, the market we sacked last week but we have sacked them again and we will continue to come back here again and again. We won’t get tired the determination is very strong, we will keep working again and again until we get rid of every environmental abnormality. “Two markets were sacked before and one came back and we sacked it again today and on Tuesday we are going to do more cleanups along the Airport road”, he added.