LAGOS – Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has stated that the ever-dwindling revenues from natural resource exports are no longer sufficient to fund the rising costs of imports, much less support the basic fiscal obligations of modern democratic governance. He stated this while delivering the 25th Convocation Lecture at the Lagos State University titled: Global Trends: The Rightful Place of Nigeria in the World. Tinubu who was represented at the lecture by Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat stated that oil and gas provide over 90 per cent of foreign exchange and 80 per cent of government revenues and that Nigeria remains an economy unjustly designed to export raw material and import increasingly expensive finished products. “The name of the raw materials might have changed from cocoa and groundnuts to oil and gas. The dire effects of this uneven economic arrangement remain the same. “We must be truthful enough to acknowledge this lapse, bold enough to correct it, and tolerant enough not to endlessly vilify each other for causing it. We are all both causes and hopefully solutions. Let us join hands. We must reform this nation,” he said. “We have boasted of enormous potential for decades, consoling our discomfort by saying that our potential will be realized tomorrow. But something disappointing seems to happen when tomorrow becomes today. Years and decades pass, yet greatness remains elusive. “If greatness came merely by speaking of it, we would be among the greatest nations in human history. He advised the young graduates to find a place in the world of cryptocurrencies and metaverses. POLL “But do not yield to the erroneous mindset that says the virtual world is the dominant one. Without the tangible goods of the productive economy, the virtual realm is but an elaborate game. A bitcoin has little use unless it can be exchanged for some valuable good or service. We welcome the innovations of the virtual world. But we also better retool the traditional economy. “Do not turn your energies away from making, producing, harvesting and planting the goods and products of the tangible economy,” he advised. The APC National Leader said unless we build Nigeria the benefits of the digital age will remain beyond the reach of most Nigerians. “Global trends underscore this warning. According to the World Bank, we were the seventh most populous nation in 2020 with over two hundred million people. But our economic ranking was not commensurate. Nigeria’s GDP per capita ranked 17th in Africa and 131st in the world. One does not have to be a genius economist to see the extent of our underperformance. Professor Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, Vice-Chancellor of the University said when she assumed duty as the 9th substantive Vice-Chancellor of the citadel of learning a little above six months ago, she reeled out six strategic goals that will drive the activities which include ensuring that academic and professional programmes are and remain accredited by relevant bodies. She also said her administration would make the university a research, innovation and development hub for Lagos and by extension, the country at large and also to promote the welfare of all staff and students in the university and ensure that infrastructural facilities are improved and readily available for the seamless performance of administrative and academic duties.