Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), is the Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese, as well as the General Secretary, Civil Consciousness Initiative (CCI). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the likelihood of aggrieved leaders from the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) joining forces ahead of the 2023 polls. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the crises in Osun and Ekiti chapters of the APC and PDP over their governorship election coming up soon? The crisis in both parties was expected in Nigeria where political parties are not parties per se but platforms for contesting elections. The viable platforms are APC and PDP. Every other platform is not established. When elections are coming up, there will always be struggles in both parties. If they were real political parties, the issue will be based on ideologies. Since they are platforms for political power, there will be struggles. The setup of the parties gives so much power to the governors, especially when they are incumbents. The incumbents distribute the largesse in the state. He appoints the commissioners, the local government chairmen, the supervisory councilors, even his advisers. He appoints who will be ministers and influence those going to the State House of Assembly, Senate and House of Representatives. All these take care of the grassroots. Even if it is direct primary, al the delegates, including his commissioners and advisers, are his appointees. They all want to come back. So, it is very difficult to unseat an incumbent. Even when the incumbent is not coming back, he determines who will succeed him. In Lagos, Ambode did not have a structure. Everything is in the hand of one man, Tinubu. The Lagos governors have no structure of their own. But this is not the case of Ekiti and Osun. Fayose and Oyetola control the APC structure. In Ekiti PDP, Fayose controls the party’s as a former governor structure it has no incumbent governor and no former PDP governor. All things being equal, the PDP and APC have set a standard. As they appoint governors as returning officers for their primaries. All these affect the result of the primaries. Crack In CECPC Widens Ahead Of  APC Convention APC Convention: Crack In CECPC Widen The ruling APC has been having challenges over its national convention. How do you see this development bearing in mind your earlier prediction of an imminent implosion in the party? The problem they have with the convention is because they are trying to prevent the implosion. A lot of people are not satisfied with the delegates to the convention. The aggrieved parties in PDP, who are waiting for the APC convention, may team up with aggrieved parties in APC to become one. If INEC cannot register a new party, they may team up with one of the registered parties. We are expecting the APC convention to be polarised again because they have not resolved the crises among them in several states. However, I foresee APC coming up with consensus candidates for the national offices, including the national chairman. If they see that direct elections will polarize them, they will come up with consensus candidates. Buhari’s stand ill determine which way the party will go. With what is happening in both APC and PDP, which of the two parties do you think would carry the day in the 2023 general elections? It is too early to determine that. It depends on their candidates. It is when we see the candidates of both parties that we will begin to examine their strength and weaknesses. Every other party does not have the resources both APC and PDP have. Their presence cannot be felt much in parts of the country, unless one of those contenders who can mobilise resources defects with his structures. If you do not have resources, do not talk of presidency. We are no talking of state governors, we are talking about the presidency. How do you see the emergence of several presidential contenders for the 2023 election? POLL It is natural. Some of them are social media presidential candidates. Some of them are jokers. Some may paste two or three posters. When I was contesting for the governorship of Lagos, some presidential candidates did not even have a car and could not afford a flight ticket to Abuja. In two or three months we will see the big boys, the serious ones and what they can do. Now, we are seeing some serious ones with resources. The presidency of Nigeria is not about ‘God has anointed me’, or ‘God has spoken to me’. No. we are now seeing some people who cannot eve councillorship election in their wards making declaration s to be president. Most of them will not be heard in few months’ time. They will fizzle out. Between Asiwaju Tinubu and Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who do you think the South West APC will back for the presidency? The APC structure in South West belongs to Tinubu. In fact, Osinbajo belongs to Tinubu. It is not in doubt that Tinubu owns the structure. The only structure Osinbajo has is the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) and it is not a political structure. Osinbajo has not said he is interested in the 2023 presidency. People are crying over Osinbajo when he has not said he is interested in the position. Even in his current positions vice president, how many people has he nominated as governor, as National Assembly members, as ministers, in his Ogun State, where he has his political base? How many people has he made? He is a paper weight. He is a technocrat and not a politician. The only political experience he has is being the vice president. Unless someone who has political structure declares that Osinbajo is his candidate, and moves his structure behind him, Osinbajo cannot become president. Tinubu made people, including traditional rulers. That is why it is difficult for anybody to become president. Don’t you think that the South West APC’s insistence on producing the next president will adversely affect the fortunes of the party? Going by the way the country is presently structured, the presidency will always be between APC and PDP and between North and South. The South East will go with the PDP because the Igbos will never follow APC in Nigeria. If presidency goes to the South, which area had it last, it was South South. Before then, we had South West. South West is eligible. South East has not been the before. But, which candidate in South East now has the clout? Unless the whole South East can back a candidate who has clout, right now, such a person is difficult to find in South East. We are not talking about capability, but who will be acceptable all over. People are touting Emefiele, but what is his political ascendency or his pedigree? For the Igbos, I will maintain that the civil war has not ended. For the reconciliation to be complete, it is time for us to accept an Igbo man as a citizen and not as an appendage. If we continue to see Igbos as an appendage, the agitations in the region will not stop. The day Nigerians stop seeing the Igbo man an appendage that is the end of the Nigerian civil war. The day we have an Igbo as president, that is the end of the civil war. PDP Chieftain Donates Tents, Furniture To Edo South LGA Party… ‘I’ll Make Ebonyi Economy Best In Africa If… Where do you think the jostling for political power will leave South East in 2023? The jostling for political power come 2023 will leave the South East still searching. How do you see the latest fuel crisis in the country? The latest fuel crisis is the normal incompetence in the system called Nigeria. How can they tell us a story that the fuel they imported was bad? Is there no way of testing the fuel at the ports it was lifted before it came into Nigeria? Is there no way of testing the fuel at the point of discharge here in Nigeria? Are they telling us that they do not do testing? Is there no quality control? Although they may be right in what they are saying it is a fault on their part. It is a sort of negligence. In a proper environment, heads would have rolled. They have disrupted the system. They have destroyed people’s automobiles. The bad fuel was already in tanks. To clean this will take billions of naira. Who will bear the cost? The importers are supposed to bear the cost. What is your take on the recent supplementary budget which President Muhammadu Buhari submitted to the National Assembly over fuel subsidy which the government claimed was not in the original budget? Buhari was advised not to create problems for himself by removing the fuel subsidy so he can leave the problem for the incoming government. That was why he sent in the supplementary budget N2.55 trillion to take care of that from June to December. I believe the National Assembly will do the necessary adjustment to the Petroleum Industry Act. They ate just postponing the evil days. As it is now, everywhere seems calm. The economy is finished. Buhari and his party, APC, have no solution to the Nigerian economic problems. So, he is just leaving the issue of subsidy the way it is. How do you feel about IMF/World Bank’s stand that Nigeria may not get more foreign loans unless the fuel subsidy is removed? Do we need foreign loans? Let the APC government sort out the issue of loans and infrastructure. The government cannot finish most of its infrastructural projects before they leave. They are struggling to complete the Second Niger Bridge so that it will be on record that it is completed under Buhari. But, I must say that South East will not vote for APC just because of the Second Niger Bridge. South East is never APC. Wherever you see APC in South East, they stole the votes. If South West snatches presidency, South East cannot get the vice president position. It will go to the North because the country cannot give both the vice president and the president to the South.