Capt. Ibrahim Mshelia, the Chairman, West Link Airlines in this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, speaks on the recently request by the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) to grant the domestic carriers license to start importing fuel, and its implications on the industry. Excerpts: Just recently, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), the umbrella body of indigenous airlines sought the permission of the Federal Government to allow them to start importing Jet A1 to cushion the effect of the scarcity and high price of the product in the country; do you think this is necessary? This is a child of necessity. If you look at it, the airlines in the recent times have gone through a lot of bashings. Now, the airline is a responsible and sensitive industry and critical to the sector and the business owners itself. If right now, aviation fuel is more than 40 per cent of operations and presently, it is close to 60 per cent of cost, and for something that costs you about 30 to 40 per cent of your operations for instance is being mal-handled in this manner that we have seen in recent times, any serious businessman will like to take care of that 30 to 40 per cent deficit by himself. So, if we can get licenses to import the fuel, why not? I think that is the best thing to do. The airlines have woken up now because the joint aviation storage facility that the independent oil marketers use doesn’t belong to them. They rent it and store the fuel at the airport. So, we can equally rent it and pay like them. I think it is a welcome idea, let’s get the independent marketers out of our lives so that you can blame us 100 per cent if you like. One thing is we could battle with the weather and the delivery people and gradually, we could take over everything by supplying our own handling and others. The airlines should also be encouraged to register handling companies so that they can handle themselves. The only disadvantage I can see is that any airline that is bent on misbehaving will make it worse when it owns these other supply chains and at the end of the day, it will send them out of business. POLL I think competition is always key so that it will sifter the men from the boys. I think there is need to encourage all these things, beginning with aviation fuel. It is a beautiful idea and very commendable. I want to encourage the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), to grant that approval. Once we do that, we can then look at other things that we can do like the handling and other things that are part of the chain. An airline is a number one service provider in the industry; you know everything and deal with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and even the air travellers, among others. Apart from the agitation by airlines that they should be granted the license to start importing the Jet A1 into the country, how else do you think the product can be available in Nigeria? The fact is that we have crude oil and I am shocked and surprised that we have four refineries and for years, we cannot maintain any of our refineries when Cote d’Ivoire just built a refinery. I know a friend of mine who is building a refinery somewhere. He started two years ago and it is 65 per cent complete at present. The facility will take about 80 barrel per day. So, it is just ridiculous how we do things in this clime. I don’t know the answer to your question. The fact is that we are supposed to have it, but we don’t. Please, ask those in government. I think they should really come out to give us an answer. All these stories are enough. We are citizens and we should know how we are being led. Besides, some analysts in the sector have asked the airlines to focus on the business of airlifting of passengers and not go into fuel importation, what do you have to say on this? You don’t determine for anybody what business they do. I think it will be very wrong and if not rude for anyone to say that. They are businessmen and they can do any business they feel like doing. Because they are airline operators doesn’t mean you restrict them from the business they want to do. It doesn’t make sense. It is not a talk that I want to entertain really. It has nothing to do with safety or anything that I know of. If you can run an airline, you can do more. To get a small certificate in the aviation industry is a lot of work already and to buy fuel, it is just to go to the market to buy. You don’t even have to show your face there once you have the certificate. May be some people are afraid that once they allow the airlines to import fuel, it will affect their businesses. So, they should wake up, start behaving well before we get our licences. Perhaps we may consider allowing them to continue because it is an opportunity cost, really.