AWKA – As consultations and political permutations climax in Anambra State following the build-up to the 2023 general elections, some constituents of Orumba-North and South federal constituency have outlined several reasons the incumbent should return to the House of Representatives in 2023 for a second term in office. Mr. Ositadimma Onyemaobi who hails from Nanka in Orumba-North local government area of Anambra state spoke with our correspondent on why the incumbent federal lawmaker should return to the National Assembly in 2023, stated that Hon. Okwudili Christopher Ezenwankwo deserves a second term for the people to enjoy more dividends of democracy. Onyemaobi explained that the Orumba-North and South representative had made a promise to the people during his electioneering campaigns that he was not going to the House of Representatives to enrich himself but to bring Orumba-North and South to limelight through effective representation. Police arrest 15 suspects With Hard Drugs In Delta Nigeria Must Become A Producing Nation – Dr. Femi… He also explained that aside from legislative obligations, the 15th edition of the Okwudili Ezenwankwo Foundation Empowerment Programme was held last year and lives were touched in many remarkable ways as many tricycles, motorcycles, shuttle buses and a host of other life-changing materials were given to the people to alleviate poverty and ameliorate their situations. He said over the years, Hon. Okwudili Christopher Ezenwankwo has been able to provide the basic necessities of life for the people of Orumba-North and South local government areas not as a politician but as a private individual, adding that apart from empowering the people, he has also provided water and access roads for rural communities in the area. Onyemaobi also disclosed that the incumbent lawmaker moved a motion on the floor of the Green Chambers drawing attention to the deplorable condition of Oko-Ekwulobia-Umunze road. He said the motion prompted the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to proactively respond and put the road in good shape. According to him, Okwudili Christopher Ezenwankwo understands the needs of his people and endeavours to pursue them to logical conclusions. Onyemaobi also revealed that the incumbent lawmaker constructed a road in Akpu, a community in the area. He said that the community market in Akpu was renovated by Okwudili Ezenwankwo. That Nawfija, Umunze, Owerre-Ezukala, Enugwu-Umuonyia, Isulo, Ihite, Ndiokpalaeze, Ndiokpalaeke, Ndiokolo, Ufuma, Ajali, Awa, Omor, Ndikelionwu, Oko, Awgbu, Nanka and all other communities in Orumba-North and South have either completed projects or ongoing projects executed by the incumbent representative. POLL Onyemaobi said rural market women have been receiving grants to boost their trades while refrigerators, gas cookers, other materials and money were given to those trained on confectionaries. He said Okwudili Ezenwankwo has about 5 bills and 15 motions to his credit, adding that the bills and motions are people-oriented and impacted directly on the lives of his constituents and the larger Anambra State at large. Moreso, Ugwudike Chinedu Austine, who is a native of Umunze in Orumba-South local government area of Anambra state, said Okwudili Ezenwankwo indeed deserves a second term in office because of his distribution of constituency projects in all the communities of Orumba-North and South. Ugwudike noted that the House of Reps member constructed roads on Oko axis in Orumba-North attracted the federal government to the Oko erosion site, built classroom blocks for schools in Umunze and carried out other projects which he said people have continued to testify to, stressing that Orumba-North and South need Okwudili Ezenwankwo as much as they can have him in the Federal House of Representatives.