. As Isolo Members Receive Adeniran LAGOS – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has reaffirmed its determination to wrestle power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) when the party leaders and members in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area (LGA) received Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor and his team at the party’s secretariat over the weekend The crowd at the event suggests that the main opposition party is more than ready to take over, as they stressed that the time had come for genuine change to take place in the state. Honourable Sunday Olaifa, former Oshodi/Isolo LGA chairman and newly elected Lagos West Senatorial Vice Chairman of the party said that PDP can win Lagos State and charged members of the party to bury their differences and work towards victory. “Lagos State today is not the dream of our forefathers because the state has been colonized by the ruling party. If you look at the resources that are available to the state, the federal allocation and the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), you would notice that Lagos should have been like Dubai but unfortunately, we have bad roads, no water, no electricity and unemployment. “We need a surgical operation to change the narrative. Lagosians are tired of seeing the same set of faces in the governance of the state in the last 20 years,” he said. On what the party is doing concerning aggrieved members after the just concluded state congress, he said that reconciliation is ongoing, stressing that the victory at the election is for the party and there is no victor, no vanquished. “The onus is on the winners to bring everybody together. PDP will shock APC by winning Lagos State in 2023 because people are yearning for a change but not the kind of change that we witnessed in 2015. We are looking for an opportunity to move Lagos State forward and we can achieve that through the ballot. The crowd at this event has attested to that,” he said. POLL Jandor who along with the ward chairmen received the party flags spoke passionately about winning the state and maintained that even though he opined the party not too long he was convinced that he would win the party’s state governorship primary election because he came with a determination to free Lagosians and he was sure that with a free and fair primary election he would fly the party’s flag in 2023. He urged members of the party to work as a team and not bother about who controls party structure but should rather work for victory at polls in 2023. The meeting was attended by party leaders in the LGA, newly elected LGA executive committee (exco) members, led by Honourable Adegboyega Adegbesan, former Lagos State, Publicity Secretary of the party, Barr. Taofik Gani, ward chairmen of the party in the LGA, and a host of others.