LAGOS  – A team of experts from the World Bank has said that the port concession model of the Federal Government of Nigeria that was rolled out in 2006, is the best in Africa. They made the assertion during a working visit to the Nigerian Ports Authority’s head-office. Mohammed Bello Koko, Managing Director of NPA, while reacting to the Bank’s positive assessment during his meeting with World Bank and International Finance Corporation (IFC) officials, stated that the port concession exercise had clearly enhanced Nigeria’s goal of becoming the leading blue economy in Africa, adding that his administration’s focus is to facilitate a port-led industrialization in the country through infrastructural renewal and deployment of modern technology tools. The NPA helmsman told the delegation from the World Bank Nigeria Office led by Olatunji Ahmed and Christian Mulamula, Principal Investment Officer – Infrastructure (IFC), that the Authority duly appreciated the excellent support provided by the World Bank under its private participation in infrastructure (PPI) scheme. “we at NPA fully appreciate that efficient port operations will enable our government and businesses provide services that are affordable and sustainable, leading to reduced poverty and inequality”, he said. He urged the World Bank to sustain the support and synergy especially now that the authority is in search of alternative funding sources to bridge its infrastructure gaps. “We look forward to better collaboration with the Bank in the development of more mega or deep-sea ports across the country with world class facilities, high quality and efficient operating system, like the Lekki Deep Seaport is now our priority”, he declared. “with the quality of attention being paid by the Federal Government to port infrastructure renewal, we are very confident that moving goods to and from Nigerian ports would soon be top of the range, cost efficient and comparable with the leading ports of the world. We have made remarkable progress tackling the intractable traffic gridlock on the port access roads with the deployment of an electronic call-up system for trucks, called “Eto” POLL There is room for improvement, the Apapa axis is good but on the Tin- Can axis we’re calling for a quick fix before the rains” , he added. The NPA Manning Director informed the World Bank team that the 25 Year Port Master-plan which had earlier suffered some hitches is now back on course, stressing that the Authority would work collaboratively with the Bank in the operationalization of the port master-plan.