LAFIA – National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA) has at weekend partner the Nasarawa State chapter of Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) to offer free medical services to 5,000 people in the Doma Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. Dr. Faisal Shuaiba, the Executive Director of NPHDA who spoke at the commencement of the exercise in Doma LGA said the gesture was under the medical mission initiative of the agency. Dr. Faisal, who was represented by Chris Elemuwa, Acting Director of Community Health Services at the agency. He said that the outreach was aimed at bridging the gap in healthcare services in line with goal three of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Shuaib noted that they would ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages to complement the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari and the governors of the 36 states. He explained that the agency’s mandate includes disease control and prevention, which is why they were in the forefront of the eradication of many diseases in the country including polio. The Executive Director of NPHDA added that during the five-day exercise, they would also offer free coronavirus vaccination to the people. He said the vaccines are safe and free and the people should join hands with them to contain and defeat COVID-19 in the country. POLL Earlier on his remark, Dr Sabo Emmanuel, NMA Chairman in Nasarawa State lauded NPHDA, Mrs Munira Abdullahi, Special Adviser (SA) on Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and Development Partners to Governor Abdullahi Sule for the initiative. The NMA Chairman said 46 medical personnel made up of 30 doctors and nurses, pharmacists and other supporting staff were available to carry out the exercise in the next five days. Dr Emmanuel who explained that the Doctors were drawn from the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital (DASH) Lafia and Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Keffi, said they were specialists in the different medical fields. The Nasarawa State NMA Chairman, therefore, said the team would handle all health issues including surgeries. Also Speaking, SA to Gov. Sule on NGOs and Development partners commended the people for availing themselves for the exercise. The governor’s aide said her office would continue to collaborate with NPHDA and others on developmental issues to better the condition of the people.