CHIDI UGWU; KAZEEM AWOJOODU ABUJA / IBADAN  – The Abuja Electricity Distribu­tion Company Plc. (AEDC) on Friday offered an explanation to its teeming customers in Kogi State, Niger State, Nasara­wa State and Abuja FCT, saying the current low and unstable supply of electricity to homes and businesses is as a result of low power generated to the National Grid. Mr Donald Etim, AEDC’s Chief Marketing Officer, said low generation in the past few weeks caused the drop in supply, and apologised to cus­tomers within the company’s franchise area. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tear… Obasanjo Remains Quintessential Leader At 85, Says Sanwo-Olu “In recent weeks, the level of power generated and served to the national grid for onward delivery to customers has been abysmally low. However, we do our utmost, at all times, to en­sure that we equitably distrib­ute even that modest supply in such a way that a fair cross-sec­tion of customers are served. “At AEDC, knowing full well the place and role of electric power in life, living, economy, and security, we are deeply committed to ensuring that we work collaboratively with other stakeholders within the Nigerian Electricity Supply In­dustry (NESI) to identify and resolve the challenges within the sector. The root causes of this latest low generation have been identified and are being addressed. “There is perhaps no better way to assure our esteemed customers today than in the words of the Honourable Min­ister of Power, Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu.” Speaking in Abuja, the Min­ister said specifically on the re­cent power delivery challeng­es: “I would like to discuss the increased load shedding you may have observed in Abuja and other areas in the country. “With the reduction in Hy­dro capacity during the dry sea­son, additional load needs to be taken up by our gas plants. We are having maintenance work in the Eastern Axis around Odukpani leading to reduced power supply from the usually reliable NDPHC Calabar Pow­er Plant and we are having chal­lenges at Okoloma Gas Station linked to Afam VI power plant. We are working with NNPC and other gas suppliers also to improve the pressure on the western axis that is precluding units from reaching optimum supply. These challenges are surmountable, and we have a 3-pronged approach we are ex­ecuting… we have short term solutions as well as long term solutions. We are working as­siduously to resolve short term load-shedding challenges.” POLL Meanwhile, residents of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital have cried to the Ibadan Dis­tribution Electricity Com­pany (IBDEC) and Nigerian National Petroleum Corpo­ration (NNPC) to find a last­ing solution to the epileptic power supply and prolonged fuel scarcity respectively in the state. A recent survey in the city of Ibadan by Saturday INDE­PENDENT revealed that res­idents of the metropolis are suffering and smiling, as there were queues in every visible fu­eling station and in most cases motorists who are supposed to go in and buy fuel at ease spend not less than six hours before they could get fuel. It was also revealed that the residents, after a long queue at the filling station, on getting home have no electric supply to power their various home appliances. “There is no electricity to power our fan, borehole, fridge and other things. Life has become so terrible these days. I have never experienced something like this before, it is so funny we don’t have water to flush after using the toilet. In fact, I can’t use the fuel I suffered to get in my genera­tor because there is no end in sight for the fuel scarcity of a thing and I must go out on daily basis because of the nature of my job.” This was the response of a resident, Mr. Abayomi Ad­eyemi, who works at one of the new generation banks. In her contributions, Mrs. Ajoke Ganiyat, another res­ident, a self-employed bread supplier that resides in Moni­ya area of Akinyele Local Government decried the poor situation of things that have resulted from the fuel scarcity and epileptic power supply in the entire city. Russia-Ukraine Crisis: Buhari Pledges To Defend Nigerians… 2023: Call For Oshiomhole To Contest Senatorial Seat Beyond Us,… She said, “before, we were complaining that prices of essential commodities have gone up in the market. Now, with this fuel scarcity, the cost of food commodities and oth­er essential commodities have skyrocketed because motorists have increased their prices. Any bus stop within this area now is N150 and it’s not their fault because some of them re­solved in buying N1000 per liter for those of them that cannot queue. For me, as well as I have to cut out some customers that I normally supply bread on a daily basis because there is no fuel, I bought the current fuel I’m using at the rate of N500 per liter so it is not ease.” Saturday INDEPENDENT observed that some major fuel stations like Bovas, SAO, Mobil, NNPC, Total and a few other outlets are currently selling at the rate of N162 and N165 and they are usually bombarded with queues. Some of the market wom­en and artisans interviewed lamented seriously about the fuel scarcity and epileptic power supply in the city. They claimed that non-availability of those essential commodities have seriously affected their businesses and transactions, appealing to the government to quickly intervene before the matter goes out of hand.