***Failure To Use Technology, Responsible LAGOS – Senator Shehu Sani, former senator who represented Kaduna Central at the red chamber of the National Assembly has blamed the attack on Kaduna train on security agencies not being proactive and failure to use necessary technology to fight insurgency. Sani on Channels Television on Wednesday said that Kaduna-Abuja rail line has been the safest means of travelling, but lamented that recently it has been consistently under attack by bandits. He said, “The question is with this development, how are we going to access our cities? If the security agencies have been proactive in taking the war to the camp of the bandits, we won’t have this challenge. “On Saturday there was report of terrorists attacking the facilities of the airport, on the same day when this train was attacked, terrorists numbering over 300 attacked villages between Kaduna and Niger State and displaced thousands of people. With all this sequence of events, the question that people should ask is where is intelligence? Where are the security agents?” he said. According to him, about two hours ago there was report that along the street of Kaduna where the bridge leads to Abuja, terrorists were seen on motorbikes in hundreds. “And they sent panic to motorists. The question that we still need to ask ourselves is when will these problems come to an end? They will come to an end when the security agencies and the government do the right thing. “When attacks take place, people are killed and it goes on news headlines, everyone including the government relaxes, but if we do things differently we will get results. The problem that we have is the lack of an intelligence gathering system.” POLL “Kaduna to Abuja is about 160 kilometers, a country that has a population of 210 million people and with a government that has pride itself as going to address security and other challenges, what will stop us from having drone stations that will gather intelligence and transmit information to the necessary troops on ground. “If you go to Niger ask any person, he knows the bandits and he knows where they are. The problem is how can he be protected and trust those who he gives the information to without compromising his own security? If we are going to confront this challenge frontally, security agencies must use necessary technology,” he said.