Gareth Southgate has lifted the lid on Jadon Sancho’s omission from the latest England squad – with the Three Lions chief insisting that other attacking players are ‘slightly ahead’ of Manchester United’s £73million man. Sancho has endured a tough start to his Old Trafford career after returning to England from Borussia Dortmund in the summer, but has been in good form recently. The 21-year-old struggled to adapt to the rigours of the Premier League in the immediate aftermath of his mega-money switch. However, Sancho has slowly started to come to life for Manchester United over the last few weeks. Sancho has even been one of United’s most dangerous players in recent weeks and has finally started to impact games in front of goal, bagging two strikes and three assists across his last six league games.While that’s hardly groundbreaking form – particularly in light of his gargantuan transfer fee – Sancho has, at least, started to show glimpses of the player that tore up the Bundesliga last year and convinced United to shell out such an extortionate sum; which makes his omission from the England squad for this month’s double-header against Switzerland and Ivory Coast all the more surprising. Southgate defended his decision to drop the United man from his squad by insisting that the impressive arsenal of attacking player’s that he selected instead of Sancho had earned their spot due to their impressive seasons at club level. When he was quizzed on Sancho’s absence, Southgate explained: “Because the other attacking players in the squad are slightly ahead of him at the moment in our feeling. You can see the names there: Phil Foden, Raheem Sterling, Bukayo Saka, Emile Smith Rowe, Jack Grealish, if you look at the seasons they’ve had.” Despite Southgate’s claims, Sterling and Smith Rowe have made the cut despite being in and out of the side for Manchester City and Arsenal respectively in recent weeks. Meanwhile, Grealish has struggled to make much of an impression at City this year after his record-breaking £100m transfer from Aston Villa. When he was quizzed on Sancho’s absence, Southgate explained: “Because the other attacking players in the squad are slightly ahead of him at the moment in our feeling. You can see the names there: Phil Foden, Raheem Sterling, Bukayo Saka, Emile Smith Rowe, Jack Grealish, if you look at the seasons they’ve had.” Despite Southgate’s claims, Sterling and Smith Rowe have made the cut despite being in and out of the side for Manchester City and Arsenal respectively in recent weeks. Meanwhile, Grealish has struggled to make much of an impression at City this year after his record-breaking £100m transfer from Aston Villa.