Bayern Munich star Robert Lewandowski has been named the best striker in world football right now ahead of Real Madrid’s Karim Benzema and Tottenham’s Harry Kane. Lewandowski’s scintillating form saw him surpass Bayern legend Gerd Muller for the Bundesliga goalscoring record in a single season during his 2020-21 campaign. The 33-year-old Polish striker, who scored 41 times in 29 Bundesliga appearances, challenged Paris Saint-Germain superstar Lionel Messi for the 2021 Ballon d’Or. Harry Kane Is Moving Forward On The PL Most Goals List: What’s… Real Madrid Willing To Pay €40million For Lewandowski However, Messi scooped a record-extending seventh Ballon d’Or last November, with Lewandowski falling 33 points short of the Barcelona legend. The Poland captain has maintained his stunning goalscoring form for the 2021-22 season, as Lewandowski has scored 42 times in 35 appearances across all competitions. SPORTbible took to Twitter and posted a readers’ poll asking fans to determine who is the best in-form striker in the world right now. With over 16,000 votes, Lewandowski convincingly beat Benzema and Kane by securing the lion’s share of the vote. The Bayern striker’s 54.4 per cent of the vote placed him well clear of Madrid striker Benzema, who finished second with 32.6 per cent share of the vote. POLL Tottenham star Kane came a distant third in the Twitter poll, with the 28-year-old England captain only managing to secure 13 per cent of the vote. Thomas Muller insisted that Lewandowski, who has been linked with a move away from Bayern, should have won France Football’s Ballon d’Or ahead of Messi. “We know that it’s decided by journalists’ votes, and the winner, if everything goes well, is based on who gets the highest number of votes, and that’s why Messi won,” he told MBC Masr. “But in Munich we have a different opinion because we see Robert Lewandowski score and play every day, and in Egypt it’s normal that many see [Mohamed] Salah worthy of the prize, I can understand that because everyone wants that player who represent their team or country to win, the same for South American fans and journalists who saw Messi in the Copa America. “It’s always difficult, everyone has their own favourite player, but individual prizes aren’t the most important thing in football, what happens on the field is.”