ABUJA – As the race for the 2023 presidential election gather momentum, the Emefiele Support Group (ESG) on Monday said it has raised N67 million to purchase Expression of In­terest and Presidential Nom­ination Forms of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Godwin Emefiele. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, the group’s Director of Communications, Benig­na Ejimba, said the group’s target was to raise N100 mil­lion, which would be enough to purchase forms when the APC would fix the price for its presidential forms. Ejimba described Emefiele as the only one aspirant from among all who they were proud of who associate with President Muhammadu Bu­hari’s achievements. The group claimed that others were mischievously trying to separate themselves from the president and had only just started to grudging­ly add the president’s photo on their posters since seeing the scintillating outing of Emefiele Support Groups at the just-concluded APC na­tional convention. “Mr. Emefiele is the man that the president can trust with the future of Nigeria and have peace of mind that the country will not slide backwards,” the group said. Ejimba expressed appre­ciation to all members of the ESG across the nation for their contributions, noting that all contributions were free will donations. He said the group capped the highest donations from any singular member at N25, 000, claiming that by next week, the group would have surpassed the N100 million target and be ready to pur­chase the APC form when it would be available. The group urged “APC leaders, delegates and Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari to choose this one man ca­pable of continuing, con­solidating, expanding the progressive legacies of our president and also leading our party to victory in the next elections.” POLL Ejimba added: “ESG is populated by thousands of citizens who have benefited in one way or the other from the numerous economic emancipation initiatives of the Central Bank of Nigeria under the leadership of Mr. Godwin Emefiele.