Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is causing ripple effects in the automotive supply chain. The attack also has prompted companies to stop shipping to Russia or suspend operations there. The Ukraine crisis has led to Volkswagen pausing production in Poland and Skoda stopping Czech output of its Enyaq electric Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), stoking risks of sharper economic slowdowns. Stellantis to move to W. Europe Stellantis will move its current Russian van production from a plant in Kaluga, which it shares with Mitsubishi, to Western Europe and freeze plans for more investments in the country. Mercedes flags billions at risk Mercedes-Benz has about 2 billion euros ($2.2 billion) of assets in Russia that could be at risk if Moscow decides to expropriate the property of foreign companies that leave the country over its invasion of Ukraine. Renault undecided The invasion of Ukraine is unlikely to threaten Renault’s recovery as this is already on the right track and the automaker’s long-term strategy goes well beyond the current situation, Jean-Dominique Senard, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Renault said. POLL VW warns Ukraine war may be worse than pandemic Herbert Diess, Volkswagen Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) warned that a prolonged war in Ukraine risks being “very much worse” for the European economy than the coronavirus pandemic and may lead to huge price increases, scarcity of energy and inflation. BMW resumes production at German plants BMW will gradually resume production at its Munich and Dingolfing plants in Germany after it suspended production due to supply chain issues caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Suzuki to suspend exports to Russia Suzuki’s Hungarian factory has suspended car exports to Russia and Ukraine as of March due to the war. AvtoVAZ to partially resume output AvtoVAZ will partially resume operations at its Togliatti and Izhevsk plants from March 16 because it says it wants to protect the incomes of its staff in Russia. Porsche halts Taycan output on parts shortages Porsche is temporarily halting production of its Taycan Electric Vehicle (EV) at its Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen plant due to a lack of components caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Production of Mercedes-Benz S-Class, EQS models disrupted Mercedes-Benz is adjusting shift scheduling at its home plant in Sindelfingen near Stuttgart, where it builds the S-Class sedan and EQS electric sedan, because of the impact of the Ukraine war. Continental to shift production from Russia plant Continental is trying to identify locations where it can raise production to compensate for the loss of output at its Kaluga plant in Russia, where production has been suspended. Ferrari suspends production of vehicles Ferrari said it is suspending the production of vehicles for the Russian market until further notice. The automaker is also donating 1 million euros ($1.09 million) to support Ukrainians in need. Chinese automakers to benefit Chinese automakers operating in Russia including Great Wall’s Haval, Chery and Geely, have potential to gain market share, analysts say. Automakers face metal costs Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is ramping up the price of metals used in cars, from aluminum in the bodywork to palladium in catalytic converters to the high-grade nickel in electric-vehicle batteries. Stellantis’ Tavares wants lower steel tariffs Carlos Tavares, Stellantis CEO has called for U.S. and European officials to lower protective tariffs on steel as raw material and energy prices rise. VW brings forward Ukraine-related production stoppage Volkswagen has brought forward a production stop at its home factory in Wolfsburg as the supply situation for key parts such as wire harnesses gets worse. Porsche, Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz are also reducing production in Germany. Leoni forms task force to counter supply disruption The key supplier Leoni has formed a task force to tackle the disruption in supplies of Ukraine-produced wire harnesses that has caused German automakers to reduce or stop production. Russia’s threat of nationalisation A senior member of Russia’s ruling party proposed nationalising foreign-owned factories that shut down operations in the country over what the Kremlin calls a special military operation in Ukraine. VW, Toyota and Ford are among automakers that have temporarily closed their Russian plants.