The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday denied news making round that it has released a  timetable for the 2023 general elections. Describing the news as fake, the party stated in clear terms that it has not released any timetable or any schedule of activities whatsoever for the 2022/2023 electioneering year and no such document was signed and released by the National Organizing Secretary. In a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, PDP called on all members of the party and the general public to discountenance the said timetable and schedule of activities as it did not emanate from the PDP, adding it is the handiwork of mischievous elements who seeks to create confusion and mislead the public. Crack In CECPC Widens Ahead Of  APC Convention APC Convention: Crack In CECPC Widen The party added that at the appropriate time, its official timetable and schedule of activities, when approved will be formally announced and published. The statement said: “The attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been drawn to a fake election timetable being circulated in the social media, purported to have been signed and released by the National Organizing Secretary of the PDP, Hon. Umar M. Bature, as the Schedule of Activities and Timetable of the PDP for the 2023 general elections. “The PDP states in clear terms that it is has NOT released any timetable or any schedule of activities whatsoever for the 2022/2023 electioneering year and no such document was signed and released by the National Organizing Secretary. “For the avoidance of doubt, the PDP is a Party of Due Process and will release a Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2022/2023 electioneering year after extensive consultation and approval by critical and statutory organs of the Party at appropriate levels. “Clearly, the said Timetable and Schedule of Activities being circulated in the social media is the handiwork of mischievous elements who seeks to create confusion, mislead the public and distract our Party at this critical point in time.” POLL The PDP therefore called on all its members and the general public to discountenance the said Timetable and Schedule of Activities as it did not emanate from the PDP. “At the appropriate time, the official Timetable and Schedule of Activities of the PDP, when approved will be formally announced and published through the Official Communication Channels of our Party and not in the social media,” it said. The PDP further called on all members and Nigerians in general to remain focused and not allow themselves to be distracted in their determined mission to Rescue and Rebuild the nation from the misrule of the All Progressives Congress (APC).