Former Director National Orientation Agency (NOA), Hon Tale Oguntoyinbo has decried incessant attacks on the traditional rulers by unknown gunmen describing the trend as a taboo. Oguntoyinbo, the Obalodo-designate of Ilodo-Oye-Ekiti  expressed this concern when he led a delegation on a visit  to his ancestral home, Ilode-Ife in Osun  State. They were received by Obaloran of Ilode-Ife, Oba Sakariyau Olanusi in his palace. According to him , the visit was to show appreciation on the roles played by the traditional ruler of their source at ensuring enthronement of new Obalodo, 24 years after the seat had been vacant in the community. (UPDATE) Missing BRT Passenger: We Have Arrested Driver –… Domestic Violence: Kogi Man Caught On Camera Tearing… Oguntoyinbo, also  former Chairman, Oye-Ekiti Local Government Area, attributed the negative tendencies amongst the youths to the erosion  of traditiion and cultural values urging the traditional institution to do more in safeguarding the  culture. He therefore   called for unity among the traditional rulers in Yorubaland, saying it is time to speak with one voice. “The Western world is gradually fading out our culture and it is not good for our collective existence. Our youths don’t have respect and fear for the elderly people any longer, hence the need to have a rethink on how to revive and instill our culture into the minds and heart of our youths again.” “It is embarrassing and unfortunate the ways and manners our traditional rulers are being kidnapped and some killed.” “This is a taboo in our culture; these are things that should not happen, but because our youths are imbibing Western culture, they have thrown away our culture, tradition and beliefs,” Oguntoyinbo said. POLL Oguntoyinbo said healthy development could only be achieved through genuine peace and unity, adding that sustaining unity among the traditional rulers was panacea to finding lasting solutions to the problems confronting the country. He said that the country would be better off, if traditional rulers across the county could speak with one voice on national issues. According to him, all Yoruba traditional rulers have their ancestral source, hence, as the custodian of tradition and the representatives of the people must come together and speak in unison in the interest of the country. “lf there is unity and harmony among our people and traditional rulers in the country, the struggle to attain enviable development in all facets of life would be an easy task,” he said. The Obalodo-designate called on the Yorubas to rally support for the efforts aimed at promoting cultural festivals and traditions of the ethnic groups. Buni Approves Employment Of 196 Medical Personnel Lagos Doesn’t Need More Vehicles But Modern Rail Routes… Oguntoyinbo called on the Obaloran to continue to promote the culture and traditions of Ilode-Ife, saying that many other communities had also returned to their source. Responding, Obaloran lauded the wisdom and role of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, in promoting unity in Yorubaland and Nigeria in general, noting that Ooni’s prayers had come to fulfilment on all the descendants. The traditional ruler said that his community had continued to witness peace and progress since his ascension. “It is an honour to welcome you back home since I ascended the position of our forefathers, you have come back home to cement an ancient relationship that was cultivated and nurtured by our forefathers. “You have come to your ancestral source to seek wisdom and blessings, and as well demonstrate to our people that we are all tied by a thread of common destiny,” he said. The Obaloran said that Yoruba culture could not be quantified, describing Ooni as a blessing to the Yoruba race. Highlights of the visit were exchange of gifts and special prayers for the stool, sons and daughters, as well as other descendants of Ilode-Ife and Ilodo-Oye-Ekiti.