BENIN – The intractable communal conflicts over the rightful owner of an expanse of land situated after the river in Amagba community, Oredo local government area of Edo State, took another dimension, at the weekend as the Elders and youths of Amagba community took to the street, protesting the claims of some people who said they own the Agor- Emokpae (Emokpae Camp) land, one of the alleged camps within the community. The protesting Amagba people described the claimants as “stranger elements and customary tenants” stating that there is no community or village known as Oke-Oroma but an area known as Agor- Emokpae ( Emokpae Camp) in Amagba who are now laying claim to the land by erecting a signpost with the name “Oke-Oroma Community”. Amagba described the action of the people as not only an absurdity but an abuse of privilege by forcefully taking over land which was given to their fathers to farm on sympathy. Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Adebayo Pegs Nigeria’s Free Trade Zone Cumulative Investments At… Addressing newsmen during their protest match to the promises of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Center, the spokesman of Amagba community, Ambassador Thomas Oghadomwangbe, said: “The land in contention known as oke-Oroma is traditionally and legally owned by Amagba community known to the government and the Palace of the oba of Benin.” The people who are saying they own the AGO-EMOKPAI or Oke-Oroma, as the case may be, are customary tenants to Amagba community. Their fathers were given the land to farm, years back, to which they paid royalties to our Enogie. At what point then, did a tenant become the landlord?” The spokesperson community also stated thus, “this issue of self-acclaimed ownership by this people have long been settled by both the government and the Palace of the Oba of Benin. We are always worried whenever they come out to contest a fact, clear and well stated. “We know why they are coming up again. They are of the opinion that the government’s acquisition of its forest reserve may likely give them some level of cash which is not possible, as it is not acceptable for tenants to collect rent when the landlord and his descendants are still alive. “We acknowledged that the state government has a forest reservation in Amagba situated at Ago-Emokpai which is not in contention, what we are saying here is that, whatever discussion, negotiations or any interface on the matter should be done with Amagba community and not any other person or group of persons. POLL ,”We are the indigenes and aborigines of the Amagba Community which existed from time immemorial which was subsequently constituted into two separate Dukedoms by the Oba of Benin as Amagba Akengbuda and Amagba Adolor with their Enigie directly bearing allegiance on all customary matters to the Oba of Benin”. “Several villages and camps including Agor- Emokpae were established and have been under the customary control, management and administration of the Enigie of Amagba who have the right of ownership and control of the area on behalf of the Oba of Benin, the customary and traditional head of all the towns, villages, communities and Dukedoms that make up the Benin Kingdom,” Amagba declared.