Comprehensive Informational Articles have proven to get more engagement than ones that are not so easy to comprehend. It is very crucial to stay updated with informational articles as they provide detailed information about a specific text. Informational Articles however can be about different topics or key terms. The most important thing about it is its comprehensiveness. Statistics have made it known that people tend to engage more with comprehensive informational articles. This is because basically everyone understands what the piece of content is trying to pass. A good information article must possess certain qualities as a lot of people use this article to make crucial decisions. There are different types of articles such as “How-to Articles”, “News Articles”, “Personality Profile Articles” among others. POLL These are articles written about a person, often times a celebrity. It contains summarized details of the person such as the Childhood, Career, Relationships, and Lifestyle of the person being written about. This type of article is mostly referred to as a Biography. Halil Ibrahim Ceyhan’s Biography is a good example of a Personality Profile Article. Some of the qualities an informational article should possess are: The Publisher of an Article must make sure the information he/she provides in the article is authentic and true. Misinformation can result in wrong decision-making and also can hurt the credibility of an author. An article of high quality should not be plagiarized, there must be up to 90% uniqueness. Although there might be some quotes and references, other contents of the article asides from the quotes and references must be unique. A comprehensive article must be engaging. The first few sentences must be able to catch the reader’s attention and keep him/her glued till the end of the post. As Informational articles often contain other people’s thoughts and ideas, the sources must be duly cited and referenced in the article. Informational articles are meant to satisfy the reader’s information-seeking intent. Therefore, a good piece of an informational article must make sure it passes the quality check of an informational article. Entstoday is a good source of Informational Article.