AWKA – The state chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA),  Sir Norbert Obi has asked members of the party who Decamped from the party to come back. Obi in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Awka on Wednesday said all the concerned members needed to do was to report to their wards, show enough remorse and re-register. Asked if the party would not go to court to reclaim its seats, Obi answered in the negative, saying that those who decamped made a mistake and must have by now realised such a mistake. He said that as a one-state political party APGA sees its members as brothers and sisters and would not waste time and money going to court. It will be recalled that during the build-up to the governorship election held in Anambra State, some aggrieved members of the party notably: the member representing Aguata Federal Constituency who was schemed out of the race, Hon. Chukwuma Umeoji left the party and teamed up with the All Progressives Congress (APC). He was joined by the member representing Orumba North and Orumba South, Hon. Okwudili Ezenwankwo and the member representing Dunukofia state Constituency in the House of Assembly Hon. Lawrence Ezeudu, and three others. Obi, while briefing the press following their exit said the party did not beleive in meting out punishment or sanctioning or expelling the erring legislators as “Anambra is APGA and APGA is Anambra”. He said: “As the state chairman of the party, I am not unaware of the legal position or implications of such actions but as a father, I would rather appeal to the erring honourable members to reconsider their stand. POLL “I am not making this appeal out of weakness or fear because I know that whichever way the Anambra State Governorship election goes, APGA will win.” He regretted that they decamped from the party even after the party set up a peace/reconciliation committee after some issues that arose from the party primaries, adding: “I am only being magnanimous as a father in giving this second chance, come back to APGA family so that together we shall win and together we shall savour the joy of victory without anyone having any reason to regret his or her actions.”