MMA star Conor McGregor has confirmed his interest in buying Chelsea after being linked with a move for the Premier League football club. McGregor says the purchase of a ‘football franchise’ is in his ‘future’ and that he is exploring the possibility of buying Manchester United, Chelsea or Celtic. Roman Abramovich dramatically announced earlier this week he was looking to sell the club due to growing economic sanctions in the UK and amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Ronaldo Ruled Out Of Manchester Derby Through Injury De Bruyne Admits He Would Rather Win PL Than UCL Therefore, McGregor, who is a self-confessed Manchester United fan – made a bid for the club on Twitter worth half the £3bn wanted by the Russian owner. Responding to a news story stating Abramovich’s price tag for Chelsea is £3billion, ‘the Notorious’ tweeted: ‘I hereby put forward my offer of £1.5bn’ on the social media site. The Notorious has reaffirmed his interest in purchasing a football club by taking to Twitter once again to say: A football franchise purchase is in my future make no mistake about it.’ McGregor wrote: I do not speak in jest. I am exploring this, as I said. Celtic from Dermot Desmond, Manchester United from the Glaziers, and now the recently up for sale Chelsea football club. ‘All being explored. A football franchise purchase is in my future make no mistake about it.’ POLL American and Swiss tycoons Boehly and Wyss appeared to be leading the race to buy the club. However, Turkish businessman Muhsin Bayrak, said to be worth £8bn, has thrown a spanner in the works. Bayrak claims he is locked in talks with Abramovich’s team regarding buying the club – having said he will be ‘flying the Turkish flag in London soon’. ‘We are negotiating the terms of the purchase of Chelsea with Roman Abramovich’s lawyers,’ the businessman, whose family is one of the most important in Turkey, told Turkish outlet Yeni Safak. ‘We are in the negotiation phase for the signatures. We will fly the Turkish flag in London soon. We made our offer. Because of the war with Russia and Ukraine in the world. ‘Because they find Turkey safe, they want to get most of the after-sales money in Turkey… we are planning to sign soon.’