Lecture Title: Smart Teens Understand The ‘Magic Bullet’ To Break Malnutrition Cycle: Journey to the World of Adolescent Nutrition. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, I am standing in this prestigious auditorium today to give an account of my stewardship from the humble beginning as an Assistant Lecturer rising to the rank of a Professor of Public Health Nutrition in the Department of Family, Nutrition and Consumer Sciences (FNC), in the Faculty of Agriculture, the Faculty that trained me. The Nutrition Unit of the Department has metamorphosed into a full-fledged Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, now relocated to the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Health Sciences. This is the second inaugural lecture that would be delivered by the staff of the Department of FNC and the first on Nutrition. Also, it is the first in the newly established Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics. The trajectory navigated has been a long one spanning two decades. I am here to succinctly capture and present what I have done so far with the title “Smart Teens Understand the ‘Magic Bullet’ to Break Malnutrition Cycle: Journey to the World of Adolescent Nutrition. OAU Postpones Matriculation Till Further Notice JUST IN: OAU Sacks Lecturer Indicted Of Sex Scandal My Journey to the World of Public Health Nutrition I joined the services of Obafemi Awolowo University on August 1, 2002, as an Assistant Lecturer in the same department I graduated from and climbed the rungs of the ladder till I became a Professor on October 1, 2016, 14 years after I was employed. My journey to the world of Public Health Nutrition has been an interesting one. As a young Academia, it was sung into our hearing by senior colleagues at the annual departmental review meetings, where recommendations for promotion are made that we should be focused on our research area right from the beginning. I decided to carve a niche for myself in the area of Adolescent Nutrition, having done my PhD research in that domain. In order to make it broader, I took interest and decided to up a notch in the Nutrition of the vulnerable groups, which include children, adolescent girls and women of reproductive age. Who is an Adolescent? POLL According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), adolescence, the transitional phase of growth and development between childhood and adulthood, is defined as anyone within the age range of 10-19 years (WHO, 2022). Adolescence is a unique stage of human development and an important time for laying the foundations of good health. It is the second-fastest period of growth after infancy (National Academy of Science, 2019). Despite being thought of as a healthy stage of life, there is significant death, illness and injury in the adolescent years. Much of this is preventable or treatable. During this phase, adolescents establish patterns of behaviour – for instance, related to diet, physical activity, substance use, and sexual activity – that can protect their health and the health of others around them, or put their health at risk now and in the future (WHO, 2022). It is also a time to develop knowledge and skills, learn to manage emotions and relationships, and acquire attributes and abilities that will be important for enjoying the adolescent years and assuming adult roles. Therefore, most adolescents are included in the age-based definition of “child”, adopted by the Convention on the Rights of the Child,as a person under the age of 18 years (UN, 1989). Other overlapping terms used are youth (defined by the United Nations as 15–24 years) and young people (10–24 years), a term used by WHO and others to combine adolescents and youth (UN, 2013). Adolescence is categorised into Early Adolescence (10-13years), Mid-Adolescence (14-16 years) and Late Adolescence (17-19 years). The term ‘Adolescence’is equivalent to the word ‘Teens’ derived from Teenagers. Terminologies such as adolescent, teenager, youth, and young people are often used interchangeably. For the purpose of this lecture, I will stick to the word ‘Adolescent’. Ooni, Bugaje Speak At UNIFEMGA Reunion On Nigeria At Crossroads OAU Student’s Suicide Not Linked To Academic Failure, Says PRO What is the Problem with Adolescents? There are 1.3 billion adolescents, which make up 16% of the world’s population, with 90% living in low and medium-income countries, including 23% living in Sub-Saharan Africa (UNICEF, 2019). Adolescents in developing countries are challenged nutritionally, predisposing them to compromised immunity, high morbidity and mortality. Cases of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and Nutrition induced cancers are now being recorded among adolescents (WHO, 2011). They engage in unhealthy dietary behaviour, which leads to malnutrition. Malnutrition occurs when there is a deficit or surplus in food intake compared to energy expended. It can lead to under-nutrition or over-nutrition, and both coexist, coupled with micronutrient deficiency. These are exacerbated by inappropriate or unhealthy food choices. Unhealthy dietary behaviours such as high intake of salt, sugar and fat, skipping of meals, low intake of fruits and vegetables, increased processed food consumption, replacing meals with snacks, low whole-grain consumption, low fortified foods consumption, low Vitamin A and iron-rich food consumption to mention a few lead to malnutrition. Little or no attention is given to this age group to ensure a healthy lifestyle and adequate nutritional intake in preparation for adulthood. Intervention programmes are usually targeted towards infants, under-five children, school-aged children, and pregnant women, with little or no consideration for equally vulnerable adolescents. Although both male and female adolescents are at risk, females are particularly more vulnerable, especially to malnutrition (UNSCN, 2022). According to Bill Gates at the World Nutrition Summit in 2016, “Nutrition affects everything about a child’s development. And it even affects everything about education and economic development. If I had one magic power to solve the world’s challenges, Nutrition would be that power. Nutrition belongs at the top of the list. An investment in Nutrition can help make every other investment in health and development pay off” (Bill Gates, 2016). Today, the world is talking about Sustainable Development Goals. There are seventeen of them, out of which twelve have indicators relevant to Nutrition. Nutrition must be brought to the front burner for a nation to prosper, putting the right peg in the right hole to champion the course. Why Adolescent Girls? In Nigeria, undernutrition in female adolescents ranges between 23 and 58% and is attributed to socioeconomic and dietary factors (UNICEF, 2019). The dietary behaviour and nutritional status of female adolescents are becoming a major concern because they determine health outcomes now and in later years (UNSCN, 2022). Aside from dietary behaviour, maternal conditions are the top causes of mortality among girls aged 15-19 years. Globally, approximately 12 million girls aged 15–19 years and at least 777,000 girls under 15 years give birth each year in developing regions. (Darroch, et. al., 2016, UNFPA, 2015). Between 2010–2015, over 45% of women 20–24 years reported having given birth for the first time by age 18 (UNICEF, 2019). In Nigeria, an estimated 23% of women aged 15-19 years have begun childbearing, and 1 million give birth before age 15 years (UNFPA, 2015; NPC, 2014). Pregnant undernourished female adolescents are likely to give birth to undernourished babies, who may die at birth or before age two years, thereby contributing to the increasing maternal, infant and under-five mortality rates or stunted growth at adulthood. Likewise, an overweight female gives birth to an overweight child, and the intergenerational vicious cycle of malnutrition continues. To improve female adolescents’ dietary and sexual behaviour, a focused intervention program is important. The transformative shift for sustainable development involves ensuring that female adolescents have access to quality nutrition in preparation for productive and reproductive life. Adolescent girls are now becoming women of reproductive age! It’s a case of a baby carrying a baby. Teenage pregnancy has been on the increase (WHO, 2022). We do not have to wait until malnourished children are born by malnourished mothers before we start addressing them, as in the case of maternal and child nutrition. Adolescence has been identified as a window of opportunity to solve malnutrition problems now and in later years, i.e. adulthood. Dietary behaviour is a source of concern during adolescence. The dietary behaviour of female adolescents, in particular, determines body nutrient store, the incidence of non-communicable diseases, and immunity level. Unhealthy dietary behaviour early in life is a major contributory factor to diseased conditions in later years. Only healthy individuals are productive, impact the economy positively, and do not clog up hospital services (Chen et. al., 2016). Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, adolescent nutrition has remained neglected despite calls for action. I decided to delve into adolescent nutrition to promote a healthy start to life for the next generation by addressing health and nutritional risks in adolescent girls. The Intervention Proposed by WHO In 2018, WHO proposed evidence-informed interventions and policies for adolescent nutrition as follows: Having identified the research lacuna, my research focuses on promoting healthy diets in adolescents. These were achieved by assessing behavioural profiles, dietary patterns and main influencers of adolescents in the context of their social and psychosocial development. Avenues to reach Adolescents Adolescents are easy to reach. There are several avenues through which they can be reached. They are: The adolescents were reached through the school platform for my current research activities. Therefore, my intervention programmes were targeted towards in-school adolescents as a sustainability strategy. In-school adolescent girls were specifically targeted because they are accessible and can become change agents to out-of-school adolescent girls in society. Nutrition Education, Promotion and Communication were adopted as the strategies to inform, educate and train adolescent girls on the why, how, and when adequate Nutrition is needed to live a healthy and productive adult life. Conceptual Frameworks Female adolescents in developing countries, including Nigeria, face many challenges ranging from Nutrition to health and behaviour-related issues. For the purpose of my research activities, Nutrition and some health-related issues were addressed using two frameworks, namely: 1. WHO Conceptual Framework of Nutritional Problems in Adolescence The conceptual Framework of Nutritional Problems in Adolescence, designed by the WHO (Hélène et al., 2005), was adapted for my research activities (Figure 4). The framework shows the factors that lead to malnutrition in adolescents and the confounding factor in teenage pregnancy. The determinants of adolescent Nutrition are eating style, eating pattern, psychosocial factors, dietary inadequacies, infectious diseases and other health-related problems. These lead to malnutrition (undernutrition and overnutrition), micronutrient deficiencies and other nutrition-related chronic diseases. 2. Poor Nutrition throughout the Lifecycle Conceptual framework on Poor Nutrition throughout the lifecycle designed by United Nations Standing Committee on Nutrition (UNSCN) was also adapted for my research (Figure 5). The framework shows that a woman’s nutritional status before and during pregnancy affects her own health and the health and development of her baby. If a woman is underweight before becoming pregnant or fails to gain sufficient weight during pregnancy, her chance of having a premature or low-birth-weight infant increases. On the other hand, overweight women have a high risk of complications during pregnancy, such as high blood pressure (hypertension) and gestational diabetes, and of having a poorly developed infant or one with birth defects, who can die at birth or before first birthday (https://www.britannica.com/science/human-nutrition/Nutrition-throughout-the-life-cycle). Contributions to Knowledge Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, while investigating a paradigm shift in nutrition intervention and my research activities to contribute to nutritional and health data on the age group, I carried out several studies. However, in-school adolescent girls are still very much dependent on their mothers as they live within the households and mothers influence what becomes of them nutritionally and health-wise; women were also focused in my numerous studies. I attempted to develop a few nutritional products in the quest to find solutions to the micronutrient deficiency among the age group. Nutritional status of School Children and Adolescents Before any intervention programmes can be floated, the starting point is to assess the status quo by conducting a need assessment for such programmes. This was done by conducting a situation analysis on the nutritional status of the vulnerable groups. The nutrition and health status of the in-school adolescents were investigated by disaggregating data according to location (urban, peri-urban, urban slum and rural), setting (private/public school) or by gender (male/female). I found out that there were clear cut differences in the nutrition and health status between the rural and urban adolescents, those attending public and private schools and between males and females. Table 1: Nutritional status of students based on school attended N = 600 Table 2: Prevalence of underweight and overweight/obesity among adolescents according to gender and location N= 401 Table 3: Prevalence of underweight and overweight/obesity according to the age of adolescents by gender Several studies by me; Olumakaiye, (2008); Olumakaiye et. al., (2010); Olumakaiye and Olodu, (2012); Olumakaiye, (2013b) and Olumakaiye, (2015)investigated the high risk of undernutrition among adolescents. The studies revealed that the prevalence of underweight was higher among rural adolescents than urban and higher among boys than girls. At the same time, overweight/obesity is higher in girls than boys in urban settings. For the age-specific patterns of underweight, underweight was observed among urban adolescents from age 14 years, which was the peak, although it was noticed as early as 12 years in the rural area, which also peaked at 14 years. Underweight in both areas tapered off until age 19 years in the rural areas, whereas none of the 19 years adolescents in the urban was underweight. In boys, being underweight was higher in mid-adolescence due to increased activities, especially farm activities in rural areas. Adolescent underweight has been identified as a risk factor for being underweight in adulthood, leading to various adverse health outcomes. Table 4: Prevalence of underweight by residence according to age of adolescents n = 401 There have been issues of “Triple Burden” of malnutrition among adolescents. As we battle undernutrition, overnutrition is emerging, and micronutrient deficiency, otherwise known as hidden hunger, is not far-fetched. Talking about hidden hunger (micronutrient deficiency), iron deficiency anaemia is a pervasive public health problem among adolescent girls in Sub-saharan Africa. I assessed the dietary iron intakes of adolescent females using Dietary Diversity as a proxy in relation to iron status. Non-iron deficient girls had a higher Dietary Diversity Score (DDS) than iron-deficient girls. Heme iron sources (animal sources) were consumed lesser than non-heme iron (plant sources). Girls with low DDS were at significantly higher risk than the high DDS and moderate DDS groups. In general, there was a low dietary iron intake among adolescent girls (Olumakaiye, 2013a). Table 5: Source of iron-rich foods consumed by the adolescent girls Determinants of School Children and Adolescent Nutrition In an urban setting, cases of overweight are now being recorded. Being overweight originally used to be regarded as the condition of the affluent (Templin et. al., 2019). In recent times, it is now being recorded among the low-income group. I investigated the role of snacking as a contributor to overweight among young people. Almost half of the students surveyed consumed snacks daily; one-third substituted snacks for either breakfast, lunch or ate snacks in-between meals. Dinner is the most consistently eaten meal. The prevalence of overweight among the students was high, which was higher among females than males. Snack consumption positively related to overweight and income had a positive association with snack consumption. It was concluded that snack consumption among the students in the study area had implications on the nutritional status, especially overweight (Olumakaiye, et. al., 2010). On the contrary, my study in another setting showed that when snacks are consumed in addition to other meals improved adolescent BMI. If adolescents’ food consumption patterns were not limited to three meals daily but included snacks in-between meals, undernutrition could improve. There are strong, direct relationships between food consumption and malnourishment. Three-quarters of the world’s population live in rural areas, which could be the reason for the inability of the adolescents in the study area to consume three regular meals coupled with “in-between meals” snacks. However, the caveat is that snacks should not replace the main meals as observed in the study (Olumakaiye, et. al., 2010). In another study, Bakare and Olumakaiye (2016) assessed students’ fast food consumption patterns (FFCP) and body weight status. The findings revealed that more females consumed fast foods than males. Females were more overweight and obese than males. Also, a significant relationship existed between FFC and Obesity. Figure 6: Fast food consumption pattern using one-week dietary recall Table 6: Linear Multiple Regression analysis showing association between nutritional status and snack/meal consumption Another study conducted on the nutritional status of children depended to a great extent on environmental conditions. This study focused on the relationship between the nutritional status of children and the environmental hygiene practices of mothers. Most of the children scored above 5 out of the 6 points obtainable in the environmental hygiene condition checklist. There is no significant difference in the nutritional status of boys and girls. Underweight and overweight had significant relationships with environmental hygiene. We concluded that the environmental hygiene practice was high, which positively affected the nutritional status of children in an urban setting(Olumakaiye, 2015). I also investigated adolescents’ food choices, which are increasingly unhealthy. The study established that taste preference is the primary determinant of food and drink selection among adolescents. Despite the high nutritional knowledge of the contents of foods and drinks, protein foods were less preferred; snacks high in fat and sugar were preferred to protein-rich snacks; commercial drinks such as fizzy drinks were preferred to homemade non-alcoholic drinks such as freshly squeezed fruit juices, which have higher nutritional contents (Olumakaiye and Ajayi, 2007). It was concluded that the food choices of the adolescents were based more on taste preference than nutritional contents and the trend is the same among both urban and rural adolescents (p >0.05). The use of food labels is important in the choice of processed foods. The rate at which young people consume Pre-Packaged Food (PPF) products is on the increase. We conducted a study to evaluate the impact of nutrition education on the use of food labels on PPF and purchase decisions among young people. Information on awareness and use of Pre-Packaged Food Labels (PPFL) was obtained. Females were four times more likely to use food labels in purchase decisions than males (OR =4.34, 95% CI (0.62-2.75), likewise, older participants were thrice more likely to use food labels in purchase decisions (OR = 3.05, 95% CI = 1.49 – 2.64) than the younger ones. Nutrition education positively influenced the use of PPFL on purchase decisions of PPF products (Olumakaiye, et. al., 2019a). Figure 7: Example of Food Label Figure 8: Motivation to buy Pre-Packaged Foods Emerging evidence from the study on household food consumption within urban households showed that food consumption of households affects the health status of members of the households (Olumakaiye, 2007). It was observed that female household members of reproductive age tend to be malnourished due to inadequate nutrient intake because of inequity in intra-household food distribution compared to other age groups in the households. Women tend to give up their food for other members of the household in case of household food insufficiency. The women were on the margin between mild and normal malnutrition, and additional stress and strain on their body through illnesses, infections or extra burden can lead to severe malnutrition. Nigeria embarked on food fortification to accommodate the mandatory addition of Vitamin A in line with the established nutritional policy. I investigated the level of awareness and utilisation of the fortified food items. Awareness of the fortification was high among women, and very few could identify the fortified food items by the approved logo; invariably, the utilisation was low. A positive relationship was established between utilisation and household size and women’s education level, while age had a negative but significant relationship with utilisation. The implication is that the adolescents in such households will not have adequate access to fortified foods to mitigate micronutrient deficiency (Olumakaiye,et. al., 2007). Figure 9: Vitamin A fortification logo Teenage pregnancy is on the increase today, resulting from the type of care mothers give to adolescent female children. I investigated the types of care mothers considered necessary for their adolescent females. In order of priority, Health Care was considered the most important because nobody wants to lose a child, followed by Reproductive Health Care. Nutritional Care and Non-Food Care, such as clothing and body care products, were the least important. Adolescents were left to fend for themselves, thereby predisposing them to hazard. Teenage pregnancy was high, out of which some terminated the pregnancies while others had the babies and dropped out of school (Olumakaiye, 2009). Figure 10: Pregnant Teenagers The habit of eating outside the home is common among this age group, which also predisposes them to hazards (Olumakaiye, et. al., 2010). Another study analysed the participation of adolescents in food processing within households. Involvements were generally low, and protein-rich foods were the least processed. Participation of adolescents and children in household food choice, food processing and preparation will address the issue of skipping meals and nutrition security, which to a large extent have a long time effect on their nutritional status (Olumakaiye, 2006; Olumakaiye and Ajayi, 2007). Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, from my numerous investigations, I found out that the determinants of nutritional status among school children and adolescent girls are (i) Location, (ii) Individual Food Consumption Patterns, (iii) Food Choices, (iv) Snacking, (v) Household Food Consumption, (vi) Use of Fortified Food Items, and (vii) Environmental Hygiene Practices in Nigeria, which corroborated the submission of WHO. Effect of Poor Nutrition on Cognitive Function of School Children and Adolescents Cognitive functioning refers to multiple mental abilities, including learning, thinking, reasoning, remembering, problem-solving, decision making, and attention.  I conducted a survey among school children to investigate the relationship between cognition and nutritional status (Olumakaiyeand Olodu, 2012). The cognitive function was assessed using a modified Raven’s Colour Progressive Matrix. The mean score was 5.65±2.03 out of eight points obtainable and 61.6% of urban children were rated high as against 31.7% in rural in their cognitive function. The difference between urban and rural children was statistically significant (p = 0.001). The cognitive function was cross-tabulated with nutritional status and the result showed an association with undernutrition. The predictors; wasting (WAZ) (p = 0.025) and stunting (HAZ) (p = 0.04) had a synergistic relationship with cognitive function. Stunting, which is a reduced growth rate in human development affects one-third of children in developing countries (UNICEF, 2007). This may lead to vital organs including the brain not fully developing (Olivieri, 2008). Table 7: Cognitive Functions of School Children by Location Mean Score: Urban (6.32±2.00), Rural (5.00±1.90), Total (5.65±2.03)  Effect of Food Security on Nutritional Status of School Children and Adolescents Food security as defined by IFPRI in 2002 is a situation that exists when all people, at all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life (IFPRI, 2002). WHO further simplified the definition food security to mean that: Household food security is the application of this concept to the family level, with individuals within households as the focus of concern. Any household with the following characteristics are regarded as having low food security. Some of these were investigated in the course of my research. For school children and adolescents to be adequately nourished, food security is the sine qua non. Determinants of household food insecurity were investigated across wide-ranging scenarios; rural, peri-urban and urban areas, and comparison was made based on the gender of household heads (Olumakaiye, 2011). It was observed that more female-headed households are emerging due to the high rate of divorce, single parenthood and widowhood. The level of food insecurity was higher in female-headed households than male-headed households (Olumakaiye, 2011). The severity of food insecurity among households in rural Nigeria was investigated. Age (t = -1.232, p = 0.220); income (t = -2.810. p = 0.006), and level of education (t = -0.146, p = 0.146) inversely contributed to household food insecurity, however, only income was statistically significant. Household size (t =2.470, p =0.015) contributed significantly and positively. The higher the household size, the higher the level of food insecurity. Women with higher education provided more varieties of food for the households (Olumakaiye and Ajayi, 2006). Coping strategies adopted by the households include skipping meals, eating less preferred food, fewer varieties and lesser quantities. Food insecurity within households predisposes school children, adolescents and women of reproductive age to malnutrition (Olumakaiye, 2012) Adequate food The concept of adequate food is an important part of the current definition of household food security. Clearly, what is sufficient for one member is not sufficient for another. A person’s requirements for different nutrients depend on many factors, including age, sex, level of activity and physiological status. However, the adequacy of diets should not be considered only in quantitative terms (i.e. caloric sufficiency) but also in qualitative terms (i.e. variety, safety and cultural acceptability). Several major conditions define an adequate diet, necessary for an individual to stay active and healthy: · It should provide adequate energy and protein. · It should provide micronutrients (vitamins and minerals) in sufficient quantities to maintain good health. · It should be safe and free from contaminants, parasites and toxins which may be harmful to health. · It should be culturally acceptable and, in addition, should satisfy the palate and be capable of providing pleasure to the consumer. Products Development and Creative Works Since snacking has been identified as one of the determinants of the nutritional status of school children and adolescents, new cookie recipes were developed using soy flour, beni seed and plain flour blends, which were found to be high in both micronutrients and macronutrients (Olumakaiyeand Ogunba, 2010; Olumakaiye and Sanni, 2013). If these are included in daily meals, they will go a long way to redress the prevalent micronutrient deficiencies among school-age children and adolescents. Likewise, methods of cooking foods need to be considered as they affect nutrients retention in food after preparation (Olumakaiye, 2011; Olumakaiye and Ogunkayode, 2014; Ogunsina, Olumakaiye et. al., 2013). Figure 14: Cookie Samples Recommendations: Way Forward in Adolescent Nutrition Based on the experience garnered over the years from the different academic and research climes, I have the following recommendations to make. There is a need for: Research Grants Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, in the quest of finding a way to fill the gap in the Health and Nutrition of the aforementioned vulnerable groups, I won a number of research grants. The first was from the Unilever R&D Vlaardingen BV the Netherlands to address Iron deficiency among apparently healthy women of reproductive age titled: Assessment of Bioavailability of Iron from Iron Fortified Bouillon Cubes among Healthy Nigerian Women in the Context of Nigerian Diets: STUDY NO: FDS-SAV-2103. HREC NO: IPH/OAU/12/548. I was the Principal Investigator (PI). It was conducted between May 2015-2018 (Completed). It was a multinational research involving Nigeria, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and South Africa. Two articles were published from the study. The outcomes of the research were: Participants at the Iron Bioavailability Study went home with gifts of Unilever Products Co-Researchers from the Netherlands           Menu Planning for the Iron Bioavailability and South Africa                                                  Study with Netherland Rep 2. The second grant was for adolescent girls from the National Research Fund of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (NRF-TETFund). I am the Principal Investigator. It was awarded in Dec. 2020 and is ongoing. The project is titled: Development of Nutrition Mobile Application as a tool to improve Dietary Behaviour of Adolescent Girls in Nigeria. Summary: This research project is designed to address the challenges of dietary behaviour among female adolescents through the use of a Nutrition Mobile Application. This research is a cross-sectional study of in-school female adolescents aged 10-19 years that will be selected from three geopolitical zones of Nigeria, namely, Southwest (Osun and Ondo States), Southeast (Abia and Imo States) and North Central (Niger and Kogi States). Cluster Randomized Controlled Design will be adopted using control and intervention groups. At the end of the project, a mobile nutrition app with the name ‘Smart Adolescent Girls Nutrition’ App (SAGiN) will be developed and will be available on Android and iOS for download with the logo indicated. The expected outcome of the use of the app is Improved Dietary Behaviour of Female Adolescent. Figure 15: Logo of Smart Adolescent Girls Nutrition (SAGiN) App 3. The third grant I won is from Carnegie Corporation of New York and administered by International Research and Exchanges Board (IREX), Washington DC. It is a collaborative and concerted effort of five fellows of the University Administration Support Programme headed by Professor Kehinde Taiwo. The project is titled: Strengthening and Popularising Research Management in Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria. I am a Co-Principal Investigator. The project started in April 2021, and it’s ongoing. Summary: In Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), the Central Office of Research (COR) coordinates research administration and management. The office promotes the research culture and harmonises research activities within and across disciplines and specialisations in OAU. The current status of OAU research activities and research life cycles need interventions and amelioration. Many of the researchers do not avail themselves of the opportunities and services provided by COR for lack of awareness. The COR needs an embedded capacity to deliver on its mandate. Therefore, there is a need for a concerted effort to entrench capacity in the COR, to coordinate the activities by strengthening and popularising a web-enabled CoP for grantsmanship and research management services for capacity building of researchers. 4. I was part of the AUSAID research sub-agreement between Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria & Murdoch University, Murdoch, Australia, regarding the project entitled “How can mining and agriculture work together to provide equitable economic opportunities?” It was a team of nine experts headed by Professor Sola Ajayi. I was the nutrition expert on the team. Summary of the nutrition component of the project: The Osun State School Feeding Programme (O-MEALS) was established by the current government with the sole aim of providing at least one nutritious meal per school day for the young and growing public primary school pupils of Primary one to four has spurred an increase in school enrolment and performance. The programme’s objectives with respect to agricultural development in the state to stimulate job creation, local goods production, and boost local farmers’ income have not been realised. This is because the responsibility of purchasing food items was placed on food vendors who preferred to source the food items from competitive open markets rather than small aggregate production by peasant farmers. Future Strategy Mr. Vice Chancellor, Sir, having given the account of my stewardship in the Academia so far, I am not resting on my oars yet knowing well that ‘If you rest, you rust’. I have adopted two strategies to continue my pursuit in School Children and Adolescent Health and Nutrition without neglecting Women of Reproductive Age. The strategies are: 1. Role modelling: It is used to inform, educate and train vulnerable groups on the why, how, and when adequate Nutrition is needed to live a healthy and productive adult life. In-school adolescent girls are specifically targeted because they are accessible and can become change agents to out-of-school adolescent girls in society. How? Nutrition Clubs will be established in Secondary Schools with the name Smart Adolescent Girls Nutrition Club (SAGiN). 2. Information and Communication Technology: I already have a grant from NRF- TETFund, which is ongoing. Several traditional attempts, such as leaflets, classroom lectures, and seminars, have been used to address malnutrition issues. However, they are limited and are not sustainable. Hence, there is a need to explore more sustainable techniques that female adolescents popularly embrace. With the advent of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) age, adolescents are fond of mobile applications and frequently use ICT. Nigerian adolescents generally accept and access digital technologies, particularly mobile phones. Two-thirds of mostly 14 to 18-year-olds in peri-urban and urban centres have personal mobile phones (Uzuegbunam, 2020). Nutrition Mobile Application is being developed. It presents a great opportunity to reach more adolescent girls with Nutrition and healthy eating messages, services and support to improve dietary behaviour and protect their health and wellbeing. The long-term goals that this research will achieve include healthy dietary behaviour, prevention of non-communicable diseases, reduction in maternal and child mortality, and morbidity of infants from pregnant female adolescents. The short term goals are; improved nutritional knowledge and nutritional status. The research project is innovative with colossal potential and timely opportunity to address female adolescent Nutrition and health issues. Social impact includes building the confidence of female adolescents in dietary-related behaviour, as they maintain normal nutritional status. Economically, healthy, competent adolescents can raise the economic productivity of Nigeria if they enter the workforce. Only healthy individuals are productive and do not clog up hospital services. Healthy adolescent girls can grow into healthy, productive women who have access to quality nutrition education in preparation for productive and reproductive life. They are more likely to have infants who grow to become productive adults. Technologically, the mobile nutrition application developed will be a credit to Nigeria in the domain of female adolescent nutrition. The use of mobile technology is more relevant in the post-COVID-19 pandemic era where ‘the new normal’ is ICT platforms. Nutrition Mobile Application has the prospect to influence female adolescents’ dietary behaviour and safeguard their health and wellbeing as a prerequisite for achieving full developmental potential and productivity as indicated in the transformative shift for sustainable development goal 3 (ensuring health and wellbeing for all at all ages). The Overall Objective of the future strategy, which has begun now, isto improve the dietary behaviour of adolescent girls in preparation for adult life. Expected Results Expected Output: Nutrition Mobile Application and School-Based Nutrition Clubs Expected Outcome: Dietary Behaviour Change Sustainability Strategy: For any programmes to stand the test of time, such programmes must be sustainable. For the strategies adopted to be sustainable, I have decided to explore two avenues. (i) School-Based Programme: Currently, my research targets in-school adolescent girls. As long as schools exist and girls attend, the program will continue to exist. (ii) Faith-Based Programme: I hope to explore faith-based programmes in the near future. As long as churches and mosques exist and girls attend, the program will continue to exist. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, having elucidated some of the conclusions from my numerous research works, and at the end of my sojourn in Academia, I will like to see the following happen among the adolescent girls: Healthy Teenagers need to know that: Adolescent girls who understand and practice all these are Smart Teens and have the ‘Magic Bullet’ to break Malnutrition Cycle. They grow to become healthy adults, bringing forth healthy children, thereby reducing the prevalence of maternal and child mortality and morbidity in Nigeria. Distinction Mr. Vice Chancellor, Sir, in the course of my search for the Golden Fleece, I was awarded a couple of distinctions. 1. In 2010, BioMed. Library USA rated my article titled ‘Food consumption patterns of Nigerian adolescents and effect on body weight’ published in Journal of Nutrition Education and Behaviour 42 (3): 144-51 (USA) as first in the Top Ten rating of articles published worldwide in the domain of school children and adolescents nutrition. The article was rated number one for four consecutive years; 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. The article was published from my PhD thesis. 2. In 2009, I was privileged to be sponsored by the Netherlands Government under the Netherlands Fellowship Programme (NFP) to study Post Graduate Diploma in International Foods and Nutrition Security. At a stiff and fierce debate on Food and Nutrition Security, I won and was crowned ‘Miss Foods and Nutrition Security, 2009. Awards and Fellowships Mr. Vice Chancellor, Sir, as a mark of scholarship and in recognition of my contribution, I have won several awards and fellowships, which accorded me the opportunity to travel to five continents; Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe and North America. I am a regular speaker at Scientific Conferences and World Days, which took me to Australia, United States of America, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Israel, South Africa, Morocco, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Egypt, Kenya, Uganda, Burkina Faso and Ghana. I have also won some fellowships : 1. Fellow: African Women in Agricultural Research and Development (AWARD) by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It was a 2-year career development fellowship for women in research and development. As a part of this award, I was sponsored to a world congress in Melbourne, Australia, in 2012, out of many other benefits. 2. Fellow: African Graduate Student Network. 3. Fellow: Federation of African Nutrition Societies 4. Fellow: African Nutrition Leadership 5. Fellow: University Administration Support Program (UASP) by IREX, Washington DC: In 2020, I won the prestigious fellowship of the University Administration Support Programme on Research Management and Leadership sponsored by Carnegie Corporation of New York and administered by the International Research and Exchanges Board of Washington, DC. USA. Due to COVID-19 Pandemic, we had a whole year of online courses on topics relating to University Administration and Research Management. I also had virtual engagements with my Host University, Wake Forest University (WFU), Winston-Salem, North Carolina, U.S.A., during which I featured in the 2021 May edition of the University’s Newsletter. Later, I was selected for an In-Person fellowship, which took me to WFU as a Visiting Scholar for five weeks, precisely, October 4 – November 7, 2021. While in the US, I was attached to the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs to understudy the Research Management process and build a capacity in policy writing. As part of the fellowship, we are currently implementing reform in our university’s research administration sector. As a result, in collaboration with the Central Office of Research, we are developing the capacity of Early Career Researchers (ECR) and Administrative Support Office Staff (ASO) and developing a standalone policy on Research Integrity and Responsible Conduct of Research. UASP Fellows in Washington, DC (Oct. 2021) With Pam Moser, my Host at WFU At Wake Forest University, Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA I have also won several Conference Support Grants: I also consulted for the following Organisations: Imperial College London Representatives visited me in OAU. With Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation                       With the Rep. of a sponsor Nigeria & West Africa Coordinators In 2017, I was appointed as a member of a 12-man Delegation representing Nigeria at an ECOWAS summit on Harmonisation of Nutrition Curricula (B.Sc. (Hon.), M.Sc. and Ph.D) for West Africa Countries. The summits were held in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso and Accra, Ghana. Nigeria Delegation to Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso in 2017 I have supervised several Undergraduate and Postgraduate Students and served and still serving as both Internal and External Examiner to Higher Institutions on Postgraduate Programmes. I am an Internal Examiner to the Institute of Public Health, Community Health Department, Demography and Social Statistics, Department of Physical and Health Education and Department of Food Science and Technology.   I am an External Examiner to the University of Ibadan and Afe Babalola University. To continue to be relevant in my chosen field, I joined some professional associations. I am an active member of the American Society of Nutrition (ASN), The Nutrition Society, UK (NS), Nutrition Society of Nigeria (NSN), African Nutrition Graduate Students Network (AGSNET), Federation of African Nutrition Societies (FANUS), African Nutrition Leadership (ANLP),          African Nutrition Society (ANS), Family and Consumer Sciences Society of Nigeria (FACSON) and Agriculture, Nutrition and Health Academy (ANH). PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS Challenges 1. Struggle for identity and appropriate placement as a Public Health Nutritionist For years, we have attempted to establish a standalone Department of Nutrition and Dietetics where Public Health Nutrition actually belongs. Graduates of Nutrition in OAU had suffered a slight setback because the programme was domiciled in the Faculty of Agriculture. Many international opportunities were lost as a result of the wrong placement. It’s somehow contradictory when you identify yourself as a Public Health Nutritionist with the address in the Faculty of Agriculture. It does not add up!. We want to thank the National University Commission (NUC) for coming to the rescue by insisting that the Department be domiciled in the College of Health Sciences, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences with the name Human Nutrition and Dietetics. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, we want to appreciate you, OAU Senate and Governing Council for the approval. Now that I am moving to the College of Health Sciences, I decided to deliver my inaugural lecture in the name of the Faculty that made me. Words are ineffable to appreciate the past Deans and members of the Faculty of Agriculture where I have worked for two decades. Working with you is one of the best things that happened today to me in OAU. I am grateful. I want to thank the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences and College of Health Sciences for accepting us. We look forward to more opportunities for further collaboration with departments in the Faculty and the College. 2. Space Allocation: Generally, space allocation is a major challenge in OAU. Now that a new Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics has been created, there is a dare need for a standalone building designated for the Department. I am using this medium to appeal to well-meaning Nigerians, philanthropists, government parastatals, companies and organisations to come to the rescue. Currently, the Department is located far from the College of Health Sciences. There is a need to move closer for proximity. We need a building to house the departmental offices, staff, seminar rooms, classrooms, laboratories, library and other students facilities. Leadership In order to build capacity in leadership, I have attended a couple of leadership programmes and courses sponsored by NFP in South Africa, USAID in Kenya and Uganda, IREX in USA. I was privileged toserve as Acting Head of the Department for two years, August 1, 2014 –August 11, 2016. I also served in the following capacities, Chairperson, Departmental Examination Coordinating Committee; Chairperson, Documentation and Record Committee; Chairperson, Logistic and Entertainment Committee for the Faculty Week; Member, Academic Planning Committee; Member, Ad-Hoc Committee on Faculty Handbook; Member, Faculty Review Panel; Member, Faculty Board of Studies among others. In the area of service to the scientific communities, I am an Editorial Board Member for the International Journal of Gender Studies and Development and  International Journal of Family and Consumer Sciences. Also, a reviewer to the International Journal of Gender Studies and Development, African Journal of Food Science, Nigerian Journal of Nutritional Sciences, Moor Journal, Ife Journal of Agriculture and Child Indicator Research. Online Visibility and Reputation To enhance visibility and reputation, I am present on the following online platforms SCOPUS ID: 55624759000 ORCID – https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2939-2557 Researchgate – https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Motunrayo_Olumakaiye Linkedin – https://www.linkedin.com/in/motunrayo-funke-olumakaiye-30a82619 OAU – http://fnc.oauife.edu.ng/instructor/prof-olumakaiye-m-funke UASP-IREX – https://irex.instructure.com/profile African Scientists Directory – https://africanscientists.africa/business-directory/olumakaiye Donation to the Department of Family, Nutrition and Consumer Sciences At the completion of a research project from a grant from Unilever R&D Vlaardingen BV the Netherlands, I donated the following items to the Nutrition Laboratory of the Department. Table 8: Items donated to the Department from Grant Mentorship Mr. Vice Chancellor Sir, the area of mentorship, cannot be handled with a kid’s glove. It is very germane in career development. I have been adequately mentored by different people from all walks of life. No one is born with all the skills needed to succeed in life, we all need some shoulders to lean on and platforms to leverage to get to the position of maximum implementation of life’s purpose called Destiny. We all need mentors who have professional and life experience and voluntarily agree to help a menteedevelop skills, competencies, or goals. “A mentor is someone who sees more talent and ability within you than you see in yourself, and helps bring it out of you.” — Bob Proctor. “A mentor is someone who allows you to see the hope inside yourself.” — Oprah Winfrey. “Spoon feeding, in the long run, teaches us nothing but the shape of the spoon” —E.M. Forster. A mentor says, ‘Let’s go do it,’ not ‘You go do it.’ How powerful when someone says, ‘Let’s!’” — Jim Rohn. In Academia, I have the privilege to have been mentored and monitored by the following: In turn, in order to give back what I have learnt over the years, I was opportune to mentor my students at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels, they are too numerous to mention. However, let me single out Mr. Elijah Fadeiye (now a PhD student at the University of Ghana) and Miss Mary Oyewole (currently a PhD student in Texas, USA). Officially, as part of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Career Development Fellowship, I was involved in the formal mentoring of staff, Dr. (Mrs.) Bisi Bakare. I guided the mentee in developing a Life Purpose Road Map with all the components that will lead to the position of maximum implementation of life purpose. Currently, I am mentoring a younger colleague, Mrs. Bolanle Popoola, an Assistant Lecturer in proposal writing, manuscript development for publication in high impact journals, work-life balance and general life in Academia. Conclusion Mr. Vice Chancellor, Sir, Public Health Nutrition is an area of specialisation, having garnered experience that spans over two decades, is no small feat. “For someone to be an expert in a chosen field, he/she must know some of the worst mistakes that can be made in the subject, and how to avoid them.” – Werner Heisenberg Nutrition is preventive medicine. Some health challenges are addressed by modifying the diet of individuals. The trajectory in the 21st-century research world is collaborative. It could be suicidal if someone who did not study nutrition begins to recommend nutrition regimens because such an individual does not want to consult a nutritionist. There is what is called personalised nutrition. Nutrition is not a case of what is good for the goose is also good for the gander. For the world to be a safer sphere to live in, we must work collaboratively, leaving the expertise to the experts in each field. One cannot compare the knowledge acquired in a journey of two decades or more with knowledge received in one year of a short course, bearing in mind that one can only sell a thing one has proficiency in. If you desire to succeed, you should know that you cannot rule out the professional help of those who have years of experience in all those fields that fall out of your expertise. Let everybody mind their business and leave nutrition to the nutritionists. Adolescent Nutrition is a window of opportunity that has been identified to flatten the rising curves in maternal and child morbidity and mortality rates. The future generation we talk about starts now. The ‘magic bullet’ a smart teen (adolescent girl) needs to break the malnutrition cycle is Positive Dietary Behaviour, which can be acquired through appropriate intervention programmes specifically targeted toward them. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Sir, adolescents have a digital life found in the mobile phones and tabs they take around. That makes them smart teens. Adolescent girls are Razor Sharp and have to be circumspect in dietary decisions to live a healthy adult life. Without any fear of contradiction, I have decided to leverage their digital life to empower adolescent girls by developing a Mobile Nutrition App as a tool to improve their Dietary Behaviour. Good Dietary Behaviour is the Magic Bullet for Smart Teens to live a healthy lifestyle.