Saddened by the frequent terrorist attacks in the country and the recent attack on the Abuja- Kaduna train, the leadership of the Unified Nigerian Youth Forum has condemned in strong terms the series of attacks on innocent, law-abiding citizens of the country. The group lamented that the series of attacks has further exposed the inability of the current administration to keep to her campaign promises; adding that “the spate of insecurity in our nation is terrible and we lack appropriate words to describe it”. According to the President, Comrad Abdulsalam Moh’d Kazeem, “The nation as usual again just lost some finest brains, though many were injured while others were kidnapped; to our greatest surprise the Nigerian Railway Corporation as at this moment is still unable to provide the nation with the original manifest of all those on that particular train, to us in this 21st century, this is shameful, DISGRACEFUL and gross incompetence of the highest order. “It’s no news again that the current Administration has failed us, but we the citizens should not allow this to consume us and the leadership, because available information at our disposal shows the nation has recently imported super Tucanos and many helicopter fighting jets, but to our greatest surprises the said Tucanos and Fighter jets are nowhere to be found, rather some of them are diverted to be used against citizens during a peaceful and lawful protest against bad governance, to us indeed it’s a misplaced priority and wrong placement. “As a Forum we are not surprised at the current happenings in our country, because, after over 6 years of the current administration, they are still blaming the past government over everything, this alone has further proven that nothing good can be achieved by President Muhammed Buhari and his co-travellers,, rather they will continue to feed us with their usual propaganda and conspiracy theories of blaming others for their shortcomings and inaptitudeness, to us this must stop now as we completely reject such tactics in totality. “The primary responsibility of every government is to secure the lives and properties of her citizens and anything short of that means the government has failed in its primary purpose, therefore we are bold to say, the current Administration has failed completely. The group, therefore, demanded that within 7 working days the government should:Declare a state of emergency on security. 2) Secure the Release of all those kidnapped without asking their relatives to pay the ransom. POLL 3) Pay all the medical bills of all those that sustain injuries and are currently in the hospital and equally compensate them for loss of valuables. 4)Nigerian Railway Cooperation should provide us with the comprehensive Manifest of all those on the train. 5) Government should immediately set up a committee to identify the families of all those that lost their lives and adequate compensation should be given to their next of kin. 6) The Government should immediately bring down RIJANA TOWN and convert it into a military police training ground.