Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi held talks with his Rwandan counterpart Paul Kagame at al-Ittihadiya Palace in Cairo on Sunday. The two leaders discussed bilateral ties and latest regional developments and agreed on the importance of engaging in constructive and effective dialogue to boost strategic cooperation with the Nile Basin countries. According to the Egyptian presidency statement, the dialogue aims to advance interests, address common challenges and achieve comprehensive development for all the peoples of the region. Sisi underlined the need to reach a legally-binding agreement, within an appropriate timeframe, on the filling and operation of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam to enhance regional security and stability based on the international law and relevant UN resolutions. He stressed Cairo’s rejection of all unilateral measures in this regard. Sisi said Cairo is keen to consolidate strategic cooperation with Rwanda in various fields, especially at the economic, commercial, security and military levels. He pointed to the preparations to establish the joint committee between the two countries as soon as possible, bolster coordination and consultation and exchange views within the framework of the African Union. Presidential spokesperson Bassam Rady said Sisi and Kagame first held separate talks, which were followed by expanded discussions between the delegations of the two countries. POLL Sisi affirmed his country’s keenness to support Rwanda’s development needs, especially in the infrastructure, health and education sectors, by maximizing the investments of the specialized Egyptian companies with extensive experience and expertise in these fields. He vowed to transfer expertise and build capacities through courses and grants to contribute to building Rwandan cadres. Kagame, for his part, said his country is keen to develop ties with Egypt in various fields, hailing its pivotal role in the region to maintain security and stability. He also commended Egypt’s stances, which aim to achieve stability in the African Great Lakes region, East Africa and the Nile Basin. Kagame cited Cairo’s recent efforts to resolve the outstanding issues in this region and underlined its influential role within the AU.