“Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels,” (Mark 8:38). “Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God,” (2Timothy 1:8). Whatever situation we find ourselves, we must not deny God. In practice, we must owe allegiance to God, the creator of all. “For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s” (Romans 14:8). We shall return to Him one day, to give account of our stewardship. We must not be afraid to declare and proclaim the gospel of Christ. When you are ashamed of your faith and you can’t stand firm on what you believe, come rain or shine, it proves your denial of Christ. One of the characteristics of false prophets is that they deny Christ. They privily or cunningly introduced damnable heresies that lead their followers to hell. False prophets will not escape judgement, as they will bring swift destruction upon themselves. The work of the spirit of the antichrist is to deny God. Anyone who denies Jesus is the savior, is an antichrist. The antichrist also denies God the Father, and his son Jesus. If we acknowledge Jesus as the son of God, we will be able to see God, and gain access to His kingdom. Any spirit that doesn’t confess Jesus came in flesh to die for our sin, and will come again as a judge to administer justice to the world, is an antichrist. Christ will deny those guilty of denying him. “But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven’ (Matthew 10:33). We all want to reign with Christ, but can we suffer for the sake of the gospel? Denial of Christ leads to annihilation. God will execute judgement on the ungodly ones, who commit the sin of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit, because they have intentionally and willfully refused to submit to Christ and his words. When Peter was asked if he was Jesus’ disciple, he denied knowing Jesus. He cursed and swore, he was never with Jesus, until the cock crew. He then remembered the word of Jesus which said, before the cock crows, he would deny him thrice. He felt sober and wept bitterly. Peter denied Christ in John 18:16-18, because he was fearful and weak. He was not also spiritually equipped to face the challenges ahead. At the garden of Gethsemane, before Jesus was arrested, Jesus asked the disciples to pray, but they slept when He returned to check on them. Jesus warned Peter by saying watch and pray so you do not fall into temptation, for the spirit is willing, but the body is weak. Peter was already warned to pray to overcome the trial ahead of him, but he fell asleep and didn’t prepare for what was to come. Peter was the head of the disciples. He was the one who gave the excellent conclusion that Jesus was the son of God. He had also assured Jesus earlier to stand by Him, no matter what, but, he ended up denying Jesus. If you want to overcome the devil, you must be prepared in prayer and never try to overestimate yourself spiritually, because you will always need to learn more, and grow in the spirit. If we have erred, we can ask for forgiveness, as Peter did, and the blood of the lamb will cleanse us. The Jews denied Jesus (The Holy One and the Just) in the presence of Pilate. They desired a murderer be given freedom, instead of Jesus. In the end, God glorified his son Jesus. In the midst of growing opposition and persecution, let’s not be afraid. We are not supposed to fear men. God alone should be feared and reverenced. God is in charge and he deeply cares for us.