Premier League giants Liverpool have earmarked Barcelona winger Ousmane Dembele as a potential replacement for superstar Mohamed Salah. The Egyptian has been a revelation since moving to Anfield from AS Roma in 2017. He has since scored 153 goals and made 57 assists in just 238 appearances for the club across all competitions. It represents a sensational return by a player who is today counted amongst the best in the world. Despite continuing to rake in the numbers this season, Liverpool and Salah have so far failed to find common ground in contract negotiations regarding a new deal. The 29-year-old’s contract at Anfield expires in 2023, meaning Liverpool have just over a year to reach an agreement. While the player is happy to stay on at Liverpool. he is unwilling to accept the terms offered to him at this point in time. Unless the club gives in or the player agrees to a compromise, a parting of the ways could be on the cards in the future. Such a decision could have a huge impact on the Reds, given Salah’s role in their resurgence. However, should he decide to leave, life goes on, and Liverpool appear to be preparing a contingency for just that. Jurgen Klopp’s side are on the lookout for a replacement and have identified Barcelona’s Ousmane Dembele as one of the players who can replace the Egyptian, along with Angel Di Maria and Marco Asensio. The Frenchman is an extremely talented player and, at 24, has the best years of his career ahead of him. Injuries and inconsistency have plagued his time at Camp Nou, stopping him from reaching the expected levels. Dembele’s contract at Barcelona expires at the end of the season, meaning he could be signed for free. This can also free up funds for the Merseysiders to be used elsewhere. Klopp has shown himself to be a savant in getting the best out of young players. Should he work his magic on Dembele, Liverpool could have a real player on their hands. In recent transfer windows, the Reds have added Diogo Jota and Luis Diaz to their ranks. Both players have hit the ground running, and adding Dembele into the mix could give the Reds their new fearsome front three. Losing Salah would be a bitter blow for Liverpool, given the Egyptian’s impact at the club in recent years. However, it will do the club little good to give in to the player’s demands. The Reds does not have the riches of Manchester City or Newcastle United to splash the cash and the club adhere to a strict wage structure. Breaking it, even for Salah, could be akin to opening Pandora’s box. POLL With or without Salah, the club will need to keep moving forward. If he reaches his potential, Dembele has everything in his locker to become a world-beater. Liverpool could lose a superstar but might very well replace him with a truly special player if Klopp works his magic with the 2018 FIFA World Cup winner. A move to Anfield will offer Dembele the opportunity to kickstart his underwhelming career.