Professor Olalekan Olafuyi, the current Chairman of SPE Nigeria Council, in this interview with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, speaks on wide ranging issues in the country’s oil and gas sector and what the group is doing to build capacity therein. Excerpts: What is your outlook for the energy sector in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa? In the short term, Africa must maximize opportunities created by the availability of gas as a transition fuel at least in the next 30 years to create jobs and generate capital for the adoption of cleaner forms of energy. In the long-term, Africa’s energy should be purely renewables powered, driven by advancements in hydrogen energy technology, solar, battery storage, and wind power. How has SPENC been able to develop particularly strong expertise in the oil and gas sector? As a body, SPE offers platforms for interactions between professionals drawn across various sectors, such as academia, industry, regulators, and policymakers. These sorts of interactions have seen members developing their expertise, drawn from the learning across these sectors. Individual members of SPENC have contributed immensely to the oil and gas industry in Nigeria. The forerunners of PIA (Petroleum Industry Act), such as Late Dr. Emmanuel Egbogah came from SPE. POLL What key factors differentiate SPE from its industry peers? The extent of dissemination of technical knowledge and availability of technical materials to SPE members makes us stand out in the delivery of our day-to-day tasks. The quality of the leadership and soft skills that are acquired through SPE volunteerism compare to no other not-for-profit institution in Nigeria. Can you provide an overview of SPENC’S current activities in Nigeria? SPE has a mission of capturing and disseminating technical knowledge for the benefit of all members. We have a variety of activities ranging from mentorship, catch them young, internship, professional training, conferences and exhibitions, and policy advocacy. What has been SPE’s recommended approach to cutting costs, avoiding layoffs during the crisis, and reinventing the energy workforce? SPE has not been an advocate of layoffs. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to this, but it depends on the organization and the circumstances. SPE advocates for and promotes the efficiency of her members and believes cost-cutting in form of layoffs should be avoided unless it is seen by all parties as the only solution. What are the inherent opportunities for SPENC to support the power generation and utility sector in the country? As a professional organization and a stakeholder in the energy ecosystem, SPE will continue to push those ideas and opinions that drive best practices through our conferences, workshops, and other channels of presenting our positions. We recently hosted a summit in Port Harcourt, attended by Policy-makers, Power Sector companies, regulators, etc. where a roadmap was drafted and presented to the government, in solving Nigeria’s power sector challenges. One of the sub-themes at SPE OLEF is enabling a sustainable framework for the energy transition. What is your perspective on where local content fits in? As I mentioned earlier, the pandemic has shown that we have developed competence locally in terms of the workforce and vendors providing services. With proper legislative frameworks and implementation, homegrown innovations could foster effective energy transition at the lowest possible cost. This would strengthen our economy in the long run. Will this be only applicable to all oil and gas activities in the country? No, it should not. We are today in a global village, however, what I am saying is that dependence on indigenous competence should be up to 80% in Nigeria, especially in key positions. What compliance/control mechanisms will be in place to ensure the success of this new rule? This is not for SPE to say because we are not the government. We provide a forum where experts proffer the solutions and recommend practices to the government, but of course, we do not possess regulatory powers. What have been the key phases of SPENC’s development in the last 10 years of its existence? In the last 10 years, the significant increase in the number of our flagship events speaks volumes of the increasing relevance and impact of SPE. In 2012 we had just two flagship events. Today, we have 5 in addition to several activities done by SPE’s sections and chapters in Nigeria. How do you think local service companies can access training and improve their knowledge to be more competitive on a regional and global level? Partnering with SPE is the way to go for any servicing company. SPE training courses are very affordable and yet of premium quality. What is the capacity of NOCs in Nigeria and Africa to boost its economy? Such models as having been defined by Petroleum Industry Act have the potential of building as strong economy for Nigeria and Africa in a wider scope. This is what Saudi Arabia has achieved with Aramco and it is doable. What are SPENC’s primary objectives for Oloibiri lecture series and energy forum 2022? Our 2022 Council year is focused on energy transition. At OLEF 2022, we shall have diverse conversations on investments in the oil and gas industry to answer those salient questions in the mind of many especially when you consider the rhetoric on funding of fossil fuels, post-COP 21. What are the main priorities for SPE in Nigeria in terms of support to further accelerate the development of the country’s energy sector during the global energy transition push? To accelerate the energy transition, we believe in homegrown pragmatic solutions suited to our environment and nation-building. We need to evolve considering our environment. Even though Nigeria and Africa are not the major contributors to CO2 emission, we still act as though we were and hence advocate for cleaner forms of energy, to support the transition. You can see this in the gains being recorded by the NLNG and the Federal Government declaring this decade as the decade of gas. SPE would always advocate best practices and not borrowed or copied practices to sound politically correct. We are apolitical but demonstrate strong commitments to our environment and sustainable development.