JOS – Former Nigerian Head of State General Yakubu Gowon has unveiled the redesigned oldest golf course in Nigeria, located at Rayfield in Jos. The Rayfield Course was built in 1913 and is now looking green. General. Gowon while performing the event at the Rayfield golf course in Jos at the weekend, said he was happy that the game of golf is progressing in Plateau State and Nigeria at large with attendant benefits. Jonathan Congratulates Yakubu Gowon At 87th Birthday Northern Governors Celebrates Former Head Of State, Gowon At 87 He praised Governor Lalong for his passion for the game and also redeveloping the Rayfield golf course which is now comparable to any standard course in Nigeria. Gowon said the influx of visitors and investors into the State would not have been possible without the restoration of peace that Governor Lalong has worked hard to build over the years. He called on the citizens of Plateau State Nigerians at large to do everything possible to live with one another in peace and respect the sanctity of life at all times. While commending the Nigerian Armed Forces for their gallantry in dealing with criminals across the country, Gowon said he was pained to see how a few people and groups have chosen to terrorise the citizens. He urged Nigerians to expose criminals and expose them by supporting the security agencies to deal with them. POLL Governor Lalong while appreciating General. Gowon for honouring the State to unveil the redesigned golf course. He said Rayfield has a historic reputation that needs to be cherished and developed into an economic potential in sports. Lalong noted that his efforts in fostering peace and working against criminals and crisis merchants has gradually paid off with more and more people confidently coming into the State. He said the Government will also work on the Laminga golf course to making it a green. Gen. Gowon and Governor Lalong performed symbolic shots to commemorate the event. Gowon Lauds Youths As Future Leaders Express Joy At NYSC… Religious War Looms In Nigeria, Gowon Warns They were joined by Deputy Governor of Edo State Philip Shuaibu, Amanayabo of Twon Brass in Bayelsa State, King Alfred Diete-Spiff, HRH, Agwam Atyap in Kaduna State and the Captain of the Rayfield golf club. Governor Lalong also sponsored Hole 13 which was named after his mother, Tiopsan.