ABUJA  – Attorney General of the Fed­eration and Minister of Jus­tice, Abubakar Malami SAN, has applauded the efforts of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODCs) towards achieving the Sus­tainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 16, which aims at “promoting peaceful inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice at all levels”. Malami who spoke on Friday, at the launch of the UNODC Strategic Vision For Nigeria 2030, was represented by the Acting Solicitor Gen­eral of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, Mr. Ben­jamin Okolo. The AGF commended the UNODC on the ongoing areas of collaboration in strength­ening and promoting justice and the rule of Law in Nige­ria. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tear… Obasanjo Remains Quintessential Leader At 85, Says Sanwo-Olu The partnership, Malami noted, includes but is not lim­ited to the following “anti-cor­ruption (asset recovery and international cooperation); counter-terrorism (complex case group); maritime crime group; transnational organ­ised crime; deployment of liaison magistrate to Europe to help develop a human rights-based response to the smuggling of migrants (with support from UNOOC); and the presidential committee on correctional service re­forms and decongestion”. The AGF said Nigeria also welcomes the themat­ic five priority areas of the Strategic Vision, which has been identified to enhance the criminal justice system with a view to upholding the rule of law, ensuring access to justice and protecting vic­tims of crime; safeguarding people, institutions and economies from corrup­tion, illicit financial flows and money laundering; se­curing the safety of people from terrorism and violent extremism; protecting peo­ple, the economy and, the environment against organ­ised crime; and promoting people’s health through drug and HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care. “Permit me to call on all relevant stakeholders to give the UNODC the required cooperation, collaboration, and support to achieve the successful implementation of the Strategic Vision for Nigeria 2030,” he said. Mr. Oliver Stople, repre­sented by Mr. Ghada Waly, Executive Director, UNODC, said Nigeria said the strate­gic vision is targeted at pro­viding more safety to Nigeria, its government, and institu­tions from drugs, crime, cor­ruption, terrorism, and illicit financial flows.