AWKA – As the issue of Anambra State indebtedness as raised by Governor Chukwuma Soludo rages, the media adviser to former Governor, Peter Obi, Val Obienyem has explained the real reason why his principal, Obi saved a lot of money when he left office. In a statement sent to Daily Independent, Obienyem also faulted people who think that it was only during surpluses that Money can be saved. Quoting Obi who often said that “If you do not plan, you have planned to fail”, Obienyem said that Obi saved for the future. According to him, the reasoning behind savings in both local and Foreign Currency was the foreknowledge of the multiplier effect the saving will have.  He wrote: “After our study of the Chinese phenomenal achievements as we were coming to the end of MDGs, we learned that the Chinese Regional governments were able to attract a number of investments because of the ability to contribute or partner with the investors in setting up productive facilities within their regions. ” For example, some of them effectively made equity contributions of 10 – 20 %, which they were able to achieve due to their robust savings”. Obienyem said that Obi’s calculation was that if the state would be able to save a particular amount ($18 – 20  million dollars) as it did in eight years, up until 2030 at the average interest rate of a little over 6%, we would be able to achieve about a billion dollars in savings and earnings. “We would then use about 50% of this amount to attract investment, considering that the average Chinese Small and Medium scale Enterprise, SME, for example, was set up with about two million dollars. “Our goal was that if we would be able to invest 25% in each enterprise, which is $500,000, we would be able to achieve 1000 SMEs facilities scattered all over Anambra State, which would jump-start aggressive economic growth within the state, especially as income from oil is coming to an end.” In addition, he said, “We were seeking a 40-year no-interest loan of $120 million from the World Bank, especially targeted at supporting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and tackling our devastating erosion problem. “The idea of $40 million education loan was hatched based on the United Nations report that there would be about 20 million jobs vacancies in the fields related to STEM studies by the year 2020, and having critically observed our solid achievements in education, the World Bank readily agreed to provide this facility while the $80 million was to effectively tackle the erosion menace around the state”. “Since we are going to pay this money in the future, we carefully projected and started saving. Because we are going to earn a billion dollars by the time the loan matures; $500 million will go to these SMEs, $200 million will go to others, $300 million will be left. Everything being equal, by 2050, we will be hitting almost $2 Billion.” This would have boasted Small and Medium Enterprises whose number would have multiplied by no less than 1000.