LAGOS – Ogun State Commissioner for Forestry, Honourable Tunji Akinosi, has disclosed plans by the state government to propose draft legislation to the Ogun State House of Assembly. Honourable Akinosi disclosed that the proposed draft law is to regulate the activities of stakeholders n the government forest reserves. Akinosi disclosed this in a statement signed by Kayode Oduyebo and Mosunmola Shobo, Press Officers, Ministry of Forestry, on the sidelines of events marking the 2022 World Forest Day with the theme: “Forests and Sustainable Production and Consumption”. He assured that the draft would be represented to the Assembly when all necessary amendments had been made for its passage into law. Besides, the Commissioner said though the draft had earlier been forwarded to the Assembly, but was withdrawn due to the advice of the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, who opined that there were clauses contained in it which if implemented might not serve as punitive measures to offenders. “The Ministry is currently working on a draft to be forwarded to the State House of Assembly to checkmate the excesses of illegal activities in the forest reserves. “Once we are through, the same document will be sent to the Assembly for passage into law”, he said. Speaking on the relevance of 2022 World Forest Day, the Commissioner explained that it would increase awareness about the unprecedented roles forests play in sustaining lives on the planet. Besides, he added that the day would also serve as an avenue to reflect on ways to curb illegalities, particularly on tree felling, log conversion, hunting, and farming in the State-owned Forest Reserves. POLL Hon. Akinosi noted that forests were the major source of wealth for human beings, through the provision of raw materials for construction and scientific research, natural habitat and shelter for animals, as well as food for man, adding that if well harnessed would mitigate the effects of climate change. He enjoined members of the public to take advantage of forestry opportunities in the sustenance of livelihood. Also speaking, the Special Assistant to the Governor on Forestry, Tunde Taiwo, emphasised the need for proper maintenance of forests to prevent erosion, global warming, and other natural disasters. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Lateef Benson advised residents of the state to cultivate the habit of preserving the forest reserves to prevent depletion of Ozone layers and other natural disasters, as well as ensure replant of trees appropriately.