Mikel Arteta has confirmed that Alexandre Lacazette ‘s Arsenal future will be resolved at the end of the season. The French forward’s current deal with the Gunners is set to expire this summer following the 30-year-old’s failure to agree terms over an extension. At present, Lacazette looks set to become a free agent at the end of the season, with French outlet L’Equipe recently claiming that the striker has opened talks with former club Lyon over a return. Ex-Zambian President, Banda Dies Of Cancer At 85 Gowon Flags Off Construction Of British-American Junction… However, speculation surrounding the forward staying put has mounted in recent weeks following the key role he has played in Arsenal’s resurgence. Lacazette was installed as captain by Arteta back in early December following the Spaniard’s fallout with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and has been in fine form ever since. The forward has struck twice and laid on seven assists in his last 10 league appearances as the Gunners have strengthened their grip on fourth spot and a potential return to Champions League football next season. Arteta’s side welcome Leicester to the Emirates on Sunday and ahead of the Foxes’ visit, the Spaniard offered an update on Lacazette’s future. “We have discussed that at the end of the season, when we know where we are we are going, to make a decision together [on Lacazette’s future],” Arteta said. POLL “We agreed the decision is to do it in the summer [assess the situation] and that’s when we are going to do it.” While Arteta didn’t go on to specify what he meant by ‘where we are going’, it can be speculated that the striker’s future could hinge on where the Gunners finish in the league. Heading into the latest round of Premier League fixtures, Arsenal sit fourth, a point ahead of Manchester United, though the north Londoners hold three games in hand over Ralf Rangnick’s men. Since being entrusted with the club’s captaincy, Lacazette has emerged as an integral player in Arsenal’s ranks and has formed a effective link-up with the likes of Bukayo Saka, Emile Smith Rowe and Martin Odegaard in recent weeks. Following the Gunners’ most recent triumph, a 3-2 win over Watford in which Lacazette registered two assists, the Frenchman took to social media to express his pride at leading this Arsenal side. Nike Remain ‘Committed’ To Chelsea, Despite Three… Lagos NAWOJ Demands Speedy Trial Of Bamise’s Alleged… The striker tweeted: “Proud to be a part of that.” Friday saw Arteta give a rare update on Lacazette’s future, with the Arsenal boss having remained coy in recent months. On the subject of contract negotiations, Arteta previously stated: “As you know, we have certain players with a little bit of uncertainty in the summer so we have to plan what’s going to happen now and what’s going to happen in the summer. “A lot has to be done, we know and we don’t expect big things to be happening, but we need to be very alert in the market to see if we can improve the team. “We have to be prepared because things can happen and injuries can arise in this period of the season and you have to be prepared and planned.”