Justice Bello Kawu of High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Kubwa, has vacated the order of interim injunction he granted on November 18, 2021, which had earlier restrained the All Progressives Congress from going ahead with its scheduled national convention. Justice Kawu vacated the interim order on Friday while ruling on an application by the APC for the order to be set aside. The court held that the plaintiff lacked the locus to sustain the restraining order, insisting that the interim order has been overtaken by a recent judgment of the Supreme Court delivered on a similar matter. An aggrieved member of the APC, Salisu Umoru had dragged the party, its National Caretaker Committee and the Independent National Electoral Commission to court, wherein he is seeking an order of court stopping APC’s national convention. Among other reliefs, the plaintiff is seeking the court to direct the APC and its Chairman Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state, to stop further action on the planned convention, pending the hearing and determination of the suit. More so, the plaintiff wants an order directing Governor Buni to begin the reconciliation process to resolve all the disputes that emanated from the local government congresses that were conducted by the party. Meanwhile, Justice Kawu has adjourned hearing of the substantive suit till March 30. By the suit FCT/HC/CV/2958/2021 and motion number FCT/HC/M/9655/21, the plaintiff had prayed the court for an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the 1st and 2nd defendants, allies, agents, representatives, associates or whoever is acting for them through or through them from organising, holding or conducting National Convention of the All Progressives Congress in January and February or at any other date either before or after pending the hearing and determination of the suit. POLL The claimant informed the court that the mere inauguration of sub-committees for the March 26, National Convention when the order of the court is in force is a demonstration ofdisdain for the rule of law in the country. After listening to counsel in the matter, Justice Bello Kawu, on November 18, 2021, granted the order and restrained the party from going ahead with the convention and also warned that the subject matter of the case is now subjudice and must not be tampered with.