Comrade Tokunbo Korodo is an Ogun State born labour leader and former chairman of NUPENG, Lagos State. He was prominent in the pro-democracy struggle of the 1990s, along with Comrade Frank Kokori, who was then National Chairman of NUPENG. In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, the LASU graduate recalls those days of activism and comments on the prevailing level of corruption in public affairs. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpt: Do you share the view of many Nigerians that unless we kill corruption, corruption will kill the country? Of course, I am of the strong view that Nigeria’s main problem is corruption by those in leadership positions. Corruption has been incorporated into the government by those who never wish the country well, that is why nothing is working in the country. Corruption has been so entrenched to the extent that there’s no arm of government that’s not affected by the virus – from the Presidency, Executive, Legislature, the Judiciary, state governments, to local governments. They have all been infected so badly that to clean the Augean stable capital punishment has to be introduced. Tell me what would have caused the current long queues being experienced in filling stations across the country if not corrupt practices by those who were supposed to carry out due diligence before allowing the fuel into the country ? They would have been bribed to look the other way and till now nobody has been brought to book over the adulterated fuel and government is indifferent to the sufferings, and that speaks volume of the involvement of high government officials. The insecurity plaguing the country today is caused by politicians who are benefiting from it. What type of a country runs like that? I must confess, Nigeria is bleeding because of corruption caused by lack of visionary leadership. The only quick fix, for me, is the introduction of capital punishment as it is done in China. We ‘ll Continue To Deliver Free, Qualitative Education To… 2023 Presidency: TOTT, Other Groups Drum Support For Osinbajo What type of leadership are you looking forward to in 2023? We need a pan-Nigerian in 2023, a leader who will be above board, who will be fearless and bold enough to cure this corruption malady in the country, a leader who will not be an ethnic bigot, a religious hardliner, a leader that will treat every tribe equally, a leader who will respect the secularity of the country, a leader who will not be in love with publicity and wealth but in love with the betterment of the citizens of our country. We need a leader with experience and exposure. What’s your take on the ongoing constitutional amendment by the National Assembly? To be candid with you, the whole exercise of constitutional amendment will be a nullity because the current National Assembly is a rubber stamp, they don’t have the capacity and courage to do the needful. The leadership of the National Assembly is self-centered and are not there for the good of the country. Whatever the National Assembly agreed upon will not be approved by States Assembly because of selfish, ethnic or religious interests; even the governors will ensure that anything that will reduce their power will not be allowed to sail through. As for me, I don’t see the amendment seeing the light of day. Look at the rejecting of gender inclusion related bill, it shows that the members of the National Assembly never care for what will benefit the women and children of Nigeria. We have forgotten that when you have a lady in power you’re a going to have a better society. Women are better performers and any serious Assembly would have given women enough space but not this rubber stamp assembly. Dr. Okonjo-Iweala is an example of what a woman can do in the society. Let’s look at the ongoing ASUU strike – are you in support of it? POLL My humble position on the ASSU strike is that the government should meet the demands of ASUU. It has become a quarterly thing that students who are supposed to be leaders of tomorrow are in and out of class and a course that ought to have lasted four years oftentimes lasts eight years and so on. This act of going on strike every time without any resolution has made Nigeria a laughing stock in the comity of nations. Unfortunately, why government is not too serious about solving ASUU problems is because majority of them have their children schooling in the best institutions outside the country; they would not have been dragging their feet in meeting the demands of ASUU. It all boils down to bad leadership. From the unfolding drama in the country, do you foresee the youths becoming leaders of tomorrow? In fact, most of the youths of today are not even ready for leadership; all they are interested in is to get money by all means, not caring what it takes, such groups with such mindset can’t become leaders of tomorrow unless they change their mindset of money ritual, which is fast becoming a norm among them, and be prepared to learn from the elders. That is the only way they can become leaders of tomorrow. The youths of today need serious orientation to be able to fit into what’s expected of them by the society. As one of those who were in the trenches in the quest to restore MKO Abiola’s mandate, how would you compare the present labour movement to yours in the past and would you see the present labour movement as a sellout? It was really tough challenging the military junta of late Sani Abacha over the restoration of Abiola’s mandate. Our success is attributable to the quality of leadership we had at that time: Comrade Frank Kokori of NUPENG, Adams Oshiomhole, NADECO members and my humble self as a foot soldier were people who were committed to the clarion call for the enthronement of democracy, restoration of Abiola’s mandate, etc. with a slogan of “no retreat, no surrender”. Because of our total commitment – except the former NLC president, Pascal Bafyau, who was romancing with the military junta – we indeed went through hell to sustain the struggle. I was the foot soldier as chairman of Lagos NUPENG. Apapa was were the battle was tough because that was the centre of fuel distribution and I was in charge following the call for the total strike by NUPENG. Kokori was a lion who was never afraid to defend his beliefs in the call for total strike. Along the line, we met with NADECO and Abiola for the strike to continue until our Union was proscribed and Kokori was arrested and jailed. To compare our period with the present labour movement might not be ideal because ours was under the military and the present under democracy. In democracy there are rules and regulations but in military it is rule by fiat and that was why we were able to do well than the present because under democracy, if you want to do what we did, the court could stop your plan through an injunction, and if you failed to obey you could be taken to court and that could distort your plans to go on strike or protest. More so when those who are in government today were themselves activists, some of them NADECO members, and they know what it takes to plan a protest and all the intrigues, hence the pressent labour leaders are seen not to be active or regarded as having sold out. They have not sold out, their inactive posture is not unconnected with the environment they are operating in. APC Will Soon Capture Anambra, South East – Umenzekwe Sowore’s Presidential Declaration: The Never-Say-Die Spirit Do you have any leader among those aspiring to rule the country in 2023 in the mode of MKO Abiola? As an activist who has been in the trenches and in contact with most of our political leaders, I can tell you that Ahmed Bola Tinubu is one politician with such traits of Abiola to be a good president. Tinubu is a person who is so passionate about humanity like Abiola. He cares deeply about the well-being of all not caring who you are, where you are from, or which religion you belong. He spends his last Kobo to put smiles on the faces of the people he comes across. He has the experience and international contact to change the fortunes of Nigeria. He is one man that does not have enemies. If he is such a person that gathers enemies, I would have been one of them because when he was governor of Lagos State, my union, as its chairman, gave him tough time, yet he never sees me as his enemy. One way or another, I have come to understand that we are all in the same – boat to better our society and humanity. He is one person who believes in one Nigeria. I believe he is better than others who are aspiring to rule the country in 2023.