The Honourable Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare has congratulated one of the nation’s foremost broadcasters, Fabio Lanipekun on his 80th birthday. Also the Lagos State Chapter of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) has joined members of the sports fraternity in felicitating with former Nigeria Olympics Committee (NOC) Public Relations Officer, Adesola Lanipekun (popularly known as Uncle Fabio) who clocks 80 on Wednesday. The Minister described the veteran broadcaster as a leading light in television reportage as well as a pioneer sports commentator. WCQ: Coach Addo To NameTeam Against S’Eagles Today Our Mission Is To Build W’Cup Team –Waldrum “Uncle Fabio, as we fondly call him, inspired many people and endeared Nigerians to sports broadcasting and live commentaries in his active years. His voice was unmistakable, his passion infectious and his command flawless. We thank God for his life. I believe he will still be around for many more years,” the Minister said. Fabio Lanipekun was the head of sports at the Nigeria Television Authority( NTA) headquarters for many years and also served as the Public Relations Officer(PRO) of the Nigeria Olympic Committee(NOC) at some point in his career. Lagos SWAN described the octogenarian as one of a kind who walked an uncharted path after emerging as one of the first Nigerians to be trained in sports journalism in 1964 shortly after starting with the defunct Daily Express. Chairman, Lagos SWAN, Debo Oshundun in a statement on Wednesday said, “We are glad today (Yesterday) to celebrate one of our elders in the industry who has continued to age like a fine wine. Attaining that age in present Nigeria where life expectancy is way below 50 calls for serious celebration and we are so happy to be associated with him.” “ He was a complete journalist who was able to easily switch from print media to television where he made his mark with Western Nigeria Television and later the Nigerian Television Authority”. Lagos SWAN described him as a national monument and a shining light for many legends who traversed the sports media space in the last forty years within and outside Nigeria. POLL “His writing skill as a columnist was world class. He is a treasure to be cherished and we pray that God keeps him with us for a long time so that we can continue to tap from his unending wealth of experience as individuals and an association. A vastly travelled professional, Fabio Lanipekun rose to the position of Manager, Sports at NTA before his retirement.