Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK has told MPs that 100,000 of his citizens could come to Britain to escape the Russian war machine and said he would be “happy” if visa requirements for Ukrainians were lifted. Vadym Prystaiko also said he planned to ask Priti Patel why Ukrainian citizens on work and student visas were not allowed to invite their family members to join them in the UK. In a damning assessment of the UK’s immigration system, he called for a “simplified” process for refugees fleeing to the UK and disclosed that his own wife struggled to get a visa before the Russia conflict. Biden Signs Order On Cryptocurrency As Its Use Explodes India Logs 4,575 New COVID-19 Cases, 145 Fatalities In 24 Hours His comments will increase pressure on the government as MPs from all parties and their constituents call for the easing of restrictions to allow Ukrainians into the UK. So far, just 760 UK visas have been granted to Ukrainians fleeing their homeland out of 2 million conflict refugees. In an appearance before the home affairs select committee, Prystaiko said he did not wish to interfere in UK immigration policies, but that lifting barrier could help his country. Asked if he would like visa requirements to be waived altogether, in line with moves in the EU, he said: “I understand how sensitive it is for your society, especially after the immigration crisis, refugee crisis with Syrians, which we believe was manufactured by Russia pushing out these people from Syria, flooding with immigration, wave after wave, to Europe. “That would definitely resolve all the issues, but how reasonable, how justified it is with your own system, that’s frankly for you to decide. We will be happy if all the barriers are dropped for some period of time when we can get maximum [numbers] of people, then we will deal with that.”In an appearance in the Grimond Room in Portcullis House, he said there were usually about 50,000 to 60,000 Ukrainians in Britain. “I guess that people will unite with their families, and if you have 50-60,000 of them, I would expect 100,000 – at least – to come here to their relatives, some of them just members of families of your citizens who have no Ukrainian blood but for different reasons they have connections … which we are not aware of,” he told MPs. At present, those on temporary work visas or student visas are not entitled to invite their relatives to join them. The SNP’s home affairs spokesperson, Stuart McDonald, asked if the Ukrainian government would like the rules extended. Prystaiko expressed surprise at the current rules and said he would raise this with the home secretary. POLL “I didn’t know, that’s a good point, thank you very much. I thought that this covered [the] principle that everyone who is legally here can use the system. Thank you for clearing … I will talk to secretary Patel about this because I would expect this would be a natural way,” he said.