LAGOS – When you are looking for a young Nigerian with vision, passion and drive, you cannot but look in the direction of Nworie Cyprian. Cyprian is the CEO of Pillarcle Groups a business outfit with operations in the real estate, loan, constructions, automobiles, pharmaceuticals and crypto currency sectors. According to him: “Pillarcle is a value driven empire, diversified into certain sectors of businesses, where we believe we can maximally utilize our massive wealth of resources in people, research, experience and expertise garnered over the years to navigate effectively, make profits and create a template for others to follow, these various business sectors include: crypto currency, real estate, loan, constructions, automobiles, pharmaceuticals and more.” “We are here to provide excellent service, make positive impact in whatever industry we step into by building, scaling and ultimately multiplying what we have built so far whilst aiming to become a template for others to study and follow.” Causes Of Insecurity Are Economic, Social, Will Be Difficult To… Yours Sincerely Is 70 “We adopt futuristic approach in our endeavours; valuing tomorrow and its potentials more than the happenings of today and the traditions of yesterday. I have been to many countries and it has helped me to understand the impact we need to make in order to sustain our relevance and add value to humanity.” The medical practitioner also lamented over the state of the Nigerian health sector, saying the government need to pay more attention to developing the sector. “In the health sectors, you see doctors embarking on strike as a result of nonpayment of salary. Are you trying to tell me the money is not there to pay them? But we have money to pay repented terrorists called Boko Haram. When the health sector is affected, other sectors can never progress for health is wealth.” “Many communities have no health centers, but they budget money for many unnecessary things. We are really far behind because I am just comparing Nigerian health sector to that of Germany where I studied, the difference is massive”, he revealed. Nworie who is also a writer noted that the citizenry play a huge role in the excruciating state of our nation. POLL “The country has not been friendly to her citizenry. We see many deviant actions of our leaders as “normal. We hear stories of embezzlement every day, mismanagement of funds, rigging of elections and killings by the so called unknown gun men. I am totally blaming the government solely, for I believe we the masses play a huge part in this quite excruciating situation of our country.”