The leadership of the Western Zone of the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) led by Oluderimon Omaghomi had on Monday paid a condolence/solidarity visit to the Okomu Oil Palm company plc. During the visit, the IYC leadership commiserated with the company on the killing of a worker and the setting ablaze of a portion of the company’s plantation and pledged to support the company to bring to an end the occurrence of further attacks on the company personnel, equipment and Plantation. The IYC also pledged to organise at the grassroots level the representative of the communities and also help in enlightening/training the communities’ executives on their roles in proper representation of their communities in their engagement with the company. Yobe: EU-BRICC Programme Targets 26,875 Vulnerable Households In… 2023: Aspirant Urges INEC To Bring Election Timetable Defaulters… As contained in a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT by the Communication Officer of the company, Fidelis Oliseh, “The need to organise larger stakeholder engagement within the communities were also explored. Furthermore, the idea of the company partnering with the Presidential Amnesty Programme for the training of the youths in the communities were examined.” “It is pertinent to note that barely twenty hours after the solidarity visit of the Ijaw Youth Council in their attempts to bring to an end the repeated attacks on the Company’s plantation that another group of armed men attacked the company in continuation of the theft of the company’s wet rubber lumps. During this latest attack, one person was seriously beaten as he and other rubber tappers were forced to carry out of the plantation, the wet rubber lumps that have been collected by the tapper. The gangsters have apparently taken over a portion of the rubber plantation and are now tapping the rubber trees themselves. As conveyed by the statement, “The police and army sent to apprehend the thieves were reported to be reticent to shoot at them even when the gangsters brandish guns and this very act or limitation of the security forces have helped in no small measures to embolden the gangsters.” POLL It added, “It is unbelievable that gangsters can continually raid a corporate organisation and yet the security organisations cannot intervene to apprehend the gangsters and bring them to justice.”