LAGOS – LearnSmart Solutions, recent­ly gifted four winners of its an­nual online Mathematics Com­petition organised for primary schools across the country with about 700 students from 200 schools participating. Caleb Okereke, a Primary Six student, from Halcyon School, Ilupeju, emerged the best student, while Adeniyi Oluwatofunmi, a Primary Six pupil also from Women Soci­ety Primary School, Unilag, as co-winner to get the best top prizes. The first two winners got cash rewards of N100,000 each, while Olugbese Daniel, from Beautiful Gate School, Oyo, Oyo State, who is the first runner-up got N75,000 and Evanohonre Godman, the sec­ond runner-up from Halcyon School, Ilupeju, got N50,000 as cash prize. All the four winners were also giv­en plaques and certificates of participation. At the award presentation ceremonies, Engineer Sanni Adedokun, Managing Direc­tor, LearnSmart Solutions, said, “LearnSmart Solutions was established with the aim of improving academic excel­lence among the youth in the country. “COVID-19 has taught us a great deal as to where education will lead to in the next few years; learning will seem more versa­tile such that students will have to attend more of online classes. Schoolswillalsohavetoadoptnew methods of teaching and convey­inginformation,” headded. Adedokun further ex­plained that LearnSmart provides schools and students easy access to the best learning materials needed from Creche to the University Level. “Apart from providing educational materials, we organise com­petitions for different levels of education,” he added. He explained the organi­sation has organised a Math Camp in affliation with Bells University of Technology, Ota, Ogun State for students with­in the ages of 10-16 years old. “The 10-day Maths Camp was planned to improve students that are struggling with Math­ematics and to challenge the students currently performing well in the subject.” Adedokun asserted. Adedokun said that the first edition organised in 2021 was meant for Junior Secondary School Students. POLL “We decided to make the second edition bigger than last year because many schools across the country applied for this competition.” He appealed to cooperate organisations and welll mean­ing Nigerians to support the initiative by sponsoring the competition. He gave commendations also to the management of the winning schools for teaching their pupils well in order to favourably compete with their mates. The winners also expressed great joy for the prizes won, and commended the organisers while urging them to continue the competition which is aimed at encouraging students to do better in the subject of Math­ematics.