LAGOS  – El Clasico is at the forefront of the minds of every football fan this weekend, as FC Barcelona and Real Madrid gear up to renew their eternal rivalry on Sunday. That the final El Clasico match for the year 2022 comes up this weekend with current leaders, Real Madrid taking on FC Barcelona at the Santiago Bernabeu is no longer news. That the two most unarguably best players in the world – Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo would not be playing in this encounter is also no news as the two players have since left the clubs and pitched their tents with Paris Saint G e r m a i n (PSG) and Manchester U n i t e d respectively. Perhap s what seems to be news to followers of the two leading teams is whether FC Barcelona can avenge the first leg defeat. Real Madrid defeated FC Barcelona 2-1 in the season’s first LaLiga El Clasico match at Camp Nou on October 24, 2021. Madrid now lead the LaLiga table with 66 points, while FC Barcelona are in third place with 51 points from the same number of matches. Real Madrid’s 0-3 win against Mallorca on Tuesday night came at a cost. Benzema, Rodrygo and Mendy all suffered injuries and had to leave the game, Real Madrid is dealing with injury issues ahead of the match. Their star striker, Karim Benzema is doubtful for the season’s last El Clasico, but manager, Carlo Ancelotti will keep an eye on his situation until the very last second. Apart from him, Brazilian winger, Rodygp and French defender, Ferland Mendy are both doubtful for this encounter. While at present, there are no big injuries in the FC Barcelona team. According to reports, experienced defender, Gerard Pique has a small injury, but it is not a serious one and he should be fit for the encounter. The team’s spirits are also high after a 4-0 win over Osasuna. This encounter will be their 184th LaLiga El Clasico. In head-to-head, Real Madrid lead the rivalry with 76 victories, while FC Barcelona have 72 victories. The last 35 games were all drawn. Both teams have met a total of 281 times across all competitions. Real Madrid have won 104 matches, with 62 of them ending in a draw. FC Barcelona have 115 matches. On current form, Real Madrid have won five straight games, including the second leg of their UEFA Champions League (UCL) tie with Paris Saint Germain (PSG). As a result, they are on fire right now. POLL The ideal formation for the Los Blancos is 4-4-3. They thrashed PSG with this setup, and they will want to do the same against their arch-rivals FC Barcelona. However, Real Madrid could afford to take it easy against their opponent because they have led the points standings by 10 clear points and rather, they would prefer a draw than lose the match. On the other hand, FC Barcelona have gone undefeated in their previous 10 games, including major victories against Athletic Bilbao, Atletico Madrid, and Napoli. Xavi’s Barcelona have rediscovered their stride since late January and have put in some inspiring performances. Pedri, gavi, and Ansu fati are a mong the Blaugrana’s most gifted young players as at present. These young talents are the vlub’s future, and they have made great progfess this season. FC Barcelona will strive to have the majority of the ball and will play possession-based football. Their preferred formation is the 4-3-3, but they can also play in a 4-2- 3-1 formation if the need arises. The outcome of the match will have no impact on the LaLiga standings. As a result, open play is expected in this encounter. In the same vein, Luka Modric and Vincius Junior will be vital for Real Madrid in this encounter. Oppositely, Xavi has been successful in instilling his philosophy in the FC barclona players. More importantly, the players have reacted with some outstanding onfield performances. By and large, football fans may expect an interesting encounter as the two teams would want to live up to expectations and the billing of the match which also promises to be thrilling and entertaining. 