As part of its continued effort to support women and the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) in Nigeria, AXA Mansard, the global leader in insurance and asset management, has provided financial and capacity development support for over 200 female SME owners in Nigeria. It provided the support through a capacity development conference organised by SME 100 Africa, in commemoration of the International Women’s Day. SME 100 Africa is a social enterprise that supports young African entrepreneurs along their journey towards professional success. Chief Client Officer, AXA Mansard, Rashidat Adebisi, while speaking during the conference, said that collaborating with SME 100 to empower SMEs is another way in the series of programmes and initiatives that AXA Mansard is using to inspire and empower women. According to her, AXA Mansard’s commitment to SMEs is not just about the ripple effect it will have on the economy, it is also about the gap that it will bridge. “And empowering these brilliant business owners around the International Women’s Day, is our way of raising the awareness about the different socio-economic possibilities of unlocking the potentials of women either in business, career or other social endeavour,” she explained. Commenting on the theme of this year’s International Women’s Day, Rashidat furthered: “in life, we will face challenges and different biases. These biases affect everyone however, it is stronger against women. “We must therefore, identify these biases and collectively start making changes. To unlock the full potential of the world, we must be ready to put in the work and it starts from breaking our biases, especially against women. Speaking on the SME business pitch competition, which happened on the side line of the conference, Jumoke Odunlami Chief Customer and Marketing Officer, AXA Mansard, explained that the goal of the company in investing in the competition is not just to highlight the ingenuities of female SMEs in Nigeria, it is to give them constructive feedback on how to improve their business and help them understand the importance of Insurance. POLL She said: “For us, It is not just about who gets to win the prize money. The prize money is one of the many benefits of participating in this competition. The real value is for us to demonstrate our role to business owners as being not just an Insurance company that pays claims when the unforeseen happens, but as the Insurance partner who is there for you every step of the way; giving you feedback, providing expert opinion, and assuring you that you can take on the world, confident that you are covered”. Friendlies Sanitary Ware founded by Nkem Obianwu emerged the winner of the pitch, going home with the prize money of N1,000,000 towards their business.