ABUJA – A Civil Society Groups, Adopt a Goal Initiative (AGI) and Center For Liberty (CFL) have called on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC ) to review the outcome of Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency of Cross Rivers State bye-election in line with the proviso of Section 65 (1) of the new Electoral Act. The group said this was as a result of widespread rigging and irregularities that characterised the conduct of the election. In a letter jointly signed by the Executive Director, Ariyo Raphael Dare: and endorsed by Center For Liberty on Thursday in Abuja addressed to INEC Chairman said the electoral body must show that it has reclaimed the power to give truth and fairness a second chance. National Convention: APC Inaugurates 20 Sub-Committees March 7 2023: It’s Unfair Igbos Have Not Been Considered For… They said the commission has the responsibility to carry out an independent investigation into  all electoral malpractices and rigging recorded during the exercise and use it as litmus test in exercising its power as enshrined in the new electoral Act. The group called on INEC to use the  opportunity to send a clear warning to those desperate politicians who are hell bent to undermine the democratic process. The statement read “Mr. Chairman, it is troubling that less than 30 hours after the Electoral Bill was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, we have seen some shameful, irresponsible and reckless conducts that threaten the legal regime, in the recently conducted by-elections in some areas across the country.” “We have taken the time to carefully evaluated the outcomes of the by-elections across the country. We have seen a desperate attempt to test the resolve of the new Act and undermine the good work of the commission. Consequently, we wish to urge your commission to urgently investigate the electoral perfidy that took place in Cross Rivers State and immediately review the outcome of the Ogoja/YalaFederal Constituency by-election, which was heavily compromised and rigged by unconscionable politicians.” “Sir, your commission must never allow this criminal assault on the Electoral Act 2022 to stand. The commission has a responsibility to protect the sanctity of the new Act by activating necessary provisions to review the Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency by-election.” POLL “By the virtue of the proviso in Section 65 (1) of the Electoral Act, the commission must show that it has reclaimed the power to give truth and fairness a second chance. This window must be urgently exploited.”