LAGOS – With an estimated 19.9 million survivors, Nigeria is one of the countries in the world endemic in female genital mutilation.  The country also accounts for the third highest number of women and girls that have gone through the experience, according to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). Confirming this recently, UNICEF in a report warned that female genital mutilation is on the rise among Nigerian girls aged 0-14. “Rates have risen from 16.9 percent in 2013 to 19.2 percent in 2018, a worrying trend,” the United Nation (UN) agency further said. Though the 2018 Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS) revealed a marginal decrease among Nigerian women in 2018, the trend remained on the increase among girls. Increasing Chances Of Pregnancy Through Intrauterine… Peptic Ulcer Diseases Specifically, the national prevalence of FGM among Nigeria women aged from 15 to 49 revealed a marginal decrease from 25 percent in 2013 to 20 percent in 2018. However, the prevalence among girls aged 0-14 increased from 16.9 percent to 19.2 percent in the same period, according to NDHS figures. Similarly, the statistics further showed that an estimated 86 percent of females were cut before the age of five, while eight percent were cut between ages eight and 14. According to UNICEF, disparities in the practice exist across states in Nigeria, with the state prevalence ranging from 62 percent in Imo to less than one percent in Adamawa and Gombe. However, the prevalence is highest in the South-East (35 percent) and South West (30 percent) and lowest in the North-East (6 percent). Interestingly, UNICEF said that it is initiating a communi­ty-led movement to eliminate FGM in five Nigerian states where it is highly prevalent – Ebonyi, Ekiti, Imo, Osun and Oyo. POLL “Nearly three million girls and women would have un­dergone FGM in these states in the last five years. Thanks to the ‘The Movement for Good’ which targets to reach five million adoles­cent girls and boys, women – including especially preg­nant and lactating mothers through an on­line pledge to ‘say no’ to FGM. Others to be reached under the ‘The Movement for Good’ are men, grandparents, and traditional, community and religious leaders, legislators, justice sector actors, as well as state officials. “The movement will mo­bilise affected communities for concrete action at the household level to protect girls at risk of FGM. It will challenge misconceptions on FGM and the discriminato­ry reasons it is practised and break the silence around the practice together with com­munities,” it said. Already, the United Nations joint intervention programme to accelerate the elimination of female genital mutilation through men engagement coalition in Osun State is gradually showing progress. Eight years ago, Osun State topped the list of five states in the country which are endemic   in female genital Mutilation (FGM) in the country. The states are Oyo, Ekiti, Imo, Ebonyi and Osun, Today, the story is changing as the state is progressively seeing a decline in FGM. Aphrodisiacs Very Potent In Solving All Sexual Problems, Mending… NAFDAC Commissions 73 Vehicles To Enhance Operational Efficiency In 2013, NDHS revealed that Osun which recorded 77 percent in FGM practice dropped to 45.9 percent according to the 2018 NDHS report. Kudos also goes to the UNICEF campaign to end FGM by supporting the household leaders’ initiative.  This has resulted to abandonment of the practice in 369 communities in six LGAs of Osun state. Tagged, Men Engage Alliance or Men Engage Coalition, the group was initiated by UNICEF to engage male household leaders in the campaign to end FGM. Bello Fatai Adekunle, a household leader, Dagbolu community, Ifelodun LGA, Osun State is a member of UNICEF Men Engage Coalition. An elated Adekunle, though satisfied that his community, Dagbolu has publicly renounced FGM is determined to see every community in the state stop the practice. He explained his excitement at being a member of the Men Engage Alliance team noting, “We are raising awareness to for other communities to renounce FGM like my community, Dagbolu did,” he told Daily Independent. Decrying female genital cutting, he said that it inflicts uncountable problems upon the girl child. Listing the problems, Fatai who is also Community Leader turned to #endFGM champion said; it causes bleeding, infections and is a death sentence. Elaborating, he said that the exercise is carried out under an unhygienic environment with dangerous sharp objects, not surgical knives. Adekunle comments followed a recent sensitasation programmes to end FGM at Ikirun, Ifelodun LGA. He noted, “We know that FGM is not good, everybody have stopped it in my community. FGM is an olden-day practice, and this has been harmful to our people. Cutting the female genital is causing a lot of problems that we can’t count. For example, they did not stitch one girl properly after she was circumcised and it got infected. Though, she survived, some have died from this type of problem,” he added. The Household Leader continued, “I am a member of the UNICEF Men Engage Coalition Team, so we are really handling this issue like our own issue. It concerns us that is why we left our jobs today, today is our awareness day to come and teach our people about why they should stop FGM. We want them to know that FGM is not good and we must stop it, we must end it, so that is why we are shouting, end cutting of the female genitals. My community,  Dagbolu no longer accept FGM again at all, so every community supposed to stop female genital cutting.” UNICEF’s Intervention Programme Adekunle applauded UNICEF for providing training for him and others who are now campaigning to end FGM. Also, Lekan Ayodeji Abolarinwa, Community Leader, Community Leader, Seke-Ikirun, thanked UNICEF for training him under its intervention programme to stop genital cutting.   Abolarinwa said that his dream is to see the remaining 169 communities in Osun stop FGM, describing it as an old practice, fueled by lack of awareness. Abolarinwa who is also a member of the Men Engage Alliance Team, explained, “The reason some communities practiced FGM in the past is ignorance. That is why we create awareness as members of the surveillance team. Today, we thank UNICEF for its intervention to stop the practice.” Men Engage Alliance To End FGM Explaining, Olutayo Aderonke, UNICEF FGM Consultant, said the UNICEF’s campaign strategy against FGM through the Men Engage Coalition is to end the cruelty – FGM practice. Aderonke Aderonke said, “It was a massive engagement of individuals – men, women, girls, opinion leaders, traditional rulers and various groups, women and youth leaders. We had meetings with all the traditional rulers from 30 local governments of Osun State in Osogbo. “We also engaged with the Men Engage Alliance, otherwise known as Men Engage Coalition – this is a coalition of men from different walks of life – carpenters, farmers, and teachers etc. They form an alliance in each LGA after we have trained them. They are the ones now engaging other members of the communities to say, no, we cannot afford to cut our girls. Adopting this kind of strategy has helped us to reach out to many men who are now vanguard of ending FGM,” the UNICEF Consultant added. Aderonke, who is the UNICEF Consultant for Ekiti, Osun and Oyo shared the success stories of the campaign in Osun during an interview with Daily Independent. She said, “Well, we’ve had a lot of success stories. And we’ve had a lot of communities across Osun State coming out publicly to declare the abandonment of female genital mutilation. We are working in eight Local government areas of Osun, of which six have actually made public declarations of FGM abandonment. “From 2018 to now, we’ve had about 369 communities across the six LGA’s who have completely declared abandonment to FGM. However, 169 communities are ready now to make open declarations,” she noted. UN FGM Joint Programme The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) jointly lead the largest global programme to accelerate the elimination of female genital mutilation (FGM) since 2008. The UNFPA-UNICEF Joint Programme harnesses the complementary expertise of the two agencies, with governments and often in close collaboration with grass-roots community organisations and other key stakeholders, backed by the latest social science research. Aderonke explained, Nigeria came on board the UNICEF/UNFPA FGM project in 2014. And Osun state was one of the states that was picked for UNFPA to work with UNICEF on FGM eradication. “Phase two of the project began from 2013 to 2017 and phase 3 started January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2021, which has just ended.” Surveillance Support Team On sustainability of the campaign, the UNICEF Consultant assured, “As we are rounding up phase three, we have put structures on ground, what we call Surveillance Support Team – people that will enforce and ensure that the communities are abiding by the promises they made during public appearance. If the community says, they have abandoned cutting girls doesn’t mean they will stop out rightly. So what we did as UNICEF is to put structures on ground to make sure that they are standing by their declaration. That’s why we know that even if there are no donor agencies anymore, that the household, communities, the states and the local governments could take ownership of the project.”