LAGOS – The Proprietor, Ferscoat International School, Pastor Felix Opata, has urged stakeholders in the education sector to lay more emphasis on sports development and participation in schools. Besides, he also called for additional opportunities for learners who are talented in sporting activities and not just those that excel in academics. Speaking during the just concluded 11th Biennial inter-house sports competition with the theme: “Nurturing Future Champions Through Grassroots Sports”, Opata who also doubles as the Director of Studies said though the sole responsibility of nurturing talents should have been the role of the government through its agencies like the Ministry of Sports. 2022 IWD: NGO To Gift 100 Traders, Street Sweepers Food Items 2023: Hope Alive As Gov Emmanuel Reviews Ongoing Projects In… He suggested that when the government falls short of this role, local groups like NAPPS, ANCOPPS and several others should take up the challenge. He suggested that opportunities like the inter-house sports competition organized by the school should serve as a pedestal for talented young students to move from the grassroots to the state and national levels. “I am sure competitions like this brought up people like our sports icons and sports personalities,” he said. Advocating that participation in sporting activities should not be optional in educational institutions, Opata urged parents not to waver off sports, saying it is part and parcel of every school programme. He, however, added that organising sporting activities in times like this has become very expensive and as such needs the support of all stakeholders, especially parents. POLL “It is noteworthy to mention that the crop of parents that we have now are people that understand sports as part of education. Thanking parents for their support for the success of the event, Opata said with their cooperation, the school could muster resources to sponsor talents discovered at the event to go higher in their chosen sporting activity. “We can sponsor some of them to get to the highest heights.” Opata explained that the event is necessary and important because it is a way of catching them young at the grassroots. “We believe at this event we are going to identify some great talents and that is why we have sports icons represented at this event and will be able to identify those who can excel.” Global Warming: Solidaridad Trains Farmers on Digital Farm… Okowa’s Aide Lauds Onosakponome’s Contribution To Tourism… Mrs. Rose Ashefor, the Headteacher of Ferscoat Nursery and Primary School said the event is aimed at catching them young from the grassroots, adding that it is aimed at bringing the innate talent in them, in the area of sports. In his remarks at the event, the sports icon and Olympic Gold and Bronze medalist, Enefiok-Udo Obong commended the school for the initiative and said discovering talents is not the job of the government alone but an individual thing because it is at an event like the one the school is having those great talents were discovered in the past. “The government must create the platform to build infrastructure and people will have the opportunity to make use of it.” He added that it was also necessary to have some set of people that can encourage these students to take up sports in different ways. At the end of the competition, Green House came first, Blue House second; Yellow House third and Purple House fourth.