ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum led by its Chairman and Sokoto state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has lauded the Enugu state governor, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on his 58th birthday. Facilitating with the governor and his family, the PDP governors said, “we join millions of Nigerians, especially your family, political associates and the entire citizens of Enugu state, in thanking God for his blessings of wisdom, good health and strength of character as you exemplify quality leadership on the good people of Enugu, the Coal City-state. “The Forum is happy to note and associate itself with your sagacity in office and inclusive governance over the past six years, which has endeared you to all and sundry as ‘the people’s governor’. “We thank the Almighty God for your life and the grace upon you, His protection and divine guidance through the years.” The Governors Forum, in a statement by its Director General, Hon. CID Maduabum said that Governor Ugwuanyi has been an instrument of stabilisation for the Forum. “We wouldn’t fail to mention your astute handling of affairs in Enugu and your preferred option of peace, dialogue and tranquillity as a governance model. “We commend the successful conduct of Local Government polls in Enugu state recently, at which all political parties were provided a level playing field to canvass their ideas and votes of the people in a free and fair atmosphere,” the governors said. The Forum further noted the Governor’s other giant strides and legacy achievements in office, especially in the area of urban and rural renewal initiatives, modernization and upgrade of the tertiary institutions owned by the State before his assumption of office and his establishment of new ones and the prompt payment of workers’ salaries over the years. POLL “We note also your sustained efforts in infrastructure provision, education, health and poverty alleviation initiatives. We indeed commend the prudence and fiscal responsibility you have brought to bear on the management of the lean resources of the State,” it said. The Forum appreciated Ugwuanyi’s valuable contributions to its progress, “the much-needed reforms in our party PDP and the country generally. We recall with nostalgia how you expertly handled the zoning issue in PDP as Committee Chairman. “We heartily join your people at home and abroad, in prayers to the Almighty Father to grant you more wisdom and favour in the line of national service, even as you achieve more developmental strides in Enugu State. Enugu is truly in the hands of God. “Be assured of the brotherly cooperation of all your colleagues in the Forum, always. “Happy 58th birthday anniversary once again!”