ABUJA – As the crisis between Russia and Ukraine heightens, President Muhammadu Bu­hari has vowed to defend the in­terest of Nigerians anywhere in the world. Buhari, who made the pledge on Thursday in Nairobi, Kenya at a town hall meeting with a group of Nigerians res­ident in the country, was speak­ing in reaction to the evacua­tion of Nigerians from Ukraine which has commenced in ear­nest. According to him, “On our part as a Government, we shall continue to defend the interests of all Nigerians wherever they may be. We have demonstrated this over time, as we have had cause to evacuate our citizens in harm’s way abroad. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tear… Obasanjo Remains Quintessential Leader At 85, Says Sanwo-Olu “We did it in Libya, South Africa and we have just com­menced doing the same in Ukraine, where thousands of our citizens, especially stu­dents, are trapped by the ongo­ing war between Russia and Ukraine.” He commended the diaspo­rans in Kenya for the unity that exists among them and peace with their host communities, urging them to respect the laws and be good ambassadors of Nigeria. President Buhari who was represented at the event by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama, reiterated that it was the determination of the current administration to forge a partnership with the ‘Ambassadors-at large’ towards building the country together that led to the estab­lishment of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiD­COM). He expressed delight that the Commission had been en­gaging the diasporans and had also come up with laudable pro­grammes that would appeal to them. According to the President, as part of his diasporan agen­da, “we expect your willingness to ‘give back to Nigeria, some of your resources, talents, skills and global exposure in the de­velopment of our great country, Nigeria.” POLL He, therefore, encouraged the Ambassadors to key into the programmes of NiDCOM especially the Nigerian Dias­pora Investment Trust Fund whose mandate is holistic for all Nigerians abroad adding that the platform would assist them to expeditiously contrib­ute to the development of their fatherland. The President assured them that the administration is forg­ing ahead with the provision of critical infrastructure for the collective prosperity of all despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and ac­tivities of terrorists. The Chief Executive Of­ficer of the Nigerians in Di­aspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, appreciated the Ambassadors for honouring the invitation, urging them to register with the Commission in order to have an up-to-date database of Nigerians for easy interface, adding that working with them, the Nigerian gov­ernment will build the country of our dreams.