WARRI– Leaders of Aghoro 11, Com­munity, Iduwini Kingdom Bayelsa State have linked the present crisis rocking the community to the alleged di­vide and rule tactics of Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and some few leaders of the community. Speaking with journalists recently, the newly elected Chairman, Comrade Konyefa Miejude accused the Oil Giant of fuelling the latest crisis by recognising and giving some job slots to the former youth Executives led by Mr. Party Alabor, Timi Felix and Daniel Etaghene Ikpama, Chairman, Vice Chairman and Secretary respectively whose tenure ex­pired since 23, February 2022. He said that their action ne­gates the directive of Bayelsa State Government which says nobody should parade him­self as leader or leaders of the Community until all issues bedeviling it are resolved. According to him, soldiers, led by one Captain Okereke from Elele Battalion were allegedly acting under the instructions of one Mr. Nen­gi Brown, Lucky Abitor, and Dominic Erhuotor, who are personnel of SPDC and not the Bayelsa State Govern­ment. He disclosed that Demes Enterprises is owned by Mr. Fred Orumiene, while Toweze and Son are owned by Mr. Towenze Agbedi who are in­digenes of the Community. “These Companies are fronting for Mr. Nengi Brown Community Relations Coor­dinator, (CRC) of SPDC Port Harcourt and Hon. Fred Agbedi of the Federal House of Representatives. “They are using the NIGE­RIAN ARMY to suppress and oppressed the Leadership of the Community. For instance, these same persons allegedly use the Army to prevent the Swearing-in Ceremony of the newly elected officials of the Community. Gunshots were fired into the air sporadically for hours all in a bid to cow the people into submission,” the Miejude said. Miejude, therefore, called on the Federal and Bayelsa State governments to call Shell and those indigenes collaborating with them to de­stroy their community, to de­sist from doing any business with any community leader until all issues threatening the peace of the community are resolved as earlier direct­ed by the Bayelsa State Gov­ernment. POLL He said that the present problem started when they confronted Mr. Party Alabor, Felix and Etaghene Ikpama Chairman, Vice and Secre­tary of the former Youth Ex­ecutives respectively, whose tenure expired since 23, Feb­ruary 2022, that it was not their duty to solicit job slots for the Community, but rather it is the duty of the Executives of the CDC. “So we brought them to the town hall. While we were in the Town Hall, some soldiers under the instructions of SHELL and not Bayelsa State Government started shooting sporadically into the air to scare our people at the Town Hall. “While we were question­ing them, soldiers came in and upon inquiring they took them away to an unknown destination.