ABUJA – All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairmanship aspirant, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, has said that his motivation to vie for the leadership of the party as National Chairman is to foster the unity of the country. He said that it was that need to ensure unity and cohesion of the country that motivated the coming together of the legacy parties to birth the APC in 2013/14, adding that the need for unity of the nation’s diverse persuasions have never greater today. Addressing journalists and a crowd of supporters when he returned his nomination form on Friday at the party’s National Secretariat, the former governor of Nasarawa State said also has adequate experience to lead the party to success. “I’m here to show my respect and deference to the leadership of the party, by complying with the regulations and guidelines that will make the process of the emergence of leaders of this party free, fair and credible. “Having said that, I am motivated to contest for this office for two reasons. One, as one that has been opportune by providence to be around and holding a position as governor when the party was being merged. I knew and I still know how many sacrifices great men and women made to ensure the birth of APC. “I know the contributions, the efforts. Those efforts are in order to consolidate and solidify the unity of this country. This merger is not just a mere accord, or alliance. It is a merger of conscience, a merger of philosophy, a merger of ideology, a merger of ideas, all in the quest to make Nigeria great. “People from the north, east, south and west, with different parties and tendencies come together to assume one united, harmonious, mutual focus and unity as Nigerians. “You see my motivation is for national unity and cohesion. What am I going to do is fast-track or preside over this process, because there’ll be no government if there is no party, a formidable party.” POLL He said his experience as a former governor, Senator and a Youth at heart, will come in handy in tackling the myriads of challenges currently facing the party and the country.