Mohammed Sani Yusuf , Deputy Comptroller (DC) of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), in his maiden press briefing, he showcased his achievements barely one month in office. ANDREW UTULU was there. Excerpts: Where did you intercept the seized goods and particularly rice, did you arrest suspects? Most of the items were intercepted at the border posts; of course you know how difficult it is to get the rice. Most smugglers are intercepted where they pile-up the rice with intention of coming back to move them out at night. But with credible intelligence, at night, most times while at home sleeping a call by my operatives that they have seen these and moving them to office would come in. We have suspects. This rice seized in a Dangote truck, the suspect is in our custody. As we are speaking, we have two suspects here. Anybody seeing the truck will think it was genuine businessman carrying cement. But this is not sealed. It was rice. No cement. This is a Dangote truck. The CG said there should not be any sacred cow in treating the issue of smuggling and contraband. Are you going to treat this likewise? Yes I am. The practice is that over time, we have some people that they give their vehicles. But they now said that subsequently, going forward, the vehicle will be seized to serve as deterrence to those involved in illegal activities. If eventually, their vehicles are seized; their activities will be reduced to the barest minimum. Their activities have brought about increase in unemployment. The government policies towards contraband are to have industries that create employment opportunities. When you allow influx of prohibited goods, you discover that our industries will not be able to produce optimally and by extension will not create jobs. So, we must nip this in the bud so that our local industries will be onboard and they can create employment for our teaming youths. POLL What is your message to Nigerians who patronize smuggled goods particularly second hand goods? Of course, stop buying used items. A lot of made in Nigeria goods are far better. Go to Aba, you see a lot of shoes that are made in Aba. Their qualities are unparalleled. But Nigerians will not want to patronize made in Nigeria goods. People in Cameroun and other neighbouring countries are patronising our goods, if we can change the psyche. People believe that foreign goods are better. What about the health implication with the second hand wares such as shoes and clothes? You don’t know who wore them. At the end of the day, you get cancer and illnesses that are severe. We should patronise our goods, you find out that we will definitely get there, and Nigeria will be a great country. We shouldn’t just make shoes, but patronise them, create employment, and the multiplier effect will go round. You also intercepted Cannabis Sativa? Yes, 137.3kg. This is what they call igbo, wee-wee, ganja. Can you imagine that a lot of these things come into the country? The negative effect of this is enormous and cannot be overemphasized. You can imagine the level of social vices we have in the society. We have to do everything possible to stop the trend. For this, where ever it is coming from, Nigeria is a consumer country, so we will ensure that we partner with the NDLEA, to stem this. It is about everybody, not only the Strike force, NDLEA, the Customs but everybody. Please, things like this should not come in because of the negative effect on our kids, adults, and Nigerians. This will be transferred to the NDLEA. You also intercepted woods which smugglers tried to take out of the country? Yes! 3 x 20ft containers of timber with Duty Paid Value of N177,725,200. You can imagine the effect it has on the ecosystem, the employment creation. Exportation of woods is absolute prohibition. They are not allowed based on Common External ECOWAS Tariff under schedule 6. You can also see the used tyres intercepted and the level of accidents everywhere. You can see how dilapidated they are. How can a right thinking person use these tyres? Every tyre has a life span. The lifespan of these tyres have expired. You, as the user trying to cut corner and thinking you are using product that is cheap, by the time you start using the tyres, definitely, accident will occur. They are expired; the iron wires inside are broken. This has killed a lot of people, so we are calling on Nigerians to desist from using second hand tyres. This is also under import prohibition in schedule 3 of the Common ECOWAS External Tariff. These goods were intercepted outside. What was declared as the content is different from what we discovered. So, it was intercepted also as false declaration. Are you not worried that these items you seized must have beaten some checkpoints mounted by Customs operatives. So what system have you put in place to checkmate operatives who connive with smugglers? That is why we always profile. As I speak with you, both import here and at warehouse declared, of course, we get firsthand information of these items coming from oversees through our shared intelligence and we ensure that before we go on, we ensure that we place an alert on the goods. This helps us a lot. With highly-shared credible intelligence coming from overseas, as soon as they come in we alert our ICT unit to be on the system. Before they are released, we nip it in the bud. For us, we make sure we do everything possible to have zero illegalities here. People have to abide by the law. The government is doing so much. You can imagine, if not for the encouragement the Federal Government gave to local rice producers, it would have been difficult during the COVID-19 pandemic; it wouldn’t have had enough to feed the country due to the large population. But thank God, rice is a staple food for now because we hardly do without rice at least a day. Yet some people keep perpetrating this act. If this should continue, it will dampen the hope of many people. Look at the seizure of donkey skins. Why must you smuggle in endangered species. All these have their role in the ecosystem. So, it is very import that we need the media along in this fight. Have you had stakeholders meeting with people suspected to be involved in bringing in these items? The whole thing about Custom is a continuum. I am also an appendage of another Unit. We have other Units, we have border patrol. It is a continuous activity and process. We have been talking. That is why we have our Customs news educating Nigerians on the ills of bringing in these things. Once we identify those bringing in contraband, we arrest them. They keep telling you they are ignorant of what they do. Ignorance of the law is not an excuse. That is why we need other people like you because we can’t do it alone. Educating the people, we do it with the hope that the level of smuggling will reduce to the barest minimum. Of course, it is difficult to eradicate smuggling. This is because the borders are verse and not fenced. But definitely, we will bring them to the barest minimum. The goods were intercepted through share intelligence.