ABUJA – Ahead of 2023 elections, the Sokoto state governor and presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Aminu Tambuwal, has warned Nigerians not to experiment with someone who doesn’t understand democratic governance. Speaking while meeting with the Forum of former PDP Deputy Governors in Abuja, Tambuwal, who said the country has never been this bad, added that that Nigeria cannot afford to have another president that will be more in the villa, without connecting with the people. He said: “This is a time that Nigerians must not experiment with someone who does not understand democratic governance. “We must be doing this exercise of selecting who is going to be the standard flag bearer of our party, we must deliberately seek out someone that understands this country, someone who has been tested in democratic governance appreciates how to run a federal government. “We cannot afford to have another president that will be more in the villa without connecting with the people, engaging the people and finding local solutions to local problems.” Tambuwal said that he is in the race not on ethnic considerations but because he has a track record that towers him above other aspirants. He said: “Am coming for the journey on my merit, on my credit and my credentials. As the Speaker of the House of Representatives, I presided over one of the most stable and very interesting houses. From the beginning of this democracy till today, I can beat my chest that the House I presided over was the House of Representatives of the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, where issues were debated, devoid of sentiments but based on pan Nigerian perception. “Back in Sokoto, my records are there to speak for me in terms transformation of the state, infrastructure, education, health indices, bringing back out of school children, physical responsibility and accountability, ease of doing business and such other indices. POLL “I believe that I have the right temperament, temperament is key going forward in running the affairs of Nigeria. The situation of this country calls for competent leadership calls for experienced hands and energy.” The leader of the group and Chief of Staff to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mike Ogiadome said that Tambuwal has always distinguished himself as an outstanding leader who has the capacity to transform the country. He assured that the group will work to ensure that his dream as the number citizen of the country come 2023 comes to fruition. In attendance were the representatives of the six zones. Okechukwu Itanyi for (South East), Patrick Ekpotu (South-South) Solomon Ewuga for (North Central) James Magaji (North West), Amb. Oluwate Omolade (South West) and Yoriyo Lazarus (North East). They, on behalf of the other 100 members, extolled the virtues of the aspirants and assured him that the country has a brighter future with someone of his pedigree on the driving seat. In a related development, Tambuwal also assured PDP women that his Presidency will surpass the 35 per cent slot for women contained in the party’s constitution. Speaking in Abuja during a consultative meeting with PDP Women leaders from across the states led by the National Woman leader Prof. Stella Attoe, Tambuwal said, “when I came on board, there were only one female permanent secretary, today we have four. There was never a time we had women councillors in the state, today in each local government we have three.” Tambuwal, who is the Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum said, “when you come to party issues, we have complied with the constitutional provisions of our party of 35% of women in the state exco, 35% of women in each of the 33 local government exco and 35% of women in each of 244 election wards. “We sent a second batch of students to Ukraine and Sudan, 200 students to go and study medical sciences, 35% to 40% of them are girls. I stated this story to give you an idea of the deal that will be coming to the Nigerian women when by the grace of God, we form government of the PDP in 2023 and by his grace under my leadership. “We established the first female education board in the state with a mandate to promote girl child education. We are establishing three very solid Girls Science Academy, one in each of the senatorial districts of the state with a capacity to take 2,500 girls in boarding houses”. Tambuwal explained that he decided to consult the PDP women leaders knowing that they can influence not only themselves and their fellow women but their husbands and sons to buy into his presidential ambition. In her remarks, the PDP National Woman leader commended the Presidential hopefuls for all his laudable initiatives for the women. “Power belongs to God, God alone knows what he wants to do, but God willing, if it goes the way of your heart desire, we the PDP women leaders have seen the kind of heart you have for women through your activities, through what you have placed on ground, that you are a personality that appreciates womanhood and we will not forget that,” she noted.