***Says “We Are The First Settlers” The Ododo Community in Iworoko -Ekiti has appealed to governor Kayode Fayemi  to accede to  its request by granting it autonomy without further delay . The people of the area, said to be the  first settlers in Iworoko-Ekiti  argued that  their demand was long overdue as many communities with similar histories had been accorded autonomies with substantive monarchs. Arrest, Prosecute Policeman Who Killed Our Member, OPC Charges… Oyo Govt Approves March 11 For Installation Of Lekan Balogun As… They made their position known in a peaceful protest held on weekend to press home their demands . The community sought amongst other things ,separate  identity from Iworoko -Ekiti and full recognition  to it monarch- Arinjale which it claimed had been reduced to a mere Chieftaincy status . According the protesters, they are  descendants of Ewi of Ado Ekiti stressing their claims were supported by  the Intelligence Report of 1933, Ondo State chieftaincy review commission of 1978 and a book written by Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, whuch rated Arinjale as a full fledged monarch. The spokesman of the aggrieved community  , Prince Julius Babalola, explained that the Intelligence Report of 1933, Ondo State chieftaincy review commission of 1978 and a book written by Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, rated Arinjale as a full fledged monarch, wondering why the title was being relegated by goverment. Babalola posited further that Arinjale, had settled  in Iworoko Ekiti since 1891, with well established royal dynasty before being joined in 1932 by Alaworoko , who now superintend over the town as the only recognised King. POLL He regretted how the town was politically manipulated out of recognition and denied of autonomy by Justices Silas Oyewole and Jide Aladejana-led chieftaincy review commissions of 2014 and 2020 respectively. “Our progenitor, Gberubioya, a prince from Ado Ekiti came to this place in 1891 with his crown and people . We didn’t meet anybody here. Alaworoko came from Ila Orangun in Osun State to join us 41 years after. “We already had  a full fleged  royal dynasty before he joined us. But we are not enjoying recognition and development,  because we are not given autonomy. How can we be treated this way in a land we founded and suffered for? “The Chieftaincy Intelligence Report of 1933 said on page 22 that there are two political heads in Iworoko, the Alaworoko and Arinjale and that they are of the same class and strength.” “How can we now be put under Alaworoko when it was clear that we have our own Oba but not recognised? This is injustice and Governor Kayode Fayemi must correct this. We merit it going by history and tradition.” Ogun Govt Approves Adebajo’s Appointment As Orimolusi Of… OPC ‘ll Go Down In History As Most Victimised Organization… Babalola stressed further that during the proceedings  of  the Ondo State Chieftaincy review commission of 1978,  that the then Alaworoko did openly confess before panelists that there are two broad sections in Iworoko,but pleaded that he wanted the town to remain united instead of being divided. “Despite these avalanche of evidence of our established monarchy here, the Justices Silas Oyewole and  Jide Aladejana- led  review commissions of 2014, and 2020 said the Memoranda we submitted to grant us autonomy lacked merit. “Autonomy is part of democracy dividends . We have always been supporting the APC government and we have a rich history supporting our case, so we appeal to Governor Fayemi to grant our request before bowing out on October 15,2022”. Babalola also appealed to Fayemi to stop the management of  Iworoko Community secondary school from further encroaching on their lands given to the institution in 1975 for the establishment of the school, saying  about 29.9 hectares of lands had been forcefully hijacked from them. Recall that governor Fayemi between 2010 and now had granted autonomy to many communities with rich histories .Amongst them were Ejiyan community gained autonomy from Ipoti-Ekiti in Ijero Local Government Area, while Orun community also left Igbemo-Ekiti in Ijero Local Government Area. Others are Omuo Oke (Omuo-Ekiti in Ekiti East Local Government Area), Kota (Omuo-Ekiti, also in Ekiti East Local Government) and Ijaro (Iludun-Ekiti in Ilejemeje Local Government).