ABUJA – The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company Plc (AEDC) earlier this week apologised for the recent poor power supply in its franchise areas, blaming poor electricity generation for the challenge. Mr. Donald Etim, its Chief Marketing Officer, in a statement, noted that the power available for supply to customers had been abysmally low in recent times. AEDC stressed that as a company fully committed to enriching its customer experience, it regretted that the challenge of low generation was beyond its direct control, but said that it was aware of the plight of its customers. POS Agents Move To Register Members In FCT To Prevent Financial… We Need New Law To Create Multiple Electricity Market – Govs,… The distribution company’s customers are mostly in Kogi State, Niger State, Nasarawa State and Abuja. “The current low and unstable supply of electricity to homes and businesses is as a result of low power generated to the national grid,” it stated. It added: “In recent weeks, the level of power generated and served to the national grid for onward delivery to customers has been abysmally low. “However, we will do our utmost, at all times to ensure that we equitably distribute even the modest supply in such a way that a fair cross-section of customers is served,” the company said. Knowing full well the place and role of electric power in daily life, the company stressed that it was deeply committed to ensuring that working with other stakeholders within the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI), it resolves the challenges within the sector. POLL “The root causes of this latest low generation have been identified and are being addressed,” AEDC said. The Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, speaking at a press briefing on Thursday in Abuja, had given reasons for the reduction in power supply across the nation. “I would like to discuss the increased load shedding you may have observed in Abuja and other areas in the country. With the reduction in hydro capacity during the dry season, additional load needs to be taken up by our gas plants. “We are having maintenance work in the Eastern axis around Odukpani leading to reduced power supply from the usually reliable NDPHC Calabar power plant and we are having challenges at Okoloma gas station linked to Afam VI power plant. “We are working with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) and other gas suppliers to improve the pressure on the Western axis that is precluding units from reaching optimum supply. 100 Youths To Get Building Tech, Automation, Other Skills As ITF… Don’t Blame Minister For Abuja LG Council Delayed Allocation–… “These challenges are surmountable, and we have a three-pronged approach we are executing. We have short term solutions as well as long term solutions. We are working assiduously to resolve short term load shedding challenges,” he had said. Etim stated that the company understood the pains of its customers who have suffered untold hardship as a result of the situation. “Indeed, we empathise with them. But we also use this opportunity to appeal to them to bear with us as all industry stakeholders are working tirelessly to achieve system stability and ensure availability and steady supply of electricity across AEDC franchise areas,” he said. Meanwhile, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) has said that not all approved metering schemes, currently active in the country offer meters at no immediate expense to customers. This was made known by ANED’s Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Barr. Sunny Oduntan, while making clarifications to the media on the different channels through which customers can obtain electricity meters. “Under the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC)’s “Meter Asset Provider and National Mass Metering Regulations ,” Regulation No. NERC-R-11-2021, there are two metering programmes –  National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) and the Meter Asset Provider (MAP). “The NMMP is a policy intervention by the federal government, with funding from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). This programme commenced in 2021 and the objective of the program is to  expeditiously close the electricity metering gap. “These meters are provided free of charge to customers and as loans to the electricity distribution companies (DisCos). The first phase of NMMP covered the delivery and installation of a million meters and concluded in October, 2021.  In the second phase, four million more meters are expected to be installed.” “The second route to obtaining a meter is under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme which was approved in 2018. ‘This avenue is available to customers who are unwilling to wait for the availability of meters under the NMMP. Such customers can pay for a meter under the scheme. The amount paid by the customer will be amortised and refunded over a 36-month period via energy credits, ,” Oduntan explained. “This twin approach is aimed at closing the metering gap in the next one or two years, so that estimated billing will be reduced to a minimum. However, of note is that under the second program, with the advantage of expedited delivery and installation, the customer has to first pay for the meter before being refunded. Ultimately, the meter is free to the customer, via the energy credits. The implementation of Phase 0 (zero) of the NMMP has been concluded by all the DisCos, while waiting for the commencement of Phase 1. All the DisCos are finalizing the documentation and disbursement requirements of the funding for Phase 1, with an expected kick-off of the same soonest. “It is important to clarify that the DisCos are operating within the regulatory guidelines established by their regulator, NERC, relative to meeting customer metering requirements,” he added.