ABUJA – Inclusive Friends Association (IFA) on Wednesday expressed concern that Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) continue to face significant barriers in participating in the country’s elections. The Executive Director, Grace Jerry, PwDs who noted this at the 7th Access Nigeria Campaign Stakeholders’ Roundtables on Inclusive Election in Nigeria in Abuja observed that 34% of sampled polling units, persons with disabilities were not given priority to vote in line with INEC guidelines at the just concluded November 6, 2021 governorship election in Anambra State. The roundabout was in collaboration with the Access Nigeria Campaign, National Democratic Institute (NDI) and support from the UKAID, United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards Grace who was represented by the Disability Inclusion Officer of IFA,Tracy Omanis said this discourages PWDs from participating in elections. She said 20% of polling units, voters with visual impairments or blindness used the Braille Ballot guide. “This number showed that if the Braille ballot guide was available at more polling units, more voters with visual impairments and blindness would have been able to use it. “Access Nigeria observers reported that 54% of the routes (roads) leading to the areas where sampled polling units were located were inaccessible for PWDs. In his goodwill message, the Program Director, National Democratic Institute (NDI), Ben Aga, said the roundtable is one of the many platforms created by IFA to advocate for the implementation of their recommendations. POLL He said the 2022 Ekiti and Osun off-cycle governorship elections are now three and four months away, respectively. “The implementation of IFA’s recommendations, which includes making polling units more physically accessible for PWDs, will go a long way to make the Ekiti and Osun elections more accessible for PWDs.