ABUJA – Benue State Deputy Governor Benson Abounu on Friday purchased his expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the governorship election. Explaining why he felt he is in the best position to succeed the governor while fielding questions from newsmen shortly after purchasing the forms, Abounu said Governor Ortom understands him and he understand the governor. “Between me and my governor, In nearly seven years, we have not had one single quarrel. My Governor understands me and I understand him. We are together in virtually everything that we do. “He trusts me so much to the extent that he sends me on an errand to the Governors’ Forum meeting, to the National Economic Council meeting, to even the Council of States that is presided over by the president himself, I represent him there. “I represent him in the Northern Governors’ Forum meeting and I have had the singular opportunity of having and trusting in me all the assignments that they go. The other governors hardly even recognize their own deputy governors or even put them forward to carry out those assignments,” he said. Speaking further, Abounu said, “As I talk to you, we have no problem with each other at all and therefore, I believe in all the things he believes in. I think I will not have any problem at all for him to cede power to me. After all, I am one deputy governor that worked with my governor in all these seven years. Each time he went on leave, he transmits power to me. Many governors don’t do this. And therefore, I have the belief that I will not have any problem at all in having him allow me to become the next governor of the state.” Speaking on security, the Deputy Governor said that aside from Benue, the entire country of Nigeria is in a terrible state of insecurity, adding, “my governor has stood very firm. He has stood in resistance to the incursion of insurgents. “Thank God he has used me and taught me, I’ve learned a lot from him and all that I will need to do when I become governor is to deploy all that I’ve learned. I’m going to ensure that insecurity is brought to an end not only in Benue state but also in the Federation of Nigeria.” POLL On his plan for the state, the Deputy Governor said, “I have all the plans for them. I am going to transform the agricultural business of Benue state. We are going to set up or I will be setting up what is called Produce Stock Exchange just the same manner that you have the Nigerian Stock Exchange and it works this way.” On why he’s not giving way to the youths, Abounu said, “the younger generation needs my experience. They need my level of education. They need all the things that I’ve gathered over the years, especially in three different administrations. “My policy when I get sworn in, two hours later, because of all the experiences I’ve gathered in the past, I’ll be announcing members of my Cabinet and this cabinet will be made up of 60 to 70% of the youths. “They need my experience and I need their resourcefulness, I need their energy, I need their current knowledge. They are the ones that will be pushing forward to implement all the things that will be coming from my head, So I have no problem at all.” Meanwhile, an House of Representatives aspirant for Etsako West Federal Constituency, Engr. Mike Ikerodah, said that the crisis in Edo state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will be laid to rest. Ikerodah, who said he has everything it takes to get the ticket said, “this is not the first time we have a crisis like this. We’ve had crises in the other states and we have a credible resolution mechanism within the PDP as a political party. I’m confident without any reasonable doubt that the crisis will be laid to rest. “You will realize that a couple of days back about two days to be precise, a committee was set up where you have three eminent party members as members, and I want to assure you, that there is an end to the Edo state crisis because I believe in the competence of the political committee, the ability to resolve the crisis with every party.”