ABUJA – The Coalition of Nigerian Professionals in Politics (CNPP) has called on former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to declare his ambition to run for President of Federal Republic of Nigeria in the 2023 general elections. The group said there is no credible candidate among those that have shown interest so far to contest for the exalted office. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja on behalf of the coalition, Dr. Ibrahim Baba said the former President has shown in practical terms his democratic traits and tendencies while he was in and out of office. Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards He said  the country is in dire need of a leader who will consolidate on the successes recorded in the nation’s democratic journey. Ibrahim noted that the legacy of political equality and  economic prosperity left behind by the Jonathan led administration cannot be overemphasized and the need to build on it in the interest of Nigerian. He said: “As the nation of Nigeria inches towards 2023, the year of our general elections in which we hope to consolidate on our democracy and count on 24 unbroken years of civilian democratic rule in our history, we members of the Coalition of Nigerian Professionals in Politics (CNPP), feel compelled to lend our voices to the clamour across the country for former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to come out of his political leave and contest for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023. “We join in this well founded agitation for Jonathan because of his antecedents which are well acknowledged by those who love the country and its continual well-being. If the goal is to consolidate on our democracy, it then means that we must look for a man or woman who is an essential democrat. “Looking at the field right now, it can be seen that among those who have indicated interest to run for the office of president, there is none better qualified than Jonathan as a democrat to carry on the progressive journey. POLL “Jonathan has in practical terms shown that in theory and practice, he is a well-honed democrat even more as a result of his numerous national and international democratic missions in and out of office.” While highlighting the prospects of the former President while in office Ibrahim said is well-known reputation for accommodating all, his belief in the destiny of his country and his ability to recruit Nigerians both in and outside the country to offer their service to their fatherland irrespective of social, political and religious affiliation. “We want to assure President Goodluck Jonathan and the good people of Nigeria that our organization has structures nationwide cutting across all political platforms to mobilise our people to support not only Jonathan’s nomination as candidate for president but also vote for him to emerge as president under any  political platform   to sustain and consolidate on the progress achieved so far. “With this composite image of Jonathan as a bridge-builder, and a global peace maker, we have no hesitation in our minds that Jonathan is the man to beat in the presidential contest for 2023 as he offers himself in agreement with the unprecedented support of well meaning Nigerians to stage a historic comeback to stabilise and consolidate on the journey so far. “This is a man who has endeared himself to everyone in the political equation and should, therefore, kindly  answer the urgent national call to step in the political arena and once again offer his meritorious service to his fatherland at this time in history. PMQs: Johnson Struggles To Defend Refugee Policy Lagos Junior League, Nath Boys Made Me Who I Am Today –… “We want to assure President Goodluck Jonathan and the good people of Nigeria that our organization has structures nationwide cutting across all political platforms to mobilise our people to support not only Jonathan’s nomination as candidate for president but also vote for him to emerge as president under any  political platform to sustain and consolidate on the progress achieved so far. finally, we reiterate our call on the Nigerian people to support “Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to deepen our democracy and consolidate on the successes as we march forward in our unwavering democratic journey towards a greater and prosperous nationhood,” he added.