Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Wednesday officially declared his intention to run for president on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming general elections. Atiku who disclosed this while announcing his intention to run for Presidency in 2023 said that if elected, his administration will focus on 5 key areas, including unity, security, economy, education and devolving more resources to federating units. Atiku’s declaration comes just seven days to the two-week deadline given to the PDP zoning committee to make recommendations for the zoning of various elective positions before the elections. Speaking at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, the presidential hopeful said, “The most fundamental right of every Nigerian is the right to life. But the APC has failed to protect the life of her citizens… under my Presidency I will not tolerate insecurity. Atiku who is taking a third shot at the presidency stated that Nigeria’s unity has never been threatened as it is today since the civil war and that he plans to open the door for dialogue to hear the grieving voices of Nigerians. He, however, said that he has no doubt in his mind that Nigerians can achieve electoral victory, declaring that “we have done it in 1993 and we can do it in 2023.” According to him, “They said we should go back to farms. How can Nigerians return to the farms when they have not secured the farms? “When the APC came in 2015, they met a debt profile of N12tn. But now we have more than N32tn in debt. Under my watch, I will reduce borrowing.” POLL “Nigeria is in dire need of visionary leadership. Presently Nigeria is a sinking ship that must be urgently rescued. That is why I am announcing my candidacy for President. “I offer myself to rescue the ship. Under my captainship, this ship will sail to brighter days by the grace of God. This is a journey I will take with all Nigerians. “Under my Presidency I will focus on five key areas; unity, security, economy, education and devolving more powers to the federating units. I am the unifier that is coming to bind the broken union. Under my Presidency there will be a new Nigerian where everybody has an equal voice and is heard. He added, “We must stand firm and get our PVCs, come out en masse and protect votes against manipulations. “I have contested for the presidency twice, my persistence is borne out of a passion to rekindle the Nigerian dream I was privileged to live. “Nigeria is a land of possibilities. I am a living witness to what is possible in Nigeria,” he said, highlighting being an 11-year-old orphan and ending up as a vice president.