LAGOS – Members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos Information Chapel, on Thursday received various free healthcare support, made possible by the partnership of the chapel and a United States-based medical outfit, Mercy International Medical Mission Inc. The duo provided medical checks for such ailments as high blood pressure, malaria, diabetes and eye problems, among others, for all the Public Affairs Officers in the Lagos State Public Service. Founder and President of Mercy International Medical Mission (INC), Dr. Erelu Anu Esuola, said a similar event had already been organised by them for Lagos State government staff, while acknowledging that it is her own way of empowering the citizenry. Dr. Esuola also commended the Lagos State NUJ, Information Chapel, especially its leadership, for bringing the programme to members. “Ours is a community outreach, primarily aimed at emancipating people medically. We go around; we try to examine and test people, then we refer them to appropriate quarters, where they would be further treated. We test and examine adults, elderly with such ailments as diabetes, eye problems, high blood pressure, malaria and others. We have nurses, doctors, and pharmacists who attend to the people. We can’t really help everybody but the little we can do today, we do”, Dr. Esuola said. She urged other public spirited and highly placed individuals in the state and country at large to emulate them and liberate people from ailments and diseases. In his address, Chairman, NUJ Lagos Information Chapel, Debo Adeniji, stated that what made the Chapel to organize the kind of medical mission was to ensure that all the Public Affairs Officers in the Lagos State Public Service know their health status and to live healthily. He stated further that many of the members were going through rigorous assignments and having sleepless nights due to the nature of their job at their respective MDAs. POLL “As they rightly say, health is wealth, and we have been seeing some of our members complaining about one ailment or the other and we deemed it necessary to come up with the medical mission for everyone to be health-certified.” He, however, appreciated Dr. Esuola and the team lead from the Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr. Tolu Ajomale, for coming to their aid in supporting them in ensuring that members were able to know their health status. In his remarks, a member of the NUJ information, Gbolahan Jamiu, a Public Affairs Officer with the Lagos State Fire Service, commended the leadership of the NUJ Information Chapel on the medical outfit, while also advising members to always adhere to and take care of their health.