Jordan Henderson has criticised the Football Association’s decision not to move the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Manchester City from Wembley. Supporters face travel chaos after it emerged trains would not be running into London from the north west over the Easter weekend, when the last-four games are taking place. And even though the FA have now chartered 100 buses that will ferry fans, free of charge, from the Etihad and Anfield to London for the 3.30pm kick-off on April 16, Henderson still believes the game should not played at Wembley. In these tough financial times, the Liverpool skipper is concerned about how it will hit a lot of supporters in the pocket. He said: “Something that we’ve learned over the past couple of years is how important the fans are to football. “It is really disappointing to see that it’s a struggle and it’s got to be expensive for them to get there. I’ve been thinking a bit more about the fans. I think in many ways it’s their day and not being able to get down to London for different reasons – the cost of that … “So in my head, it would make sense to change it to a neutral (different) venue, especially with it being two teams from the north-west. It’s disappointing for the fans and I know the FA might be changing kick-off time to try and help and also putting coaches on for the fans to get down for both Liverpool and City fans, which hopefully helps. But yes, it’s not ideal for the fans for sure.” And Henderson, preparing for the England friendly against Switzerland, has clearly never been in favour of holding the semi-finals at Wembley, no matter which teams are taking part. The FA are committed to staging the ties at Wembley for financial reasons but Henderson said: “I love playing at Wembley. I think it’s a fantastic occasion, a fantastic stadium. “But I would like to keep Wembley for finals. I think you should play semi-finals at a neutral ground like it used to be. I think that was quite exciting, quite good, and then obviously the final at Wembley to make it extra special.”