The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has reiterated that the seven-day ultimatum issued to occupiers of open stalls under the razed section of Eko Bridge at Oke Arin Market in Apongbon will not be extended. Governor Sanwo-Olu who stated this on Monday in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile said that all illegal traders under the damaged bridge have till Wednesday to vacate the site and remove their belongings. Sanwo-Olu who visited the site of the inferno for an on-the-spot assessment of the level of damage to the 48-year-old infrastructure said after the expiration of the ultimatum Environmental Taskforce officers will move in to clear wreckage left under the bridge, following the last Wednesday’s fire outbreak allegedly caused by inflammable stored under the bridge. Daily Indepedent had last week reported that following the fire incident, the government indefinitely suspended vehicular movement on the affected part of the bridge to allow for safety tests and integrity examinations of the facility. Five market groups used the open space under the bridge at the Oke Arin section of the Eko bridge for commercial activities. They are the Aromoleti Esho market, Shoe and Bag market, Irewolede market, ECOWAS market and Asejere market. The inferno allegedly erupted from the area where wine traders occupied. On sighting Sanwo-Olu at the site, a crowd of traders affected by the fire incident gathered and made a passionate appeal to the Governor not to shut the market. POLL But their plea met stiff resistance from Sanwo-Olu, who insisted that the traders’ unsafe practices led to the situation that caused the fire outbreak, which wreaked havoc on the busy bridge. The governor bemoaned the persistent destruction of vital public infrastructure within the State, disclosing that Lagos had recorded major damage on eight bridges across the State in the last two years. The development, Sanwo-Olu said, usually takes a toll on socio-economic activities and slows down productivity. He said: “We have issued a seven-day notice to all illegal occupiers under the bridge. We have gone to see the extent of the destruction on the bridge; it is an unfortunate incident and the situation that caused the fire was a clear indication of how public assets should not be used. “I want to reiterate that our ultimatum is still on and Wednesday is the deadline. Anybody that has anything valuable to him must remove it now because we are starting extensive clearing of the site. “Between last two years and now, we have had eight fire incidents on our bridges. Each time something like this happens, it affects everyone of us and the economy. The implication is far-reaching and this will not be accepted as a norm. “It costs more resources to put the damaged bridges back in shape and the activity takes more time to be completed. We cannot continue to have a few people who are engaging in actions that cause damage to public assets to put everyone at risk.”