Tottenham have kept themselves in the Premier League top-four race with a 5-0 hammering of Everton, who are in relegation danger after a gutless showing in north London. Spurs have been inconsistent in recent weeks but easily outclassed the Toffees after Michael Keane’s own goal put them ahead early on with a brace from Harry Kane and strikes from Son Heung-min and Sergio Reguilon. It was another Kane masterclass, with his second goal a particular highlight, and he took his tally to 14 goals in 15 games against Everton. 2023: Gwamna Tasks Gombe Residents On Active Participation Excitement Greets Release Of Sunday Igboho | TV Independent This was as bad a performance as the Toffees have put in this season and there has been no bounce under Frank Lampard, with a fourth loss in five league games since he took over as manager. There is little doubt that they are involved in a relegation dogfight as they are just a point above 18th-placed Burnley, though they do have a game in hand. Spurs equalled their best ever Premier League win at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium and will now have real belief that they can gate-crash the Champions League qualification places. Antonio Conte’s men, although still in seventh, are three points behind Arsenal and firmly in the race with a trip to Old Trafford to face Manchester United next. Tottenham went ahead in the 14th minute as Ryan Sessegnon was set free down the left and his cross was put through his own net by Keane. POLL It was 2-0 three minutes later as Spurs produced a lovely team move before Son’s weak shot squirmed past Jordan Pickford and into the net. Kane extended the margin in the 37th minute when Matt Doherty played an exquisite first-time pass for the striker to race through on goal and finish clinically. Spurs took just 41 seconds of the second half to increase their lead when Reguilon scored with his first touch having come on at halftime. Kane made it five with the goal of the night as a great ball over the top by Doherty picked out the Tottenham talisman to find the bottom corner with a superb first-time left-foot volley across Pickford. With that goal, Kane overtook Thierry Henry in the Premier League goalscoring charts. World Cup Playoff: Siasia Faults Eguavoen On Invitation Of Some… Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (08/03/22) He’s now scored 176 Premier League goals, one more than the legendary Frenchman recorded during his two stints with Arsenal. Lampard brought Dele Alli on for his first return to north London since his January exit but there was no saving the game. (SOURCE: TheWest)