Arsenal and England defender Ben White has admitted that he questioned whether he wanted to continue playing football after being released by Southampton. The 24-year-old is back in the England squad after impressing for Arsenal this season following a £50million move from Brighton last summer, with White establishing himself as a regular in the Gunners’ back line and earning himself a place in Gareth Southgate’s latest squad for the upcoming international friendlies with Switzerland and Ivory Coast as he looks to add to his two senior caps for the Three Lions. But things could have worked out very differently for the Poole-born defender, who was let go by Southampton back in 2014, having started his youth career with Saints. And he admits that it was a tough time for him at the age of 16, as he questioned what to do next after being informed of Southampton’s decision. “I got told I wasn’t going to get anything; Mum took me and our chat was a little quiet on the way home,” he said, reflecting on Southampton’s decision to let him go eight years ago. “I didn’t know if I wanted to carry on, it was obviously tough not being wanted. You don’t know if there is going to be anyone else who wants you; if they don’t want you, other teams at that level won’t. So it was kind of a feeling of: ‘Where do I go from here?’” But it has worked out for White since, with the defender joining Brighton’s academy and going on to become a regular in the Premier League, having had spells on loan with Newport County, Peterborough United and Leeds United. It was his spell with Leeds in the 2019/20 season that really attracted attention, with White being a key man for Marcelo Bielsa’s side as the Whites were promoted back to the Premier League. Leeds wanted to sign him permanently, but he ended up staying at Brighton, where he made 39 appearances last season, prior to earning a place in England’s squad for the European Championships and joining Arsenal in the summer. POLL However, White has made an honest assessment looking back on Southampton’s call eight years ago as he admitted that he could understand the club’s decision, adding that it didn’t necessarily come as a shock to him. “No, I wasn’t good enough when I was younger. I was a late developer, probably as tall as I am now but really skinny, gangly, couldn’t really run. And I didn’t play at all when I was there,” he added. And now, with White back in the England squad, he says that the hard work and his form with Arsenal this season is paying off as he looks to try and add to his two senior caps.