P/HARCOURT – Amidst the down turn of the national economy, Nigerian governors, particularly those from the old eastern region of the country have been enjoined to adopt the economic model of late Chief Michael Okpara, the first Republic Minister of Agriculture to promote development and create enough employment opportunities for the jobless youths. In an interview in Port Harcourt, a renowned Economist, Chidi Nwakaeze, said the South Eastern part of Nigeria, for instance, needed leaders that are endowed with strong character to achieve economic growth that could harness the potentials in the region and establish very strong institutions that will be enduring for generations. Nwakaeze recalled that late Dr. Michael Okpara, though the youngest Nigerian Premier then, was one of the greatest political leaders and the premier of Eastern Nigeria who headed the ministry of production, of which the Eastern Nigeria Development Corporation (Corporation which oversaw Agriculture, Industries, produce inspection, and other such duties) was a part. As the Head of ministry of Agriculture, his reforms led to a considerable reduction in the cost of food. He was a strong advocate of what he termed “Pragmatic Socialism” and established farm settlements were young men and women were trained to become modern famers. This led to establishment of farm estates such as Colaro and Qua falls Estate in Cross River. He played a major role in the Industrialization of Enugu (The then Eastern Nigerian Government Seat) Port Harcourt (Oil City – Trans-Amadi Industrial Estate), Calabar, Abia and Umuahia. The large expanse of Cashew and palm tree plantations in Okigwe, Akama- Oghe, Ubima, Egbema respectively, were all achieved through his initiative and supervision. Nwakaeze regretted that after the above agricultural, Economic and industrialisation heights by Okpara, Eastern Nigeria has been bereaved of very sound leaders with zeal and passion to serve the people while the states slumped into unpopular zoning of political offices as criteria for election rather than qualification and experience. POLL He applauded the emergence of Professor Charles Soludo, a renowned Economist and former Economic Adviser to the then President Olusegun Obasanjo, as the new governor of Anambra state, adding that Prof. Soludo understood clearly the multiplier effect of job creation in Anambra. “Job creation or employment is one of the fastest way to deal with the following: insecurity; consumption; which will lead to growth in production and when production grows, prices of goods and services will drop, further increase in production will lead to growth in export and when export grows, import or quest for imported goods will drop which will then lead to conservation of our foreign exchange. “The employment as well will lead to increase in saving (as workers can then save part of their salaries) and same savings are usually equal to investment, the people can then convert their savings into investments/ production in the medium to long term. “Further growth in production will naturally lead to economic expansion and growth in the GDP frontier. All the above can create industrialization, secure state, and massive growth. “It is equally pertinent to note that when insecurity is reduced to its barest minimum, the state will largely experience a massive boast in foreign Direct invest as most foreigners or even Nigerians will then see the states as safe haven for investment and production”, he said. On the emergence of Senator Ike Ekweremadu as governorship aspirant of Enugu state, the Economists said in terms of his experience coupled with his manifestos, Ekwremadu has enough experience to develop the state. “His manifesto shows the following: Industrialization, at least two industries in each of the 17 local governments in four years, super high ways with led lights and security surveillance system from Enugu city to Ebonyi State Border, Abia, Anambra and Benue states borders, Special/Cluster cities: sports cities, Auto city, ICT city, film/ Media city, Agric city in each of the senatorial zones. “Housing and urban renewal, Transportation, Educational reforms, Youth employment and empowerment, security, Health sector reforms, water, tourism and agriculture. The multiplier effect; then liken it to that of Soludo and M.I Okpara, those special cities proposal will have massive impact on job creation and as well create a positive multiplier on the development of Enugu state”. Nwakaeze believes that the Agricultural city has the same design as the one DANIEL ABIA P/HARCOURT Amidst the down turn of the national economy, Nigerian governors, particularly those from the old eastern region of the country have been enjoined to adopt the economic model of late Chief Michael Okpara, the first Republic Minister of Agriculture to promote development and create enough employment opportunities for the jobless youths. In an interview in Port Harcourt, a renowned Economist, Chidi Nwakaeze, said the South Eastern part of Nigeria, for instance, needed leaders that are endowed with strong character to achieve economic growth that could harness the potentials in the region and establish very strong institutions that will be enduring for generations. Nwakaeze recalled that late Dr. Michael Okpara, though the youngest Nigerian Premier then, was one of the greatest political leaders and the premier of Eastern Nigeria who headed the ministry of production, of which the Eastern Nigeria Development Corporation (Corporation which oversaw Agriculture, Industries, produce inspection, and other such duties) was a part. As the Head of ministry of Agriculture, his reforms led to a considerable reduction in the cost of food. He was a strong advocate of what he termed “Pragmatic Socialism” and established farm settlements were young men and women were trained to become modern famers. This led to establishment of farm estates such as Colaro and Qua falls Estate in Cross River. He played a major role in the Industrialization of Enugu (The then Eastern Nigerian Government Seat) Port Harcourt (Oil City – Trans-Amadi Industrial Estate), Calabar, Abia and Umuahia. The large expanse of Cashew and palm tree plantations in Okigwe, Akama- Oghe, Ubima, Egbema respectively, were all achieved through his initiative and supervision. Nwakaeze regretted that after the above agricultural, Economic and industrialisation heights by Okpara, Eastern Nigeria has been bereaved of very sound leaders with zeal and passion to serve the people while the states slumped into unpopular zoning of political offices as criteria for election rather than qualification and experience. He applauded the emergence of Professor Charles Soludo, a renowned Economist and former Economic Adviser to the then President Olusegun Obasanjo, as the new governor of Anambra state, adding that Prof. Soludo understood clearly the multiplier effect of job creation in Anambra. “Job creation or employment is one of the fastest way to deal with the following: insecurity; consumption; which will lead to growth in production and when production grows, prices of goods and services will drop, further increase in production will lead to growth in export and when export grows, import or quest for imported goods will drop which will then lead to conservation of our foreign exchange. “The employment as well will lead to increase in saving (as workers can then save part of their salaries) and same savings are usually equal to investment, the people can then convert their savings into investments/ production in the medium to long term. “Further growth in production will naturally lead to economic expansion and growth in the GDP frontier. All the above can create industrialization, secure state, and massive growth. “It is equally pertinent to note that when insecurity is reduced to its barest minimum, the state will largely experience a massive boast in foreign Direct invest as most foreigners or even Nigerians will then see the states as safe haven for investment and production”, he said. On the emergence of Senator Ike Ekweremadu as governorship aspirant of Enugu state, the Economists said in terms of his experience coupled with his manifestos, Ekwremadu has enough experience to develop the state. “His manifesto shows the following: Industrialization, at least two industries in each of the 17 local governments in four years, super high ways with led lights and security surveillance system from Enugu city to Ebonyi State Border, Abia, Anambra and Benue states borders, Special/Cluster cities: sports cities, Auto city, ICT city, film/ Media city, Agric city in each of the senatorial zones. “Housing and urban renewal, Transportation, Educational reforms, Youth employment and empowerment, security, Health sector reforms, water, tourism and agriculture. The multiplier effect; then liken it to that of Soludo and M.I Okpara, those special cities proposal will have massive impact on job creation and as well create a positive multiplier on the development of Enugu state”. Nwakaeze believes that the Agricultural city has the same design as the one of M.I Okpara which led to massive economic growth in the then Eastern Nigeria with its impact on price drop and growth in product exportation which created foreign exchange and stability of the naira. Then, the ICT city; the world has become a global village hence any development plan without ICT focus will fail with time. of M.I Okpara which led to massive economic growth in the then Eastern Nigeria with its impact on price drop and growth in product exportation which created foreign exchange and stability of the naira. Then, the ICT city; the world has become a global village hence any development plan without ICT focus will fail with time.