LAGOS – Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has affirmed that there is power in sports to bond and unite Nigerian citizens irrespective of tribes or religions. Saying this at the opening ceremony of the 26th edition of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) GAMES 2022, with the theme: “Fostering Greater Unity and Nation-Building Among Nigerian Youth Through University Sports,” in the University of Lagos (UNILAG) on Saturday, Gbajabiamila noted that it is “Only through sports that unity will be unleashed, we can harness our differences, bring people together to make Nigeria great.” Gbajabiamila, who said that “Sports is what we need in Nigeria today irrespective of religion, tribe, age, among others, added that “sports has a way of bringing people together. He noted that the NUGA Games 2022 is a harvesting ground for talents, as young men and women of religious persuasions are involved in the competition. “I have seen schools from the North, South, East and West; people of various religious groups and people of various persuasions. “Sports is a melting pot and this is what we need in Nigeria today. In sports, our strength will be unleashed on all the nations of the world. I believe that with so many ethnic groups involved in the activities, we can harness our differences. We need to bring them together to make Nigeria a great country.” “Young Nigerian men and women have gathered here to experience this, to bond together. I am very excited that this is happening at this time of the year. About 78 to 79 universities gathered in UNILAG for the NUGA Games and about 14,000 athletes gathered to win the trophy,” he added. Quoting the Great Nelson Mandela, Gbajabiamila said that sports has “the power to change the world and unite people today.” POLL He looked forward to UNILAG coming first in the competition and also looked forward to many records broken during the competition. Vice-Chancellor, UNILAG, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe, speaking at the event, which is the fourth of its kind hosted by the university, said the school believes “In the mission of NUGA Games to be a fertile ground for the emergence of well-rounded graduates who are equipped for solid service to the nation, the continent, and the world at large. “Our sporting facilities have been upgraded to world-class standards, such that our young athletes will have the platform to showcase their talents unhindered,” Ogundipe said, adding that “topnotch arrangements have been made to make their experience a positively unforgettable one.” Prof. Ogundipe assured the participants of their safety on the campus during the competition. Pro-Chancellor and Chairman Governing Council UNILAG, Dr. Lanre Tejuoso, said the event was to honour dignitaries who have distinguished themselves in sports. Tejuoso said the 2022 NUGA Games would also enable Nigeria to make use of the talents among the students, expose them to the world, as well as award the best university and other athletes. “There is no better power to promote Nigeria than sports,” he added. Having people of various tribes participating in the games, Tejuosho said the essence is just to choose the best for the country. He wished the participating students a happy time. NUGA president, selected students will be representing Nigeria in the June-July students competition worldwide, enjoined them to follow the games actively during the days the games last