ISEGHE AJAYI It is quite true that the present state of the economy has made savings an arduous task especially for the common folks, owing to persistent rise in the prices of commodities which has continued to affect the standard of living of the populace negatively. The weakening value of Naira has not helped, but worsened the situation the more. How You Can Lose Investment Easily Laying Foundation For Wealth Creation With this, putting all your money in a savings account without investing them is not a good option because inflation will definitely diminish the value of your money in the bank except you crave to defeat it. But then, it is very imperative to have a certain amount of your money set aside for any form of emergencies such as sickness, accident or unforeseen situation. We do not pray for emergencies, but it can occur at any time and if it happens, where will you run to especially if there are no financial plans for it? So, the earlier you start planning to have an emergency fund if you have never considered it in your financial plan for the year, the better for you to avoid financial trauma when it occurs. That is why some financial experts have always counseled that every person is expected to keep an emergency fund with enough cash that will cover up to three to six months’ expenses. So that, when unplanned expenses occur in the form of emergencies, you will be able to tackle the challenge. POLL What is an emergency fund? An emergency fund is a bank account with money set aside to cover large, unexpected expenses, such as a major auto repair, or a financial crisis, such as job loss or large medical bills. It will be of paramount help if you try as much as possible to develop the habit of personal savings regardless of your monthly earnings since emergencies are inevitable especially with the presence of COVID-19 still ravaging lives! Money meant for emergency fund should be separated from personal savings account you use regularly so as not to be tempted to touch your reserves as an emergency can strike at any time and having quick access is vital. The following tips will help you to see the need to create an emergency fund: The Need To Engage In Passive Income The Need To Learn From Your Financial Errors Pay Yourself First The first ploy to savings is not to wait and see how much you have left at the end of the month because if you do that, savings would become difficult. The best way to go about it is to pay yourself first by setting aside certain Proportion of your monthly earnings for emergency savings each time you get paid before spending or making your expenses. Do you know that once this money is put in your savings account, you will not be tempted to spend it on all the other things that may crop up? Automate Your Savings The stress-free way to save money is never to touch it in the first place and this is possible because most employers provide direct deposit, and some will even deposit to more than one account. If your employer does not offer direct deposit, most banks and credit unions do. Set up a separate account just for your emergency fund and have your chosen contribution amount deposited automatically, either by your employer or your bank. Be Consistent It does not matter if you do not have much to save, but the most important thing is to start irrespective of the amount as it will surely grow inasmuch as you are consistent and with time, you will be motivated to save more. Also, the essence of starting small is not to stress your cash flow but this, however, depends on your financial capability and how prudent you are. Trim Down Your Budget Try as much as possible to slash your budget by reducing your expenses; one way to do that is by forgoing things that are not essential to accommodate savings. Free up extra money for savings by taking a red marker to trim your budget as much as you can. Every portion you can slash from your monthly budget gives you more cash you can put toward your emergency fund. Be Prudent Once saving has become automatic, do not be pleased by a false sense of financial security especially if you cannot control your spending habit. For example, if you gave up those monthly subscriptions, only to replace it a couple of months later with an expensive one, you are not making headway in your savings. You should not stop enjoying life while you build your emergency fund and should not either lose sight of its importance. Having an adequate emergency fund is critical to your financial well-being. But, be genuine and try to reach your ultimate savings goal as fast as you can. That alone might make life more enjoyable. Try To Invest Inasmuch as it is good to save, don’t devote too much of your savings to your emergency fund. By definition, an emergency fund is cash you can access quickly. That means you are most probable storing it in a low-yield vehicle like a savings account that is earning an extremely low rate of interest. For that reason, alone, you should stop contributing to that account once you have reached your final goal. Start depositing into an account where it will start earning money on its own — ideally, your retirement accounts, where time will enable it to bear fruitful outcome. Separate Emergency Cash Your emergency fund cash should be separated from the rest of your money as failure to do so may spell doom. Also, if you truly do not want to regret creating an emergency fund, try as much as possible to set up an account that is not attached to your core spending and savings account. Then, set up regular time each week or month to deposit the money you want to put in that account. Get Innovative The best places to look primarily are in your everyday expenditures. Take a notebook and write down everything you spend. This way, you will get a good grip on what goes out and where it goes. Then, make some decisions on what can be cut or reduced from your budget, at least while you are building your rainy day fund. You may even discover that you do not miss these expenses after you stop making them. Reduce Expenses By pruning things that are bad for you; you can find ways to make your emergency fund look good by cutting back on items that you can do without. Also, look at the quantities of the things you buy at the grocery store. If you are the carefree type when it comes to expenses, then pruning it down becomes a problem but if you are a careful shopper, taking into cognizance the needful, it is possible for you to save monthly.