Dr. Dakuku Adol Peterside, a former Director -General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), is a former governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on political developments in Rivers and other issues. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the political situation in Rivers State? Charged, toxic but not irredeemable. We are witnessing the collapse of social bonds that once held our people together. The political class is more interested in their welfare than the concerns and aspirations of the people. The level of hopelessness is astonishing. High rate of unemployment, failure of social services, deepening distrust in the state government and insecurity pervades the land. Rivers people are no longer proud of their government. The traditional institution is abused daily and workers are mocked by the state government. The political parties in the state have not helped matters, I don’t think we have held the government to account for the humongous resources that came into the state purse in the past six years. One thing I am sure of is that whoever takes over from the current Wike led government has a lot of work to do. Politically our dear rivers state is a shadow of its old glory. From what you have said, please assess the Wike administration which has been in charge in Rivers State for almost seven years? We have witnessed total collapse of governance in the past seven years. The level of disenchantment of the people is simply unbelievable. Our Governor has not helped our image either, his public conduct and unfounded boisterousness is not what any Rivers man would be proud of. The government has not done anything tangible to improve the lot of our people or put us on the path of growth. Almost all the major achievements of the past governments are being eroded. I will give you a few indicators. There are no tangible, I repeat, no tangible project in 20 of the 23 LGAs of the state and all socio-economic development indicators are on the negative. Social services especially of education, health care and potable water have collapsed completely. Workers have not been promoted for seven years and none has been sent for any form of training and that has had a lot of impact on their level of motivation. Pensioners are being owed for several years with no conscience. Students are not considered for scholarship or bursary. Farmers are not supported and private property is acquired forcefully. No society can develop that way. Our Governor is more interested in primitive accumulation of wealth and sharing state resources with a tiny clique of political associates. His latest passion is to use state resources to pursue his presidential ambition to the detriment of rivers state development. In pursuit of that objective, he said recently he wants to focus on stomach infrastructure after abandoning rivers people for seven years. What factors in your opinion do you think will shape succession politics in Rivers state? You and I know that the God factor is the one factor that determines every outcome. From the human analysis perspective, in no particular order, five factors will shape the politics of succession in my state. The first is competence and character. Rivers people know that more than ever we need someone who can lead us to quickly rebuild the state and create economic opportunities for our people. The state, one of the most endowed, has literally collapsed in the past seven years and we need to rebuild urgently. Only a competent, experienced, visionary and dedicated leader can do that. Somebody who is forward thinking and has a track record of performance. The second factor, CR Amaechi and Nyesom Wike. It is a fact that both of them control the platform of the two dominant parties in Rivers state and for today only those two parties have the potential to win the governorship of rivers State. The third factor is the riverine and upland dichotomy. The riverine Ijaws feels that they have been out of power for 24 years and their agitation is gaining momentum to the extent that it can no longer be ignored. A lot of uplanders are sympathetic to the riverine Ijaw cause. Next to the riverine Ijaw agitation is rivers south east senatorial district agitation. The argument is that they are the only senatorial district that is yet to produce a governor till date. The final factor is the effect of national politics. Ultimately it is the call of rivers people that will determine the kind of leaders that will be thrown up, as they often say, a people get the kind of leaders they deserve. These are not exhaustive. POLL From what you have said, zoning or rotation is not the most important factor that will determine the outcome of the 2023 elections. Why is it so? The incontrovertible truth is that as a state we have lost a lot ground. The primary interest of our people today is who has what it takes to rebuild the state and create economic opportunities. We got so much money in the past seven years and all we have to show for it are flyover bridges on two arterial roads. Recall that apart from statutory allocation, 13 percent derivation, internally generated revenue, we received huge sums of money as refund from federal government for projects executed by previous government. Having lost the opportunity to turnaround the development fortune of our state in the past 7 years, Rivers people consciously want a new lease of life and only a competent, visionary and courageous leader can give that at this point in time. This has forced us to place emphasis on competence and character over which area the person comes from. This has not taken away the fact that our people know there are competent and capable persons from all parts of the state but may be few are prepared for governance today. Let’s look at this riverine Ijaw agitation again. How meaningful is the agitation for power shift to the riverine part of the state? I have always said that in developing democracies, rotation or zoning is one of the methods to promote inclusiveness and equity in the polity. If you have that at the back of your mind, deliberate effort must be made to give all geo-political zones in a state or country opportunity to participate at the top echelon of government. To that extent I believe the agitation of the riverine ijaws have merit just as the agitation for the presidency to shift to southern Nigeria has merit. Traditionally, rivers state have upland and riverine dichotomy. In the past 22 or 23 years, the upland part of the state produced all the governors, somehow to the exclusion of their riverine brothers. Personally I believe competence and character should be the most important factors in electing a governor and I also believe we can find riverine Ijaws with these competencies. How United is Rivers APC ahead of 2023? APC is not only united, but also strong and poised to form the next government in Rivers State. I acknowledge as a fact that there are issues, but they are being resolved. However, all tendencies and interest coalesced around uprooting PDP, Wike and the humiliation they have brought to Rivers people and enthroning a forward looking, progressive, visionary and competent government. All internal skirmishes in my party are being resolved. What Rivers people want is a credible alternative to the power drunk, directionless government led by Wike. Mind you APC did not field candidates in the 2019 election but this time around we shall field candidates.