The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the former President of the Senate, David Mark have felicitated with former President Olusegun Obasanjo on the occasion of his 85th birthday. While Lawan described him as a true Nigerian patriot, pan-Africanist and global figure, the PDP described him as an exceptionally patriotic leader, courageous statesman, insightful administrator and global personality. This is even as the former President of the Senate, Mark described him as a patriotic African leader, who is passionate about the peace, unity and development of the continent. PDP Deputy National Secretary, Koshoedo Hails Obasanjo At 85 Obaseki To Detractors: I’M Not Leaving PDP For Anyone; Accept My… Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser(Media), Ola Awoniyi, joined his family members, friends and well-wishers in rejoicing with the elder statesman on this auspicious occasion. He said: “I heartily felicitate former President Obasanjo as he continues his strong march in his remarkable journey of life. “President Obasanjo is a true Nigerian patriot, pan-Africanist and global figure who has made great contributions to the political development of Nigeria and the emancipation of Africa. “President Obasanjo is a consistent protagonist of the Nigerian project. Even now as an elder statesman, he has continued to push for Nigeria to realise her huge potential as a great nation. “This is to be expected, as his name is linked to some of the greatest events and developments in Nigerian history. POLL “I therefore heartily join Nigerians across the country in celebrating this unique figure as he crosses the milestone of 85 years. “I also congratulate him on the divine blessing of attaining the milestone in good health of body and mind, and wish him many more years of continued service to his beloved Nigeria and Africa, and to the cause of peace all over the world,” Lawan says. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba said that Chief Obasanjo is an exceptionally patriotic leader, courageous statesman, insightful administrator and global personality who continues to play pivotal roles towards the security, unity, stability and development of our dear nation, Nigeria, Africa and indeed the world at large. “As a military leader, democratically elected President and now an elder statesman, Chief Obasanjo remains a detribalized leader and firm believer in one and indivisible Nigeria established on the firm foundation of democracy, justice, equity, transparency and the Rule of Law,” the party said. The PDP recalled Chief Obasanjo’s leading role as Military Head of State to effectively steer the ship of state and returned our nation to democratic rule in 1979. 2023: Nigerians Have Resolved To Vote APC Out -PDP Obasanjo: A Living Legend @85 – Gov. Abiodun “As a democratically elected President, under the platform of our great Party, the PDP, Chief Obasanjo ran an all-inclusive, transparent and development-oriented government, entrenched democratic practice, revamped the productive sectors, set up anti-corruption institutions and steadied the nation on the path of economic prosperity in line with the vision and manifesto of the PDP. “Under the Obasanjo-led PDP administration, our nation paid off our foreign debt, instilled good governance to effectively empower Nigerians and stimulate rapid growth in critical sectors including agriculture, manufacturing, education, power, oil and gas, healthcare, housing, banking and finance, telecommunication among others, and made our nation a global investment destination. “As an elder statesman, Chief Obasanjo continues to make himself available for national service. Indeed, if the current administration had followed Chief Obasanjo’s wise counsels our nation would not have been in its current sorry situation,” the party said. The PDP family felicitated with Chief Obasanjo on this auspicious occasion and prays to God to grant him many more years in good health for greater service to our nation and humanity at large. On his part, Mark, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Paul Mumeh, described Obasanjo as an uncommon leader, who believes in the sanctity of a united Nigeria and Africa at large. He said: “Both as a Military Head-of-State and as civilian President, Obasanjo left no one in doubt of his political will to uphold the sanctity of our unity as one indivisible Nigeria. “His frontline role in the battle that ended the 30 months old Nigeria/ Biafra fratricidal war remains a reference point in the history and evolution of Nigeria.” The former Senate helmsman praised Obasanjo for his untiring efforts in ensuring peace in Nigeria and Africa pointing out that “his indomitable spirit is inspiring and reassuring.“ He urged a new generation of leaders to emulate the virtues of Obasanjo because “his kind is what we need to make the nation peaceful, united and to uphold our bond of brotherhood.” Senator Mark enjoined Obasanjo to continue to make his reservoir of knowledge and wealth of experience available to the younger generation to tap from. He prayed that God in His infinite mercies continues to grant Obasanjo good health, wisdom and courage in the years ahead.