CHIBUIKE CHUKWU Chuck Palahniuk, a celebrated American freelance journalist and novelist, once said: “We all die. The goal isn’t to live forever; the goal is to create something that will obviously outlive us”. Truthfully, following the fall of man in the Garden of Eden, the narrative about the existence of man changed as death became part of the realities of mortals. Thus, like a pilgrim who came for a mission and exited afterwards, Mr. Donatus Duru, the Editorial Board Chairman of Independent Newspapers Limited, bid the world goodbye recently after he fruitlessly battled protracted kidney failure. Like a dogged fighter who will never give in to defeat, Duru fought on with intent to conquer at the end but he never lived to celebrate the obviously eluded victory. The Changing World Of Work! Akpabio’s Garment Of Honour I recall that early morning of Sunday February 27 at about 5:30am when my phone rang. “Who could this be at this early morning,” I yawned as I picked my set and saw that it was former staff of INL, Nkasiobi Oluikpe. Not very sure what she was about to tell me, I yawned and politely said, “this one you dey call me this early, I hope it is well…” She interjected, “Mr. Duru is dead…” I hung up in that split moment, unsure of what I heard, but I called back immediately and said: “How, when and…” I asked foolish questions, not realizing the existence of death among mortals. While I knew that Duru had been battling with the illness, I never knew he would not pull through, supposedly because of how close we were when he was alive and also the many times our parts crossed. In my momentarily-eroded mental state, I searched through my phone for whom to call to at least assuage the shock, and afterwards placed a call to Magnus Ugwubujor but his line was switched off. In that state, my wife burst into the living room where I was and said, “I heard you shout, what is it? “Mr. Duru is dead,” I snapped and my wife was no less surprised, shocked and melancholic as the deceased was really a ‘family friend’. Trying to reel out where my part and that of Duru crossed may look like attempting to do the impossible as this piece will not be enough to describe the life of this man whose heart was full of kindness. He has a way of penetrating the heart to make you do what you might not want to do. For instance, I recall one time he called me into his office and said: “Chibu (as he usually called me), I like the way you write your sports because you always look for your own story instead of using what others have written…” Deep inside me, I reasoned: “This man wants to ask me to do something for him and he thinks I am a small boy whom you praise and send to an errand.” He continued: “Keep it up. Please I will send something to you, read it very well and send it back,’ he said. Of course I knew where he was going so I was not taking aback by those praises. Of course what was getting my own stories had to do with editing for him? It was one of those pranks he deployed to get me to do something for him. Another example will do here. During the INL Award for 2020, he called me and said: “Chibu, please you and Magnus should coordinate the writing of profiles of awardees and ensure they are edited well…” Of course who was I to say I know to Mr. Duru because he was like a father figure to me while alive. I practically abandoned my work on the sports desk to work on the profiles of the awardees, a job that took me so many days to accomplish. Even when others were done, I was there re-editing their own as he wanted, though with occasional murmuring. But was it all about giving to him? No. Duru was there for me. For instance, he practically took over my case when I needed a salary advance to renew my tenancy after it expired. With the Sword of Damocles from the lawyer hanging over my head with an eviction threat, I ran to him and he urged that I apply for money. I did and he made sure that the then MD, Mr. Ade Ogidan, approved the money. I recall the day the money was available, the MD called me to head down to the office and take it. When I said, ‘thank you sir’, he retorted: “Go and thank Duru, he made sure I never forgot.” What a man! In another instance, I called Duru one day and said: “Oga, please can you lend me some money; I need to sort things out right now.” After he sought from me the particular amount I requested, he said: “Give me ten minutes.” He called back and demanded my details and behold, he not only sent the money, he doubled it and waited for it: “I did not borrow you, manage it like that and greet your wife for me…” My wife had to pick up the phone and place a call and thanked him. POLL The following day in the office, he bellowed: “Why did you give your wife a phone to thank me; is it because of that small thing? Chibu I don’t like it…” That is typical of Duru, who strongly believed that only God deserves our thanks and he always considered it a privilege to help. Meanwhile, we throw banters a lot and Duru can disturb!!! An ardent Manchester United fan, we had severally argued about who is superior between Arsenal and United with myself putting up a defence that United had never gone the season unbeaten (as if that is a title), though with emphasis on not crossing my boundary. One such time, he walked me out of office not because I had no argument but because “You cannot reason as a sports writer. I wonder if this is what you write for people to read. Is Arsenal Man U mate, get out,” he frowned. In all, I do enjoy those periods as the next minute, he will call me for one thing or the other. I miss him. As you will be laid to rest soon, Rest On Mr. Duru. Chukwu is a Senior Sports correspondent, Independent Newspapers