AKURE  – The Alayetoro of Ayetoro-Ekiti, Oba Samuel Olufisan Ajayi (Odundun Asodedero 1) and some other persons led by one Chief Femi Ajibola, the Sajuku of Ayetoro-Ekiti have been quizzed by the police on missing electric transformers. The monarch and others were alleged to have conspired to vandalise and steal two transformers located at Oke- Odi community in the town. The police swung into action upon receiving a petition filed by an Akure-based lawyer, Barrister Iyiola Afolabi and addressed to the office of the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in-charge of Zone 17, Ijapo, Akure, Ondo State on March 13, 2022. According to the petition written on behalf of his 19 clients, who are natives of Ayetoro-Ekiti, a copy which was obtained by newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the attorney stated that “Our clients, the Oke-Odi Quarters, Ayetoro-Ekiti have been thrown into darkness and the business of residents negatively affected by the unlawful removal of the transformers meant to supply electricity to the community. “This dastardly act was allegedly committed by a group of people led by one Chief Femi Ajibola, the Sajuku of Ayetoro-Ekiti who allegedly sold the transformers to merchants from lbadan, Oyo State. Our clients reported this incident to the Alayetoro-in Council, which mandated Chief Femi Ajibola and his cohorts to return the transformers latest the 15th December 2021. “Upon failure to comply with this directive, our clients reported the matter to the Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State where their representatives made statements to the Police since the 21st December 2021. “At the Ekiti State Police Headquarter, facts emerged that the Alayetoro of Ayetoro Ekiti, His Royal Highness, Oba Samuel Ajayi (Odundun Asodedero 1) actually gave the instruction for the removal of the transformers as well as about four other transformers in Ayetoro-Ekiti. “The suspects were granted bail at the Ekiti State Police Headquarter, Ado Ekiti with an understanding that the transformers shall be returned within two weeks. POLL “However, up till date, the transformers are still at large and no charges have been preferred against the affected individuals, possibly owing to their positions in the community. The merchants who received the stolen products in the guise of purchasers were also not invited for interrogation. “We have the instruction of our clients, the Oke-Odi Quarters, Ayetoro-Ekltl to request that you (AIG) use your good offices to take over the investigation of the case to give succor to the suffering masses and bring any culpable individual to justice, knowing that the law is no respecter of persons and positions.” However, Chief Femi Ajibola, the Sajuku of Ayetoro-Ekiti, when contacted on the telephone, declined comment, saying “I don’t have anything to discuss with journalists, please keep off.” Sources disclosed that the AIG office in Akure had summoned the monarch and other suspects for questioning over the incident on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. The Police Public Relations Officer, Zone-17, Mr. Akeem Adeoye, confirmed the incident, saying the AIG office had commenced investigation into the case.  