Hyundai Nigeria Limited has launched the all new Santa Fe Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) and Elantra Saloon into the Nigeria’s automobile industry. The unveiled Santa Fe is the 4th Generation Facelift of the brand, while the Elantra is in its 7th generation. The automobile company said that the first generation of Santa Fe was introduced in 2000, while that of Elantra was first launched in 1990. According to the company, compared with the models they replaced, the two vehicles came with improved styling, comfort, equipment and segment leading safety features. Mr. Gaurav Vashisht, Head of Sales and Marketing, Hyundai Nigeria, told auto journalists over the weekend in Lagos at the unveiling of the new Santa Fe that the brand was a product of continuous research into making Hyundai vehicles safer and more comfortable for customers. Unlike its predecessor, the new Santa Fe, he said provides ample seating for a family of seven and elevated the elegantly styled, high-technology SUV to another level, leading to a significant improvement in collision safety and maximizing vehicle stability on top of larger interior space. The SANTA FE has been successful in combining the quality and value measures as a modern day SUV. The New Santa Fe, coming to 2022 with a refreshed design from the exterior and interior, has also gained an array of novelty features and an enhanced dynamic driving experience, providing the balance of optimal performance and comfort, giving the driver the choice of driving modes that suite every road or driving situation, ensuring an unparalleled ride experience for both the driver of the different family members. He said: “Hyundai SANTA FE has made a brilliant start to the new year, gaining wide recognition by top tier global automotive awards, winning top titles in Kelley Blue Book Best Buy Award, Large SUV of the Year at 2022 What Car? Award, and U.S. News 2022 Best Car for the Money, affirming the SANTA FE as an innovative choice among large SUVs in combining family convenience with adventurous unrivaled presence on the road.” POLL “This wide recognition of Hyundai’s SANTA FE in the eyes of automotive experts and enthusiasts is a strong indication of the added value that the SUV is bringing to the market, having proven for many years now to be Hyundai’s potent class-leading contender in the large SUV segment across the world.” The SANTA FE came with a bold new design, and of the bouquet of “Smart Sense” safety features, boasts a strong stance with an overall Length of (mm)4,785 mm, and a Width of (mm)1,900 mm. The 2022 SANTA FE provides a wide choice of family-oriented features, starting from flexible seat variations. 2nd and 3rd Row Seats & Space, One-Touch Walk-in & Folding, and Smart Power Tailgate. Besides, the All-new, 7TH generation, Hyundai Elantra has undergone significant changes, delivering the most progressive in-vehicle experience in its class. Longer, wider and more aggressive than the sixth-generation model, the 2022 Elantra boasts a wide range of advanced technologies and features. It marks another step forward for the Elantra brand, which first hit the roads 30 years ago (1990). Bringing the Elantra to life is the premium finishing to both the exterior and interior, reflected through Hyundai’s ‘Sensuous Sportiness’ design identity. The Elantra is also equipped with an elaborative design chassis, allowing the driver to experience the sporty feel of the design. With these new improvements, the Elantra becomes the most compact sedan that the next generation wants to drive, providing better mobility experience than before. The Elantra stands out on the roads with its bold style. At the front, the combination of a wide cascade grille, connected to the headlamps and a bold bumper provides a more robust front look. The parametric-pattern cascade grille across the front mask creates a futuristic look, while the sharp edge shaped bumper bottom moulding and air curtain intakes are also core features. The side of the Elantra is accentuated with its rich volume and sensual lines. The new model boasts of core features including a longer hood, elegant roofline, and side character-line with sharp edges, which showcases a sporty look.