***Tasks Oil Firms On Increased Domestic Crude Production ABUJA – As pressure continues to mount for the escalation of concentration on fossil fuels, the Group Managing Director, NNPC Limited, Mele Kyari on Tuesday insisted that Nigeria must clear the resources of today and sustain the transition. Kyari made this known in Abuja at the CEO Roundtable Session at the ongoing 5th edition of the Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES 2022), with the theme: “Revitalising the Industry: Future Fuels and Energy Transition”. How Total Energies Commits To Reducing Carbon Intensity –… Crude Oil: Whither Nigeria’s Economy? The NNPC boss stated that Nigeria recognise that transition is real but ‘we also know that transition would have come even without the climate issues’. “We must clear the resources of today and sustain the transition through some form of resilience until we get to 2060 and the easiest way to clear the wealth of today so that we can have the resources that will keep us through this transition, is to immediately increase domestic crude oil production there is no other way to doing it. “We have challenges today, we have made loss but we are doing something about the security situation in our areas of operations you will see the impacts and effects very soon and the The industry will continue to rely on the production that will one from those places. “We recognise that transition is real but we also know that transition would have come even without the climate issues. It has happened through history from the stone age to the industrial revolution we are there today there is always a change in the mix of energy sources because key industries and followers move to cleaner fuel, cheaper fuel and mu h more efficient fuel. This is natural but it has been accelerated by climate concerns.” “What the energy transition is doing today is to accelerate many things that ordinarily would not have happened today. For instance, electric gas didn’t come because of energy transition it came on the table because science changed, there is technology development, thee is need for more efficient means of transportation but it was also accelerated by energy transition composition”. POLL He said that for NNPC as the national oil company is working on how to increase the resources of today by getting more endorsement into the industry in terms of producing the liquid sales or promoting the gas development. We know for sure that gas is a transition fuel we have not seen peak gas probably until 2030 or probably after 2030. We knew that the way to go is to build our resources of today, elevate your production today and also continue the resources on gas so that they can become the source of revenues as we go forward. “Secondly, replacing cleaner fuel for the dirty fuel. We are doing everything possible to build the infrastructure for the domestic market gas supply so we can replace those fuel oil and diesel into the cleaner oil” kyari stated. In his opening remarks, Chief Timipre Sylva, Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, tasked the National, International and Indigenous Oil Companies to come up with workable and accelerated energy transition strategies for the country. He noted that it assembled the companies on session in the bid to drive a new narrative and make energy transition the cornerstone of the country’s industry policy. Scarcity: Nigeria Needs More Refineries – Group Oil Spillage: Release Mobil, NNPC’s N82bn Judgement Debt… “What is obvious from this energy transition journey is that the oil and gas industry will face more scrutiny in their operations and business models. “They will have to explain more often the impact of their activities to the environment, their contributions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and their efforts towards achieving net-zero carbon emissions. “While we pursue the country’s energy transition agenda, let us also recognise that fossil fuels will continue to play a critical role in our energy and economic systems,” he said. He said while the role might appear to be in contradiction with the energy transition agenda, fossil fuels would still remain important and would remain integral part of the vision in our energy transition journey.He gave the assurance that the ministry in discharge of its mandate would become an enabler to make a seamless energy transition in Nigeria happen. Sylva also noted that the ministry had strived to ensure an enabling environment to improve the Oil and Gas value chain, driven by modern technology, industry, best practices, stakeholders’ engagement and innovations in alternative energy. “No energy company will be unaffected by this energy transitions. Every part of the industry needs to consider how to respond.“Doing nothing is simply not an option,” Sylva said, quoting the International Energy Agency (IEA). Speaking, Mr Victor Bandele, Deputy Managing Director, Deepwater, TotalEnergies, said it focused on increased participation and partnership with companies that were fully aligned with its aspirations. According to him, it also partners the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas because it believes gas is a transition fuel. Bandele wondered that if currently there were 7.6 billion people globally, by 2060 being the targeted year for zero emission, there would be 10 billion people, thereby posing challenge to the country. He said it was investing in Nigeria and promoting access to clean energy and embracing project that had a notion of reducing emission.