ABUJA  – The presidency has outlined a number of measures which it said would permanently end the fuel queues experienced in the country. According to a presidency source, a plan has earlier been endorsed by the president to conclusively end the recent fuel scarcity around the country. The plan which has already kicked off is expected to ensure that no such scarcity repeats itself again in the country. The State House official, who disclosed this over the weekend, also added that in a matter of days virtually every state in the country would have returned to a very low queue situation in the fuel stations or a completely restored situation with no long queues anymore. The plan was believed to have been presented to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) last week, although it had been signed off previously by President Muhammadu Buhari before he left the country last week Sunday, on medical checkup, with clear instructions that included a conclusive determination on the initial cause of the scarcity with attendant consequences imposed. According to the source, “The plan is designed to do everything necessary to end the scarcity quickly and hold those responsible for it in the first instance responsible so as to avoid a repeat.” Indeed under the Buhari administration what used to be an incessant and recurring decimal of fuel scarcity had been reduced to it barest minimum until the recent case of adulterated PMS, an incident that incurred the president’s wrath. But the plan drawn up by the NNPC executives had won the endorsement of the president and the praise of the vice president especially because of the 24-hour round the clock operations, including 24-hour sales in major supply centres in the country and the 24-hour continuous loading at all depots coordinated personally by the Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, himself with the active participation of the Director-General of the DSS, Alhaji Yusuf Bichi. POLL The 24 hours operations also has an enforcement element with monitoring teams “to prevent any act of sabotage and ensure smooth operations.” That 24 hours operation also included the direct participation and support of members of the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) and private depot owners. By the end of last week, the country had over one billion litres total PMS stock, equivalent to about a month sufficiency based on the 60 million litres per day evacuation of the PMS. Lagos and Warri/Oghara loading zones hold the highest land stock of PMS with over 200 million litres and over 100 million litres, respectively. The balance of the stock are held as Marine Stock. The endorsed plan also maintains the high evacuation rate: which is the total amount of stock supplied until such a time that the distribution situation is normalised. By the middle of last week, a national filling stations queue map presented to the presidency and at FEC indicated that fuel supply had returned to normal in four states of Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, Cross River and the FCT. In another six states there were very small queues with mostly about ten cars at a time. Those states are Oyo, Osun, Lagos, Imo, Abia and Ebonyi. It also indicated that in 13 states there were medium queues of maximum 50 cars. Those states are Delta, Rivers, Anambra, Edo, Ekiti, Kogi, Nasarawa, Bauchi, Kano, Ogun, Ondo, Sokoto and Zamfara. In the rest of the 14 states, there were still high queues of above 50 cars at a time in the filling stations as at middle of last week. According to the source, the most important thing to this presidency is that “this scarcity is quickly ended and a recurrence firmly avoided in the future. This now seems certainly possible.”