One of Nigeria’s pace-setting leader in the engineering construction sector, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, has again taken a practical pioneering effort to bridge a latent skills gap in the industry in the country. The company, historically reputed for enabling remarkable technical solutions to the most daring engineering challenges, has commissioned and launched a Plant and Equipment Academy at its facility in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Engr. Dr Lars Richter, the company’s Managing Director who due to competing corporate engagements was unavoidably out of jurisdiction, was ably represented by the company’s executive director of administration, Alhaji Zubairu Ibrahim Bayi who officially inaugurated the Julius Berger Plant and Equipment academy last Friday. Dangote Cement Wins Best Quality Brand Award In West Africa Green Africa, Leadway Assurance Ink New Investment Deal Alhaji Bayi however, delivered the very warm felicitations of the MD and the executive management to participants at the ceremony. Alhaji Bayi in his remarks gave context to the emergence of the new Academy when he said: “We are here gathered to launch yet another key mileage in our company’s corporate social responsibility milestones, the launch and inauguration of the Julius Berger Nigeria Plc Plant and Equipment Academy.” Bayi recalled Julius Berger’s proactive commitment to its corporate social responsibilities with due regard to the company’s operational hosts and stakeholders in general. He emphasised the fact that the company’s subsisting ‘Roll-Back-Malaria’ campaign, ‘Food for our Communities’ campaign as well as its educational, medical and other sundry COVID-19 palliative donations, remains intentionally directed to meet the company’s commitment to drive a sustainable and compassionate human interface with the Nigerian society. According to Bayi, deriving from the same developmental approach, the idea, conceptualization, launch and implementation of the Julius Berger Plant and Equipment Academy is a proud extension of the company’s CSR strategy to further empower the country’s healthy and vibrant youth population with more employable and productive technical skills for reliable and expanded industrial development and nation-building. It is therefore, the company’s apt and very hopeful vision for the Academy to be “a leader institution in technical training, Julius Berger’s funnel for dynamic, highly trained and resourceful technicians to fill the needs of the company and industry in general.