IBADAN – Teachers of public schools have been urged to use the period between March and May to register for voting and get their voters cards before the 2023 general elections. This was said on Thursday by the Oyo State Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun while addressing members of Omituntun Teachers Vanguard (OTV) Ibadan Zone, at the open premises of the Cultural Center, Mokola, Ibadan. Olatubosun also enjoined the teachers to mobilize their students that have reached the voting age to register and get their voter’s cards in order to vote in the coming election. ASUU Strike: FG  To Renegotiate 2009 Agreement JAMB Targets 1.5mn Candidates To Sit For UTME, As Registration… In his address to the teachers’ forum, he charged them to reciprocate the good gestures of Governor Seyi Makinde in paying their salaries regularly and promoting teachers who have been on the same level since 2011. He called their attention to the effort of the present administration in the State towards clearing the backlog of pensioners gratuity and other benefits, on which he said about 15 Billion Naira have been expended within the first two years of Governor Seyi Makinde. “We are here to spread the gospel of the good deeds of Governor Seyi Makinde in the areas of provision of welfare for the workers, especially teachers in primary and secondary schools, it is important that we mobilize to continue to enjoy these dividends and the only way we can actualize the sustenance of the present welfare package is to mobilize other teachers, students that are in their eighteen years of age and our children that are of voting age. “The mobilization is necessary, we are not going to be contented with the fact that the administration has done what other administrations could not do, we need to sustain the present tempo of development in the State and in our people, therefore, they need to work for continuity of Seyi Makinde as governor. “There are some teachers that have changed locations and their voting wards, they still have time to go and change this before the time will lapse. POLL “The reason we need to vote continuity is majorly not to reverse the good things we are today enjoying, imagine the fact that the last administration paid just 1.8billion naira in eight years as pensioners’ gratuity while the present administration has paid about 15bilion naira in the last two years, not to talk of prompt payment of workers salaries and emoluments as well as lifting on embargo on promotion of workers.” Olatubosun hinted that statistics have shown that of all State workers that voted overtime in Oyo State, teachers took 75 % of the population, which called for the support of teachers to achieve the second term aspiration of the Governor. The leader the Omituntun Teachers Vanguard, Comrade Semiu Fakunle, in his speech, said the Seyi Makinde’s government has achieved so many feats among which is the unbroken regular salary payment in three years in office and mass promotion of workers, which he said was not common since 1999. He pledged to mobilize his members to work with other zones in the area of actualizing the second term victory of Governor Makinde, come 2023. Fakunle reiterated the need for all workers in Oyo State to defend their welfare under the present administration by working and voting for Makinde for second term in office. Bingham University Inducts 48 Medical Graduates, Commissions New… ASUU Strike: Students Call For Education Minister’s… He said “we are here to defend what we are enjoying today, this is a forum of intellectuals and looking at what is happening today in the State in regards to the welfare of workers, the governor has treated us as noble teachers, we have under this administration witnessed an unbroken regular salary payment in three years, an administration in the past never cared about us, today, the backlog of our promotions have been cleared, why won’t we work for sustenance of this so we can have more?” The gathering comprised of public secondary and primary school teachers, retirees among other people.