ASABA – Seventeen Illegal dealers of Petroleum Products were Tuesday nabbed by officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) along Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. The suspects were identified as Abbas Adamu (m) 36yrs, Salisu Abdullahi (m) 20yrs, Isiaka Adamu (m) 46yr, Musa Haruna (m) 27yrs, Awalu Usman (m) 35yrs, Haliru Aliu (m) 35yrs, Musa Yusuf (m) 42yrs and Sumaila Muhammed (m) 35yrs. Others were Usman Musa (m) 25yrs, Usman Yuguda (m) 27yrs, Ahmed Muhammed (m) 27yrs, Muhammed Suleman (m) 35yrs, Suleman Musa (m) 16yrs, Abdullahi Adamu (m) 28yrs, Adamu Yusuf (m) 20yrs, Sadiq ur Abdullahi (m). 22yrs, and Najib Haruna (m) 17yrs. Daily Independent gathered that the suspects were rounded up by Commandant’s Special Intelligence Squad of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps ( NSCDC) while conveying eight tankers products suspected to be illegally refined Automated Gasoline Oil (AGO) locally called diesel from Bayelsa en route Northern part of the country. While parading the suspects and exhibits at the State Headquarters at Asaba, NSCDC Public Relations Officer, Dsc Emeka Peters, solicited for speedy judicial process on all NSCDC cases pending in court in order to free the NSCDC Exhibit yard to accommodate more trucks as they anticipate mass arrests of more trucks, more tankers and suspected vandals, crude oil thieves, among others investigated and brought to justice and also to forestall the unknown. The Command further assured Deltans of the resilience and the continued commitment of the NSCDC in keeping faith with the civilian population while protecting all government critical assets and Infrastructure. Commandant of NSCDC, Delta State, Akinsanya Iskilu Abiodun, further charged the leaders and youths in the oilrich region, to report all cases of vandalism, crude oil theft, illegal dealings on Petroleum products, other social and economic crimes to any NSCDC office closer to them knowing fully well that they must say something when they see something. He further disclosed that since the emergence of Dr. Abubakar Audi Ahmed as Commandant General of NSCDC has drastically reduced pipeline vandalism, crude oil theft, and economic sabotage among other social and economic crimes in the state.