…Promises better representation WARRI – Honourable Samuel Oghenevwogaga Mariere of the famous Mariere family of Evwreni, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State has declared his interest to represent the people of the Ughelli North, Ughelli South and Udu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, promising to offer better representation of the people in the National Assembly. Mariere, who is currently Special Adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Special Duties (Political Adviser for Delta Central), made the declaration before the Elders and Leaders of the PDP in Ughelli North LGA at Agbarha-Otor with a pledge to deliver handsomely if given the mandate to fly the party ticket in the general elections. The former member of the Delta State House of Assembly and dogged political warhorse disclosed that the setback in 2019, in which he emerged candidate of the party but could not make it in the general elections was due to misunderstandings within the party, stressing that having learnt from what transpired in that election, he was not better prepared to face any opponent in the 2023 general election. ‘’You will recall that sometime in 2018 the party delegates graciously nominated me to fly the party flag in the 2019 general elections. We took our campaign to the nook and crannies of our federal constituency. Almost all the communities in the constituencies were covered by our campaigns. ‘’From all indications, we took our campaigns around the constituency in a more scientific and innovative manner that has never seen before. When we learnt, though late, that our opponent in the APC was using the Church to play politics, we countered him by also visiting the Churches. The results were very encouraging. For the first time, PDP won in Udu, we also won Ughelli South, but for the massive rigging in Orogun, we also won in Ughelli North. ‘’Our task in the election was very onerous and challenging, in that our brother and co-party member defected to the SDP. He secured about 13,000 votes in the final result. If that was added to the 37,000 plus votes that we had, we would have secured about 50,000 votes and conveniently won the election with a margin of over 10,000 votes. Our very comfortable win in Arhavwanrien, Gbaregolor, Otor-Ewu, Osusurhie, and many of the riverine communities, was destroyed, not by our opponents, but by our fellow party members who were sympathetic to the SDP cause. ‘’We have done a thorough analysis of all that happened in 2019, we have realized our mistakes, and we are very sure that we can correct those mistakes and get the victory for our great party in 2023. The ticket for our party was given to me in 2019 because our leaders and delegates realized that I was the best amongst those who contested in the primaries. I make bold to say that some of the reasons why they came to that conclusion amongst others include: POLL ‘’My pedigree; that I am from the famous Mariere family of Evwreni was a big factor. The patriarch of the family stood out as a notable patriot in his time. Our father, the Late Samuel Jereton Mariere served Urhobo and the defunct Midwest State well as Governor leaving incredible footprints in the sand of time. I am poised and well-positioned to carry on those legacies he left behind, build on them and take the stakes even higher for the good of our people. ‘’My antecedent in the Delta State House of Assembly where I represented the good people of Ughelli North 1 State constituency was another factor. It is on record that we attracted innumerable infrastructure to the constituency with unprecedented vigour and energy. Every community in the constituency received attention from my stay in the House in form of projects execution, empowerment of our youths and women. The testimonies are legion. ‘’In terms of legislative duties which are the primary and core responsibility of a legislator, I stood out amongst my colleagues as a shining star churning out 23 bills and many motions, many of which were duly passed and accented to by the governor. I was a reference point in legislative sagacity in the House of Assembly. The people trusted that I could do more in the House of Representatives hence the mandate which was generously given to me by the party. ‘’Today, I present myself to serve once again to take up the onerous task before us, I want to assure you that I understand the rudiment of the politics of the land. I make bold to say that this constituency is the heart of Urhobo comprising of 14 out of the 24 Kingdoms in Urhoboland with two of the 24 in Delta South. “That makes the constituency to stand out in many ways. The Ughelli North, Ughelli South and Udu Federal Constituency accounts for over 500,000 votes, more than the votes in Bayelsa state, yet we have not gained so much from the government, particularly at the federal level. We need to work hard and reposition the constituency so as to reap maximum benefits from the politics of Nigeria. It is trite to note that despite the size, demographic and democratic configuration, there is no functional higher institution in the constituency and we need to tackle this with all the seriousness it deserves. ‘’In the next couple of weeks, I would have covered all the statutory delegates. I am taking the campaigns to a different level and I can assure you that with your support, we shall win convincingly. The coming elections are not ordinary ones. We need capable hands with the energy and mental strength to face and defeat the opponents. We shall be relying on clean and credible votes and only a man with street credibility, popular and strong bond with the people could bring home the trophy we so desire. Send me and you shall not regret your choice,’’ Mariere added.