ABUJA – Adeshina Animashuan, National Coordinator of the Yoruba Appraisal Forum)YAF) has raised the alarm over alleged plans by some persons and groups to orchestrate chaos in the South-West and other parts of the country with the ultimate objective of truncating the conduct of the 2023 general elections. YAF alleges that some disgruntled persons particularly in the South-West and their allies in other parts of the country and beyond, are working “clandestinely ” to instigate violent killings, arson and mayhem, aimed at undermining the electoral process in 2023 and ultimately truncating the next year’s elections throughout the country. The Forum disclosed that the violence, which had been planned to start in the South-West, also had the objective of “re-enacting the arson and killings that characterised the unfortunate “Operation Wetie” violence that took place in the region in the First Republic” and it’s to be spread to the North by the Northern collaborators of the planners. YAF alleges that the aggrieved masterminds of the plot were planning to secure the services of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) in the South-West in their alleged plans to instigate violence and cause chaos all over the country. Speaking during a press conference in Lagos, Animashaun alleged that the planned nationwide violence “is to exploit the situation to surreptitiously realise their selfish political ambition in 2023. “Their evil calculation, YAF has learnt, is to take control of the country’s political space and the electoral processes, which they believe they are being denied now by the incumbent administration. “This grand conspiracy to cause violence and mayhem across the country by these prominent personalities is, of course, being fine-tuned by some prominent Nigerians and others pretending to be taking refuge in neighbouring countries. “The initial plan of these aggrieved persons was to use the issue of a certain Yoruba nation activist to arm-twist the Federal Government into calling for a negotiation over the issue so that they could make some political gains.” POLL “These personalities and the other masterminds of these violent plans are bent on throwing Nigeria into total chaos to fast track the collapse of governments at both the state and federal levels to enable them to execute their evil plans for the country,” it added. YAF has there appealed to ASUU and NANS not to allow themselves to be used by the alleged faceless persons but instead move fast to resolve the current disagreement with the Federal Government peacefully and responsibly. “As noted earlier, for now, the hoodlums hired by these disgruntled personalities will continue to perpetrate skeletal arson and destruction until after the APC convention when they’ll launch their major onslaught on Nigerians and the government.” “If they refuse to take this our modest advice to desist from their devilish plans and activities, YAF will expose them by revealing their identities, and they should be prepared to face sanctions and consequences.” The Forum advised Yoruba and Nigerian youths to maintain peace and eschew violence, urging the people of the South-West and Nigerians not to allow themselves to be deceived by anyone to engage in violence. YAF, therefore, advised the Federal Government and the state governors to ensure the deployment of an adequate number of security agents throughout Yorubaland as well as the entire country to tighten security and forestall any plan by any group or individuals to instigate violence and cause chaos before and during the 2023 elections. It added that security agencies should not relent in beefing up security across the South-West and the rest of the country to avert the violence and chaos being planned by some unpatriotic citizens bent on truncating the 2023 polls. “YAF will no longer fold its hands and allow unpatriotic elements and their collaborators to further destroy the economic and social well-being of our people in the name of partisan politics. We can no longer afford to lose more to the unpatriotic and evil activities of sponsored hoodlums masquerading as political thugs. “For your information and without being unnecessarily immodest, we want to say here without mincing words that we’re fully prepared, as members of YAF, to vehemently resist the masterminds of any renewed form of violence anywhere in the country and the entire Yorubaland with the last drop of our blood!”