LAFIA – Dr. Amana Sani Mathew, an expert in the agricultural sector have called on farmers to adopt the use of information technology and innovations to enhance food production in the country. Dr. Amana made the call during a one day training workshop on climate smart agricultural technologies for extension workers and farmers in North Central Geopolitical Zone in Lafia the Nasarawa State capital. Dr. Amana Sani, who is from Faculty of Agriculture Nasarawa State University and the Coordinator of the training workshop which was organized by the Nigeria Institute of Soil Science, said the Programne was aimed at exposing farmers and extension workers to the utilization of information technology in line with the recent climate prediction by the Nigerian Metrological Agency, Attacks On Okomu Persists Even As Ijaw Youths Council Visits Global Warming: Solidaridad Trains Farmers on Digital Farm… He explained that farmers need to continue to work closely with relevant agencies climate change and predictions to be abreast with innovations and technologies towards sustainable good production. “Climate change has affected the growth of crops in the field, now farmers need to understand weather Forecast in order plan their crops”. Declared the workshop open, Dean Faculty of Agriculture Nasarawa State University, Professor James Jayeoba, represented by the Deputy Dean, Dr. Haruna Suleiman said adequate information about the effects of climate change remained the most efficient way to achieve optimal good production. Professor Jayeoba informed that constant engagements with farmers and extension workers are key to agricultural practice. He called on the participants to expand the training gained here to other farmers especially at the rural areas in their various states to achieve the desired objective. POLL Some participants who bear their mind in the workshop, Mr Anpe Mathias who is the Plateau State Chairman of Potato Farmers Association and Mr. Ogidi Enoyi from Benue state expressed optimism that the knowledge acquired at the training would assist farmers in addressing some of the climatic challenges they face every farming season.