BENIN – Dr Graham Hefer, Managing Director, Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC, has lamented the incessant attacks on the company by hoodlums which he said have claimed the lives of some of the staff with some of the country’s machinery and equipment destroyed by the invaders without resistance or reaction from the host communities. Hefer, who said the main target of the hoodlums was the stealing of the company’s products which include palm fruits and rubber latex however called on the host communities to be part of the security of the oil palm and rubber plantations if they want the company to remain in business and continue to discharge its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to them as host Communities. Hefer made the observation during an interactive and lecture session titled, (Managing Perception, Changing Perception and Mindset)organized by the company for representatives of the host communities and some members of civil society organization held on Wednesday at the company in Okomu, Ovia South West Local Government of Edo state. Biden Signs Order On Cryptocurrency As Its Use Explodes India Logs 4,575 New COVID-19 Cases, 145 Fatalities In 24 Hours He said the company paid N20 million last year under its whistleblowing policy in order to improve intelligence gathering and harmonious relationships with its host communities. The MD also said that the company made some arrests of these hoodlums and was able to get 50 per cent conviction, ranging from six months to six years, for the over 100 cases of stealing in 2021. Hefer stated that the lecture and interactive section which is coming on the heels of recent attacks on the company that led to the death of one of its workers is to build a better and more cordial relationship with the 24 communities around the plantation. He said it is high time the communities started looking after the company which is doing so much to better a lot of its people, pointing out that it would become a win-win situation if this could be achieved. He said, “Last year, we paid N20 million under our whistleblowing policy because it helps in intelligence gathering and we were able to apprehend 100 criminals with 50 of them getting various jail terms. We protect those who give us the information and we hope they will continue to partner with us to ensure security is guaranteed in the area. POLL “If the company is attacked, and staff killed, my equipment get destroyed, the products stolen and the communities keep silent or look the other way, how would the company be able to do things for you as host Communities if we continue to lose revenue? “We have 24 communities around Okomu and no one has been able to point out any of the hoodlums who attacked the company recently. It is either the communities are backing the hoodlums or do not want Okomu’s continuous existence. “If you don’t help us secure the plantation, do you as communities have the moral right to ask the company to do more for you?. “My plea is that you should do the right things by fishing out hoodlums so that we can continue to be partners in progress. “Insecurity is a huge problem so we should stand together against these hoodlums and gunmen who are terrorising our communities and the company. I want the communities to look after us so that we are no longer vulnerable,” he declared. Ukrainian Ambassador Calls On UK To Simplify Process For… Climber Plunges 1,000ft To Death On Ben Nevis As 17 People Are… Some of the communities representatives sympathised with the company management and acknowledged the enormity of the task ahead and promised to work with Okomu to improve the security of the company.