LAGOS – Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of La­gos State, at the weekend, picked two coveted prizes for re­defining governance in Lagos. Independent Newspapers, a national daily, named San­wo-Olu as Governor of the Year for Infrastructure and Urban Renewal. The gover­nor, the newspaper said, had matched his campaign prom­ises with actions, delivering tangible projects across local government areas in Lagos. Also, Sanwo-Olu was vot­ed by Nigerians as Silverbird Man of the Year, becoming the 20th recipient of the pres­tigious award initiated by the Silverbird Group to celebrate public and private citizens whose actions had shaped the course of development positively. Port Protest: FG Urged To Revert VIN Valuation, Curb Inflation Fuel Hike: ECTS Vows To Sustain Free Ride For Edo School… The governor received both awards at separate events organised by the awarding institutions at Eko Hotels and Suites in Victoria Island, Lagos. The newspaper held its own event on Saturday, while Silverbird Group’s ceremony was held on Sunday evening. Independent Newspaper said Sanwo-Olu was shortlist­ed for the prize for providing service-centred leadership in Lagos, stressing that the Lagos governor had become the refer­ence point for excellence in pub­lic serviceincontemporarytime. Independent newspaper said: “The methodical imple­mentation of the THEMES Agenda of the Sanwo-Olu ad­ministration is an eloquent testimony to the governor’s resolve to transform Lagos State into a leading mega-city. From Ikorodu to Badagry, from Epe to Alimosho, from Agege to Satellite Town, more than 301 inner roads were re­habilitated and modern infra­structure in schools; health care and transportation spring up daily. “His magic wand is visible in education, with the intro­duction of the Eko EXCEL programme to revolutionise primary school in Lagos. Education appears to be the dearest project to Sanwo-Olu. He is determined to leave no child behind in his drive for quality education. The Eko EXCEL has reached over 1,000 primary schools, while over 13,000 teachers and 450,000 pupils have benefitted from the scheme.” POLL Presenting the plaque to Sanwo-Olu at the well-attend­ed event, the Silverbird Group chairman, Senator Ben Mur­ray-Bruce, said the approach adopted by the governor in the implementation of his administration’s development agenda, known as THEMES Agenda, showed Sanwo-Olu fully prepared for the position of leadership and had been discharging on his mandate with good results. Murray-Bruce said the gov­ernor’s footprint has been felt across sectors, stressing that his recognition as Silverbird Man of the Year affirmed le­gitimacy and people’s trust in Sanwo-Olu’s leadership.