The House of Representatives, also known as the green chambers of the National Assembly, NASS, has report­edly reversed itself by electing to bring back for review, the three bills concerning women’s rights which it had jettisoned during its debate on the new laws to be introduced into the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Tuesday, March 1, 2022. This followed a powerful resis­tance put up by the womenfolk who were ready to occupy NASS until their demand to be allotted 35% of political appointments; allow their husbands who are not Nigerians to attain cit­izenship of Nigeria automatically, and also allow them to be indigenes of the homesteads of their Nigerian husbands after five years of marriage. Tuesday, March 8 – a United Na­tions, UN, declared International Women’s Day was particularly an auspicious occasion for the women to flex their muscle, and given that NASS by its promise to bring their matter back for review has capitulated, it would appear as if the doggedness of our mothers, sisters, wives, and daugh­ters has paid off. Before then, First Lady Aisha Bu­hari had stormed the hallowed cham­bers of NASS, while in session with a bevy of ladies of timber and caliber on the day that the bills were going to be debated. That was perhaps done with a view to wiping the lawmakers into line. And it could have been in the manner that Mr Fix-It, chief Tony Annenih of blessed memory used to do whenever then ruling party, PDP, wanted its rules enforced by the leg­islators. On the heels of the visit of the First Lady, Aisha, to NASS chambers, sec­ond lady, (for lack of better nomen­clature) Dolapo Osinbajo-wife of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, embarked on a similar voyage to NASS for the same purpose. But the 469 strong members of NASS comprising only 29 women were not intimidated by the August visitors — First Lady and subsequent­ly, the second lady. As such, they did not bulge. Thankfully, the NASS did not wait for the womenfolk to deploy the other tools of coercion available to them, which includes being the boss in the ‘other room’ which President Buhari, once told the world in faraway Germany, that Aisha, his amiable and fire spitting wife, belongs. By the way, I would be happy to vote for Aisha as the next president and first female commander-in-chief of the Nigerian armed forces, or at the worst, as a sen­ator of the federal republic of Nigeria. And l am not being glib with this proposition. That is because, in the light of the confusion about the choice of a presidential candidate by both the ruling APC and main opposition party, PDP, it may be expedient to fall back on the womenfolk as the last resort. And one lady that has proved that she has the spunk by taking on the powerful Aso Rock mafia with the mindset that a woman’s place is only in the kitchen is Aisha Buhari. Of course, Mrs. Buhari is just a meta­phor for women in Nigeria, of which any of them is capable of being the president of our country if given the opportunity. POLL According to statistics from the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics, NBS, women constitute about 50% of the population of Nigeria. And they are the dominant participants as voters and mobilizers of other voters in the political space. Arising from the above, if women band together, and also leverage their female ‘asset’, (I mean prowess) to woo or if you like to seduce men like Delilah did to Samson by extracting from him (the man ordained by God to free Israelites from their bondage in the land of Egypt as narrated in the Holy Bible) the secret of his power, they would be the no 1 in the pecking order in Aso Rock villa. What this means is that we may soon have a first gentleman, instead of First Lady in Aso Rock villa. And that is not all the feminine wiles that women can activate to get men to align with them. How can we forget how Eve con­vinced Adam in the Garden of Eden, (where the first man was created by God) against his wish to eat the for­bidden apple offered by his wife, Eve which made him fall out of favor with God, as also recorded in the Holy Bible? On account of the foregoing, I have no doubt that women may have their way in making a member of their gender, become the next president of Nigeria in 2023 by manipulating the menfolk who are susceptible and vulnerable to being maneuvered simply because we are actually the weaker sex, not women as we have been led to believe by our mothers. After all, in 2016, in the almighty United States of America, USA, Hila­ry Rodham Clinton missed becoming the president of that great country by a whisker. And Kamala Harris, the in­cumbent Vice President of the USA, a black woman who is the first to at­tain such height in the USA political hierarchy is only a step away from be­coming the president of the USA-the undisputed leader of the world. Actually, she has acted in that ca­pacity when President Joe Biden had to undergo a minor surgery during which he was put under anesthesia. Who Runs The World? That is the rhetorical question once posed by the iconic pop singer, Beyoncé Knowles in her hit song by that title. Perhaps, until the women of Ni­geria assert themselves more in the manner that they have recently done as catalogued above, Nigerian men may not know that it is women that truly run the world. Probably, when the reality dawns on the menfolk, they would realise that they have to cut women some slack in the political leadership of our country, as they are demanding so that we can all have a happy ending. Keeping in mind the foregoing, why does the ruling party at the center seem to be taking women for granted by ignoring their plea to recognize them as partners in the leadership of our country, until they served their recent notice to NASS about their impending rebellion which jolted the lawmakers out of their revelry and underestimation of the strength of a woman? A website farandwide.com reck­ons that women’s ascendancy in the scheme of political affairs in the USA has been significant. Here is how the message was couched: “When it comes to gender equality, we are living in a historic age. Women make up nearly a quarter of the United States Congress, more than at any other point in history, and representation is steadily increasing in statewide offices across the nation” The website also reported that there are at least five(5) countries in the world where women are in charge and leading successfully. These are (1) Taiwan where Thai lng-Wen is the prime minister (2) New Zealand with Jacinda Arden and (3) Bangladesh having Sheik Hashina Wazed. There is also (4) Iceland having Ka­trin Jakobsdottir as leader of the coun­try and (5) Carrie Lam as the Chief Ex­ecutive of Hong Kong. Of course, the list does not include Angela Merkel, who just concluded her tour of duty as the Chancellor of Germany a couple of months ago and Theresa May who also recently exited her position as prime minister of the United Kingdom where Queen Elizabeth II is also the monarch. How can we forget the immediate past President of Liberia, our sister country, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf? Another critical component in our society that the National Assembly, NASS, and by extension the ruling party, APC that controls the majority of the legislators and governors seem to be taking for granted is the institu­tion of traditional rulers-kings and queens. Their desire to be given a more active role to play in the leader­ship of our country in the reviewed constitution was also thwarted by lawmakers who trashed their request. Given that the council of tradition­al rulers once played strategic roles in government during the first republic, their quest is valid. In fact, ahead of local governments, traditional rulers are closer to the grassroots. By the very nature of our cultural system, before the advent of the so-called Western civilization that destroyed our very efficacious traditional governance system and supplanted it with West­ern democracy that got literally forced down our throats by the colonialists, our society was governed effectively and efficiently by applying African cultural ethos and mores. As there is not enough time to elucidate on that, it is useful that we for instance, remind ourselves of our glorious past by high­lighting the virtues in one of the no­table traditional governance systems, the Ekpo masquerade culture of the Efik that abound around Calabar, etc in south-south Nigeria. In that re­gard, our lawmakers must dig deep into how our forebears managed our societies such that the Portuguese who first came here were amazed that the ancient Benin kingdom had street lights powered with palm oil. Members of NASS must therefore awaken their senses to recognise the value and strength intrinsic in our traditional institutions which need to be harnessed. Is it not being alleged in some quarters that our public office holders are always clannish by first be­ing loyal to God, then beholden to their traditional rulers before the govern­ment to which they swore allegiance when they took their oath of office? Although the practice is more preva­lent amongst our northern brothers and sisters, it is an existential reality nationwide. Why are our kings and queens not being given the opportunity to share their leadership wisdom via recog­nition for a more strategic role in the constitution? The point being made here is that instead of swallowing Western administrative cultures and values hook-line-and-sinker, we are supposed to think out of the box by picking from the foreign systems, only what can work for us and graft them on what has been working for us, pre Western civilisation. That is the strategy adopted by the Chinese hence they have been able to mesmerize the Western world and the reason they have risen from the bot­tom of development where they were located about four decades ago to be­ing second only to the USA in terms of technology, wealth and influence globally . Like the womenfolk, perhaps our traditional rulers -kings and queens need to threaten to strip all public of­fice holders, particularly politicians in the National and state assemblies, of their chieftaincy titles, so that they would, as we say it in local parlance — know who owns papa’s land. As we are all well aware, the demagogues cov­et their traditional titles which they proudly wear on their sleeves more than their academic titles. Not a few politicians who are bereft of academic or professional laurels (and are unable to acquire honorary doctoral degrees) make up for the inadequacy with traditional titles which they can procure for a price. Even those that have professional and academic laurels enhance them by enjoying being referred to as chief (Doctor) or chief (Professor) and even chief (Barrister) XYZ.