….warns transporters against picking injured terrorists on the highways MINNA – New strategies adopted by the Niger state government to end the siege by the many terrorist groups operating in about eight Local Government Areas in the state has yielded desired results with the killing of over 200 of the criminals between Sunday and Wednesday. The feat was however not without supreme prize paid by security personnel as the joint security forces combating the daredevil criminals lost two of their men while several others with various degrees of injuries are responding to treatment.   Niger State Commissioner of Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Emmanuel Umar, disclosed this while briefing journalists on the cheering news about the decimation of about four terror groups operating in parts of the state. Umar gave the names of the terror groups hibernating in; Shiroro, Lavun, Mariga, Wushishi, Kontagora, Paikoro, Munya and Rafi Local Government Area to include Ali Kawake, Yello Jambros, Kachalla Halilu and Bello Turji. While efforts have been intensified to rid the state of all forms of criminal elements, terrorist groups, in particular, the commissioner attributed the successes so far to the new strategies which saw to the killing of the over 200 of them between Sunday and Wednesday. “Between Sunday and today (Wednesday), the joint security forces were able to neutralise over 200 terrorists representing about four groups namely, Kachalla Halilu, Ali Kawaje, Yello Jambros and Bello Turji, including some of their Commanders”. The Commissioners commended the courage and collaborative efforts of traditional rulers in the state and communities for their resilience, they stood their grounds to protect and defend their land against the terrorists. “Our gallant joint security forces proved their worth by the recent feat. Many motorcycles and rustled cattle were also recovered during the invasion and we recorded very minimal casualty on the side of security forces, we lost only two security men”, adding that the government took the battle to the criminal’s den. While expressing sympathy to the families of the security personnel and communities who lost their loved ones, the commissioner is calling on transporters to be conscious of some fleeing terrorists along the highways seeking to be transported to certain locations and report to security agencies. Niger state government is more than prepared to make the state very uncomfortable for armed bandits, the commissioner further explained and therefore called on the general public to reports any stranger lurking within their domain to security agencies for prompt action.