WARRI – The Offshore Technology and Energy Centre (OTEC), Petroleum Training Institute (PTI) has been given a nod by the International Marine Contractors Association (IMCA) the UK, to host Diver Medical Technology (DMT) course. The training is billed to kick off in April, 2022, with the pioneer training of 20 staff of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO). Disclosing this recently, the Director/Chief Coordinator OTEC, Dr. Michael Adegbite noted that with the ‘Training Centre’ status accorded the Institute by IMCA, OTEC can now host trainees/training to international certification levels as well as examinations on DMT. The Chief Coordinator explained that the DMT is highly needed because commercial divers primarily make use of it in offshore situations when they are far away from hospitals and places for medical treatment given the nature of their job. Speaking further, he stated that, “DMT is essential as it ensures the safety of the entire team, proactively identifying hazards, assessing divers’ needs and executing underwater emergency responses”. According to Dr. Adegbite, “The DMT course is the very first one we will be running at the Centre. We have JFD UK, as well as the JFD Nigerian corporate body as our technical partners. So, the instruction will be from our technical partners in the UK, the courses would be streamed online, and then the instruction and demonstration will be carried out here. With these technical partners in place, we will be able to get the capability to train and certified people, conduct examinations and issue the certification”. In the words of Adegbite, “Other than the DMT which we will be doing here in Nigeria, the only place that it is done in the whole of Africa is in South Africa. Interestingly, SNEPCO is taking the lead to undergo the training with us. Also, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has also shown interest because it’s part of their mandate”. While reaffirming the readiness of the Centre to carry out the training, Dr. Adegbite added that PTI is prepared to train and supply all personnel that are lacking in the oil and gas and marine sector.