The president of African Insurance Organisation (AIO), has decried the low rate of insurance penetration in the continent as he warned insurers of the great danger ahead if the situation is not urgently addressed. According to him, the penetration rate has been dropping from 2.78per cent in 2019 to 2per cent in 2020 noting that while the global average penetration rate was 7.20per cent that of Africa was 2.78per cent. In year 2020, while the global average went up to 7.40per cent, that of Africa came down significantly to about 2per cent. This was the fallout of Insurers from across the continent who gathered in Zanzibar recently to scale up positive action for Africa’s insurance industry where the president of the AIO, warned delegates on the danger of low insurance penetration in the continent. Pension Industry Recapitalisation: PFAs Shrink To 19 Via… Insurers Think Automation Is Key To Regulatory Pressure – Report… “In 2019, while the global average penetration rate was 7.20per cent that of Africa was 2.78per cent. In year 2020, while the global average went up to 7.40per cent, that of Africa came down significantly to about 2per cent. This should be of great concern to us as a region,” he said. Mr Smart blamed the low insurance penetration on low income, low awareness level, failure to embrace digital technology, high level of financial exclusion, lack of infrastructural and distribution channels, lack of domestic skills, shortage of data and the challenge of brain-drain facing insurers. Concerned about the development, the Kenya’s insurance regulator has stepped up action to conduct a study on premium pricing amid low penetration in his country in particular and African continent in general. Kenya’s insurance regulator wants to conduct an actuarial study to determine appropriate premium rates for the sector amid persistently lower penetration levels. The Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA), which regulates insurance and reinsurance practices in the east African country, said there is strong evidence that premiums paid by different customers currently vary with the cost of providing the cover. POLL “Although there has been a host of new and somewhat radical products, overall the premium rating environment has remained relatively dull especially in the last couple of years as concerns remain about insurance uptake, usage, value, quality, availability and affordability for many consumers,” said the IRA. The regulator therefore, wants to hire a consultant to review the existing legal and regulatory framework, policies and practices used by Kenyan insurers in rating premiums. The consultant will engage insurers and customers in identifying gaps in current laws and recommend areas to overhaul. The study will also conduct scenario analysis to understand the extend by which the current premiums consumers pay are above or below their risk profile, the report added. “The analysis should further consider how the market is working currently, how it should develop and the measures to be put in place to ensure that the premium is commensurate to the risk exposure,” said the IRA.