Erik ten Hag has given the strongest indication yet that he could take over as Manchester United manager this summer after reportedly taking up English lessons to improve his language skills. The Ajax head coach is looking increasingly likely to be Man United’s top target to take the reins from interim coach Ralf Rangnick this summer, with the German moving into a consultancy role at the club. It is believed that Ten Hag has held internal talks with Ajax and outlined his desire to take the vacant role at Old Trafford this summer, bringing his trusted assistant coach Mitchell van der Gagg with him. De Gea Made Some Questionable Comments After Man Utd And… Edinson Cavani Ruled Out Of Atletico Madrid Clash Mauricio Pochettino, now at Paris Saint-Germain, has also been considered due to the club’s long-standing interest in the Argentine dating back to his days as Tottenham boss. Real Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti is another name in the running, although the former Everton and Chelsea boss appears unlikely to leave the Santiago Bernabeu given their current position. But Ten Hag has emerged as the frontrunner for the job at Old Trafford in the summer — and the Daily Mail report that he has taken up English lessons, which could improve his chances of landing the job. The Dutchman has conducted interviews in English before but wants to reach a level of fluency which would boost his chances of being able to communicate properly with his players. The report adds that Ten Hag has his ‘heart set’ on a move to Manchester, but his commitment to becoming fluent in English will give him the opportunity to explore other jobs too. POLL He had turned down the chance to move to Tottenham as their new manager to replace Jose Mourinho last year and distanced himself from the Man United job when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was sacked. The 47-year-old signed a new two-year deal last summer which keeps him at the Johann Cruyff Arena until the end of the 2022-23 season, but that renewal was merely regarded as a reward for stating his loyalty at the time. Ten Hag has been in charge of the Eredivisie champions since 2017 and looks set to guide the Dutch giants to another league title this season as they are six points clear of PSV Eindhoven. But it is understood he is ready to take on a new challenge in his career, with United keen to appoint a progressive new coach this summer. Richard Arnold, who has assumed responsibility of Ed Woodward’s position after the former executive vice chairman stepped down from his role, has confirmed the club are in the process of searching for a new manager. Man Utd ‘Plot Move For Ajax Star Antony’ Pochettino Told To Avoid Man Utd Job That appears to have scuppered any chance of Rangnick remaining in the role beyond the conclusion of the current campaign, with the 63-year-old’s impact at the club not as great as first expected since Solskjaer’s departure. Both Arnold and Rangnick have agreed on approaching Ten Hag to fill the manager’s position, according to The Sun, as his football philosophy and proven record of success in European football matches the club’s criteria for a new boss. United are currently fifth in the Premier League and the Red Devils are locked in a battle for a top-four finish, with Arsenal, Tottenham and West Ham all battling for a place. And securing a spot in next season’s Champions League would surely be enough to convince Ten Hag to take on the challenge if, as expected, he is offered the job.