ABUJA – Ahead of the March 26 Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) legal minds have continued to question the legality of the vote of no confidence purportedly passed on embattled Secretary of Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudedehe, declaring null and void. A senior lawyer, Eyibio Udo Esq. observed that the procedure adopted by two-thirds of the members of the CECPC was ultra vires their powers and was not in conformity with the Party Constitution. According to him Article 17 (v) of the Party’s Constitution which spells out the procedure to be adopted when passing a “vote of no confidence” on an officer of the Party provides as follows:- “Subject to ratification by the National Convention or Congress an Officer shall be relieved of his post at any time if a vote of “No Confidence” is passed on him by two-thirds of the members of the relevant Party organ” He noted that the power to pass a ‘vote of confidence’ is vested in organs of the party and not an ad-hoc like Caretaker Committee which is not an Organ of the Party. “All duly recognized Organs of the Party are listed in Article 11 of the Party Constitution and the CECPC is clearly not mentioned therein. “The Caretaker/ Extra- Ordinary Convention Planning Committee is not an Organ of the Party but an ad-hoc Committee created by the National Executive Committee, and therefore the CECPC cannot exercise powers applicable to recognized Organs of the Party… “The status of the CECPC received judicial pronouncement by Justices of the Supreme Court in Eyiatayo Jegede’s Case, wherein the Supreme Court referred to the CECPC as an ad – hoc and interim Committee which was only temporary in nature. POLL “Secondly, where a Political Party intends to effect a change in its leadership structure there must be strict compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2022 (as amended) particularly Section 82 which stipulates that 21 days notice shall be given to INEC for any convention, congress, conference or meeting wherein a change of leadership would be conducted. “In addition, there was no mention of any complaint or allegations of abuse of office by the Secretary of the CECPC to warrant a “vote of confidence” by other members of the CECPC. “The principles of fair hearing ensure that anybody accused of any infraction should be served with the complaint or allegations against him and this clearly was not done in this case. “Finally, the leader of the Party and the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, issued a letter dated the 16th day of March 2022 containing three directives to the Kebbi State Governor and Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu. “A summary of the directives of Mr President as it concerns the CECPC is that the leadership of the CECPC should immediately return to status quo ante and should equally be allowed to proceed with all necessary preparations to hold the convention unfailingly on the 26th day of March 2022. “The implication of the directives from Mr President is that the original constituted membership of the CECPC should be allowed to finish their mandate and conduct the National Convention Scheduled for the 26th day of March 2022. “Consequently, any act which previously altered the membership of the CECPC’s has been nullified by the directives of Mr President and any action which is inimical to the directives of Mr President is an affront to the leader of the Party which should be resisted by all members and stakeholders of the Party. “It should be noted that Mr President in his letter also admonished all Party leaders to cease and desist from all actions which may ultimately lead to the Party’s implosion and non-existence. “Therefore, we call on all members of the Party, stakeholders and Party leaders to avoid all distractions and work towards delivering a hitch-free National Convention which would produce new executives of the Party that would lead us to victory in the forthcoming 2023 general elections.”