LAGOS – In line with global efforts to curb the Human Immune Virus (HIV) in Nigeria,  stakeholders have recommended wide use of HIV self-testing kits so as to address problems of loss of privacy and reduce inconvenience in getting tested. According to statistics available, out of the 1.9 million people living with HIV, only 1.6 million were receiving treatment, and as of 2019, 53,000 had died from HIV/AID related deaths.Reports have also shown that many Nigerians still don’t know their status, which increases the risk of high transmission, hence the need for HIV self-testing. Since 2003, the Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS (NIBUCAA) has continued its quest against HIV/AIDS, NIBUCAA had continued in the fight against HIV/AIDs designed to help Nigeria achieve the first 95 goals of the 95-95- 95 policy, which is to make sure that about 95 per cent of the total population of Nigeria is aware of their HIV status. In the course of its campaign, it had distributed self-test kits in collaboration with over 35 large and medium-sized companies working with them. In her views, the Senior Programme and Evaluation Officer, NiBUCAA, Damola Araoye, during a Capacity Building and Awareness on HIV Self-Testing organised by NiBUCCA in partnership with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) described the current burden in Nigeria as worrisome, adding that NIBUCCA has reached about 2000 employees since November 2021. Araroye maintained that self-testing addresses the challenge of loss of privacy and reduces inconvenience, missed work opportunities, financial barriers and other opportunity costs related to the conventional testing centres. Explaining that through the HIV self-testing for the private sector project, the body, with support from ILO is targeting the reduction of HIV infection through self-testing, capacity building and awareness creation among the private sector workforce in Nigeria. She disclosed that the test kits, which is safe, accurate and easy to use were being given free to the organised private sector, with the belief that an HIV-free world is possible if everyone works together to end discrimination and inequality. According to her, the project seeks to build the capacity of journalists on communicating the importance of HIV self-testing to the general public; storytelling for impact projects and leveraging the media to create awareness on HIV/AIDS. She said statistics have revealed that over the years more women have come out to test for HIV against men who are often reluctant to know their status. POLL She said for HIV self-testing, people will only go for a confirmation test at a conventional health facility for the purpose of record-keeping and further medical follow-up as the case may be. In Nigeria, she said only 57 per cent of adults were on antiretroviral therapy, while 35 per cent of children are on the therapy. She said it was necessary for people to test themselves so that they can ascertain their status and start treatment on time if they were found to be HIV positive. According to her, “HIV self-testing kit is a technology that allows you to know your HIV status at your own convenience and in the comfort of your home. “We understand that the people in the corporate workforce are very busy and may not have the chance to go for the conventional testing; so that is why we are making the self-test kit available to them. “Counseling is an integral part of the whole HIV testing process. We are aware that people need help; that is why we usually train them on how to use the self-test kit before we distribute it to them and then we have in-house counselling experts who the employees of the companies that we are working with can speak to. “In-house experts are also available for post-testing counselling in case the results turn out to be positive.  The mental health of people, when faced with the possibility of having HIV, is highly unstable that is why NIBUCAA does not joke with counselling at any point. “Most people who get the self testing kit even need to be encouraged before they can bring themselves to take the test,” she explained. Speaking, Head of Communications and External Affairs for NIBUCAA, Mojola Aturamu said good counselling at all points was necessary in the course of the use of the self-testing kit. Aturamu stressed the need to begin to prioritise HIV/AIDS despite the rise in other diseases such as COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. She called on the media to spread the right message and narrative. Over the years, people have stopped giving HIV the needed attention that it deserves.