Leading presidential aspirants in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State have met with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar over PDP consensus presidential candidate from the North. The meeting with Atiku, which was at the instance of the three aspirants, was in continuation of talks aimed at adopting one of them as a consensus candidate. While the hurdle of selecting who leads the party to the general poll was eventually crossed in October 2021 after months of leadership turbulence, Nigeria’s largest opposition party, just like its ruling counterpart, APC, has not declared the zoning of its presidential ticket ahead of the polls. With the southern politicians clamouring for the ticket to be zoned to the region, their northern counterparts also want the ticket zoned to their region, a decision that may jettison the PDP rotation tradition. The party has over the years rotated the ticket for the top office between the two regions, a position its new leadership has promised to maintain as its gathered steam for the 2023 elections. The seat was last zoned to the northern region in favour of Nigeria’s former vice-president, Atiku Abubakar, who flew the party’s flag in the 2019 election but lost to the incumbent, Muhammadu Buhari, of the APC. “PDP has a history of rotating our offices. Anybody who doesn’t get it this time should wait after the tenure of whoever will be our next president,” the national chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu, strongly reiterated last week. Ignoring this position, the leading aspirants at a meeting attended by Mr Abubakar, Saraki, Governors  Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed on Monday, discussed consensus building. POLL The meeting was the second of its kind by the aspirants, with the exception of Mr Abubakar, in the last five days. A similar meeting with the trio in attendance was held last Thursday. “I had a meeting tonight with @bukolasaraki, Tambuwal, @SenBalaMohammed and Hayatudden to discuss the future of our party and Nigeria. I look forward to continuing our dialogue and building #OneNigeria,” Mr Abubakar posted on his verified Twitter account. “We have made plans to meet with the governor of Benue and we will also meet with other governors and the governors from the south early next week and some of the elders in the country.