Professor of Humanities, Toyin Falola, has advocated the reinvention of practical technical education in Nigeria to make students demonstrate knowledge gained for the good of society. Prof. Falola spoke at a public lecture tagged, “Technology, Technical Education, Culture and Society” organised by the Federal College of Education (FCE) (Technical), Akoka, Lagos. He charged that students and youths can only be maximised as transformational agents if others before them put the knowledge gained into the practical demonstration to address challenges facing society. The guest lecturer urged the management of the college to inaugurate prizes for the best creative students, saying such would motivate their skills in technology. He advocated continuous innovation in technology which must be encouraged in students adding that the future of the nation rests on the youth. He encouraged Nigerians to invest money into incubation to bring out the best in gifted students to be innovative, saying such would be a win-win situation for all as the royalty for the innovation would be shared for life by the investor, the students and the college. Falola charged Nigerians never to wait for politicians, “The technical education that we have is the real thing we need to make a transformative impact in our society and so, we must apply measures to encourage this innovation.” College Provost, Dr. Wahab Azeez, said the purpose of the lecture was to foster knowledge and encourage key personalities to support the college in academic and technical areas of focus. POLL Azeez, who described the institution as a specialised College of Education for Technical training said it had been in existence for decades to provide academic and technical education to students and other categories of Nigerians. He assured that the Governing Council and Management of the College would continue to attract the best brains in the world to the college to justify the place of the college. Mr. Adamu Muazu, the Chairman Governing Council of the College, said that the council had lived up to expectations having cleared all outstanding matters relating to establishment matters. “This institution, as the first College of Education in Nigeria, needs to take the leadership position being the reason we are doing everything possible to make the academic environment lively and staff comfortable,” he said.