…Assures Women Of Special RecognitionABUJA – Senator Tanko Al-Makura, an aspirant for the national chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress, (APC), has promised to resolve and put an end to all outstanding court cases bedevilling the party if elected. He former Governor also pledged to sustain the party’s legacies and give special recognition to women. Al-Makura made the promise during a meeting with the APC caucus in the House of Representatives on Thursday. Al-Makura, a two-time governor of Nassarawa State who currently represents Nassarawa South Senatorial district in the National Assembly was in the House to solicit for the support of members in the Green Chambers. Recalling that his role in the merger that led to the birth of APC, the senator said he would work to move the party forward. He said: “I was opportune by providence to be a member of the merger committee. At the appointed time, it was an institutional partnership that you have to have a government in place to partake in the merger. I by the special grace of God, represented the CPC in the merger. I am bringing this history for simple reason that merger has changed the narratives of politics in Nigeria. And I would like Hon. members to appreciate some of these things because it was part of what is urging me to throw my hat in the ring to contest for the office of chairman. “I will also use my relationship with the Legislature to ensure that those thorny issues that have been there before now are sorted out, not by fiat by through convictions, lobbying and understanding between me and members of the legislature. “I am sorry to say that at this point in time we have a lot of challenges, crises here an there. But for me, it is normal. You cannot have a party with over 14 million people and expect it to be like an empty room. There are contending interests, various tendencies. I believe if I become the national chairman, some of the cases in court, we will try the best we can to see how we can solve them. I will expect my NWC to talk to these people who have cases in court to see how they can settle out of court. POLL “When I was governor, I had fifteen commissioners and as a gender-sensitive person. I gave special consideration to women by appointing five of them as commissioners. So when I become Chairman of the APC, I will repeat the same by empowering them. I proved it before and I will still prove it”. In their remarks, the Deputy Speaker of the House, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase and the Leader of the House, Hon. Ado Doguwa said that Al-Makura was qualified to lead the party. The caucus, therefore, endorsed him for the job.