UGHELLI  – Delta State Governor, Sen. Dr Ifeanyi Okowa on Fri­day deplored criticism by the leadership of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) that the state gov­ernment was proliferating universities with the recent establishment of three new ones in the state, saying it was a necessity. He explained that the uni­versities were established to broaden access to the teem­ing number of students from the state desirous of univer­sity education, adding that it was to ensure that no qual­ified student from the state was denied admission into the university. Okowa made this known at the inauguration of Chairmen and members of the Governing Councils of the three new universities in the state at Government House, Asaba. Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Buhari Commiserates With ACF Over Spokesperson’s Passing He also stated that the on­going strike by universities teachers was nationwide and arose following failure by the Federal Government to address issues raised by ASUU, explaining that teach­ers in the state’s universities merely joined in the action in obedience to their union’s directive. According to the gover­nor, “the state government is not in dispute with any staff union in our tertiary Institutions. Some of the is­sues being raised by ASUU at the national level are al­ready being enjoyed by staff of our institutions for some years now. “We are not in dispute with any staff union in any of our tertiary institutions. “The issues raised by ASUU at the national level do not pertain to us in Delta as the allowances they are asking for are already being enjoyed by staff in our ter­tiary institutions for several years now. “Let me also respectfully disagree with the position of ASUU that there is an un­healthy proliferation of state universities in the country. POLL “The establishment of universities is on the concur­rent list and, as a state, we do so when the need arises. “In our case, it is to fill the gap created by a shortage of space and increase access to university education for our qualified youths,’’ he said. Giving statistics, he added that “in the JAMB report of 2018, 80,131 Deltans, repre­senting 4.85 percent of total applicants sat for the board’s university entrance exam­ination. However, only a fraction of those who passed could be admitted. “Also, for the 2019/2020 academic session, 25,896 candidates from the State chose Delta State Universi­ty as first choice. Out of this number, 22,358 qualified but only 4,854 candidates could be admitted. “From the foregoing, you can see that even the state-owned DELSU has reached its full carrying capacity, hence, it is incumbent on us as an administration to broaden access to university education for our bright stu­dents, especially in the fields of medicine, engineering, law, ICT, and architecture.” Gunmen Attack Funeral Procession In Anambra, Kidnap One Wild Jubilation As Iregba Community Witnesses Electricity Supply… Okowa described mem­bers of the universities’ governing councils as men and women of proven integ­rity and impressive track record in the academia, public administration and the private sector and urged them to bring their wealth of experience to bear in the respective institutions.