AWKA – The police in Anambra state says the multi-billion naira International Cargo and Passenger Airport at Umueri Anambra-East local government area of the state is currently under threat of vandalism. The police boss CP Echeng Eworo Echeng who made this known in a statement released by the spokesman of the command DSP Ikenga Tochi, noted that hoodlums have launched attacks on the facility carting away amoured cables around the airport. Although he acknowledged the efforts of the command  in adequately securing the airport, he said police operatives acting on useful intelligence have swooped on some of the vandals; arrested a few while some others are at large. The CP’s statement reads, “The Commissioner of Police, Anambra State Command, CP Echeng Echeng has stated that the ongoing effort to rid Anambra State of all manner of crimes and criminality is yielding enviable results.” The CP stated this following the successful arrest of thirteen suspects for various offences ranging from touting and illegal revenue collections, vandalism and other related violent crimes across the State. Four of the suspects, namely:  Emmanuel Igwe ‘M’, aged 20years, Chukwudi Obasi ‘M’, aged 38years, Izuchukwu Enemuwa ‘M’ aged 28years and Uchenna Benedict, ‘M’ aged 28years* on 23/3/2022 were arrested along the Headbridge, Onitsha while touting and collecting revenue illegally from motorists and other members of the public. Another suspect, one Chimezie Nwankwo ‘M’ Aged 34years of Ezimunya village, Umunya was intercepted and arrested on 23rd March, 2022, along airport road, Neteje. The police recovered from him: a hiace bus, three hammers, two axes and a police belt  with which he, alongside two others still at large, terrorize citizens and steal armored cables installed around the Anambra State Airport. Similarly, Ali Friday ‘M’ Aged 28yrs, of Dusogu Village, Awkuzu, Onuorsh Chukwuemeka, ‘M’ Aged 21years, of Eziama village, Igbariam, Igboegbunam Chiemelie, ‘M’ Aged 20, of Amabor Village, Abba, Chinedu Chukwuobi ‘M’, Aged 45years of Imengu Village, Igbariam and Oforbuike Alegu, ‘M’ Aged 27years of Akpu Village, Abagana on 22/3/2022 were arrested for being in possession  of vandalized armoured cables and a car battery. POLL Finally, Chukwuemeka Anyanti ‘M’ 26years, Chijoke Anyanti ‘M’ 22years, Onyedika Anyanti ‘M’ 20years, all native of Nkwelle Village, Oyi LGA of Anambra State were arrested on 24/3/2022 for being in possession of one locally fabricated single barrel pistol and two live cartridges. The CP while reiterating the unwavering commitment of the Command towards weeding out all criminal elements in the state, enjoins all law-abiding citizens of the State to remain vigilant and continue to support the Command especially through prompt and accurate information.”