ABUJA – The Federal High Court, Abu­ja, presided over by Justice Inyang Ekwo on Monday re­strained President Muhamma­du Buhari, Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, and Senate Presi­dent from tampering with the newly amended Electoral Act, 2022. Justice Ekwo granted the plea for an interim injunction and adjourned further hearing in the matter till March 21. Other respondents are the speaker, House of Represen­tatives, Clerk of National As­sembly, Senate Leader, House of Representatives Leader and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). ­ You’re Example Of God-Fearing, Loyal, Patriotic Public… World Cup Playoff: Siasia Faults Eguavoen On Invitation Of Some… Also joined as defendants in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/ CS/247/2022 are Deputy Sen­ate President, Deputy Speak­er, House of Representatives, Deputy Senate Leader and Deputy House of Representa­tives’ Leader. Justice Ekwo made the or­der in a ruling on an ex-parte application moved by the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP). Specifically, the court re­strained all the defendants in the suit from removing section 84(12) of the Electoral Act or prevent it from being imple­mented for the purpose of the 2023 general elections. The court agreed with James Onoja (SAN), counsel to the PDP, that the Electoral Act has become a valid law and cannot be tampered with without following due process of law. It was the court’s opinion that the proper place to chal­lenge propriety or otherwise of any existing law is court of competent jurisdiction. POLL The PDP had dragged President Buhari to court to challenge a fresh move to tamper with the newly amended Electoral Act al­ready signed into law, recent­ly by the president. By the suit, the PDP is pray­ing the ctourt for an order of interim injunction restraining Buhari and other defendants from refusing to implement the duly signed Electoral Act or in any manner withholding the Electoral Act from being put to use including the provi­sions of section 84(12) of the said Act pending the resolu­tion of the suit. The PDP also pleaded the court for an order stopping the National Assembly from giving effect to President Bu­hari’s request to remove sec­tion 84 (12) from the Electoral Act or take any step that will make the provision inopera­tive pending the resolution of the motion on notice for inter­locutory injunction. The PDP contends that President Buhari having as­sented to the bill on February 25, 2022, cannot give any direc­tive to the National Assembly to take immediate steps to re­move section 84 (12) or any sec­tion of the Act on any ground whatsoever.