Senator Ebenezer Ikeyina, national leader of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and one time senator who represented Anambra Central at the upper chamber of the National Assembly talked extensively on reason the Presidency should be zoned to the South East in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU. Excerpts: The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo have demanded that former President Goodluck Jonathan must support president of South-East extraction, going by the level of support the people gave him when he was President.  What are your thoughts about that? The demand by the Igbo leadership is reasonable. What do you expect from Jonathan short of giving us his support? I agree with them when they said that the Igbo spirit will be against the former President if he fails to support the realisation of a president of Igbo extraction in 2023, and if you have been following political happenings in the country, especially after Jonathan lost that election in 2015 and comments by some people that Ndigbo didn’t deserve anything good from President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, because they didn’t contribute to his emergence. The South-East people gave  total support to former President Jonathan and there is speculation that Ndigbo are suffering under the regime of President Buhari because of the support they gave to Jonathan. There were reports that some Northern All Progressives Congress (APC) governors were planning Jonathan’s return to Presidency. I don’t want to believe that because Jonathan knows and his conscience will tell him that he should support Ndigbo going by the sacrifices that they made for him. This is the opportunity that he has to reciprocate and nothing short of that is expected. Pa Ayo Adebanjo, leader of the Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere said that the South-West doesn’t have any reason to want to vie for Presidency in 2023. The elder statesman was quoted to have frowned at the continued political exclusion of the South-East region. Can you react to that? I respect Ayo Adebanjo because he is a man who stands on the side of truth at all times. He is detribalized and would like to see a peaceful and united Nigeria. I will confidently tell you that Pa Adebanjo is a patriotic Nigerian. If you look at it, the Yoruba have had a fair share of power since 1999, with eight years of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Professor Yemi Osinbajo would have completed eight years as Vice President by May, 2023. Don’t you think that it will heighten injustice for anybody from the South-West to want to aspire to that office in 2023 when a major ethnic group has never tested that position? It will be unfair, unjust and unpatriotic as well as against the national spirit and interest to deny Ndigbo this opportunity and for the rest of the people to pretend as if they don’t exist or that they are not a part of Nigeria. You said that it is unfair for any person from the South-West to aspire for Presidency in 2023, but the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has just thrown in his cap to the ring when he told the Presiudent that he is ready to run. We also have other political giants from the region, like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who is also aspiring. What are your thoughts about that? Osinbajo’s entrance into the race will not stop the South-East deserved right to produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor. I am sure that the President at the back of his mind knows that Osinbajo shouldn’t be considering that now.  He will be finishing as Vice President for eight years and remember that  President Olusegun Obasanjo, is from the same region, and has done eight years previously. Why does the Vice President want to run? Like I said in a previous interviews on this issue, no leader in history has ever been indifferent about who would succeed him and President Buhari will not be an exception. If we care about Nigeria and want the country to remain united, we wouldn’t divide this country by our actions. It is expected that Mr. President must have a critical role in the emergence of his own successor. To this effect, it is important for the President not to lose sight of political developments that may be injurious to national unity and corporate existence of the country. It is the national expectation that Mr. President continues his policy of national healing and reconciliation to a logical conclusion. There is no doubt that in the history of Nigeria, from Nnamdi Azikiwe era, Ndigbo has demonstrated the highest virtues of patriotism and genuine nationalistic propensities. It is a known fact that by character, what defines Ndigbo is friendliness and peaceful coexistence with others regardless of tribe, religion or race, Ndigbo are market people, travelers, entrepreneurs or business men. Ndigbo are widely travelled people. They live and invest in all parts of the country and so I will say that they know Nigeria very well. We are not lacking people with competence and I would like to say that we have many competent personalities that can confront and solve Nigeria’s perennial and endemic socio- political problems and guarantee peaceful coexistence for all the citizens regardless of ethnicity, religion or race. You said that the South-East people are greatly travelled people and the fact that they live and invest in any part of the country and even the Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu supported that position when he said that Ndibgo can make Sambisa forest an investment arena. Can you elaborate? POLL The South-East people are widely travelled people as I mentioned earlier and I am sure that everyone can attest to that, an Igbo man should be considered for President because Ndigbo know the country more than any other people. They are very industrious and adventurous people, and like Governor Ikpeazu said, the Sambisa forest where people may be afraid to go because of the presence of the Boko Haram can be turned into an investment arena. Ndigbo are pan-Nigerians who live and invest everywhere in the country and so they are stakeholders everywhere and that more than anything else qualifies them for that position and as I keep saying the competent people to do the job are not lacking. I agree totally with Ikpeazu that one of the qualifications that Ndigbo have is the fact that the people understand and know Nigeria better than the other ethnic groups. All they need is the support of the other regions to achieve that. You are very passionate about seeing the South-East region produce President Buhari’s successor. What are your thoughts on the position of Elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will be abandoned if it fails to zone president to South-East in 2023? There is nothing as good as a reward system. If someone or a group of people have done something good, they must be rewarded. The South-East has been very committed and loyal to the PDP so Chief Edwin Clark is not far from the truth. The party should be the first to zone the presidency to the South-East region because they have benefitted so much from the region in terms of support. If Chief Clark said that if the PDP abandons the South- East region, the South-South region will also abandon the party. This is what a patriotic Nigerian should be saying, someone who means well for his country. He is in the class of Pa Ayo Adebanjo and I share their thoughts. They want the best for Nigeria. It was gladdening to hear him emphasise that it was the turn of core Igbos to produce the next president of Nigeria, insisting that those from related ethnic nationalities should support Ndigbo. He emphatically said that when he said that he wanted a president of Nigeria of Igbo extraction, that he didn’t mean someone from Delta or Rivers State or anywhere but a person from core South-East Igbo. He knew what he was saying and I appreciate him for that. I want other well-meaning Nigerians to think in that direction for the unity of our country. You were part of a meeting recently where the Southern and Middle Belt leaders insisted on restructuring before 2023 general elections. Do you think that the demand is feasible? It is feasible. The insecurity in the country is frightening. State Police is a sine qua non in a Federal System of Government. The effect of the monopoly of internal security by the Federal Government is the unprecedented dire state of insecurity in the country; a situation where the designation of Governor of a state as the Chief Security Officer of the State is a ruse without being in control of the State’s Security Apparatus. We only demanded for the harmonization and implementation of the Reports of the 2014 National Conference and the 2018 APC Committee on True Federalism rather than the current cosmetic Constitutional Amendment, which is a drain on the resources of the country and can’t address fundamental issues including fiscal federalism. The basis of any viable democracy, especially in a diverse and complex country such as Nigeria, is fair and even sharing of power;