A presidential hopeful and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has finally revealed the qualities Nigerians should look out for when electing the next president of Nigeria in the 2023 general election. Tambuwal who want to contest for the post of President on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) urged Nigerians to elect candidates with the quality and temperament to address the country’s challenges in 2023. He called on the electorate not to experiment with someone who does not understand democratic governance. The PDP chieftain, however, accused President Muhammadu Buhari of polarising the country while meeting with PDP former Deputy Governors in Abuja. According to him, “I am coming for the journey on my personal merit, on my credit and my personal credentials. As the Speaker of the House of Representatives, I presided over one of the most stable and very interesting Houses since 1999. “From the beginning of this democracy till today, I can beat my chest that the House I presided over was the House of Representatives of the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria where issues were debated, devoid of sentiments but based on pan Nigerian perception. “Back in Sokoto, my records are there to speak for me in terms transformation of the state, infrastructure, education, health indices, bringing back out of school children, physical responsibility and accountability, ease of doing business and such other indices. “I believe that I have the right temperament, temperament is key going forward in running the affairs of Nigeria. The situation of this country calls for competent leadership calls for experienced hands and energy. POLL “This is a time that Nigerians must not experiment with someone who does not understand democratic governance. “It is important that we are doing this exercise of selecting who is going to be the standard flag bearer of our party, we must deliberately seek out someone that understands this country, someone who has been tested in democratic governance, appreciating how to run a federal government. “We cannot afford to have another president that will be more in the Villa without connecting with the people, engaging the people and finding local solutions to local problems.”