Lagos – The Black Stars of Ghana have suffered another injury blow ahead of their 2022 World Cup qualifying playoff against the Super Eagles of Nigeria. The Rio Ave of Portugal defender Philemon Baffour has been ruled out of the games as he is expected to undergo surgery this week and thus won’t recover on time for the two matches slated for March 25 and 29 respectively. The Ghana U-20 champion joined Portuguese side Rio Ave in the January transfer window after the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations tournament and has since been a member of the Black Stars. The former Dreams FC captain is likely to miss the game should he make the squad. Baffour was part of the Black Stars squad that participated in the 2021 Africa Cup of Nation but did not feature in any game. Ghana host Nigeria at the Cape Coast Sports Stadium or any other stadium chosen by FIFA on March 25, 2022 in the first leg. The Black Stars will travel to Abuja for the second leg on March 29, which will be played at the Mashood Abiola Sports Stadium. Meanwhile, Ghana Football Association has posted an update of the state of the Cape Coast Sports Stadium pitch ahead of the play–off. The pitch had gone under re-grassing after the Independence day celebration held on March 6, 2022. The stadium pitch had been damaged with pictures circulating online after the event. The NSA with its partners Green Grass Technology led by Frank Boahene commenced work right after the event to get the pitch ready for the game. POLL The Cape Coast Sports Stadium is the only venue approved by CAF to host the World Cup playoff, thus pressure mounts on the facility owners to get the pitch ready or Ghana must move it game to either Benin or Morocco. The NSA has posted an update of the pitch after seven days of rigorous work to ensure it meets the FIFA/CAF standard for the game. CAF inspectors are already in the country and were at the Baba Yara Sports Stadium on Sunday to inspect the facility, which could serve as an alternative, should the Cape Coast Sports Stadium be rejected. Pressure mounts on officials of the NSA to ensure the Cape Coast Sports Stadium, which will be inspected by CAF officials on Monday March 14, 2022, is approved or the game is likely to move to a different country. The NSA has been blamed for allowing the hosting of the 65th Independence day celebration on the pitch just three weeks to the crucial World Cup playoff.