Keyla technologies celebrated its 1st year anniversary yesterday.. The fast growing startup which provides first class information technology solutions such as website & mobile application development, AI Solutions and IT consultations to small and medium scale business marked the occasion with a celebration which took place at its head office in Lekki Lagos. Founded in 2021 by partners Alexander Okun Oziegbe (CEO Keyla Technologies). NIRSAL Credit Risk Guarantee: Support To Agro Processing Hits… Nigeria Has Over 150 Unofficial Taxes And 60 Official Taxes –… Anthony Ihiere Enakhifo (COO), the company offers businesses the opportunity to get digital assets by providing a flexible payment structure where businesses can pay monthly for their tech solutions, like; website, mobile apps. To mark the momentous occasion Keyla announced it would be offering free e-commerce websites to 10,000 SME businesses throughout 2022 which can be accessed here in partnership with Terminal Africa. Speaking at the occasion Keyla Technologies COO and Co Founder Anthony Enakhifo remarked that it was befitting that Keyla was giving back to the start up community to mark its one year anniversary. Also in attendance was Walter Isoko, Chief Growth Officer at Terminal Africa. “This partnership is just the latest move to demonstrate that Keyla is serious about empowering growing businesses in Nigeria and beyond. e-commerce websites will go a long way to setting these businesses on the right path and it is a laudable initiative In a testament to not resting on their laurels, Keyla technologies also took advantage of this occasion to announce that it had raised $250,000 in seed fundings for its latest venture Cravings, a food delivery service which will launch in the first quarter of 2022. POLL “When we started Keyla it was our mission to build a company that will be key to tech advancement on the African continent by providing quality services and building tech products to solve key business problems.”