Senator Magnus Abe, a former Senator who represented Rivers South-East district at the National Assembly and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that he doesn’t have to be friends with the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi to be qualified as a member of the ruling party. Abe said that former Governor Amaechi was a friend but noted that they are no longer friends, and quickly added that they are members of the same political party and need to have a relationship that will make it possible for them to work together. The former lawmaker who spoke on Arise Television on Tuesday said, “There is no requirement that I have to be a friend of Rotimi Amaechi before I can be a member of the APC. “If it were so, a lot of people who are members of the party across the country who are not friends with other members would have been forced to leave. “This is not a social club or an association of friends, it is a political party, in which diverse interests and ambitions will have to be managed constructively, according to the rules. I think that if we can focus on that and leave a lot of personal animosity and hatred that we exhibit within the party, I believe that we can make better progress,” he said. The former Senator stressed that the accusation of working with Governor Wike of Rivers State is an attempt to undermine the capabilities of some of them, pointing out that what Amaechi always try to do is to say that without the support of Wike they cannot challenge him (Amaechi) within the party. He said, “This has been the message that he (Amaechi) is trying to send and I believe that Nigerians understand that politics in a democracy is by numbers. “We have the numbers within the APC to make our point visible and affect the direction of any voting exercise that takes place in this state. “The problem that we have across various chapters of this party is caused by internal strive within the party, is it caused by anybody outside? The problem is caused by the exclusion of key members of the party and thousands of other members of the party in the state,” he said.