A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, Dr Nnannna Igwe has said he would make the economy of the state the best in Nigeria and possibly, in Africa, if elected Governor in 2023. Mr Igwe, the United Kingdom-based Medical Consultant, who stated this in Abakaliki while interacting with Journalists at the weekend, pledged to create a digital economy that would be able to create wealth and capacity that would impact every Ebonyi person. “I’m here to consolidate on the work and bring capacity, and experience with competence in different other areas to try to lift Ebonyi people out of poverty, create wealth and make our economy the number one economy not only in Nigeria but possibly in Africa. Crack In CECPC Widens Ahead Of  APC Convention APC Convention: Crack In CECPC Widen “We are going to create a digital economy that will be able to create wealth and create capacity in our system that will be able to impact on every Ebonyi person as much as possible,” he said. According to him, I can bring foreign investments into the State that will help develop our state in a manner that has never happened before. “Health sector will receive a massive boost. We will start a system similar to what we have in the United Kingdom, we have National Health Service in the UK, we will create Ebonyi Health Service and that health service will be free, that you go to hospital free and be treated free. “There will be an ambulance system that will have an emergency number, wherever you are and you call that number, the ambulance will come and pick you up, take you to the hospital and treat you, and if it is something they will treat you at home, they will treat you. We will build and equip more hospitals and employ more Doctors and Nurses so that they will have 24hours service in our rural hospitals. “Now, in the educational sector, we shall have a free primary and secondary and affordable university education. We will create also bursaries and scholarships where they are required. POLL “Then, we will build capacity in our schools, employ more teachers and make our educational system one of the best in the country. The reason why education is so key is that for me, education is successful and not the key to success. “More importantly, I will be creating a Ministry of internationalization. And that is the Ministry that will help me to interface and transfer what I have learnt overseas, home, and also to be able to create opportunities for Ebonyi people outside here, and in different parts of the international community such as the UK, USA, China, Canada and so on. “I can go on and on, but very importantly, our solid minerals. We have a lot of solid mineral deposits in the State and we will get it working and tap it to the very best interest of the Ebonyi people. We are going to commercialize, revolutionalize and mechanise agriculture and build industries along with the agriculture value chain. “I will create industrialization that will empower our economy and wipe out unemployment in Ebonyi state. These are some of the visions that I have. I’m here for a MEGA mission. MEGA means Make Ebonyi Greater Agenda,” the governorship hopeful, said. Mr Igwe who noted that he was not contesting any election but was offering himself for the service to his people said he had the capability, competence, experience, credibility and the highest integrity index of all the people contesting for the governorship position. 2023: Nigerians Have Resolved To Vote APC Out -PDP APC Chairmanship: Al-Makura Visits, Solicits Akeredolu’s… He pledged to unite the people of the State more than any other governorship aspirant. “I’m the equity they are looking for. I give you the instances, the reasons why I think I’m the equity they are looking for are: One, they said, when you go to equity, you go with clean hands. I have not held government office, I have no business with government money and I’m a friend to every Ebonyi person. “So, if there is anyone that can unite the State and knows what to do and who can continue with the previous governments to make government a continuum because that’s what I learnt from where I am. The government normally has a road map that continues, no matter who is in power. “So, I will continue with a strategic road map already put in place by Governor David Umahi’s administration”, he concluded.