LAGOS – The Federal Government had denied the selection of the Middle East Carrier, Qatar Airways as the preferred bidder for the impending national carrier, Nigeria Air. A statement by Dr James Odaudu, Director, Public Affairs, Ministry of Aviation, said that the government was yet to select any airline or business organization as a preferred bidder, insisting that such claim was capable of discrediting the process of the establishment of the airline and discouraged interested party from participating. The ministry had earlier in the week issued a Request For Proposal for the impending national carrier. NAHCON Commends Katsina Pilgrims Board For Improved Facilities PMQs: Johnson Struggles To Defend Refugee Policy Odaudu hinted that throughout the process leading to the publication of the Request for Proposal, the guiding principle had been transparency and accountability, which the government promised, maintaining that this principle would remain till the final delivery of the project. The statement added: “We wish to state categorically that no corporate entity or individual has been appointed or selected, or even preferred for the project as the process for selection has just started with the Request for Proposal. “All interested partners and the public are therefore advised to discountenance the report and proceed with their proposals as we assure them of our unalloyed commitment to transparency and accountability till the end of the process.” Odaudu pointed out that the ministry’s driving force was the commitment of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to bequeath to the country a national carrier that Nigerians would be proud of, maintaining that its determination and commitment to it remained stoic. The national carrier project had suffered several postponements in the last six years. POLL A source close to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) confided in our correspondent that the application for the Air Operator’s Certificate (AOC) for the airline was filed just two weeks ago. The airline is expected to birth in April 2022, according to Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation. Many analysts in the Nigerian aviation industry have continued to express pessimism about the seriousness of the Ministry of Aviation, the driver of the project, saying that so far, nothing tangible is on the ground to indicate that the airline would commence operations in April apart from the AOC application of about two weeks ago. For instance, so far, the airline is yet to have offices in any airport in Nigeria, including Abuja and Lagos, while the recruitment exercise for technical personnel is yet to begin. More so, information is still sketchy about the aircraft type the intending airline is set to deploy for operations and its technical partners or foreign investors who are to own 49 percent stake in the airline. Ebonyi Cybercrime Law, Constitutional, Court Declares All Set For Coronation Of 42nd Olubadan However, Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, NCAA in a terse online message to Daily Independent on the issue recently, reiterated that the regulatory body would not compromise in the issuance of AOC to the airline or any other carrier. “NCAA will not compromise on the issuance of AOC to any operator,” he responded.