DAMATURU – The Building Resilience in Complex Crisis (BRICC) recovery program is funded by the European Union. Mercy Corps leads the implementation working jointly with, Danish Refugee Council (DRC) and Cooperazione Internazionale (COOPI) in a consortium, alongside the Yobe State government’s ministries and agencies. The program aims to build the adaptability of 26,875 vulnerable households of 30 target communities in six LGAS (Damaturu, Potiskum, Geidam, Yunusari, Gujuba and Gulani) of Yobe State by increasing their ability to cope with the shocks and the stresses of conflict, climate change and complex crisis. BRICC aims to strengthen their capacity to address the underlying causes that can reduce the risks of future conflict within three years (April 2019 – July 2022). 2023: Aspirant Urges INEC To Bring Election Timetable Defaulters… BREAKING: ISWAP Trains Suicide Bombers To Attack Northeast – DSS The goal of the youth livelihood intervention was to address the underlying challenges of youth employment and recruitment/indoctrination of young people into violent extremist groups (Boko Haram). Over the last 18 months, the program has been able to build economic opportunities through on and off-farm livelihood activities. So far over 5,000 youths have been trained in 17 different vocational skills. About 70% supported with startup pack for their respective enterprises. At inception, the program supported the Youth Empowerment and Social Support Operations – (YESSO) to register Poor and Vulnerable Households. Youths, 18-24 years (with a harmonized selection criteria with the government agency), from these households were identified. In collaboration with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), these identified youth were attached to over 500 NDE Master training across 30 communities in 17 viable skills. The program also supports the Ministry of Women Affairs, SUBEB BEST Center and NDC vocational training centres with vocational training equipment. POLL Nuhu Idris is a 23-year-old Secondary School graduate from Gujba town in Gujba Local Government Area, faced with the effects of insurgency, Nuhu was supported by DRC’s EU funded BRICC and the National Directorate of Employment to acquire vocational skills in welding and metal fabrication service. He was selected to receive a cash business grant to start up a welding business and now stands out in his community.