LAGOS  – The Managing Director of Global Process and Pipeline Services Limited (GPPSL), Engr. Obi Uzu, has advised that Nigeria should develop enough capacity to exploit the remaining hydrocarbon resources on account of global embrace of energy transition. He said developed countries are already turning their back on fossil fuels He spoke during the panel session, “Competitive Landscape & Sustainable Development of In-Country Value Addition” at the just concluded Nigeria International Energy Summit (N.I.E.S 2022) in Abuja. He also advised Nigeria’s oil service companies have been urged to key into the Decade of Gas initiative by the Federal Government and develop capacity around the resource and other allied industries in the value chain. He added: “It is important for our local oil service companies to build capacity around natural gas and the allied industries in the value chain which include power, petrochemical, fertilizer, pharmaceutical amongst others”, said Uzu, adding that “building capacity for our local oil service companies should hinge on process, plan, strategy and resources”. Daily Independent reports that the session explored different in-country value addition scenarios critical to robust enhancement of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry with the mission to encourage the use of local labour, goods and services at different stages of the oil and gas value chain. It also noted that Nigeria has witnessed huge milestones and success stories in its local content journey which should be exported to other Africa countries with hydrocarbon resources. Speaking further, Uzu maintained that the success of the Nigerian Local Content intervention can be tied to the efforts of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and its leadership. POLL He added that Nigeria’s local content experiment has become the poster boy of in-country value addition for other African countries with extractive resources”, Uzu said. In his address, Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, Executive Secretary and Chief Executive of NCDMB said that Local Content is at the core of the prevailing energy mix. He said: “Transitions will always be triggered once the level of locally available resource are depleted or threatened. The only problem is forcing people to abandon their own locally available energy resource in pursuit of agenda and timeline set by others”.