Buoyed by the decision of the All Peoples Congress (APC) to zone its candidate for the 2023 presidential election to the south, a group, Goodluck Jonathan for 2023 Organization, has passionately asked the former President, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan not to hesitate to join the presidential race under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). According to the National Coordinator of the group, Mazi Chukwudike Abraham, the former Nigerian President would be a stabilizer, unifier and reliable bridge between the north and the south if he heeds the call to join the presidential race under the APC. Fielding questions from our Correspondent in Umuahia on Friday, Abraham contended that at a time the nation’s morale is at its lowest ebb with the poor becoming poorer, insecurity on the increase, ethnicity and ethnic champions campaigning for dismembering of the nation, sectional hatred and strife becoming a daily occurrence, Jonathan’s presidency will restore Nigeria to the part of political, economic and social stability and cohesion. “He’s a bridge-builder of international dimension. When the battle is getting hot in a war situation, you bring in a stabilizer to restore things. That’s the role Goodluck Jonathan should play now. We need a man of character and visionary who wouldn’t allow his fellow countrymen and women to be killed because of politics or leadership. “Remember his famous speech that ‘my ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian’. A man that made such a speech, does he not deserve the support of all to restore the unity and progress of this country? We’re earnestly yearning for his acceptance to run under the APC because we know that he’ll steer the nation back to economic and political reckoning”. “We’re asking him to do so quickly and without further delay because the 2023 elections timetable released by the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) would soon begin to run its full course. The primaries will commence any moment from now, therefore a delay and sitting on the fence by him will not be in the best interest of the nation”, he opined. On what the members are doing to ensure victory for the former President should he decide to contest for the 2023 presidency, Abraham disclosed that the Goodluck Jonathan for 2023 Organization is mobilizing over 30 million adult Nigerians that will cast their votes for the former President if he makes the right decision to come out to contest for the presidency in 2023. “In the Southeast, we’ve embarked on the door to door enlightenment. Some people may not understand that the only acceptable candidate for now in Nigeria is Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. All these politicians grandstanding as presidential hopefuls are ethnic jingoists; they’re not acceptable and cannot win beyond their confines and circle of ethnicity”, he submitted.