LAGOS – The feeling and satisfaction that comes with positively impacting the lives of others can never be equated with any other gain. Adewale Adetona, better known as Islimfit, is indescribable, but the word that comes close is his vision for a functional Nigeria and the passion for young techpreneurs in the country. The impact of the Lagos Digital Summit (LDS) since it was launched five years ago by Islimfit cannot be overvalued among the at least over 1,000 participants it draws every year. The caliber of speakers that grace its podium speaks of the radical change the idea was principally conceived to achieve. The LDS is a free platform targeted at brand and communication managers, techpreneurs, digital media strategists, Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) owners/managers, start-ups, Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), corporate bodies, tech compliant, adaptive firms and the general public. According to Islimfit, the LDS was established to “harness the constant innovations in a fast-paced digital world for the advancement of the society and enrichment of its burgeoning population, especially the millennials, borne out of the need for a platform to facilitate the convergence of great minds and coalescence of groundbreaking ideas that will shape the nation’s digital landscape through engaging discourse and empowerment…” The summit has attracted experts in various industries as keynote speakers, such as Segun Awosanya, Dr Joe Abah, Taiwo-Kola Ogunlade, among others. Responding during a recent question and answer session on his most impactful and memorable adventure in the industry, islimfit added that, “That should be founding Lagos Digital Summit; the kind of sponsors, corporate organisations, high-profiled speakers, volunteers and attendees that the Summit has been able to attract has been a memorable and proud feeling for me”. Continuing, islimfit added that, “The impact of Lagos Digital Summit since inception cannot be overlooked. We have had more than 1,000 participants for each of the editions, who have been empowered with diverse digital skills for their businesses. POLL “We have generally witnessed the vital role digital media has played globally this year – from updates to providing relevant information in the ongoing battle against the pandemic, and citizens holding their governments accountable for policy decision and societal transformation”, islimfit added.