The 36 state governors have reached a consensus that one of them should emerge as the next President of the country. The governors, it was gathered, are insisting on producing the next President of the country, come 2023. A source at the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), who disclosed this at the weekend, added the governors in both parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have already perfected their plan that the presidential candidate must be taken from amongst the governors. 2023: We’ve Perfected Yahaya Bello Presidency Masterplan,… 2023: Redeemed Church Sets Up Political Department Ahead Of… The source further said that the 36 state governors had reached a consensus that one of them, irrespective of the party, should emerge as the next President of the country. The governors may have to support any party that take its candidate from their forum, in the case that one of the political parties picks its candidate outside the governors. Their arguement, according to the source, is that they have the competence, experience, age advantage and contemporary connections needed to rebuild the nation, adding that, that is the reason why they are insisting on controlling the party structures of both parties ahead of their congresses and Presidential primaries. The source said: “I can tell you that the governors of the 36 states have reached a consensus that one of them should emerge as the next President of the country. “The governors have been meeting and consulting on producing the Presidential candidates of both the APC and the PDP and the consultations have reached very advanced level. In a matter of days, the governors will make a formal declaration in this direction.” POLL It was further gathered that this is the main reason the state governors in the APC are insisting on retaining the control of the APC’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) ahead of the party’s National Executive (NEC) meeting next Thursday in preparation for the National Convention later in the month. In the PDP, it was learnt that the governors have intensified consultations among party leaders ahead of the party national caucus meeting scheduled for Monday in Abuja as well as the Party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on Tuesday. The PDP is expected to reach critical decisions, including zoning as well as its schedule of activities and guidelines for the 2023 general elections at the two crucial meetings.