Omolara Svensson, GMD OOK Group is certainly doing great things in the agro-allied sector. Asides from being one of Nigeria’s leading exporters of agricultural produce with expertise in the farming, production, packaging and exportation of produce like cassava, maize, soya, cashew, sesame, seeds, dry beans, rice, groundnut, vegetables and charcoal, the delectable media professional cum agribusiness entrepreneur sits on the board of several companies and has successfully partnered the affairs of OOK Group for almost two decades Earlier in the week, the amazon of agribusiness held an OOK Farms ‘Farm To Plate’ Symposium at IITA, Ibadan where economic and agricultural industry entrants and experts discussed at length the problems of the industry while proffering workable, tried and tested solutions to the myriad of problems. Los Angeles Park Unveils San Diego Zoo’s Giant Porcupine… Mountain Lion Finally Captured In California The event was also a relaunch of OOK. The main speaker of the day Dr Reuben Abati, who spoke on the topic, Redirecting the Youths and Women to Opportunities in Agriculture and Agribusiness Industry in Nigeria, stated that it was important to the economy and general growth of the nation to integrate women into every industry. According to him, the misogynist culture that exists in Nigeria is what allows women to be discriminated against even in the agricultural sector. He highlighted that women are at a disadvantage in agriculture because there is less access to land for women than men, making it difficult for them to grow their business properly. Prof. Isaac Aiyelaagbe of the department of Horticulture, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, who delivered a lecture on ‘The Impact the School Curriculum Plays in Discouraging the girlchild/women in pursuing a career in Agriculture and Agribusiness’ stated that the lecture was put together alongside his wife Prof. Olapeju Oluyemisi Aiyelaagbe, Professor of Chemistry, University of Ibadan and focal person, Gender Mainstreaming Office, UI, Ibadan. The duo highlighted the problems of women and the girl-child in agriculture and agribusiness. Pastor Mrs Olanrewaju Elizabeth Nwankwo, on her part, did justice to the topic of ‘Opportunities in Commodity Export’, while the attendees of the symposium got firsthand knowledge of what it is to grow a farm in Nigeria from Mrs Seun Ogidan. Ogidan, who spoke on the ‘Experience as a woman in Agribusiness Industry in Nigeria’ gave a detailed analysis of her success and failure in farm business. POLL Also on hand were representatives of UBA Bank and Access Bank, who explained how the financial institutions have seen the potential of Agribusiness in Nigeria and have made solid plans to support the industry. In her remarks, Svensson expressed her gratitude for supporters of Agribusiness while sharing her personal experiences in the sector.