Lagos – Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has charged the Local Government / Local Council Development Area chairpersons to continue to collaborate with the state government to deliver even more democracy dividends to residents of the state. Sanwo-Olu, who gave the charge during a working visit to Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the state on Wednesday, said that as the closest tier of government to the people, there lies a great responsibility upon the shoulders of council bosses, “which must be always fulfilled.” He noted that the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State “is known for its commitment to infrastructure, healthcare, education, and social investment, and we must continually build on this strong reputation at all levels of governance.” 2022 IWD: NGO To Gift 100 Traders, Street Sweepers Food Items 2023: Hope Alive As Gov Emmanuel Reviews Ongoing Projects In… The governor said, “As elected representatives in government, we will embrace every opportunity to visit and engage with you and give account of our stewardship of the resources you have entrusted to our care. “We also consider visits like this an opportunity to see first-hand how well the various local governments, the closest tier of government to the people, are implementing our collective governance agenda, in this case the THEMES Agenda.” Sanwo-Olu stated that the APC administration in Lagos “is driven by the simple desire to deliver the dividends of democracy in every sector, in every neighbourhood, ensuring that no one, young, old, male, female, is left behind. “And we certainly have made sure that Eti-Osa is not left behind in the wave of infrastructural development that you have come to associate with our government and our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC).” The governor said that, “true governance is all about tangible benefits delivered consistently, and which create new social and economic opportunities for the generality of our people. POLL We will not relent in this regard. “Three years on, we have been able to make it abundantly clear that power is to be wielded in service to the people. I am also very pleased that the Local Government and LCDAs are just as committed to this as the state government is.”