LAGOS  – While many stakeholders and analysts have continued to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the controversies are not yet over. The president want a fundamental defect in the Act removed. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President Bukola Saraki, and the All Progressives Congress (APC) all had welcomed the signing of the bill by the President. The leadership of the two chambers of the National Assembly also expressed joy at the development although there were indications that some members of the legislative arm were not keen on amending the Act. We ‘ll Continue To Deliver Free, Qualitative Education To… 2023 Presidency: TOTT, Other Groups Drum Support For Osinbajo Buhari had good words to say generally about the new law citing Sections 3, 9(2), 34, 41, 47, 84(9), (10) and (11), among others. His words: “It is my perspective that the substance of the Bill is both reformative and progressive. I am making this bold declaration because I foresee the great potential of the Bill. Worthy of note include the democratic efficacy of the Bill with particular reference to sections 3, 9(2), 34, 41, 47, 84(9), (10) and (11), among others.” President Buhari’s Objection The president, however, raised objections to Section 84 (12) of the new law, which bars political appointees from voting or being voted for in political parties’ congresses and conventions. While noting that such a clause was unconstitutional, President Buhari demanded an immediate amendment of the bill for the purpose of deleting the section. He explained that the practical application of the section would subject serving political office holders to inhibitions and restrictions referred to under sections 40 and 42 of the 1999 Constitution as amended. POLL Section 84(10-13) limits courts from stopping party primaries or elections from holding. The same section prevents political office holders at any level from participating or contesting for nomination into any elective office during parties’ primaries at National Convention or State Congress. It says: “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the Convention or Congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election. “Where a political party fails to comply with the provisions of this Act in the conduct of its primaries, its candidate for election shall not be included in the election for the particular position in issue. “Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or rules of a political party, an aspirant who complains that any of the provisions of this Act and the guidelines of a political party have not been complied with in the selection or nomination of a candidate of a political party for election, may apply to the Federal High Court for redress. Nigeria Bleeding From Corruption – Korodo Sowore’s Presidential Declaration: The Never-Say-Die Spirit “Nothing in this section shall empower the Courts to stop the holding of primaries or general elections under this Act pending the determination of a suit.” A Different Point Of View However, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) disagreed with the President on his call for the removal of Section 84 (12) with the governor dismissing Buhari’s objection as selfish. For some observers, the contentious section is targeted at ministers and other political office holders seeking to be president, governors or members of the National Assembly. For these political analysts, unless the section is removed, such political appointees cannot participate in party primaries whether as delegates or candidates. Though the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said last week that the National Assembly was expecting formal communication from the President on his observation in order to amend the Act, there are claims that some senators and members of the House of Representatives were not keen on any fresh amendment to the Act. As it was gathered, if the lawmakers do not amend Section 84(12), it means all ministers and other political office holders cannot participate in the primaries for the 2023 elections. Analysts have also argued that section 84(12) is a slippery clause, which has left all political office holders in a dilemma, as their aspirations may be in jeopardy unless there is a synergy between the Executive and the Legislature. “That was why the President met with the President of the Senate, Dr. Lawan, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila. “Actually, at the meeting with the National Assembly leaders, the President wanted the section expunged. He also got a commitment from the leaders that his request would be considered. “The case of the affected political office holders is worsened by the fact that they are barred from going to court to either stop the conduct of primaries or any election,” a source said. Another source explained that, “If the opposition parties, especially PDP, refuse to cooperate to amend section 84(12), this may foreclose the presidential and governorship aspirations of some ministers and political office holders. We hope politics will not creep into this again. Both the Executive and the Legislature should honour their gentleman’s agreement.” Opposition’s Accusation Wike, who reacted with mixed feelings to the signing of the Bill, said although the introduction of electronic transmission of results will reduce killings and electoral fraud in the country, the president’s reservations on Section 84(12), which deals with the status of political appointees during party conventions and congresses, is selfish. Briefing newsmen in Port Harcourt, Governor Wike said Buhari’s reservation indicates that protecting the interest of his appointees was all the while the main reason for not signing the amended bill and not the initial rejection on the ground of the mode of conducting party primaries. He, however, called on the National Assembly not to be taken as “kindergartens” by refusing to amend the section of the newly signed Electoral Act as requested by President Buhari. He equally challenged the INEC to seize this opportunity to prove its credibility in delivering acceptable elections. CNPP, which also shared Wike’s view, said in a statement by its Secretary General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, that the contentious section indeed provides for equity at political party primaries. The group said, “The President is crying more than the bereaved by ordering the immediate removal of the clause that barred political appointees at all levels from voting as delegates or be voted for at party Conventions or Congress’s political parties for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for elections. “Clause 84 (12), which reads, ‘no political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the Convention or Congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election’, only introduced equity in political party primary elections. “An appointee of the Executive should not, and must not, be a delegate in primary elections while still in office, just as an appointee must not be contesting as a delegate while still in office. “Such appointees have ended up using their offices to intimidate political opponents of their principals during party primaries in a bid to retain their jobs. “This is the major reason for electoral violence witnessed at local government and state congresses of most virile political parties in the country with the attendant loss of lives and property. “Rather than delete the clause, the National Assembly should amend any provision of the constitution that allows any appointee to be a delegate or be a voter or contest as delegate at party Conventions or Congresses the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” Meanwhile, INEC, which is saddled with the responsibility of overseeing or implementing much of the Electoral Act, has described the bill as historic “being the fourth time since the restoration of democracy in Nigeria in 1999 that the Electoral Act is repealed and re-enacted.” The National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of INEC, Festus Okoye, said in a statement in Abuja that the Act “contains many progressive provisions that will facilitate the conduct of free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria. “The nation now has the Electoral Act 2022, which replaces the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). Together with the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the new Act constitutes the principal law to govern the conduct of future elections, including the 2023 general election. “Given the tight timelines contained in the new law, the Commission fully appreciates the importance of proceeding with their implementation in earnest.” He said that following the signing of the bill into law by the President, INEC would be holding an extraordinary meeting today on the way forward. Highlights Of Amended Bill By the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022, all political parties are expected to submit the list of their candidates for the 2023 polls not later than 180 days before the date appointed for the elections. INEC had earlier fixed February 18, 2023 for the first round of the next general election. With the 180-day window, parties have up to August 18, 2022 to submit the names of their candidates for presidential, governorship, Senate and House of Representatives and State House of Assembly to INEC. Section 29 (1-3) of the Electoral Act 2022, provides that, “Every political party shall, not later than 180 days before the date appointed for a general election under this Act, submit to the Commission, in the prescribed Forms, the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections, who must have emerged from valid primaries conducted by the political party. “The list or information submitted by each candidate shall be accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the candidate at the Federal High Court, High Court of a State, or Federal Capital Territory, indicating that he or she has fulfilled all the constitutional requirements for election into that office. “The Commission shall, within seven days of the receipt of the personal particulars of the candidate, publish the same in the constituency where the candidate intends to contest the election.” Regarding mode of primaries, Section 84 (1) recommends as follows: “A political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions which shall be monitored by the Commission. (2) The procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the various elective positions shall be by direct, indirect primaries or consensus.” How Others Received It Gbajabiamila, in his reaction, said the President’s action was in line with APC’s determination to bequeath a legacy of improved democracy to Nigerians. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said the new law was a collaborative effort by all stakeholders made up of civil society organisations, labour, the media, the INEC, etc., and that this is what happens when all stakeholders work together in the best interest of the country. He said with the signing into law of the new electoral act, the Nigerian electorate would witness an improvement in the country’s electoral process. He said Nigeria’s democracy stands to gain a lot from the new electoral law. The APC on its part, called the signing of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law as a big victory for the country’s electioneering processes and democracy. The Secretary of the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, in a statement, noted that the development would provide an improved legal framework in the lead up to 2023 electioneering processes and future elections. The party asked well-meaning Nigerians to join it to “completely stamp out past practices of electoral fraud weaponised by past administrations of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” Also commenting the opposition PDP said the new law is “a death knell for the APC, which thrives in manipulations, ballot box snatching, ballot box stuffing and alteration of election results at the collation centres against the expressed will of the people.” PDP’s spokesman, Debo Ologunagba, said, “It is clear that President Buhari and the deflated APC had come to their wits end and bowed to the sustained pressure by the PDP and Nigerians for the entrenchment of processes that can guarantee free, fair, transparent and credible elections in 2023. “The victory by Nigerians in resisting the APC and compelling President Buhari to sign the new Electoral Act clearly signposts the inevitable triumph of the will and aspiration of the people to kick out the APC through a process that ensures that votes cast at the polling units count.” Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar in his reaction, expressed satisfaction at the signing of the bill, saying, “Now that the legal framework for the 2023 elections is in place following President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent to the Electoral Bill, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needs to roll out the election guidelines in earnest so that the political parties and Nigerians can fully commence the journey to choose their leaders in 2023. Atiku, who aired his view via tweet, wrote, “I wish to acknowledge the work of the legislature in bringing this law with new innovations into fruition. I also pay tribute to the nudge of the civil society and patriotic Nigerians in making this brand new Electoral Act a reality.” Former Senate President, Bukoka Saraki, said Buhari deserved commendation for working with the federal legislature and rising above partisan interest to give the country a new law that could reform the electoral process. “The big applause should go to the members of the civil society organisations who for the past one year, have kept up the pressure and continuously agitated for the passage of the new electoral bill. “The new Electoral Act brings us closer to having free, fair and peaceful elections in which people’s votes count, where the majority will have their way and the minority will have their say. “For too long, the old electoral law had been part of the problem. We can now seek to elect our leaders having in mind the current challenges facing our country.” The 2023 Litmus Test With the Electoral Act now in place, it is presumed that there is the right legislation to deal with some of the issues that had hindered the smooth conduct of credible polls in Nigeria. Observers say that INEC needs to do more to have a hitch-free outing next year, and part of the suggestions is that political offenders must be punished. They said that having legislation in place may not solve all the problems if there is no deliberate attempt to enforce some of the provisions. “I think having the bill is the right step forward ahead 2023. It would sanitise a lot of things in our electoral process. If you look over the years, this is what Nigerians have been clamouring for in view of the challenges we have. “Going forward, my concern is that we don’t punish these people, how many election offenders face the law after the 2019 general elections. We have to make people face consequences of their action to serve as deterrence or else this would continue”, Lanre Oyegbola, a public affairs and political analyst said. Oyegbola stressed that if INEC and the federal government were interested in tackling voter apathy in the country, violence that had characterised elections in Nigeria must be checked. “I have not read the bill but my point of worry also is that I noticed our elections are always ridiculed with violence, this even goes a long way to discourage a lot of eligible voters from coming out to vote on Election Day,” he added. Kunle Okunola, political analyst blamed politicians for always trying to manipulate the system, despite regulation in their favour in collusion with INEC officials in a bid to be successful at the poll at all cost. “I commend the President for signing, well we don’t know what the plans of the politicians would be now ahead 2023, don’t forget in a bid to win at all cost, politicians always find their way to break the law or work with officials to manipulate the system. I am sure they are looking for a way out now. “The question is; if INEC is ready to do the right thing? Would their officials not compromise? We don’t have a perfect system, I think the ball is in INEC’s court now,” Okunola said.