German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Wednesday underlined their commitment to securing further peace talks between Russia and Ukraine. Scholz’s visit was planned before fighting erupted in Ukraine, where Russia’s invasion is in its seventh day. Scholz reaffirmed said the chance to visit Israel had been particularly important to him. Ukraine Foreign Minister Says South Korea Will Take Active Part… U.N. Urges Countries To Open Borders To Africans Fleeing Ukraine “Despite the current situation in the world, I’ve decided to pay this visit now and it was the right thing to do.” He reaffirmed Germany’s commitment to Israel’s security, saying Germany’s responsibilities had been made clear to him once again by a visit to Israel’s Holocaust memorial, Yad Vashem. “You can rely on it. Germany will continue to be steadfast at Israel’s side.” The chancellor also said both countries were keen to work towards further peace talks between Russia and Ukraine. “The news coming from Ukraine right now is dreadful. We’re seriously concerned about how this conflict is going to develop, and this is why we need to do everything possible to try to effect a change in this situation. “Of course, the issue now is that diplomacy gets another big chance,” said Scholz. “I’m very thankful that both of us are going to do what we can to make sure that talks between Ukraine and Russia will soon be continued.” POLL He again called on Russia to immediately cease all hostilities cease. “Attacks on civilian infrastructure and civilians must stop,” he stressed. Bennett said it was Israel’s “duty to do everything we can do to end the bloodshed.” “It is not too late.” However, he said, given Israel’s experience of war: “Unfortunately, it can get much worse.” The German chancellor addressed the issue of a new Iran nuclear agreement — something staunchly opposed by Israel — saying it “cannot be postponed any longer.” Nearly 6,000 Russian Soldiers Killed – Zelensky Russia Says Sanctions Won’t Affect S-400 Missile Deal With India “Now is the time to make a decision, Scholz told reporters about the talks in Austria’s capital. “This must not be postponed any longer.” Bennett said Israel was following the talks in Vienna with concern. Israel, he said, would not allow Iran to gain nuclear weapons status.