The National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) has said that the hike in the price of aviation fuel in Nigeria and the scarcity of the product was capable of crippling the country’s aviation industry. This is as the price of aviation fuel on Thursday hits the N700 per litre mark at the Lagos Airport, while the price may be higher in other airports outside the state. A statement by Engr. Abednego Galadima, the President of NAAPE, challenged the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency intervenes in the situation before it destroyed the nation’s economy. Union Shuts Operations Of Bristow, Caverton Helicopters Unions Threaten To Ground Aviation Industry Over Salaries… Galadinma expressed that the association was worried about the issue, decrying that has made traveling very difficult for passengers and caused much disruption in the operations of domestic airlines. He added: “The industry is still recovering from the negative impact of the pandemic and many airlines haven’t completely recovered. If this issue of scarcity is not immediately addressed by the Federal Government, not only would the airlines be negatively impacted, the ripple effect will be felt in the aviation downstream sector which may lead to job losses. “It has been reported that the House of Representatives will convene a meeting of industry stakeholders with a view to solving the issue, but we don’t want it to stop at that. The executive arm of government, should as a matter of urgency, address the issues causing the scarcity and price hike so that normalcy can return to the industry.” However, an airline operator told our correspondent on Thursday that the price of aviation fuel had climbed to N700 per litre in Lagos, while it may be higher outside the state. This is the second time the price of the product would increase in the local market this week. POLL On Tuesday, the price hit the unprecedented N607 per litre in Kano Airport. Just last week, the price of the product rose from N426 per litre to N400 to a litre. The price of the product has continued to climb in the last one year in the local market. In February 2021, the product was sold at N190 per litre in the local market, but by the end of the year, the product rose to between N350 and N370 per litre in the local market, which was about a 90 per cent increase from the former price of N190 per litre.