Ahead of Saturday’s All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention, some national secretary aspirants who have paid for nomination form have vowed to show up for the screening in Abuja despite the South-West consensus candidate for the post. Meanwhile, the Governors elected on the platform of APC from the South-West have reportedly endorsed a former governor of Osun State, Iyiola Omisore for the position but other contestants who purchased the form for the position, have called on the governors to allow a level playfield for the convention. Daily Independent had reported that the post of national secretary and national youth leaders are among the key national offices the APC zoned to the South-West. Chairman of the South West governors’ forum, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, in a statement on Sunday, explained that the decision of the governors was in line with stakeholders in the zone micro-zoning the national secretary to Oyo/Osun axis. Akeredolu further said that certain elements outside the zone were creating unnecessary confusion and attempting to micro-zone offices for the area. Prior to Sunday’s declaration by the governors, those who purchased and submitted forms included Omisore (Osun); former Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu and former deputy governorship candidate, Professor Abideen Olaiya (both from Oyo) and Executive Director, Niger Delta Power Holding, Ife Oyedele (Ondo). Omisore’s endorsement was the governors taking a stance against certain forces keen on having a person of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) extraction become the national secretary. Though the position of national secretary was micro-zoned to Oyo/Osun, there is still uncertainty over who gets what with the fact that Oyedele from the Ondo/ Ekiti micro-zone also purchased the form for the position. Forces in favour of Omisore argue that, in the immediate, he is crucial for the party’s success in the forthcoming Osun governorship election. POLL However, Shittu and Olaiya while speaking with Nigerian Tribune, argued that the fact that Oyo does not have a sitting governor of APC extraction does not mean that the state should be excluded whenever critical party decisions are to be made. Having purchased the form to contest, they noted that they are unaware of a consensus and still look forward to being screened on Tuesday and the delegates making their choice of a national secretary at the convention. They claimed that the state chairman, Isaac Omodewu, who is the de facto leader of the party, is being sidelined from decisions of the South-West caucus of the APC and this may not augur well for the fortunes of the party in the state. Shittu said: “Our party is a democratic party. By the grace of God, we will go into the contest on Saturday. Nobody has informed us of the decision of leaders of the South-West caucus. “There is no way the South-West caucus of the party will be holding a meeting and I should not be a part of it. “The fact that Oyo does not have a governor does not mean that there are no APC members in Oyo state. “If APC is to make a better outing, it is only right for us to be involved in whatever leaders in the South West are doing. Consensus means that all parties must agree on a single candidate. As a democratic party, we should not be afraid of election. There must be a properly organized meeting and all contestants must agree that they don’t want to go for election.” On his part, Olaiya said: “It is just unfortunate that we do not have a serving APC governor in Oyo State. However, that does not preclude Oyo from being part of the South West. That post was zoned to South West. “If there will be a consensus, the six states should sit at a table, not three, four or five at the exclusion of one state. Such consensus is somehow. When five come together to make a decision on behalf of the six, can that be referred to as consensus? “Three states purchased forms for Secretary, if there had been consensus; it should be from one state. It means that there was no consensus. When this happens, the next thing is to allow a level playing ground for all the contestants because we all belong to South West and to the party. “I will plead with the governors to allow us a level-play ground since they couldn’t properly engage us to have a consensus. The only better opportunity available is to allow us to have a level-playing ground. “If they could not sit us down to agree on zoning this to that as they have in other regions. We have 11 posts given to the South West and nobody can equivocally say this is what is given to this state.”