Chidi Nwakaeze, Port Harcourt based political economist, in this interview with DANIEL ABIA, speaks about the economic importance of the Qatar maiden flight to Port Harcourt and how making the right political choice other zoning can resuscitate states’ economy, particularly that of Enugu state. Excerpts: History has been made by virtue of Qatar maiden flight from Doha to Port Harcourt considered to be the heart of oil and gas business in the Niger Delta region. What is your comment on this? Qatar is a peninsular Arab country whose terrain comprises of arid desert a long Persian (Arab) Gulf shoreline of beaches and dunes. Also on the coast is the capital, Doha known for its futurists Skyscrapers and other ultramodern architecture inspired by ancient Islamic designs such as the limestone museum of Islamic art. The museum, sits on the city cornices waterfront promenade. Qatar as at 2020 has a gross Domestic product which was estimated at $146Billion but the most interesting part of the country’s GDP is their GDP per capita which stood at $ 50,805.46 and their GNI per Capita Stood At $88,070. The Country’s gross national income is estimated to be at $253.7billion as at 2020. Qatar has a positive GDP growth rate which was estimated at 3.7% per annum and the country’s currency is called Riyal. The country has an active internet user which is one of the best in the world and it is estimated that 99.7% of the population are very active in the internet; this means that information technology and utilization is very high in Qatar. With the above ratio of 99.7% and internet users, it will have a huge multiplier effect of the GDP growth ratio and easy access to a whole lot of global businesses. Qatar is a very rich country and that is why the Qatar airways maiden flight to Port Harcourt is a huge milestone which should be a celebration not just in the South-South but in the south Eastern part of the country. POLL The old Eastern Nigerian State or region for everyone, it was a great history that took place on Thursday March 3rd 2022 when the first Qatar flight landed in the City of Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. The maiden Flight took off from Doha which is the capital city of Qatar and landed in Port Harcourt International Airport. The airplane A7BCX Dreamliner arrived in Omagwa and was warmly received by the Rivers state government. What is your idea about the Qatar airways that you think is good enough to add value to the economy of the region? The economic implication of the novel achievement of having a direct flight from Qatar to Port Harcourt is enormous. But, let us first look at what Qatar airways is known for. The airline is a multiple award winning airline, Qatar airways was awarded world’s best Business class, Best Business class airline-lounge and Best Airline staff service in the middle East at the prestigious 2016 Skytrax world Airline Awards. The maiden Flight means a lot for the old Eastern region which includes the South-south and the South-East. The old Eastern Region is predominantly business men and women who travel all over the world in search of opportunities. It is a well acknowledged fact that they are one of the most travelled black races on the surface of the earth. Before now, most people in the region usually travel all the way to Lagos in order to board a flight that can connect them to Qatar which takes a huge toll not only on them but also on their businesses. This process creates stress, thereby slows down ease of doing business with Qatar. With the maiden flight, the multiplier effect will be huge. Firstly, since product and services from Qatar can now come directly into Port Harcourt airport, it will definitely reduce the cost associated with such goods and services. When the cost is reduced, it will trigger increase in demand for such products and if the product in question has complimentary goods, such complimentary product will equally experience an astronomical growth in its demand. Through this, importers of such commodity can now import more of such products for our local consumption. Secondly, with the increase in the ease of doing business based on the direct flight, government can now generate more import ratio of Qatar product, hence, such taxes and import duties so generated can now be channeled to other sectors that need funding. Thirdly, this will create further revenue for state governments in the region and taxes can be paid for the products that will be landing at Port Harcourt airport. Again, this maiden flight and its continuity will equally lead to improved welfare of our people as they can now easily access products and services from Qatar without having to pass through lots of huddles for it. Nevertheless, there will be massive reduction in accidents on Lagos routes which usually lead to lose of lives, it has been observed that many people usually encounter accidents and robberies while on their way to Lagos. These dangers have actually discouraged a lot of intended travelers. When her person decides to use flight and connect Lagos for the trip, they will eventually pass the extra cost of the trip to the end user of the product thereby increasing the cost of products to people of the old eastern region. Flowing from the above, it is expected that the GDP of the Region will experience a huge growth with this direct flight by Qatar airlines. State government in the South-South and majorly are encouraged to utilise this very rare opportunity and further expand their frontiers. Lagos and Ogun states are booming with production of huge goods and services and it is because they have large access to most international flight which is lacking in this region. The economic opportunities that this maiden flight presents are too numerous to mention in this work. To what extent do you think the media can help to sustain this rare opportunity to the benefit of the regional economy? The media houses have a very huge role to play in this space in order to fully attract the benefits that direct flight presents. It is one thing to have an opportunity; it is another one to have awareness of its existence. The media houses need to create massive awareness for our traveling business men and women to have full knowledge of this opportunity. They can organise seminars, adverts rallies in our business cities such as Port Harcourt, Aba, Nnewi, Onitsha, Owerri and Enugu, with such awareness, frequency on the route will encourage Qatar airways to add more flights to Port Harcourt and with that, more revenue will accrue to both the state governments and the federal Agencies. This will equally lead to job creation to a large unemployed and underemployed youths which will have a positive multiplier effect on insecurity, as crime rate will drop with the increase in employment and positive engagements. This is a very wonderful opportunity that must be celebrated by Nigerians and the people of south-south and south-east regions. Talking about the south-east, Enugu state was supposed to be one of the richest states in Nigeria after the likes of Lagos and Abuja, what in your opinion is the set back? Enugu state has a long history in the part of Southern Nigerian development and the black race in general. Enugu became a municipality in 1956 with Umaru Alfine as its First Mayor. After four years, Nigeria gained her independence in 1960. On May 27th, 1967 the Nigeria Government created 12 states out of three regions – Western, Eastern and the Northern Regions and Enugu was made the capital of the new East Central State. The former Eastern region attempted to secede in the three year long civil war with our darling state Enugu as part of the secessionist States of Biafra. The city Enugu was named the Biafran capital until October 1967, when it was captured by Federal forces; the rest of the state was hard fought over, but much of it fell by June 1968. It is great to draw the attention to this historical analysis to the other cities that formed the capital of the Western and Northern region. The Western state had Lagos as its capital, while Kano was the capital of the Northern Nigeria. The cities of Lagos and Kano have all advanced rapidly in terms of industrialization and global presence, while Enugu still lags behind based on very shroud and parochial politics that is devoid of excellence. In 2010, the estimated GDP of Lagos State was put at $74billion and the state occupied the first position in Nigeria. Kano State which was the capital of Northern state had an estimated GDP OF $13 billion and was ranked 6th on the table while Enugu state which was the capital of Eastern Nigeria had a GDP OF $4.4 billion and occupied 25th position on the log. As at 2016 Lagos state GDP grew to $145 billion (as prepared by Lagos Bureau of Statistics and it was estimated to rise to N628 Trillion ($157.728 billion) by 2018 with a projected average annual growth rate of 4.2%. The city of Lagos is called the Centre of excellence. It is amazing how backward Enugu state has slide off the radar while the people are busy with very parochial argument like zoning instead of search for a man with the right capacity, sagacity and spirit of excellence that can take the state back to its rightful position. You can’t divorce politics from economy; please, tell us, do you think that if the political class should consider zoning, the states would be equally developed? You may argue that zoning has helped the states to maintain a very peaceful disposition in the eyes of everyone, but the danger of zoning heavily outweighs the peace that we sought after. Let me take you on a little journey on zoning; zoning in Enugu state in the last 23 years, for instance, has led the state into the election of very clannish governors/zonal heads rather than state governor with the exception of Sullivan Chime. In line with the above, in 1999 Chimaroke Nnamani was elected as the governor of Enugu state from the Nkanu extraction (because the people sought for a clannish/ zonal governor rather than a state candidate that can grow the economy of the state), instead of the elected governor to focus on how to grow the state, he preoccupied himself with how to move everything and every institution to his home town of Agbani. He moved the law School to Agbani, Enugu State University was equally moved to Agbani.