Barely four days to the swearing-in of Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo as Anambra State Governor, Dr Nelson Omenugha, one of Soludo’s ardent supporters has claimed that the youths of the state are not throwing their support for the governor-elect merely because he was the former Central Bank Governor. Omenugha who was the coordinator of Youth Earnestly Seek Soludo (YESS)  in an interview in Awka on Sunday said that part of the motivation for supporting Soludo is the fact that his life trajectories actually inspire. He said: “This is a village boy who grew in Isuofia, a rural setting, who by dint of hard work and grace of God rose to become a global citizen. Soludo Seeks Freedom To Work As Anambra Governor NANDRUM Honours Anambra Drug Merchants “It actually has nothing to do with his being a Central Bank Governor but due to this humble beginning, where he started and where he is today. If you pay attention to his life trajectory you will see that his background didn’t limit him. “He showed resilient spirit, he showed consistency, he showed that actually a son of nobody can emerge to be the son of somebody. So, the motivation is that I believe that our future lies in our past. “If we the Anambra Youths want to take the future there has to be a model, somebody whose life we should look up to, who will serve as a mentor on this journey; and if that is the case, then Soludo’s life trajectories fit the bill”. Omenugha who was one of the 80 member Transition Committee also spoke about the assignment.According to him, what Soludo did was to put together a team of men and women who came together to help take up some of the documents, study the plans and policies and the plan of the outgoing government and be able to set a template on which he, himself, can build upon to hit the ground running from day one. What the team did  he said, was essentially to interface with different MDAs, engage them in their area of strength, weakness and the opportunities that are bound and the challenges, the gains of the past and think of how those opportunities can be transformed for the incoming administration. POLL “It was all about preparing Soludo to be more prepared and to hit the ground running from day one so, we have done a very good job”, he said. As for woeeies in some quarters that Soludo speaks too much about his plans, Omenugha quipped: “There is absolutely nothing wrong with putting forward what one plans to do and that is what Soludo has done. So, saying what he will do, and also know that he is a great thinker, a deep one at that and very cerebral. He is not a careless talker, he thinks through before he makes statements”. “Besides, a leader should speak up. We have already read enough about his body language, at least he puts on Akwete. It is also good that he comes out to explain it so that people don’t misinterpret it. “It is straight, unambiguous that our textile industry has to succeed and other things he said was because he wouldn’t want other people to assume or to say, this is the body language of governor-elect, no, he comes out to assert himself and a good leader asserts himself. “It is something we give to Soludo, he says what he believes and does what he believes in”. APC Crisis Heightens As Court Voids APC Congress In Anambra Soludo Debunks Alleged Job Vacancy Advertisements Omenugha also said that from March 17 when Soludo is sworn in as Governor Anambra will “expect robust transformation, quite a deep disruption and most importantly a change in the dramatic and drastic attitude, change in the way things are done. There are going to be drastic changes for good and for the greater benefit of the State. “There has to be reform both in Civil Service and Public Service, both in overall project financing and management. People will experience phenomenal transformation that will bring out the overall growth and development in the state and we also have to experience quite a good number of reforms in policy implementation. “If there is something that goes for Soludo it is that he has the political will. He restores the political will that wi