IBADAN – The Conference of Iyalojas in Oyo State has advised politicians and government agencies to be vigilant on the desperation and activities of some impostors, particularly one Princess Folashade Abeo Nurudeen, otherwise known as Abeo Osa. In a release jointly signed by all the Iyalojas from the 33 Local Government Councils and 5 geopolitical zones in Oyo State shortly after the state meeting of the Coalition of Traders, Artisans, Market Men and Women in Oyo State, held in Ibadan and made available to journalists on Friday, the Iyalojas described Abeo Osa’s alleged activities as urge for undeserved recognition ahead of 2023 election. According to the statement, “The Conference of Iyalojas from the 33 Local Government Councils and 5 Geopolitical Zones in Oyo State wishes to categorically condemn the activities embarked on by one Princess Folashade Nurudeen who allegedly crowned herself as Iyaloja General of Oyo State late last year. Same woman through a body which is not known to the Coalition of Traders, Artisans, market men and women in Oyo State was recently announced as Iyaloja-General of Southwest States. “The information at our disposal revealed that some fraudulent people along with a minute number of conspirators are desperately working to deceive unsuspecting aspirants in the coming 2023 general election by promising to gather for them a reasonable number of voters among the traders, hence the need for the imposition. “Like the saying of the wise, silence means consent, this phrase necessitated our decision to distance all associations under the Coalition’s umbrella and over 2.5 million traders, artisans, market men and women in Oyo State as well as our businesses which run to several billions of Naira from the activities of these unknown traders parading themselves as market leaders in Oyo State. “Meanwhile the Conference acknowledged the existence of freedom of association and expression as contained in Nigerian Constitution, but warned those engaging in illegal and impersonating activities to desist and stop misinterpreting constitution. “We, of course, know that Nigerians enjoy the freedom of association and speech, so any group of people can as well come together to form an association, but they should be able to determine their boundaries so as not to transgress. Before you appoint somebody to a position in a sane society, the activities of such person must have been considered from the grassroots, her locality, community, local government, before moving to the state. We are not politicians, you can’t head any of our local government, not even community market without being part of the community, you must be recognized by all traders around the community. How come someone without a single shop in Oyo State, who has never attended any of our meetings in the past 10 years, would emerge as Iyaloja General of Oyo State, our titles are not sellable and whoever attempt to do so will have self to blame in front of the law. “Our decision to appoint Alhaja Saratu Aduke Konibaje was based on her past activities and contributions to the development of our markets in Oyo State. To date, she is the major buyer of farm produce in Oyo State, anybody can investigate that from Oke-Ogun Farmers Association, likewise Ibarapa, Ogbomosho, Oyo. In actual fact, she is the current President of the Agricultural Products Sellers Association of Oyo State. She controls even Elekara Market in Oyo, where Abeo claimed to have come from. She was among the first set of traders that started Bodija International Market some decades ago. POLL “We, therefore, warn politicians, government agencies, banks, NGOs, manufacturers of beverages and consumables as well as importers and exporters of food items and the international communities to watch carefully who they will relate with on market, trade and farm issues. “We are presently united under one umbrella in Oyo State and that is Coalition of Traders, Artisans, Market Men and Women. “We are ready for challenge any time, we own the markets, we own our business, we are responsible for the funding of our business”.