UYO – To cope with the effect of global warming on crops and farmers and to improve agricultural productivity through farming practices, Solidaridad West Africa has exposed farmers in Akwa Ibom to Digital Crop Monitoring. Organized in partnership with Agroxchange Technology Services  Limited, the training aimed at impacting farmers and facilitators with the knowledge needed for successful farming as the world lives with climate change. Speaking during the training in Okobo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, the programme manager, Oil Palm, Solidaridad in Nigeria Mr Kene Onukwube said the training will help farmers to monitor the progress of their farm by dictating when their farm is suffering from drought, flood or disease. 2022 IWD: NGO To Gift 100 Traders, Street Sweepers Food Items 2023: Hope Alive As Gov Emmanuel Reviews Ongoing Projects In… He assured participants consisting of farmers, Community facilitators and enumerators from four states, namely: Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Enugu and Kogi States, that the training which was based on precision farming,  will assist them to record improved yields. “This is digital Crop Monitoring. The idea is to help farmers stay at any location and monitor the progress of their farm from planting to harvesting. It is not every time you have to be physically present on your farm. “Through the technology, you can know the progress and response of your crops so as to apply fertilizers. You can know when they are suffering from drought. You can know when they are being affected by floods and when diseases occur on the farm. “To achieve this, we brought in our partner to train these people and they, in turn, will go to their communities and train farmers and in the case of a problem arising in the course of the exercise, the organization will contact the nearest facilitator to remedy the situation,” he said. He, however, urged the farmers to make good use of their smartphones and value the training so as to improve productivity that would lead to improved welfare. POLL Our Correspondent reports that Solidaridad West Africa, a non-profit advocate of best Agricultural practices has within the last couple of years trained farmers in Akwa Ibom on various aspects of agricultural development, and on how to reap maximum benefit from agric value-chain.