Some aggrieved Supervisory Councillors, Vice Chairman and Council Secretary of Fika Local Government Council have threatened to invite the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) for proper investigation into the financial transactions of its Chairperson, Halima Kyari Joda. This was revealed by the Vice-Chairman, Madu Bah and the Council Secretary, Arma Ya’u Daya Sulayman shortly after a meeting held at the Council Chambers in Fika town on Monday. The Fika LG Council Vice-Chairman who spoke with our correspondent said that in his capacity as the Vice-Chairman assisted by the Council Secretary and with the support of all the Supervisory Councillors held a meeting to deliberate on so many issues affecting the local government and the people. According to him, in the last 11 months of our tenure in office, we are witnessing an administration that even during the military regime is not like such”. “We were voted by our people to serve them, we took an oath of office by swearing with the holy Quran but unfortunately we have a leader who is not patriotic but selfish because she has refused to allow everyone discharges his constitutional duties, she has refused us access to files. “I’m heading the finance and administration I have never been involved nor consulted on any expenditure, in my electoral ward of Zangaya, Mazawun, Duffuyel and others have not seen a one thousand naira project executed with local government fund except repair of one borehole in Janga Dagauda village executed with the partnership of RUWASA. “There was a repair of a water tanker, renovation of DPM office was carried without our knowledge, since my assumption of office I haven’t heard how much is being received monthly from the government nor how much is being internally generated by our revenue base and how is it being spent”. “Imagine she travelled abroad for three weeks without officially informing the local government which is against the law of Nigeria, am her Vice but was sidelined, she went to the extent of retrieving my official vehicle, wrote hunters, group, on it and parked it, I don’t have a chair in my office until one personal assistant borrowed me out of sympathy. All we know is that you only see her busy snapping photos and posting on Facebook”. POLL On his part, the Council Secretary Arma Ya’u Sulayman Daya also said that “we are today passing a vote of no confidence on the leadership of the Chairperson of Fika Local Government Council for maladministration, we will not fold our arms as Council members to watch her making mistakes, we have to rescue the local government from collapse. “This is because she doesn’t concern about the development of the local government, she has violated the working rules by disallowing any office to function, unfortunately for a year now in my capacity as the council Secretary I have not seen a file on my table for once, we receive a monthly overhead cost of three million Naira, no member of the council was informed about the disbursement, we don’t know-how is being spent” He appealed to Fika Local Government Critical Stakeholders Chairman, Special Adviser Political to Yobe State Governor, Chairman Public Accounts Committee Yobe State House of Assembly to immediately intervene otherwise we will report to EFCC, ICPC and DSS to come to our aid by investigation. “We swore with the Holy Quran to be transparent and accountable during our swearing-in ceremony, we will never allow our personal interest to supersede our official conduct. Our electorates keep asking us why we will at the end of the day look irresponsible, she seems to be inexperienced or lacking good advice”. Reacting, the Chairperson Fika Local Government Council, Halima Kyari Joda said ” I don’t know all that they’re saying, it is a baseless allegation even though I don’t want to join issues with them”.