LAGOS  – As African countries continue to push for the effective implementation of African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement, the President of West Africa Association for Cross Border Trade, Salami Alasoadua, has called on the governments of Nigeria, Ghana, Togo and Benin Republic to step up their infrastructure to boost trade among the West African sub region. He made the call during a roundtable conference on Cross Border Trade in West Africa Sub Region organised by Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) held on Wednesday March 23, 2022, at Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry Conference in Ikeja, Lagos. According to Alasoadua, “We need to develop infrastructure along our borders. We need to involve the broader communities in terms of policy. By doing this, we can also resolve the issue of lack of information. “People need to be informed. If I want to trade and want to go to Ghana, it is important for me to know what the local policy in Ghana is, what the regional policy is all about, among other things. All this information is important. “So, in West Africa, we have a lack of information. This is one of the major areas that we are having problems with. For example, when you go to Seme Border, if somebody is sick, you have to rush him inside Benin, because there are no health centres there. So, we need to provide infrastructure and we need to provide jobs if you want to minimize smuggling and reduce insecurity. So I think our governments need to do a lot.” Dr. Ezra Yakusak, the Executive Director/CEO, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, earlier in his presentation, recommended that that attention be paid to the Informal Cross-Border Trade (ICBT) in West Africa and how stakeholders can harness the potentials it presents and leverage on it for utmost participation in the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement. He said: “Inasmuch as Cross Border Trade can either be formal or informal, depending on the angle we want to focus, there are also Border markets which are key hubs of social and business exchange in border regions and with very particular characteristics consequent to their specific locations at the crossroads of the major trade flows through West Africa. These trade hubs around border regions are the spring for informal trade and export in the West Africa sub-region. “One major characteristic of informal trade is the high profit margin by the traders as they avoid government tariffs and do not follow laid down procedures and documentation; which sometimes can be cumbersome and time consuming. The volume of informal export between Nigeria and its neighbouring African countries remained unprecedented as most of the practitioners in this respect have strong ethnic ties and historical linkages in their societies.” POLL Dr. Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprises, in his welcome address, said that the West Africa sub-region with a population of 1.4 billion people can thrive if it can steadily develop its continental outlook. In his words: “Our regional cross border trade can be robust and active. What we need to do is to develop continental outlook for our economy to grow. With a population of 1.4 billion people, working on market integration among the member countries will boost cross border trade and make African market more relevant.” Also speaking at the workshop, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, who was represented by Alhaji Aliyu Abubakar, stressed the importance of cross border trade for African economic growth. “Without cross border trade, it will be very difficult to achieve our objective. Regional integration will promote industrialisation and reduce unemployment and poverty. Notwithstanding, there are challenges such as language differences and common currency. But all these should not impede the successes the initiative would bring if all stakeholders in the sub region can make genuine and concerted efforts to make things work, the minister explained. The event had Consuls General of West African countries, representatives of Comptroller General, Nigeria Customs Service, Comptroller General, Nigerian Immigration Service, among others in attendance.