ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has begun the intense beautifying and landscaping of corridors of the Umar Musa Ya’Adua highway, which connects the Abuja Airport to other sections of the nation’s capital city. This is part of measures to ensure the sustained development of the expressway’s aesthetics. The effort, which involves a comprehensive greening and tree-planting drive within a 20-meter setback from properties along a major route in conjunction with local property developers, was launched on Tuesday in Abuja by FCT Minister Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello. Bello said the project demonstrates FCTA’s dedication to completing one of the Department of Parks and Recreation’s functionsas stated in the 2019 Parks Policy by granting permit to Corporate Organizations, Multinationals and Diplomatic Communities for the purpose of exercising their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the enhancement of greening of the city. The Minister, who was represented by the FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, said in line with the 2019 new FCT Park Policy on Cooperate Social Responsibility (CSR), many stakeholders responded positively to its call with a view to commencing the actual landscaping and beautification of the Express Way. He said: “This partnership with private entities today is a clear demonstration that government cannot do everything on its own, therefore, FCTA shall continue to work with the private sector and development partners to ensure that continuous progress is made in the beautification of the nation’s capital. “Let me assure you that we are guided by core values of patriotism and dedication to duty; integrity, and respect for due process and rule of law; and nobody will be sub-charged in this partnership”. Also speaking, FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr. Olusade Adesola, commended the property owners along major Abuja landmark who have come together for the implementation of the laudable initiative, as a way of giving back to the society. POLL He urged other Corporate Organisations to emulate the actions of the property owners along the Airport Road, to add value to the aesthetics of the city. Similarly, in his goodwill message, Chairman Arid Developers Nigeria Ltd, owners of Spring Valley Estate, Husseini A. Dikko, noted that the beautification initiative will help positively project the image of the country. Dikko, who was represented by Mohammed Kalu, however appealed to all stakeholders to ensure that the project becomes a huge success. Recall that since 2017, the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) through the Department of Parks and Recreation had unsuccessfully solicited the involvement of Property developers in landscaping, Beautification and Maintenance of the frontage of their property on the major gateway leading to the Federal Capital City (FCC).