Russian President Vladimir Putin has described sanctions imposed by Western nations over his invasion of Ukraine as “akin to a declaration of war”. “But thank God it has not come to that,” he added. Mr Putin also warned that any attempt to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine would be seen as participation in the armed conflict. Facebook, Twitter Cut Ads, Revenue To Russian Media Twitter Removes Accounts Tracking Russian Troops As Putin… And he rejected suggestions that he would introduce a state of emergency or martial law in Russia. Mr Putin made the remarks while speaking to a group of women flight attendants at an Aeroflot training centre near Moscow. Since the start of Russia’s invasion 10 days ago, the West has imposed a raft of sanctions on Russia, including the freezing of Mr Putin’s foreign assets and the exclusion of a number of Russian banks from the Swift international payments system. In addition, many multinational firms have ceased operations in Russia, On Saturday, Zara, Paypal and Samsung became the latest global brands to suspend trading there. The economic measures have already caused the rouble to plunge in value and forced the Russian central bank to double interest rates. POLL In his latest comments, Mr Putin sought to justify the war in Ukraine, repeating his assertion that he was seeking to defend Russian speaking communities there through the “demilitarisation and de-Nazification” of the country. Responding to Western defence analysts’ allegations that the Russian military campaign was going less well than expected, he said: “Our army will fulfil all the tasks. I don’t doubt that at all. Everything is going to plan.” He added that only professional soldiers were taking part in the hostilities and there were no conscripts involved, despite reports to the contrary. The Russian leader said efforts to impose a no-fly zone in Ukraine would be considered by Russia to be a step into the military conflict. For his part, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has condemned Nato for ruling out the no-fly zone. However, Western leaders say introducing the measure would be an escalation. Putin Has ‘Made The Decision’ To Invade Ukraine – Biden Putin To Host Iran’s Raisi In Moscow On Wednesday Mr Putin also said he had no plans to declare martial law in Russia. adding that such a step would only be taken in “instances of external aggression, in defined areas of military activity”. “But we don’t have such a situation and I hope we won’t have one,” he said. There had been rumours that Mr Putin was planning to declare martial law, which is when normal civil law is suspended or the military takes control of government functions. He said there were other special emergency states which could be used in the case of a “large-scale external threat”, but that he had no plans to introduce these either.