ABUJA – In an apparent smart move to avoid constitutional and leadership crisis that may stop it from participating in the 2023 general elections, the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Tuesday returned Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State in the saddle to oversee the party’s national convention. Governor Buni was eased out by majority of his colleagues over alleged protracted uncertainty and confusion around the party’s national convention. This saw Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State taking charge of the party since March 7, sideling even Akpanudoedehe in the conduct of party activities. Recall that some governors and stakeholders of the party had accused the Governor Buni-led caretaker committee of working against the convention as scheduled, and launched what appears an unsuccessful palace coup to remove him. The Yobe governor, Buni, and secretary of the party, Senator Akpanudoedehe were even accused of obtaining an order of the court stopping the convention, but allegedly concealed same with intent to unveil it a few days to the convention. It turned out, however, that lack of strategy on the part of executioners and a fortuitous intervention by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) when it rejected a communication from the Governor Sani Bello, acting chairman of CECPC, set off the alarm bell, forcing the party to retrace its steps. INEC in a letter dated March 9, 2022, and signed by the Secretary to the Commission, Rose Oriaran Anthony, entitled, ‘Re: Invitation to the emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee’, drew the attention of the CECPC to the fact that the letter of invitation was not signed by the national chairman and national secretary of CECPC, Buni and Akpanudoedehe, respectively. Addressing reporters through a written statement on Tuesday, Akpanudoedehe clarified that the APC and indeed the CECPC under Governor Mai Mala Buni is intact, united, strong and crisis-free contrary to widely held impression. POLL Reassuring Nigerians and stakeholders of the party on the determination of the party to deliver on its mandate, Akpanudoedehe explained that Gov. Buni duly gave written authorisation for CECPC members to continue work in his absence ahead of the convention. He said that the actions taken by the acting chairman, Governor Sani Bello and other members of the party due to the urgency to meet timelines set by INEC remain valid as they were taken on behalf of the substantive chairman of the party. The statement read in part: “That on the 28th day of February, 2022, the CECPC chairman took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day-to-day management of the APC. “That in his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the timetable for the 2023 general elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanising some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the committee/party. “That all such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the chairman, secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from office or otherwise replaced. “That the CECPC is intact and functional as originally constituted”. Sen. Akpanudoedehe declared the determination of the CECPC to deliver a hitch free convention next week. “Delivering a seamlessly successful national convention for the APC on March 26, 2022, is top on priority for the CECPC and we shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders”. While expressing appreciation to INEC for providing guidance during the difficult week, Senator Akpanudoedehe said the party is engaging a team of senior lawyers to vacate the court order stopping the national convention of March 26. “The party has engaged a team of senior lawyers to address a purported court order halting the planned APC national convention. We hereby call on the judiciary to give the matter the needed and expedient attention in our bid to vacate the purported court order and allow for the conduct of a transparent and rancour-free national convention deserving of our great party, APC. “The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) hereby restates absolute loyalty to the APC, thanks the national organs and leadership of our party led by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, and reassures our members and citizens that the party is stronger than ever before and poised to extend her winning streak since 2015 into 2023 and beyond”. APC Pegs Chairmanship Nomination Form At N20m Meanwhile, APC has pegged the cost of nomination form for the position of the national chairman at N20 million. This is as Governor Umar Ganduje, chairman, Protocol Subcommittee of the APC convention, has declared that activities leading to the party’s national convention are in top gear, noting that about 250 young men and women have been engaged to undergo training ahead of the convention. Top contenders for the national chairmanship race on Tuesday dropped the mandatory N20 million. Alhaji Saliu Mustapha, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa and Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, former governor of Nasarawa State, all dropped their fees to pick forms for the position. The party also fixed N10 million for deputy national chairmanship position while other positions including vice chairman, secretary and other top zonal positions cost N5 million. Governor Ganduje said the protocol officers would be trained to cater for the many dignitaries that will grace the occasion. “You know there will be many dignitaries; legislators, governors, president and vice president, even ministers who will be there as observers anyway. It is a gathering of who is who not only in APC but in government. So, our protocols and ushers must give the best services to befit our great party at the convention”. Earlier, Ismaeel Ahmed had explained that sales of forms for all elective offices at zonal and national levels have begun. He said at the zonal level there will be no separate zonal congresses as they will be moved to the national convention. “The caretaker committee has mandated me to say that the sales of forms have begun for all the offices, both zonal and national. And like I said on Friday the zonal congresses now will be moved to the national convention on the 26th of March, on Saturday. “So, there’ll be no separate zonal congress, apart from the national convention. All would happen on the same day. Of course, we expect stakeholders at every zone to meet and decide on certain things. Zoning had already gone out; you already have the list of the zoning arrangements. And then the prices for the zonal positions. “The form for the position of national chairman has been agreed by the party to be sold at N20 million. The form for the position of the national secretary is agreed to be sold at the price of N10 million. The form for the position of the deputy national chairman, South and North, would be sold at the same N10 million. All other NWC positions will be sold at N5 million. NWC positions, not all other offices. “All other NEC positions, those are the deputy positions that are not members of NWC, the form will be sold at N1 million”.