ABUJA – Youths Arise For Undiluted Leadership and Development Initiative (YAULDI) on Thursday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately replace the heads of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company NNPC Limited, Mele Kyari, and Engr. Farouk Ahmed, the Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, NMDPRA, over the importation of adulterated fuel into the country. Akhrame Lucky, the National Coordinator of YAULDI, gave the charge at a press conference in Abuja, saying it behoves on the Minister of State Petroleum, Timipre Sylva; the GMD of NNPC and CEO of NMDPRA (Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Agency) to present to the public the finding of their investigations into the importation of adulterated petroleum products. “It is now a matter of national security and overriding public interest for the Minister of State Petroleum, Timipre Sylva; the GMD of NNPC and CEO of NMDPRA (Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Agency) to present to the public the finding of their investigations into the importation of adulterated petroleum products. The four organizations earlier fingered; Brittania-U, AY Mai Kifi, Emmadeb and Hide-Energy, have all denied any wrongdoings. PDP Holds NEC Meeting On Tuesday Troops Neutralise Scores Of Terrorists Across States “President Muhammadu Buhari steps in now and replace the heads of the NMDPRA and the NNPC. One thing is obvious, using NNPC Pensioners as Regulators in a sector where NNPC itself operates as a behemoth, cannot possibly bode well for Nigeria. It is not in the best interest of the Nigerian public. It negates the spirit of the PIA. “The conflicts of interests and the connivance of the two organizations are apparent. A regulator should be firm, proactive, assiduous, and protective of public interest. It is not the case with the NMDPRA. “The NMDPRA CEO presents the organization as subservient to players in its industry, novice and completely incompetent. “The President should also set up an Independent Panel of Inquiry into the circumstances that surrounded the importation of the contaminated petroleum products into the country by the NNPC and its contractors. “The GMD of the NNPC has offered no reasonable explanation, proffered no working or workable solution to the protracted scarcity, and appeared totally in a quandary. These generally leave room for loss of faith in government” he said. POLL Lucky reiterated that the press conference was triggered by the unending fuel scarcity, whose immediate origin could be traced to the importation of contaminated petroleum products by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), adding that the Nigerian public have since been subjected to untoward misery and agony, as the queues become longer and the scarcity more protracted. According to the YAULDI boss, under the Petroleum Industry Act, the NNPC, led by Mr Mele Kyari, is the sole importer of Petroleum Products into Nigeria, whether it chooses to do it directly or subcontract multiple organizations to do so. That fact must be laid bare. “If NNPC chooses the latter, its direct or indirect culpability for the violation of any laws under the Nigeria state or infringement of the rights of Nigerians, in the process of fulfilling that statutory function, remain unquestionable,” insisted Lucky.