The Ebonyi State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha, has condemned in strong terms the alleged attack on Abia Onyike’s property in Abakaliki. He said that the alleged attack was a calculated attempt by Abia to malign the Government of Engr David Nweze Umahi. Okoro-Emegha who disclosed this on Tuesday while briefing Journalists, exonerated the Ebubeagu security outfit in the attack. The residential building of a former Commissioner for Information and Chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Abia Onyike, was last week attacked by hoodlums who he alleged were working for the Ebonyi State government. But Okoro-Emegha in his reaction urged Onyike to desist from accusing Ebubeagu security outfit of invading his property, as according to him, men of the command are conscious of their lawful duties of assisting other security agencies to secure the state. “How can an attack of such magnitude as described by Onyike happen without him Onyike not laying complaint to the appropriate quarters especially the police within 24 hours? I want now to tell you that Abia I know cannot condone such an attack if he was not the person that orchestrated it just to ignite war in favour of himself and his political party”. “He is notorious for giving a false alarm. He has for years been accusing the governor of planning to assassinate him even when the governor doesn’t know he exists. The attack on Abia Onyike’s house is purely stage-managed. Ebubeagu has no hand in it” “You also know that ill mannered and political jobbers like him manipulates the society especially each time there is an issue in contention to make a living. I’m not surprised that this unfounded allegation is coming at this time. Abia and the opposition party are deploying every gimmick or trick to curry cheap favour from the public in order to overthrow the government of David Umahi in view of the lingering legal tussle”. POLL “I wish to advise them to stop showcasing their treacherous, unintelligent and deceitful approaches to take over the seat of power because the Umahi’s Government and the good people of Ebonyi State have no doubt that the appellate court will soon upturn the judgement of the Federal High Court Abuja that has suddenly become a dangerous liquor intoxicating their pitiable being”, he said. Okoro-Emegha who doubles as the Security Consultant to Ebonyi State government assured the general public that Ebubeagu security outfit would continue to be professional in assisting security agencies in achieving their constitutional mandate of protecting lives and property of the citizenry and visitors alike. He further called on the Inspector General of Police, Commissioner of Police and other security agencies to investigate this alleged attack to ensure the culprits were brought to justice.