LAGOS  – Green Africa Airways will train hundreds of technical personnel for the Nigerian aviation industry over the next decade, Mr. Babawande Afolabi, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the airline has said. The airline also said that it has airlifted 150 travellers across 11 routes and eight airports since it commenced scheduled flight services on August 12, 2021. Speaking with aviation correspondents at the airline’s office at Ikeja on Tuesday, Afolabi said that the airline would train 200 pilots, 140 engineers, 100 dispatchers and 500 cabin crew members in its gFuture Initiative, which would change the face of the aviation industry in Nigeria. Yours Sincerely Is 70 Euromonitor Highlights Top Global Consumer Trends 2022 Afolabi, who refused to disclose the actual amount of money estimated for the training, however said that it costs about $40,000 and $25,000 to train an aircraft pilot and engineer, respectively. On the challenge of poaching of professionals by airlines, Afolabi insisted that the carrier was less bothered about this, but assured that it intended to attract and retain professionals not just for the airline, but for the industry as a whole. He emphasised that there was the need to develop the local talent by indigenous companies, stressing that without local support; it would be difficult to enhance the talents in the industry. He said: “For us, the commencement of scheduled flights shows the beginning of better things to happen in the sector and there are lots of developments we can do for the industry. As an airline, we are ready to change the narratives and we are starting with the gFuture initiative, which is geared towards training personnel for the industry. “The fear of somebody leaving us should not hold us back from training personnel for the industry. You cannot restrict labours from moving. Overall, I will say somebody is going to leave one day. Nigeria has a huge role to play in developing the aviation industry in the country. But, if there will be a bond in place, we will have it. However, we won’t have a slave bond in place. If you have to leave, there will be conversations in place.” POLL He, however, said that the selected professionals already have the fore knowledge of the industry, having gone through aviation training in certified aviation colleges in the country and abroad, but noted that they needed to be type-rated on aircraft brand they would work on. On the future projection of Green Africa Airways, Afolabi said the airline intended to be a leader in the airline sub-sector in the country with at least 50 aircraft and over 200 pilots in the next decade.