ABUJA – Huawei Technologies, a Chinese technology company, on Tuesday said it has ICT academy agreement with more than 110 universities and schools and had trained more than 1,000 civil servants and 40,000 young students in Nigeria. Mr Li Wei, Director of Huawei Nigeria Enterprise Business, who disclosed this on the sidelines of the ongoing 2022 edition of Nigeria Energy Summit in Abuja, said the company also developed an intelligent pipeline monitoring system to help tackle crude oil theft in Nigeria. Wei said: “Huawei-developed fiber vibration intrusion warning system uses Artificial Intelligence to identify intrusion scenarios accurately. Government Support Key To Boosting The e-Commerce Industry In… Fake News: Ganduje Congratulates Kano Scholar For Developing… “With high identification precision, accurate positioning, and quick response, it will help to ensure pipeline safety and reduce theft and vandalism.’’ According to him, Huawei will continue to support the digital transformation of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry by developing Information and Communications Technology (ICT) solutions. “Faced with the ongoing volatility of international oil prices, Huawei believes that the digital transformation of Nigeria’s upstream sector is a top priority. “In response to the strategy proposed by the Nigerian government and oil companies, Huawei promotes the digital oilfield Internet of Things and Exploration and Production storage solutions. “This will help oil and gas companies to achieve real-time visualised production, improve production efficiency, reduce production costs, and optimise production resource allocation to improve oilfield production.’’ POLL Wei said in addition to providing high-quality ICT solutions and services, Huawei actively support the Nigerian government in building a talent ecosystem. He said the company training more than 1,000 civil servants and 40,000 young students in Nigeria aims to build a strong talent base camp to promote Nigeria’s digital economy development.