The members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) of collaborating with security agencies to disarm vigilante groups across the Southeast region The pro-Biafra group who made the claim in a statement issued by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful alleged that the aim of the collaboration is to destabilise the people of the South East for easy access by Fulani pastoralists to continue their onslaught in the region. According to Emma Powerful who raised an alarm over in flock of hunters into the Southeast said, MACBAN held a meeting with some heads of security agencies to perfect the plot. Biafra: Nnamdi Kanu’s Family Breaks Silence On IPOB’s Leadership Nnamdi Kanu’s Continuous Detention Provocative – Afenifere,… The statement read,  ‘We have uncovered a secret meeting Miyetti Allah held with the hierarchy of various security agencies to disarm vigilante groups in Biafra land. They agreed at the meeting that all vigilante groups in Biafra land would be directed to surrender their weapons to security agencies,’ Powerful claimed in the statement. “Their intention is to weaken our people and pave the way for the invasion of our communities by Fulani bandits masquerading as herdsmen. We want to place the world on notice about this wicked plot. ‘We also raise alarm over the influx of Fulani rapists and terrorists called Fulani hunters in our land. Our people must be careful because Fulani and Miyetti Allah have devised another means of killing our people in the bushes and forests in Biafraland.’ “The recent plan by the Nigeria Government and its security agencies to collect guns from vigilante groups in every community in Biafraland was designed to make our security and vigilante men impotent and clear the way for their criminal gangs to penetrate our communities. “We, therefore, urge vigilante groups in various communities never to surrender their weapons to security agencies that cannot guarantee the security of our people. Doing so amounts to rendering our communities vulnerable. POLL “We also want to caution all communities in Biafraland to be on red alert over the plot by the enemies of Biafra to use their agents of death to inflict pain and sorrow on our people. “Security should be beefed up around all Biafran communities because our enemies are not sleeping.”