ABAKALIKI – Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, has commended the judiciary for upholding the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by quashing the suit challenging the defection of the state Governor, Chief David Umahi from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to All Progressives Congress (APC). Senator Sunny Ogbuorji who was the governorship candidate of the APC in 2019 in Ebonyi State, had through originating summons had asked the Court to hold that the defendant, Governor Umahi, having defected to the APC from the PDP, ought to vacate the office, so that he would be sworn-in having come second in the election. Umahi, in November 2020, defected to the APC from the PDP, a platform he was elected Governor of Ebonyi State, citing injustice by the PDP against the South-East zone. APC Chairmanship: Stakeholders Kick Against Sen Adamu, Nnamani Ekiti 2022: Segun Oni Storms Ekiti With SDP Flag, Urges Ekiti To… Ogbuorji had asked the Court to determine whether Governor Umahi having defected to APC could still continue to be Governor, having regards to the provisions of the constitution and the Electoral Act. But a judgment delivered by Justice Henry Njoku on Monday held that having regard to section 188 (1) of the 1999 Constitution as amended, the defendant (Governor Umahi) has not offended any provision of the Constitution or the Electoral Act in his defection to APC.The Court further held that having regard to section 308 of the Constitution, it was even wrong to institute criminal or civil proceedings against the office of the Governor. The Court, therefore, dismissed in its entirety, the suit for lacking in merit and awarded N500 thousand as damages against the plaintiff. Emegha who spoke on the heels of the Court judgment on Tuesday said the judgement was anticipated because the provisions of the constitution on the matter were crystal clear. He appreciated Ebonyi people who first gave the verdict via the polls because of their satisfaction with Governor Umahi’s trajectory in Infrastructural development and peacebuilding among communities within and outside the state during his first tenure in office. POLL According to him, the judgement reaffirmed the saying that the judiciary is truly the last hope of the common man. He described the suit as frivolous and exercise in futility, and commended the Governor for not allowing the court action to distract him, from focusing in delivering good governance to the people of the state. “In all honesty, for the right-thinking citizens like us who participated in the last General Election, especially from Edda in Afikpo South Local Government Area of the state where coincidentally I and the plaintiff Chief Sunny Ogbuorji hail from, we all knew that the electorate voted massively for Governor David Umahi because of his achievements in his first tenure”. “The verdict has reaffirmed the saying that the judiciary is truly the last hope of the common man. It has also given more strengthen and hope to the Nigerian people that the judiciary is still very strong and unbiased” “There was never a time the matter distracted the Governor because on several occasions he reassured the people of the state that all the ongoing projects will be completed before he bows out of office in 2023. My Principal is focused and ever determined to leave office as the best Governor in history of the country”. Chief Emegha emphasized. Fuel Queue: Lagos Govt Warns Motorists Against Traffic… Nigeria, Israel To Strengthen Bilateral Ties On STI “To the family of the ruling APC, this is a welcome development. The battle is over and the Governor still remains the number citizen of the state. He has a covenant with God to rapidly develop the state and it’s inhabitants. However, in the spirit of sportsmanship, the plaintiff who is now an integral part of the party cannot even appeal the judgement because there were overwhelming evidence that the suit lacked merit as read out by the presiding judge. Before the ruling, there were stories that he wanted to withdraw the matter,” he said. Emegha further called on the people to support the Governor to realize his dream of becoming the next President of Nigeria in 2023, so that the entire country could enjoy the aura of his talented leadership ingenuity and sagacity.