OSOGBO  – An Osun State High Court has fixed Monday 7th March 2022 for commencement of full hearing in a case of the alleged murder of a postgrad­uate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife, Timothy Adegoke. It will also deliver a ruling on bail applications for Dr. Ramon Adedoyin, the found­er of Oduduwa University, Ile Ife and six other defendants allegedly arrested in connec­tion with the case. It would be recalled that Adedoyin and members of his staff; Adedeji Adesola, 23; Mag­dalene Chiefuna, 24; Adeniyi Aderogba, 37; Oluwale Law­rence,37; Oyetunde Kazeem, 38; and Adebayo Kunle, 35 had been remanded in Ilesa Cor­rectional Centre on Thursday after they pleaded not guilty to the 11 count-charge, which bothered on conspiracy, mur­der, attempted felony, unlawful interference with a dead body, altering and intent to destroy evidence. Gunmen Attack Farm Owner In Lagos-Ogun Border Woman Kills Relative Over Domestic Issues In Anambra The presiding Chief Judge of the state, Mrs Adepele Ojo said that the court will give a ruling on the bail applica­tions for Dr. Ramon Adedo­yin and his staff. Counsels to defendants were able to file written ad­dresses of bail applications for six defendants excluding the seventh defendant who was just added to the charge on Thursday. They had prayed the court the permission to file a writ­ten address in respect of bail application for the 7th defen­dant on Friday. At the resumed hearing on Friday, the seventh defendant whose bail application was not tendered on Thursday because she was just added to the charge, approached the court, through her law­yer, with a written address in respect to her bail. Her counsel, Mr. Okon Edett Ita, urged the court to grant her bail pursuant to sections 34(1), 35(1) for A and B and 36(5) of the 1999 Consti­tution of the Federal Repub­lic of Nigeria as amended. POLL Ita urged the court to con­sider the exhibit as an excep­tional circumstance in grant­ing the application in favour of the 7th defendant. However, the prosecution counsel, M. O. Omosun ob­jected the bail application considering the nature of the charge. Justice Ojo adjourned the matter till Monday, March 7, 2022 for ruling on all the bail applications and a full hear­ing of the matter. Meanwhile, none of the defendants was brought to court on Friday even as a heavy security presence was witnessed in the court prem­ises.