To leading analysts in economy, who converged at a webinar hosted by Coronation Merchant Bank, economic development and growth can only be achieved if there is easy access to finance. Experts present at the webinar themed, ‘Nigeria’s Economic Landscape – a blend of optimism and uncertainty’, are Dr. Biodun Adedipe, Founder and Chief Consultant, Adedipe Associates; Dr. Andrew S. Nevin, Advisory Partner/Chief Economist at PwC Nigeria; Chinwe Egwim, Chief Economist at Coronation Merchant Bank and Prof. Joseph Nnanna, Chief Economist at the Development Bank of Nigeria and our CEO/MD, Banjo Adegbohungbe. To Prof Joseph Nnanna, access to finance is the fulcrum to economic development and growth. CBN Mulls Fresh Funding For Lagos Free Zone After Initial N100bn… Coronation Merchant Bank Holds 4th Edition Of Interactive… There is no doubt that access to finance is key to the development of any country while economic diversification is also key to achieve this. He said: “We know that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has done a lot to basically try to pump up the MSMEs and agriculture sectors by pumping funds into them. The involvement in the manufacturing sector as a whole is also significant. “I am of the optimism that the funds pumped into these sectors will lead to more growth in the manufacturing sector. There is also the fund it pumped into the agricultural sector. “As for agriculture, despite the funds pumped into it, the threat of insecurity is affecting good results. This is because if farmers couldn’t go to farm, it will affect the output and as a result of this, prices of goods and services will go up. That’s why food inflation is still very high”. Reacting to the drop in non-performing loans (NPLs), Nnanna said it was as a result of the moratorium that CBN gave to banks during the pandemic. POLL He said: “The CBN actually did a moratorium for loans during the pandemic and as a result, NPLs naturally may not be recorded because banks were expected to discuss with the clients. Having said that, there is also an opportunity to key into the AFCFTA as Nigeria was a trade economy. “Because the CBN mandated all banks to put a pause to loans and of course the moratorium is on, that’s why you see NPLs not rising, yet declining. But by the time they put a stop to the moratorium you will also see the NPLs rising. The NPLs is below five per cent now”. Expressing his optimism about the economy, Biodun Adedipe said: “I would rather see myself as an optimist economist as far as Nigeria is concerned. If you look at the Nigerian economy, we can now confidently say that what drives the economy is not the oil sector rather than the misinterpretation that the oil sector drives the economy. “And that is essentially in the proof of the data we see recently. “Certain things happened in 2021, which I want to draw our attention to. Yes, indeed, we have seen the pattern in the last 10 years for certain sectors of the economy accounting for between 77 and 82 per cent in terms of contribution to our GDP. NDIC To Begin Payment Of Trapped Deposits In 23 Failed Banks Agent Banking, PoS Roll Out Boost Financial Inclusion– Wema Bank… “Six of them: Agriculture, ICT, Trade, Manufacturing, Mining and Quarry and Real Estate. If you take those six, that gives you a pointer as to where most values are being created out of economic activities in the country. “The other side of the pendulum is the oil sector which incidentally has repeatedly accounted for less than 10 per cent in terms of contributions to our GDP and that has been the major challenge of managing this economy. This is what we called the disconnect. “And so, over the years and decades, when oil prices were favourable to Nigeria, what did we do with the revenue? Did we use it to actually support growth in the real sector?