It is certainly the age of quality shows and family-friendly TV entertainment as Auxilia Media pulls out the stops in readiness of their new TV game show titled Family Fame. At the unveiling of the show, which took place on Sunday, February 27 at The Providence by Mantis, Lagos, Auxilia Media’s Managing Director, Olufunke Fajusingbe revealed that the show is all about entertaining families as a unit. She explained that this was one of the reasons why family-friendly brands like McVities Cookies, and 03Capital have been brought on board as sponsors because they recognise family as an essential core determinant of societal values and productivity. Double Celebration Hits Faithia Williams Nigerian Idol: Yinka Davies Back In Judging Ring With 75 Golden… “Family Fame Show was created to further strengthen the family unit. Auxilia is synonymous with quality and operational excellence. Family fame is a display of our commitment towards ensuring that Nigerians are entertained while also promoting unity. “The family life of Nigerians is unique. We want to ensure that families gather together in one spot, bond and also get entertained. “At every episode, every family is going home with gifts; it will also promote talents within the family. This beautiful show will showcase our food, our culture and everything we believe in as a country,” she said. The show, which is billed to run for 52 weeks, will be aired on African Magic Family on Sundays at 6:30 PM and on Wazobia TV on Saturdays at 7.30 pm. Already, the show has 13 pre-recorded episodes in which two families of five members each will go head-to-head. The two teams are competing against each other to answer the most popular survey questions correctly based on survey results collated across Nigeria. POLL Unveiled as host is ace comedian and actor, Seyi Law, with failies geared to win as much as N2million. Fajusingbe said that adequate consideration was given during the creation of the show. “With a lot of nudity out there and all sorts, we wanted to do something clean, something that educates while people get equally entertained, we deliberately wanted to give the family unit something positive to look out for,” she explained.