Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has called out the Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi for insulting a judge by calling him a ‘hatchet man’ Recall that Umahi described the ruling of Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja in removing him and his deputy from office as “a hatchet” man’s job. According to Wike while speaking at the inauguration of the Eastern Bypass Road project in Port Harcourt on Saturday, if Umahi isn’t pleased with the judge’s ruling, he should make an appeal to the Supreme Court. Ebonyi Court Orders Umahi To Remain In Office For 7 Days Umahi Vows To Deal With Ebonyi PDP, Says Buni Remains APC… He said, “Look at a governor making a reckless statement simply because a judge made a judgement according to his own opinion, which you are entitled to appeal up to Supreme Court. “You have called somebody a thief in the market and you’re saying I’m sorry, It is late. That your sorry, we the members of the public, we don’t take it.” “If our party has done this earlier when people were leaving in the National Assembly, we won’t have had the problem we are having today. “That is one of the problems of party leadership. People cannot come out and take the bull by the horns. So, Governor Umahi, be rest assured that PDP will continue this matter down to Supreme Court. We will continue with the matter. “If our party has done this earlier when people were leaving in the National Assembly, we won’t have had the problem we are having today. POLL “That is one of the problems of party leadership. People cannot come out and take the bull by the horns. So, Governor Umahi, be rest assured that PDP will continue this matter down to Supreme Court. We will continue with the matter. “You carry the votes of another party and join another party. Can you transfer votes? You work hard for somebody to win election and tomorrow, the person says I have defected. “If you have defected, leave the seat if you know it’s easy. And this will checkmate most of these political harlots who will never sit one place.“