LAGOS – Ọmọ Eko Pataki, a socio-cultural Yoruba group has told Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State that Lagis Stare doesn’t need more vehicles but La modern rail routes system as an alternative transportation. The group, in a press statement on Sunday, signed by Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu,  its Secretary-General, stressing Sanwo-olu’s gift to Lagosians is a Greek gift. It would be recalled that recently, Governor Sanwo-Olu bought 500 vehicles to serve as taxis on Lagos roads. With glee and orchestrated spectacle, the vehicles were driven in a dramatic splendor across the already traffic -choked streets of Lagos. Buni Approves Employment Of 196 Medical Personnel LASG Seal Event Centre For Giving Out Fuel As Souvenir The statement reads in part, “Lagos State doesn’t need more vehicles on our already cluttered roads. What Lagos needs as a widening megalopolis is well contemplated alternative routes of transportation that will combine modern railroad systems, the charted pathways of the Lagoon; short, interlocking bridges linking the new burgeoning towns and cities, the 4th mainland bridge which is now more of a mirage, and the long abandoned Atlantic Super highway that  is supposed to traverse the gateway of the Lekki peninsula down to the reaches of Port Harcourt.” According to the group Sanwo-Olu fancifully called the white and blue taxis Lagride which in his view will expand transportation access to Lagosians. “We do not think so. It will never happen . It is a wasteful, ill- thought, hurriedly composed project that will not add any value to the transportation challenges of commuters. As a matter of fact, the so-called Lagride is a masked  political gerrymandering, an half-witted partisan move shrouded in personal gains and selfish motivations,” the group said. Ọmọ Eko Pataki said that Sanwo-Olu ought to focus on a progressive, forward -looking administration and not a hurriedly constituted shambolic affair, an untidy Greek gift meant for a narrow, crude electioneering purpose. Lagosians are no fools.