LAGOS  – The Lagos State Government has asked residents to expect a comprehensive Urban Development Policy to guide sustainable urban development in the State from 2022 to 2050. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako dropped the hint, this while addressing Town Planners on the outlook for the year 2022 at the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners(NITP) Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja. According to him, Lagos State in its usual pioneering efforts had commenced the formulation of the Lagos State Urban Development Policy as first of its kind by any State in the Country. We Are Poised To Deliver More Housing Units To Lagosians This… We Are Using Advocacy To Stamp Out Quackery In Our Profession –… Salako explained that the essence of the policy, which is expected to be operational before the end of the year, was to get urban development right and enhance the socio-economic wellbeing of the people. The Physical Planning Commissioner also said that part of the plans of his ministry for 2022 include: the domestication of the National Building Code; Full Automation of the Business Processes of the Ministry, not limited to the Planning Permit Process; and the relocation of Oko-Baba Sawmill to Agbowa-Ikosi (Agbowa TimberVille). Others are the implementation of the Green Building Concept through partnerships with external support agencies such as the International Finance Corporation and the Nigerian Energy Support Programme. He notef, that Town Planners had responsibilities for livable, organised and sustainable physical environment, he implored them to be guided by the Code of ethics in their professional conducts as doing so would enhance perceptions of the profession. His words: “ I want to thank you all for being part of this memorable gathering while I urge everyone to strive to make NITP the harbinger of good tidings for the sake of humanity. Lagos State counts on your understanding, support and quality involvement in the Physical Planning and Urban Development process of the State”, he said.