*Pledges To Build On Achievements Of Ortom MAKURDI – Former Director General (DG) Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Dr Paul Angya has picked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expression of interest and governorship nomination forms in readiness for the party primaries in Benue later in the year. This was contained in a statement signed by Hon Clement Tsar, Media Coordinator, Dr. Paul Angya Campaign Organisation and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Friday. Angya who is a gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the PDP also pledged to consolidate on the achievements made by the Governor Samuel Ortom led administration, if he is made governor in 2023. According to the statement, “This (picking of the forms) marks a milestone in the history of the ‘New Deal Project’ for Benue State as Dr. Angya took an earth-breaking step by picking his forms. “From all indications, Dr. Angya is aware of the task at hand and has come prepared to take the state to the next level of development at the expiration of Governor Samuel Ortom’s tenure in 2023. “He commends the efforts of His Excellency, Samuel Ortom for standing firm in defence of his people, reiterating his resolve to consolidate on the gains achieved by the Ortom led administration, if he finally emerges as the governor of Benue State.” Earlier, while recieving the forms at the National Secretariat of the PDP at Wadata Plaza, Abuja, the former DG, SON expressed profound gratitude to Almighty God for His providence, guidance and protection thus far. POLL “He also appreciated the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, the National Working Committee, the Benue state and 23 Local chapters of the party as well as his teeming supporters across Benue state and beyond for their show of love during the period of his consultations. On arrival at Agan toll gate, Makurdi, the Benue state capital, Dr. Angya was received by his wife, Professor Mrs. Charity Angya and thousands of supporters from across the state. He was also driven in a motorcade round some major streets of the state capital.