Newcastle United and Tottenham are set to battle for Nicolo Zaniolo in the summer, with the Roma attacker likely to be available for a reasonable price. According to Calciomercato, Premier League sides Tottenham and Newcastle United are ready to battle it out for Nicolo Zaniolo in the summer window as the Roma winger could become available for €40 million. Newcastle United and Tottenham are expected to embark on a huge transfer window in the summer. Both Premier League clubs are expected to strengthen their squad significantly in essential areas, with attacking reinforcements very likely to arrive. Brandon Williams Angrily Grabs Christian Eriksen But Then Hugs… Mane Edges Liverpool Closer To Man City Both sides made some good moves in the January window to solve some urgent problems in different areas, although Newcastle ended the period as one of the highest spenders. They brought in talents worth more than £90 million in the winter market, while a significant budget is set to be made available in the summer window as well. Meanwhile, Tottenham let go of a number of their first-team stars and signed Rodrigo Bentancur and Dejan Kulusevski, with the pair arriving from Juventus in January. However, Antonio Conte is unhappy with the options at his disposal and is seeking better attacking quality before the next season starts. Both clubs have their sights on Roma’s Nicolo Zaniolo, who could leave the Italian side if a reasonable offer comes in the summer. The Serie A giants are seeking at least €40 million from interested parties as they aim to extract top value for their prized asset. Manchester United were keen on the attacker but may switch their attention to a more high-profile name. Similarly, Liverpool are also interested in the winger and a move in the summer could yet become a possibility. However, keeping the idea of playing regularly in mind, Newcastle United and Tottenham could be the best bet for Zaniolo to achieve that objective. These are clubs ready to challenge the big teams in the league and will need players in the mould of the 22-year-old Italian international. POLL It remains to be seen whether Zaniolo likes the idea of playing in the Premier League and joining either of those two sides mentioned above. While his price tag may seem a bit steep considering his numbers in the current season, both Newcastle and Tottenham have the financial muscle to meet Roma’s demands. Whether either of them end up doing so to sign the Italian remains to be seen.