HRH Mene Kadilo Kabari is the Paramount Ruler of Barako ancient community and a former caretaker committee chairman of Gokana local government area of Rivers state. In this interview with DANIEL ABIA, he called on other ethnic groups in the state to give the Ogonis the  opportunity of presenting the next Governor of Rivers state in order to balance the equation of zoning. He also speaks on the Electoral Act and other issues. Excerpts: Every election year, we have always seen this agitation or clamour for a governor from Ogoni extraction in Rivers state. What is so special about an Ogoni being the governor of the state? The quest for a Rivers state governor of Ogoni extraction is hinged on a tripod of justice, equity and fairness. It comes in two dimensions. Firstly, Ogoni is in the Rivers south-east of Rivers state. Politics in Nigeria cannot be divorced from the inclusive factor of zoning. The Rivers south-east has not produced any governor in Rivers state and Ogoni is in that senatorial district. Looking at the ethnic trump card, the Ogoni people of the Rivers south east are one of the arguably homogenous ethnic blocs in terms of number of residents in one place. They have not produced a governor, deputy governor, a speaker or even a chief judge since the creation of the Rivers state. Is it fair? Like His Royal Majesty, King G.N.K. Giniwa stated in the last event of the Supreme Council of Ogoni Traditional Rulers, there is no father who will not hear children play out and peeps through the window to see that his children are among those children playing out there. And are playing very well. That is why I and all the traditional rulers in Ogoni are of the opinion that God in Heaven and our ancestors are behind any Ogoni sons or daughters on any political platform that will save the name of our people by ending the politics of marginalization and bring inclusiveness in the game of politics that our children are playing and playing very well. It is on this reason that we call on all other ethnic groups in Rivers state to consider and support us. It is a game of if you scratch my back, I scratch your back. Expectations As Soludo Is Set To Be Sworn-In As Anambra Governor PDP Victory: Party Leaders In Ngor Okpala Commend Ikenga For His… Tell us how economically viable is Ogoni to the development of Rivers state and by extension, Nigeria? There is no gain saying that the entirety of the Niger Delta struggle has its root in Ogoni. The land is endowed with natural resources. From oil reserve to gas, vast agricultural potentials, human capital development among others not just for Rivers state but Nigeria as a whole. The greatest stake Ogoni has is that we undertook nonviolently the agitation for the injustices meted on us by IOCs (international oil companies). That struggle alone should be a tool for this bargain that for many years oil exploration has not been taking place in Ogoni. We have one of the best bonny light. We are prepared for a trading of political inclusiveness. It can only be good that the goose that laid the golden egg and has contributed so much in all areas, should be considered. There was a time it was said whether the office of the secretary to government was reserved for Ogoni. That was because of competence exhibited by the Ogonis who had occupied that position before. The likes of Chief Alfred Baddey, Kenneth Kobani, Magnus Abe, Gabriel Pidomson among others. Do you think if Ken Saro-Wiwa was still alive, Ogoni would have clinched the governorship of the state by now? I will not zero it to Ken Saro-Wiwa alone. There was Ken Saro Wiwa, Kobani, Baddey, Samuel Orage and many other Ogoni leaders whose lives were lost. As a matter of fact, Ken Saro Wiwa realized that the tripod was on environment, social injustice and politics. He had done the agitation in the other areas and realized that the key to success in the Ogoni struggle was the political aspect. That was why he was aspiring to go to the constitutional conference just before his death. He had found out that the key to addressing all other injustices was political power. That is why we are calling on all Ogoni sons in politics not to go for the second fiddle but go for the jugular and get to the office of governor of Rivers state. There has been this clamour for the creation of Ogoni state over the years, what has happened to that agitation today? POLL It is a dream. Self-determination. Creation of state is still topical as the review of the constitution is ongoing in the National Assembly. The dream for a Bori state is very much alive. The reasons are obvious. When Bayelsa was created out of the current Rivers state, how many local governments did they have? The Bori state is not limited to just Ogoni local government areas. Bori state is to give the people, particularly in Rivers south-east, the opportunity to address injustice. This requires political power. It requires the goodwill of the entire nation since it hinges on the constitutional review. It goes beyond Rivers state. What in your opinion as a royal father do you think is the major problem between the former Senator, Magnus Abe and the transportation Minister, Rotimi Aamechi? And how do you think this can be resolved for the betterment of their party, APC in the state as we enter election season? It is most unfortunate. They started well as friends and partners. Not as master-servant relationship. They were elected into the state Assembly in 1999 together. One was in APP the other was in PDP. One was a Minority Leader while the other was a Speaker in the House of Assembly. They charted their political future together.  One became governor while the other became secretary to the state government. They forged ahead and Abe became the senator of the federal Republic. So, at what point will one feel or play god over the other? That is the root cause of the seeming crisis between them. But we will not join issues on that. I will rather say with all sense of humility that we are all proud of Magnus Abe and his position that one man cannot determine the fate of the people. We were created equally by God. Let God’s will be done in our lives. This is a struggle that goes beyond Magnus Abe. It is a struggle that the amended electoral Act addresses that takes the determination of leadership from cabals and cartels and godfathers back to the people. I commend President Muhammadu Buhari for signing that Amended Act to law where those seeking for political office will know the importance of the electorates, not seeking the anointing of some political godfathers. There are so much misgivings about section 84 of the Electoral Act, what is your take on that? I don’t think is only section 84 that made the President to reject that bill. He had reservations for some sections and that is why it had to be worked upon. There were areas such as direct primaries being the exclusive way of selecting candidates for elections. There were areas that had to do with INEC, electoral processes and funding. I think Mr. President was only being a loyal party man. He also showed that those who are appointees today, he has them at heart. Today you could be an appointee and tomorrow you may not. In Rotary, we used to say is it the truth, is it fair to all concern, will it promote goodwill and better understanding, is it beneficial to all concern? That section 84 is not beneficial to all concerned. It is beneficial only to those holding political appointments. And it is not fair that you will occupy a political appointment using money and resources from that political appointment to contest with somebody who has no appointment. If it is elected, that is another ball game but for a political appointees, it is not fair to all concerned. It will only be beneficial to a handful few who are privileged to be in a position of influence. We thank Mr. President for this. I know as a father, he will want to make a case for those political appointees. But I also know that deep down, the patriot in Buhari that he belongs to everybody, and belongs to nobody has done the needful. And we congratulate him.