ABUJA – Human rights activist and National Chairman of African Action Congress  (AAC),Omoyele Sowore, has vowed to release from detention the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra  (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu and leader of Yoruba Nation Agitator, Sunday Igboho if he becomes the President of Nigeria in 2023. He made this known on Tuesday in Abuja while declaring his ambition to run for the position of Nigeria’s president in the 2023 general elections. Sowore said he would release all political detainees particularly IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu,  Sunday Igboho and others who were being held in custody illegally. Expectations As Soludo Is Set To Be Sworn-In As Anambra Governor Why Ogonis Should Produce  e Next Rivers State Governor – Kabari The activist told those in government to intensify effort and rehabilitate prison centers across the country saying that they may need to spend some time there.after their tenure. He said “As soon as I am sworn-in on June 12, 2023, I will release all political detainees, particularly Nnamdi Kanu and Sunday Igboho. People who are asking for self-determination should not go to prison. Those in the Diaspora must also be given the right to vote during the election. “We will not encourage those who put them in prison , they should be rehabilitating prisons now because they may have to spend some time there as well “ Sowore also said that he would run a socialist government focusing on workers’ welfare, free education, job creation, and pension reform. According to him “Nigerian workers, a living wage is coming your way. What I am saying to you is that an N100,000 monthly minimum wage is too small for Nigerian workers today. POLL “Last time we promised N100,000 as minimum wage but they were telling us that it would cause inflation but Senators are collecting N14million per month it did not cause inflation.  Snake swallowed N36billion somewhere it did not cause inflation. “Even N100,000 is too small and we are calculating a new figure.  Nigerian students, help is coming your way because we will give you free and qualitative education with bursary, grants, and scholarships. To the unemployed young people of Nigeria, I can only promise you one thing – jobs. I am also going to reform the pension system.” “For those who are pushing the struggle for self-determination, we will accord you the opportunity you are seeking by creating a new Constitution for Nigeria, which must necessarily contain the right to self-determination and the right to a referendum if you are tired of Nigeria.” “As soon as I am sworn-in on June 12, 2023, I will release all political detainees, particularly (Nnamdi) Kanu and Sunday Igboho. People who are asking for self-determination should not go to prison. Those in the Diaspora must also be given the right to vote during the election.” He argued that what Nigeria needed was a new crop of leaders to turn the fortunes of the country around for the better. Buhari Seeks Amendment To Recently Assented Electoral Act Politics Should Bring About Development, Not Violence — Jonathan The AAC Chairman added that Nigeria may not win the war against terrorism without improving the welfare and working conditions of the troops. He appeal to the security agents across the country to be optimistic and resilient just as he promised to upgrade their condition of service. He also vowed to retired all army Generals who have turned the fight against terrorism and banditry into case cow adding that they were not fit to be called General but ‘boy scout “Relief has come the way of security agents who are fighting against terrorism and banditry in the country.  I will fire all the army Generals , they cannot be be called  Generals , these are boys scout . Let them go and rest”, Sowore added.