A non-profit political mobilisation platform christened Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA), has promised to deploy no fewer than 541 election observers for the June 18, Governorship Election in Ekiti State Speaking at a media round table discussion held in Ado Ekiti, on Thursday, an official of the group, Ezenwa Nwagwu said, Ekiti was unique because of its history and for having the highest number of educated people in the country, saying  Nigerians are expecting high ethical conduct in this election taking cognisance of these lofty attainments. He said the high number of personnel deployed, is to ensure that the votes of the electorate count. According to him, YIAGA would be introducing a novel approach tagged ‘Watch The Votes Initiative (WTV)’, to ensure that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other state actors, align with international best practices in conducting the much-awaited poll. Nwagwu described the WTV as a technology-driven initiative that would be deployed for Parallel Votes Tabulation to ascertain the authenticity of votes being counted to expose fraud, rigging, and manipulation. Preaching against the violence that had been considered an impediment to the growth of Nigeria’s democracy, Nwagwu posited that such tendency always necessitated apathy that affects the electoral system. He said: “A total of 250 observers will be deployed in pairs to monitor polling units. We will also have 25 roving WTV observers and another 16 that will be stationed in the 16 local government areas. “Their tasks are to monitor accreditation process, voting, counting and collation of results and the announcements at various levels. POLL “Our task as a reputable election observer group is to ensure that we build confidence in the citizens and let them rests assured that their votes will count. “However,  Nigerian democracy is making progress and our role as stakeholders is to continue to inspire confidence in the citizens and let them know that the best form of government is a democracy, despite all the challenges.”