LAGOS – Rev Dr. Frank Nwosu, Chairman, Elim-Africa Mission Inc., has lamented the rising cases of ritual killings for money in the country, saying the trend could be likened to the modern day cannibalism. Rev Nwosu. The cleric, the author of a book, ‘A Short Introduction to Cultural Anthropology’, who took a look at the cultures obtainable in different geographic locations of the world, maintained that cannibalism and slavery existed among all human races and species till the advent of civilisation. He maintained that although people were said to be generally ‘civilised’, they had continued to engage in modern day slavery and cannibalism in spite of the global hue and cry against such life styles. According to Nwosu, “Same way, several nationalities just cannot ‘civilise’ the ingredient of prostitution or piracy, or cannibalism, the sordid relish for the taste of human fresh.” The cleric lamented that cases of cannibalism in the society were being swept under the carpet, stressing that “modern cannibalism in our cities is not being highlighted or loudly prosecuted because it is pampered, promoted, funded and patronised by the high and mighty. “From 1991 to 1993, I lived and worked in the high-brow Ajao Estate axis of Lagos International Airport. “Then, everyone knew there was a man that lived in the lonely track that connected the Airport Road to Oshodi Expressway, leading straight to the Apapa Wharf on the Atlantic coast. POLL “The man literally captured, butchered, roasted and traded fellow humans. I mean, everyone knew and residents warned newcomers to steer clear of the route. “To cut a long story short, when Mr Clifford Orji was finally arrested, after the noise had become too loud to suppress, he was detained briefly, then declared a madman…and later denied all the events of human parts merchandise as a mere allegation that never occurred. “I doubt he is in prison. I am afraid that he and all his collaborators are too powerful to be brought to book. “Don’t ask how we know it was cannibalism. Several roasted hands and legs were discovered at the scene as at the time of his arrest. And these things were all in the mainstream media, in the public domain. Check your archives. “In more recent times, the video of the escapee-victim of the human meat abattoir in the outskirts of Port Harcourt is still alive. “The restaurateur thought she had got a cooking contract, only to get there and see unbelievable queues of fellow ‘responsible’ country men, with flasks, coolers and warmers, buying several human parts and paying in cash. This too is in the public domain. “Everyone may choose to keep strumming the all too familiar refrains of blaming the youths for laziness, greed and overarching ambition, but until we turn our camera lenses to this less-travelled path, we may not be able to arrest the escalation of killings. “Killings for money ritual and the butchery that caters to the three-star cannibalism lounges in our major cities are inseparable. “The latter mothers, funds and furthers the former. The success of the former encourages the younger generation that has become irredeemably convinced that the way up is doing a combo, and eating a potpourri of this uncivilised aspect of ours. “It is an unlicensed underworld subculture, and deserves more sociological research than the social media hype it is currently being blessed with.”