ABUJA – For his unique leadership qualities as a member of the outgoing All Progressives Congress APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Youth Groups and Stakeholders say they have united behind Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed to retain his seat in the new APC NWC. They have consequently contributed money to buy a nomination form for him to contest the position of National Organizing Secretary which has been zoned to Northwest, his zone. Addressing journalists on this development, Ife Adebayo, chairman of APC Youth Forum said the return of Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed on the NWC will help address the inclusiveness that APC youth groups have been clamouring for. “I am here today with various youth groups in the APC. We have contributed money and have picked a form for Barrister Ahmed Ismail to run for the office of National Organizing Secretary of the APC. “We believe very strongly that he has contributed to this party and as young people, we believe that based on his contribution to the party he’s fit and able to organize this party and put the party on the right footings working with other members of the NWC before the general elections in 2023.” Groups, including The APC Rebirth and All Progressives Youth Forum all believe that Ismaeel Ahmed has the ability to galvanize the youths and party to win elections. “Ismail has shown over time that he has the capacity to initiate programs that will actually do well and augur well for winning elections for this party.” Aliyu Audu, Convener of The APC Rebirth, said the youths have decided to draft one of their own as a step to realize their agitations for Youth inclusion. POLL “It’s a good thing that we have decided to do this on his birthday and part of the things we’ve yearned for over the time is for competent people to occupy critical positions and also to ask for inclusion of young people who are in the majority of party membership and there’s no other person to stand with us or for us or stand by than Ismail Ahmed, who singlehandedly has given more young people the platform to showcase what they can do how they can add value to growing the party. “Before the merger itself, he was the one person who brought us from the different parts of the party together and got us to understand the fact that we have a role to play in the country by taking part so that at some point just like now to take charge in how the future that affects us is being decided to ensure we are on the table when that future will be negotiated. “I mean there’s no better show of appreciation and support than this one we are doing right now for Barr Ismail Ahmed for all of the investment he has had in the young ones on the party and he’s shown direction and he has the competence to perform in the position in the direction we want the party to go.”