Abuja – As the nation continues to witness the activities of terrorism, the Conference of Civil Society of Nigeria (CCSN) has said that the cooperation and collaboration between civil society and the military is the antidote to the insecurity in the country. Addressing newsmen at the end of the three-day Civil-Military Conference (CIMICO) in Abuja, the Chairman of the Conference of Civil Society of Nigeria, Comrade Adams Otakwu, said that the global trends on insecurity underscore the need for increased cooperation and collaboration between the civil society and military and other security agencies to enhance surveillance, information and intelligence resources. He said: “After three days of incisive engagements, a very audacious and patriotic effort to galvanize nation-wide cooperation between the civil society, the military and security services have been recorded to enhance information gathering and transmission to up the ante, and empower the military and security forces with superior advantage in dealing with the menaces of violence, insurgency, terrorism, and other forms of insecurity. “The consensus is that CIMICO is a veritable vehicle which will foster a speedy and sustained end to the in security challenges in Nigeria, as all hands would come on deck to address the touchy issues involved in the war against the nefarious forces besetting the country. “Moreover, global trends on insecurity underscore the need for increased cooperation and collaboration between the civil society and military and other security agencies to enhance surveillance, information and intelligence resources. “Therefore, there is the need to sensitize and mobilize the Civil Society and Citizens across the regions and grassroots for greater cooperation and collaboration with the military and security community as a multi-functional tool to bolster military and security capabilities and improve engagement outcomes.” Accordingly, the Conferees, has, however, agreed that “the Conference of Civil Society of Nigeria with support of the security community shall coopt more CSOs and Citizens from the national to the Grass Roots (36 States and 774 LGAs of the Country) into a CIMICO Network and a critical mass of citizens in the war against Insecurity. “This will go a long way in giving a sense of belonging for the Citizenry to own the fight against insecurity as a collective responsibility. POLL The strategy is for all Nigerians to own the fight against insecurity and work together with the security community to win the war. “Flowing from this edition shall be Annual Civil-Military Conferences to consolidate the gains of CIMICO in Nigeria. The periodic event shall be in the forms of Civil-Military Week, Sports Competition between the Civil Society and Military, and Visits to IDP Camps. “Also, there shall be regional and state CIMICO town hall meetings etc, as well as CIMICO programmes with respective arms of the military, security and government agencies (along with their specific mandates) to build maximum national security.”