Dr Nnanna Elias Igwe, a  United Kingdom-based medical doctor by profession, in this interview with select journalists in his residence in Abakaliki, speaks on why he is contesting the governorship election of Ebonyi State in 2023, as well as the ongoing empowerment training for unemployed youths by his foundation. SAMSON NWAFOR brings the excerpts: You are contesting for governorship position in 2023, why are you in the race? I am here not contesting for any election. I’m here to offer myself for service to my people. There are differences in contest. I’m here to serve my people and I have been in service, but this is something different. All my life has always been on how to impact on people’s lives. In my own life, I have benefitted a lot from people’s goodwill. I was trained mainly by public fund. I gained a lot. I went to school by accident, my parents did not go to school. I went to school primary not sure of even finishing primary school and I gradually was able to finish primary school. BREAKING:[Defection] Umahi, Deputy Ask Appeal Court To Set Aside… March 26  APC Convention Date Not Feasible – Salvador But I was not going to go to secondary school, because my parents couldn’t afford it, but people said, “no, we are going to carter for you.” That was how I went to secondary school. When I finished secondary school with 9 distinctions, the local government awarded me scholarship to read medicine and when I finished reading medicine,  and came top of the class with a gold medal,  I was sent overseas. So, you can see, I was all trained with public money and because I benefitted a lot, I have trained at least, 20 graduates and I’m still training people and many of the people I have trained are very successful, some of them are even overseas, some are Commissioners and some are in different top posts in the society. Now, I’m here because my people still need me. Good governance is still lacking in the society, especially in Nigeria. I commend the efforts of our Governor, Engr David Nweze Umahi, If you have been around, you can see the infrastructural development that he has brought to the State. If you compare Ebonyi to other states, you will see that we have overtaken other states in the country. So, I am here to continue the good work that he is doing. I’m here to consolidate on the work of the current administration, and bring capacity, and experience with competence in different other areas to try to lift Ebonyi people out of poverty, create wealth and make our economy the number one economy not only in Nigeria but possibly in Africa. So what are some of the things you intend doing if elected governor? We are going to create a digital economy that will be able to create wealth and create capacity in our system that will be able to impact on every Ebonyi person as much as possible. Health sector will receive massive boost. We will start a system similar to what we have in the United Kingdom, we have National Health Service in the UK, we will create Ebonyi Health Service and that health service will be free, you go to hospital free and be treated free. There will be ambulance system that will have an emergency number, wherever you are and you call that number, the ambulance will come and pick you ,take you to the hospital and treat you, and if it is something they will treat you at home, they will treat you. We will build and equip more hospitals and employ more Doctors and Nurses so that they will have 24hours service in our rural hospitals. In educational sector, we shall have free primary and secondary schools, and affordable university education. We will create also bursaries and scholarships where they are required. Then, we will build capacity in our schools, and employ more teachers and make our educational system one of the best in the country. The reason why education is so key is because for me education is success and not the key to success. POLL More importantly, I will be creating a Ministry of Internationalization. And that is the Ministry that will help me to interface and transfer what I have learnt overseas home and also to be able to create opportunity for Ebonyi people outside here, and in different parts of the international community such as UK,USA, China, Canada and so on. I can go on and on, but very importantly, our solid minerals. We have a lot solid mineral deposits in the State and we will get it working and tap it to the very best interest of Ebonyi people. We are going to commercialize, revolutionalize and mechanise agriculture and build industries along agriculture value chain. I will create industrialization that will empower our economy and wipe out unemployment in Ebonyi state. These are some of the vision that I have. I’m here for a MEGA mission. Now, MEGA means Make Ebonyi Greater Agenda. So, I’m on a mission and why I’m on a mission is that I have the vision, I have the concept, I have the action and I have the results I’m already looking at, and with the help of God and the help of Ebonyi people, we shall realize that. This is the service I’m here to render. So, I’m not here for a contest. There are two Schools of Thoughts in Ebonyi State’s polity, concerning rotation of governorship position. One School of Thought believes in zoning of governorship seat for the sake of equity, while the other believes in good governance, not minding who’s in power? Which do you belong? I believe in good governance. I’m a student of good governance. By virtue of where I’m coming from in London, good governance is everything, because in the UK, nobody bothers where you are coming from, because you get what you want no matter where you are or where you are coming from, whether you are tall or short, man or woman, they give you good governance and you have all the facilities you supposed to have. So, it does not matter who is on top, it’s not your business. Most of the people that are Prime Ministers or leaders in Britain, passed through virtually one Secondary school called Eton College, the College is near the Queen’s residence and most of them passed through Oxford or Cambridge. Why? Because they use their best brains. Coming to the question you asked. I’m the Equity they are looking for. I give you the instances, the reasons why I think I’m the Equity they are looking for: one, they said, when you go to equity, you go with clean hands, I have not held government office, I have no business with government money and I’m a friend to every Ebonyi person. So, if there is anyone that can unite the State and knows what to do and can continue with the previous governments to make government a continuum, because that’s what I learnt from where I am. Government normally has a road map that continues, no matter who is in power. So, I will continue with a strategic road map for Ebonyi put in place by the present administration.