The National Assembly completed its review of the 1999 Constitution recently but made very few improvements on the 2010 amendments. It was what some critics considered another jinxed exercise, plagued by the same self-serving mentality and lack of sincerity that have characterised previous legislative amendments. It all started when the joint review committee under the chairmanship of Deputy Senate president, Ovie Omo-Agege, decided to drop some of the issues that have been canvassed by stakeholders recently, especially those that summed up the agitation for a true federal system which would devolve considerable powers or roles from the centre to the states. Among these are the introduction of state police and handing over control of state resources, embracing revenue-generating instruments, to states. It would be assumed that resource control, by whatever name it is called, is still very much combustible and had better be left out of the review exercise, especially since it might not even sail through when it comes up for voting in states where the handout syndrome appears a permanent ailment, but the refusal to even admit state police for consideration at this most imperiled times of terror wars, is simply confounding. Anyone who has been curious enough to analyse the political controversies that are endemic in Nigeria would come to the conclusion that at the heart of all the controversies is the intense desire by some parts of Nigeria to exercise considerable control over their own affairs and the equally intense, and even surreal, opposition by other parts to this simple desire. I have asked myself time and time again why anyone should begrudge the other that innocuous desire to have control over their own lives? Could it be a case of parasitic lust for power? I just can’t find any other explanation. Now, when I talk about a parasitic lust for power, I mean a determination to be in control of power in order to perpetuate the monkey-work-baboon-chop malady that has seen all key national positions fall into the hands of those who wish to have the largest part of the national cake. That’s what it all boils down to: access to the national cake. But, of course, this cake-sharing tradition ranks among our greatest enemies. It is one of the fixations that have taken away resourcefulness from us and given us in its place a debilitating habit of national indolence. We are daily scheming to occupy positions that will enhance our access to the national cake. That is why we won’t let go obsolete arrangements. For instance, we become paranoid when someone suggests we decentralize the police. A single police service has ensured that the nation’s security is controlled by just a button located somewhere in the control tower in Abuja. All the arguments so far made in favour of state police cut no ice with the power cult which fears that allowing such power monolith to go down will endanger their position in the scheme of things. But the war against terror – Boko Haram, bandits, and all other savage groups that have arisen in response to the yawning gaps in state authority – continues at an embarrassing pace most typical of such lumbering entities. Nothing matters to the power cult as long as their cravings are nourished. To keep their power fortress is a task that must be done. Nigeria’s Disastrous, Tragic, Brutish, Nasty, Atrocious,… Nigerian Women And Our Politics Of Gender Inequality Even though I had no faith in the constitution review when it began – because I believe the Buhari government is too conservative to allow any useful change – I found myself strangely curious about the review exercise later. I found justification for my bias when the issues came up for voting and the committee which had delisted state police from consideration suddenly became alert enough to include proposals for immunity and life pension for presiding officers of the National Assembly. Could self-centredness go beyond that? Well, thank God they were smart enough to vote against the proposals. Nevertheless, probably influenced by the Presidency, the legislators voted against a separate status for the Federal Capital. What an omission! The same self-serving desire to gathered power into one bucket and sit on it. Clearly, the Federal Government is not done yet with appointing ministers and thus maintaining control over the FCT. But why is the Federal Government so desirous of holding on to everything? Its crave for all-embracing power is only matched by its clumsiness when handling same. Everything is fallen apart but the power cult won’t allow any loosening up. The economy has gone bonkers. Politics is in turmoil. Education is held hostage. Sport is trapped in muddle. And the only sources of air in the behemoth called Nigeria are activities, such as entertainment, well out of the control of the Federal Government. Nigeria has evolved through the sheer grit of the people who have kept marching on despite the waywardness of the government. The people who have been unfortunate to sit in the seat of power have, on the other hand, been a scheming brood whose elemental fears and naiveties have informed their decisions – even of monumental implications for statehood. The result is this terribly challenged political monstrosity. But how did we get here? It has been reported that as Nigerian leaders prepared to take the place of the British colonial masters, amid much hedging by the aristocratic North, some overzealous among the Nigerian leaders from the South went and told their Northern brothers, “let’s forget our differences and live as one,” but their Northern brothers retorted, “No, let’s recognize our differences and respect them.” Sound logic. POLL The Independent Constitution of 1960 did, certainly, took care of that necessity, and it has been the root of the call for federalism that will ensure those differences are recognized and respected. It was therefore insupportable for the Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi military government to have introduced a unitary system which immediate set almost all former political arrangements in disarray. But the counter-coup which brought in Yakubu Gowon attempted to address the distortions by creating more states and attempting a federal structure but, alas, it became a military mutation of federalism that has survived to this day. It’s not federalism – just an imitation of federalism, or a quasi-federal system. The military maintained a command system with powers to regulate local affairs flowing from the centre. The structure has not changed since despite several superficial impositions. So, from the immediate post-civil war era through the 1970s we started attempting the military version of federalism with the creation of states and some touching up here and there such as the introduction of the bicameral presidential system in 1979, tailored after the American system but at variance with it in practice. The first six years after independence witnessed the most successful federal system we have had, with large economically viable regional units that were the outcome of several constitutional conferences held under the direction of the British colonialists. Those constitutional conferences were far more thorough and productive than we have had ever since, except perhaps for the remarkable 1978 Constituent Assembly that produced the 1979 Constitution. Under military supervision, constitutional negotiations have been too hamstrung to be worthwhile. There have been no genuine attempt to produce a structural arrangement that would safeguard and enhance regional political and economic institutions as well as engender effective co-operation among the federating units as did those constitutional conferences of the 1950s. With the military in control, political developments have been highly regulated to suit the whims and caprices of the military leaders who came mainly from a particular part of the country. And, of course, military command structure is almost antithetical to devolutionary arrangements. The outcome of Olusegun Obasanjo’s National Political Reform Conference of 2005 and the National Conference convoked by Goodluck Jonathan in 2014 has been in the custody of the powers-that-be in Abuja, permanent hostage to champions of centralism. It Doesn’t Rain On Chelsea, But Pours Importance Of Gender Equality In National Development So, here we are with a peculiar federal system. Nigeria’s centralised federalism must be the only one of its kind in the world, and defeats the purpose of its practice elsewhere. From Obasanjo’s hectoring federalism to the kill-and-divide federalism of Jonathan to the now infamous whimsical federalism of Buhari, Nigeria has taken a lurch into full-fledged feudalism. The old concept of unity in diversity where the constituent units develop according to their own distinctiveness is now in doubtful existence. If truly practiced, federalism allays the fear of domination and transmutation. People’s culture, traditions, religions, and other natural features are protected and not consumed by larger or more influential entities. That’s its greatest guarantee and its most attractive offering. It then follows naturally that these peoples will have to explore and exploit their distinctiveness for their own good as well as for the good of all. The role of the government at the centre is to be an arbiter among the diverse groups, co-ordinate their activities, ensure their peaceful co-existence, and represent or defend them as a unit in dealings with external forces. That’s what federalism amount to. Federalism is not a collection and redistribution system, it’s not a hegemonic order, and it’s not an over-lordship structure. If we had had very discerning and charismatic leaders at the National Assembly, the recent constitution review would have captured some of the basic elements which proponents of restructuring have demanded, and whether their proposals end up being defeated when they go to states for voting, then at least history would have recorded it that they did make an attempt to respond to popular yearnings but no, not this NASS – they could not sacrifice their own political fixations! So, another constitution review exercise has gone up in smoke. Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila