ISAAC ASABOR There is no denying the fact that since the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Council (FCCPC) was established in 2018 by the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act (FCCPA), as the foremost consumer protection authority in Nigeria with the mandate to addressing customer’s best interests through consumer protection has remained its core priority. At its core aim, the goal of the commission is to protect customers’ interests, to ensure that they are never exploited by pushing for safety, reliability, and market responsibility, a better and healthier system emerges, but the benefits can be deeper than we might think. Against the foregoing background, it is not surprising that it has, under the leadership of Mr. Babatunde Irukera, its Executive Vice Chairman and CEO, ordered MultiChoice Nigeria Limited to increase the number of times all subscribers may suspend their subscription. The Commission has in a recent statement by its Director of Legal Services, Tam Tamunokonbia, said subscribers should be able to suspend their subscription up to at least four times annually. The resolution was reached to prevent consumers from being exploited after an investigation was prompted by complaints regarding allegations of abuse of dominant position by Multichoice Nigeria Limited. It would be recalled that FCCPC had last year opened an investigation into the conduct of dominant Pay TV service providers. However, the commission has now directed MultiChoice to provide a price lock option that allows subscribers to maintain the same subscription fee for a minimum period of one year subject to a contractual agreement that clearly specifies the applicable terms and conditions. POLL The statement reads, “The Commission has prepared and delivered a detailed Investigative Report to MCN showing its findings with respect to the investigation. ”For the purpose of ensuring that any material changes in key terms with respect to value propositions including, but not limited to cost or price, on account of its dominance, and to prevent consumers from being otherwise exploited, including by the conduct of other players in the market, MultiChoice shall introduce additional features prior to any proposed or contemplated changes in terms and conditions as identified in this Order to the extent that such change in price constitutes an increase in what consumers pay, regardless of any value addition. Such features should at a minimum include: ”A price lock option that allows subscribers to maintain the same subscription fee for a minimum period of one year subject to a contractual agreement that clearly specifies the applicable terms and conditions. MultiChoice Nigeria shall submit to the Commission a draft of this agreement within seven days of receipt of this Order. ”A better value for money proposition for annual prepayment of subscription, including the ability to suspend subscription at least once every quarter of the year. ”Clear communication to each subscriber regarding all channels available within their selected bouquet option and any other value proposition MultiChoice considers appropriate and applicable, subject to adequate engagement with the Commission. ”Provide completely toll-free customer service lines which are operational 24 hours daily, and through which consumers may receive support with respect to their use of the services offered by MultiChoice Nigeria. These lines must be toll-free across networks, not only within the same networks as is presently the case. “MultiChoice Nigeria must within the time stipulated in the Commission’s Order of February 4, 2022, provide the Commission with a work plan and timeline for the purpose of articulating, and addressing where possible and applicable, any constraints with respect to complying with, and operationalizing this specific Order. ”Advertise the existing toll-free customer service lines more frequently and more widely on channels available and under the control of MultiChoice on the DStv and GOtv platforms. Such advertisement must run on each channel at least daily. ”Increase the number of times all subscribers may suspend their subscription up to at least four times annually. ”Submit to the Commission a compliance report demonstrating full compliance with the above orders within the time stipulated in the Commission’s Order of February 4, 2022.” The commission further warned that a violation of its Order attracts a fine/penalty of N5, 000,000.00 under the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission Administrative Penalties Regulations, 2020. It is expedient to note that the recent development is sequel to increases in charges of products and services, and in pursuant to Sections 17(b), (e), (g), (s),(x) (y), 18(3), 59, 61, 62, 69, 70(1)(2), 72, 73, 74, 108, 109 and 110 of the FCCPA, which provoked the FCCPC) to commence investigation into the conduct of leading Pay TV service providers in Nigeria. It would be recalled that Irukera had in a statement on Tuesday, September 1, 2020, in Abuja, FCT, said the probe into Pay TV providers’ activities was to address the regulatory Commission’s concerns and publicly express consumer dissatisfaction with Pay TV services. The FCCPC Chief Executive disclosed that the scope of the investigation would include questions about unfair dealings, unreasonable and unjust contract terms, abuse of market power, pricing practices and other illegal conducts. Irukera at the time said the Commission had in a spate of 24 months pursued legal action in court, secured an injunction preempting price increase, and entered specific orders regarding a TV service provider. He noted that the regulator has engaged in periodic surveillance and monitoring, and more recently investigated an alleged tax increase by one of the service providers. The Chief Executive Officer, therefore, assured consumers that the FCCPC would continue to evolve initiatives and efforts at promoting and ensuring fairness to all. There is no denying the fact that the FCCPC against the foregoing has recorded success through its result-oriented leadership. Mr. Godson Ehiorobo, a Civil Servant, said: “FCCPC is no doubt reiterating its commitment to ensuring fairness in commerce and marketplace, as well as preventing the exploitation of consumers. Ehiorobo in his assessment of the commission said “There is every indication that FCCPC was not primarily a law enforcement agency, but a regulator which possesses law enforcement powers”, and explained that the leadership of the agency has committedly proven that its primary role is to ensure that commerce and the marketplace is fair, as well as prevent exploitation of consumers. Unarguably extolling the leadership of the commission, Davidson Chiawotu said, “In the past, the commission, when it was known as Consumer Protection Council (CPC) was always seen as a dog that could only bark but could not bite”. The limitation at the time was understandable as it was bereft of adequate legislation to back Consumers’ rights. Ostensibly leveraging the lacuna, manufacturers of goods and services often abused the right of innocent consumers with ease and got away with it without facing any sanction. However, the lacuna has being bridged by the present leadership led by Mr. Irukera as the commission has in the last few years the saving grace of in the last few years, become victims of fake products and poor services.