Mrs. Ijeoma Oduonye , Chief Executive Officer of Cutix Plc, in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the challenges local manufacturers face accessing foreign exchange (forex), why the government must act fast to stop local manufacturers from closing shops, reducing unemployment, among other issues. Excerpts Manufactures across the country are facing difficult times in view of the economic situation in the country. They cannot easily access foreign exchange for their business. What are your thoughts on that? I remember that you asked this similar question last year when I had an interview with you and I must say that much has not changed. As An Entrepreneur My Primary Objective Is To Satisfy My… If You Offer Quality Services, You Must Get Buyers For Your… A good number of local manufacturers have actually shut down because of the numerous turbulent macroeconomic and macroeconomic environments under which the companies are made to operate. When you go to the shops you will see that a lot of items that you used to buy are no longer on the shelves, and this by extension shows the number of people that have been thrown out of work. The reason is not far-fetched because the business environment is full of uncertainty. If you finish selling your products and you go back to buy, you will discover that the price is even higher than what you sold. When you want to replenish your stock you will discover that you have just sold at a loss. It is painful to see this happen because manufacturers are not just making profit, they are creating employment. A manufacturer is creating value because if it is all about money, he can go into trading, but when you want to add value through manufacturing you are creating employment. POLL The current situation is increasingly becoming more difficult by the day for the local manufacturers. It is for that reason that I won’t say that they are planning to shut down but that they are packing up. If someone sees his or herself in a situation where the bills can’t be paid, raw materials cannot be replenished he or she will pack up to reduce exposure, debt that will need to be settled. The manufacturers are not planning to pack up, but they just found themselves packing up and it is not good for the economy because the government needs the private sector to move the economy. With this development I don’t know what the future holds for the country because the government cannot employ all the people in the workforce. The government cannot really employ all the people that are ready for employment. Local manufacturers closing shops is dangerous for the economy. The government needs the private sector to drive the economy. Educating Citizens Will Eradicate Crime, Improve Economy Of Any… You Need Product Knowledge To Grow Sales – Umoh How do you source your forex? I will repeat what I have always said. It has really been a nightmare for us. When you do your letter of credit (LC) with the bank, it takes so long to complete the funding of one transaction. As we speak some of the LCs that I established a long time ago haven’t been fully funded. With the current economic situation, the suppliers have reviewed their prices upwards. What do you do? Take a walk? Definitely if you do, you are going to get the current price. I have a proforma invoice that has a huge dollar increase because I couldn’t complete the funding within record time. I had no option than to continue because I have had partial funding from the Central Bank Of Nigeria (CBN) and that same transaction has not been completed, a transaction that started long ago. I don’t do anything through CBN anymore; I just give them forms and go to the parallel market to source for funds. The supplier cannot give you more than two consignments of copper at a time, and you must complete payment before he takes another order from you. Copper is my biggest raw material and I had to buy it because I needed it. You have to increase your price because the cost has also increased. You know that it is not everybody that can afford the product now so what it does is that it reduces your turnover. The worst aspect of it is that the money at CBN is tied there. If I want 200 dollars for a transaction and the CBN funds 150 dollars, within 12 months we have 50 dollars remaining. The money is still with the bank in Nigeria, I have provided the naira equivalent and yet the money is still with the bank it hasn’t gone to my supplier. The money is there with the commercial bank and it has so much to give as loan to its customers, and if there is any price increase it hits back at me. CBN should look into this before it spells doom for all of us. When the local manufacturers close shops, people are thrown into the streets and an idle mind is the devil’s workshop, and by extension crime will increase because they must have to feed. If the local manufacturers go to a common market where they have sanity in their economy, how can they compete? How many local manufacturers can compete in African market space? The cost of your product before it gets to that market is higher than the price that other manufacturers of the same product will be ready to sell. People are coming into the market with the same product at cheaper price and with the kind of mentality that people have about foreign products, it will spell doom for local manufacturers. The government should understand that addressing the issue is not for a particular sector but for the general good of the society because if the companies close shop, the workers will go and if they cannot get jobs elsewhere, they will commit crime. It will have a spiral effect on the economy. What other challenges do you think that the local manufacturers face? Another huge challenge that they have is the issue of insecurity in the country. The sit-at-home order in the south-east has relaxed for now in the South-East, it is not as bad as it used to be then when we had to operate for only four days in a week but even at that there are still pockets of insecurity here and there, killings of citizens by unidentified assailants, etcetera. The government must be alive to its responsibility because even beyond the region you also have insecurity everywhere across the country. It affects our business because our market is beyond the South- East region. We also have a logistics problem. The bad road in the south-east is another challenge. If I want to move my products from Anambra State to Enugu State for example, a journey of two hours now takes five hours at extra cost. What can you say about your AGM which took place a few months ago amidst the COVID-19 pandemic? Our AGM is a peculiar one which will not only provide the company an opportunity to meet as a family after a whole year, but will also provide us a platform to review the activities of the company, of the financial year 2021. COVID-19 pandemic brought a paradigm shift in all facets of our endeavour, that notwithstanding, this year’s AGM was more virtual than physical gathering, which is in line with the safety requirements to curb the spread of the pandemic. Our distinguished shareholders also attended by proxy. What was the perspective of your shareholders in terms of your performance at that meeting? Our supportive shareholders were overwhelmed by the giant stride of the management which resulted in the resounding successes recorded at the end of the financial year 2021. The revenue grew by 34 percent while the profit before tax grew by 54 percent. The board also recommended 15k per share for dividend and 1 for 1 bonus, so they were tremendously happy. Considering some of the challenges that we just discussed, what does the future hold for Cutix? The future, I will always say, is very promising. Cutix plc is looking forward to becoming one of the top three providers of electrical energy products and services in the world. It is possible going by the quality of our product offering and the dedicated management and staff of the company, of course our shareholders who are quite supportive and our loyal customers.