ISAAC ASABOR The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, (NAFDAC), is established by Decree 15 of 1993 as amended by Decree 19 of 1999, and now the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control Act Cap N1 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. It is mandated to regulate and control the manufacture, importation, exportation, distribution, advertisement, sale and use of food, drugs, cosmetics, chemicals, detergents, medical devices and packaged water (Known as regulated products). Simply put, the agency has the mandate of protecting Nigerians from consuming unsafe products. In fulfilling the foregoing responsibilities, particularly as it relates to protecting Nigerians from consuming unsafe products, the agency have, from time to time, been providing information and opportunities for effective and meaningful public involvement to enable fulfillment of legislative mandate, programmes delivery, and launch of new initiatives and building public trust. The agency has been at the forefront of issuing alerts or public warnings on food safety issues. It is responsible for communicating risks associated with the food chain in an open and transparent manner based on scientific advice. At this juncture, it can be said that it is on the strength of its legal mandate that NAFDAC on February 20, 2022, through its website alerted consumers that it has intercepted in Lagos, large quantities of dangerous animal hides and skins popularly known as “Ponmo” with seven merchants of the deadly product in the Agency’s net. Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, the Director General of NAFDAC, however, warned the general public, particularly consumers of ‘Ponmo’ against the activities of some unscrupulous businessmen and traders who are selling industrial animal hides as food articles. POLL The statement, quoting Prof. Moji Adeyeye, stated that the NAFDAC Investigation and Enforcement officials swiftly carried out intelligence gathering around certain locations where the alleged products were being warehoused and sold, saying that its response was sequel to several complaints received from the public, pertaining to alleged sale and distribution of imported hides and skins meant for use in leather industries and which had already been processed with industrial chemicals. These hides and skins are then sold to unsuspecting public as consumable animal skin products, otherwise called Ponmo. ‘’Monitoring was also extended to some buyers who patronise the sellers and custodians of the warehouse’’, she said, adding that preliminary investigation revealed that some of the hides and skins were imported illegally and sometimes diverted to some merchants of death who re-process the hides and skins and further sell them as consumable Ponmo to the public. In the light of these discoveries, she said that the Agency recently conducted investigative raids upon some identified locations in Lagos State where market women and men were found clustered for purchase of leftovers from the warehouses. She disclosed that large quantities, (120 tons), of the products were intercepted at six different locations, stressing that seven suspects who were alleged to be involved in the acts are currently under investigation. The NAFDAC boss further explained that samples of the products have been sent to the laboratory for testing so as to ascertain the products quality and unwholesomeness. According to her, the intervention would help the Agency deal with the interaction and the dangers associated with the consumption of the products. ‘’The street value of the product currently intercepted is estimated to be around N25.330m only’’, she said. Prof Adeyeye however, alerted the general public on the existence of these merchants of death and their nefarious activities as she warned Nigerians to exercise caution when buying animal hides, popularly known as Ponmo ‘’NAFDAC wishes to advise consumers and retailers of Ponmo not to patronise importers of hides and skins for consumable animal skins’’, she said. She further warned that the hides, are pre-treated with industrial chemicals which are not of food grade and will be toxic and injurious to human health, stressing that health hazards inherent in the consumption of such animal hides include risk of Liver, Kidney and Heart damage, increased risk of Aplastic anemia, Central nervous system toxicity, Cancer, amongst several others. “The general public is hereby encouraged to be very vigilant and exercise discretion when purchasing animal hides PONMO and indeed other food items. NAFDAC is fully alive to her responsibilities of assuring the safety, wholesomeness, and quality of processed foods offered for sale to the public’’. While applauding NAFDAC’s efforts over the years, Mr. Kelvin Anuka said, “NAFDAC has over the years become the most pragmatic government’s institution as it has remained in its fight against food contamination and drug faking and adulteration”. He noted that the agency has been most aggressive and innovative in designing and deploying regulation and control best practices in line with global trends, but however said the leadership of the agency need to do more for its efforts to be result-oriented. In the view of the foregoing, Helen Oyeaka said, “As a developing nation and the most populous nation in Africa, Nigeria has enormous challenges connected with food safety culture. “To produce and provide safe, secure and nutritious food, consumers and food businesses must abide by a set of shared values known as food safety culture. In Nigeria, food safety culture is a complex subject due to its heterogeneous and diverse nature, as demonstrated by over 250 ethnic groups. “ As Nigeria becomes more urbanised and incomes continue to fluctuate at robust rates, few Nigerians are conscious of food safety issues. In addition, oversight from government regulators around food safety requires improvement. Public engagement in food safety issues has not witnessed a promising trajectory in recent years. Against the foregoing background, it is not an exaggeration to say that not few respondent unanimously shared their view on NAFDAC’s Statement saying that for NAFDAC’s advocacy to be result-oriented that those at the grassroots should mostly be targeted by the agency. Most people that were spoken to by DAILY INDEPENDENT, unanimously flayed the agency for not driving its awareness campaign on unsafe products in such a way that consumers of foods and drugs in the country are well informed. Mr. John Uwadiae said: “The agency should adopt Town Hall meeting in addressing consumers of Ponmo rather than pasting or posting Press Releases on its website. They should equally be using radio and television as media of communication. He added, “I can’t remember reading about warnings in the newspapers or listening to any announcement made either on radio or television about NAFDAC’s warning on unsafe products. It is not as if the agency has not been issuing warnings or public alerts to Nigerians on unsafe products but its communication channels are “too elitist.” As observed, the agency merely posted the information on its website without putting the number of traffic it attracts into consideration, coupled with the demographic segment of the society the visitors belong. In his view, Samuel Isima said, “NAFDAC should adopt communication that will target those at the grassroots, hoteliers and restaurateurs, and even road side food sellers as the audiences of their information instead of limiting their Press Releases to the website.” He asked how many people that eat ‘Ponmo’ on daily basis visit NAFDAC’s website. My brother, the agency is communicating amiss”. DAILY INDEPENDENT’s findings revealed that Isima’s views on NAFDAC efforts in disseminating information to the people is not in any way misplaced as public warnings and alerts made by the agency so far, mostly in the recent times, are limited to its website.