According to Sky Sports Germany, Liverpool, along with RB Leipzig and Paris Saint-Germain, are keeping tabs on Karim Adeyemi’s situation at Red Bull Salzburg. Bundesliga giants Borussia Dortmund are interested in the striker and have even made a bid in the region of €30-€35 million, but the Austrian side are holding out for at least €40 million. The 20-year-old has been with Salzburg since the 2018/19 season. He spent his first eighteen months in Austria on loan at FC Liefering, scoring 15 goals and providing 12 assists in the second division. It prompted Salzburg to incorporate him into their first team from the start of 2020. While he didn’t hit the ground running, Adeyemi has gradually developed into their prime goal-scoring outlet. He scored nine goals and provided 11 assists across competitions for the Austrian side last season, and has bettered those numbers already this term. Liverpool Join Barcelona, Real Madrid In Jules Kounde Pursuit Arsenal Take ‘First Steps Towards’ £75m Liverpool Target The centre-forward has scored 19 times for the club, 15 of which have come in the league and three in the Champions League. His form put quite a few European giants on alert, with Dortmund emerging as the prime contenders for his signature. With Dortmund the Black and Yellows primed to lose Erling Haaland in the summer, Adeyemi is a feasible option to replace him. However, Dortmund are yet to convince Salzburg to sanction the youngster’s sale for a fee of around €30 to €35 million, with the Austrian bigwigs asking for at least €40 million for him. The Bundesliga giants will have to move quickly to secure Adeyemi’s signature as other potential suitors are lining up. Liverpool are just one of the teams interested in his signature. The aforementioned report claims that the Reds will not think twice before matching Salzburg’s valuation of €40 million for the youngster, and so will the other interested parties. Jurgen Klopp’s side have held an interest in Adeyemi for some time now. Liverpool are already planning ahead for the future, as indicated by the increased importance of Diogo Jota in the team and the January arrival of Luis Diaz. Attacking additions will be necessary in the summer with Divock Origi likely to leave and the contract situations of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino still being a concern. Adeyemi would be another addition to the rebuild that Klopp is overseeing with an eye on the future. But with personal terms agreed with the striker, Dortmund seem to be the favourites to complete his signing. The Reds can only hope that the transfer doesn’t go ahead smoothly and they can take a shot in the summer window.