LAGOS – A team from Chrisland University, Abeokuta, led by the Head of Department, Criminology and Security Studies, Dr. Kunle Olawumi, on a courtesy visit to the Special Weapons and Tactics Team (SWAT), has advised officers to focus on career development to improve their worklife and make their jobs more efficient. To Olawunmi, a retired Navy Commodore with 35 years of experience in various military formations both in Nigeria and overseas, police officers, in particular, should cultivate the habit of making hay while the sun is still shining. The officers, he further counselled, should adequately utilize their time to go for further studies as a way of deepening their knowledge of their career and also preparing for life after retirement. APC: Members Plan Heroic Welcome For CECPC Buni IWD: SWAN Urges NASS To Revisit Gender Bills While speaking at the SWAT office located in Magbon, Abeokuta, the seasoned criminologist underscored the fact that security agents are to constantly upgrade their skills and competencies to effectively and efficiently carry out their jobs and organizational objectives. The Chrisland University team comprising the Head, Public Relations, Mr Ayo Arowojolu, Admission Officer, Mr Tolulope Makinde, Administrative Officer, Mr Olalekan Taiwo, and Media Officer, Miss Moyin Ajayi, was received by the Commander, SWAT, CSP Olanrewaju Kalejaiye, and his squad. Olawumi stated that the current situation in the country requires continuous learning, training, obtaining professional certifications, discovery, and refining, adding that one must keep evolving to remain relevant in a workforce. According to him, the need for curriculum development for police officers led to the commencement of Certificate courses and professional Diploma programmes in Criminology and Security Studies at Chrisland University. While enjoining personnel in the SWAT Squad to take advantage of the training programmes of the University, he noted that the Certificate courses and professional Diploma programmes would increase promotional avenues for the team, more growth opportunities, and higher productivity as well as better usefulness after retirement. POLL In his remark, CSP Kalejaiye appreciated the effort of the University in ensuring the professional growth and career progress of security operatives in the country.