…Proffer Solutions ABUJA – Stakeholders drawn from academia, civil service, media and a foreign intervention agency such as the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) have linked the effective implementation of the child rights act to challenges thrown up by economic and social factors. They also list ignorance on the part of the caregivers or parents (duty bearers) to the Act, even though 28 states of the federation have so far domesticated the act in Nigeria. They argued that some of the challenges which were thrown up in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SD), which is expected to elapse by 2030 still impedes the Child Rights Act in the country. They, however, unanimously agreed that all hopes were not lost, especially as the Act was gaining root among the academic community. They came to this conclusion during a two-day Training of Trainers on the “Reviewed Curriculum of Child Rights Reporting” organised in collaboration with the Child Right Information Bureau (CRIB), under the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). The event which took place in Lagos between March 16 and 17, 2022, saw most of the participants reeling out their experiences since its domestication. According to Professor Ifeyinwa Nsude, Department of Mass Communication, Ebonyi State University, Abakaliki, noted that part of the challenges militating against the child rights act was effective mainstreaming in academic programmes, especially at the tertiary level. POLL She said up to date some students fall victims to sexual harassment and exploitation from lecturers but are afraid to voice out their experiences because of the likely negative consequences they might face. Her words, “The problem we have been having is that we don’t know how to mainstream this child act reporting into our curriculum because of the bottlenecks in various institutions of higher learning in Nigeria. “There are so many good things about the child rights act reporting, I made personal observations and that was why I came up with a concept note. In the universities, you will see that most of these lecturers abuse child rights and what baffles me is that the students don’t even talk, they are intimidated. “If we actually start this child rights reporting, if we do it very well it will achieve a lot by creating that awareness and helping the children know they have rights and no lecturer can intimidate them.” According to Ezinwa Chidiebere Anthony, Department of Mass Communication, Enugu State University of Science and Technology, said poverty is at the root of denying children their rights. According to him, children’s right needs to be protected by duty bearers because of their vulnerabilities. “Child rights are entitlements of a child as a human being, these rights are inalienable, universal, universal, indivisible and interdependent,” Ezinwa noted. Other participants from various institutions who have not yet fully mainstreamed the act into their learning curriculum, pledged to introduce child rights advocacy clubs in their institutions, where young students will be tutored on their rights as enshrined in the act.