The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ondo State Chapter, Engineer Ade Adetimehin has been condemned for allegedly removing and replacing Ward 2 chairman of the party in Ode-Aye, Okitipupa Local Government Area, Mr Wole Ogunji with Mr Ajimiraye Omoboyewa. In a petition signed by the party leaders in Ode-Aye Ward 2, copied to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and made available to newsmen, it was alleged that the state chairman of the party did not contact or carry them along while taking such unilateral decision. According to the petition signed by Prince Diran Iyantan and 15 other party leaders from Ode-Aye, it was declared that in accordance with the directive of the party’s National Headquarters, the Ward Congress was conducted through the consensus option on July 31, 2021, and Mr Wole Ogunji emerged as the chairman of Ode-Aye Ward 2. APC Crisis: Group Uncovers Fresh Plot To Sack Buni, CECPC Via… Alleged Illegal Replacement Of Ward Chairman: Ondo APC Chairman,… They said that it was agreed by the party in the state that all wards executives be selected through consensus arrangement. The petition reads: “By our ward internal arrangement, we have 14 units and 27 positions were constitutionally zoned to our ward, and of which two positions, at least were zoned to each unit. One substantive position, one assistant, except Zion unit, where the victim of this petition belongs was given only one position, which is the chairman of the ward. “After the selection arrangement, the list of all ward exco was submitted to the screening committee for ratification and after the ratification, all the party leaders signed the list authenticating it as the genuine list of Ode-Aye Ward 2 Executives.” The party leaders alleged that recently they got information that the chairman’s name had been removed from Ward 2 executives with directives of APC state chairman, Engr. Ade Adetimehin and replaced with Ajimiraye Omoboyewa from Odofin Unit 02 of Ode-Aye Ward 2 without consultation with the ward leaders. They, however, cautioned that Engr. Ade Adetimehin, APC State chairman has ignited unnecessary tension and chaos in the Ward leading to party loyalists pulling out of the party because of the injustice. POLL It was examined that there are 14 Units and 27 positions constitutionally zoned to Ode-Aye Ward 2, two positions were given to each of the units. The chairman, being the head, was the only position given to the Zion unit. Therefore, the Odofin unit where the state chairman allegedly picked a replacement for Ogunji already had two positions, leaving Zion with none. The party leader, however, called on the state party stakeholders to call the state chairman to order and correct the abnormally without delay to avert civil unrest among party members in Ode-Aye Ward 2 of Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state. Reacting to the allegation, Adetimehin said: “It is more than six months that we have conducted our Congresses. I cannot sit down and remove any name from the list. “It’s only the NEC that has that power. We have the names in the party secretariat in Abuja, we also have in the State secretariat here in Akure and INEC has its own copy. APC Holds Emergency NEC Meeting March 17 Umahi Vows To Deal With Ebonyi PDP, Says Buni Remains APC… “So, It is not possible for me to remove all those one. I’m not a committee member. It’s the duty of the congress committee to do. “I have no power and there is no Chairman of the party that has such power. When a congress has been held, no Chairman has the power to remove a name. I’m a law-abiding party leader and I cannot tamper with any constituted or legally biding lists of the executive.”