No fewer than 104 students will be graduating from the Lagos State Cooperative College under its Professional Diploma Programme at its maiden convocation. Akorede Ojomu, the college provost stated this while addressing newsmen at the Lagos State Cooperative College, (LASCOCO) Okooba on the activities lined up for the maiden convocation ceremony slated to hold on April 7. He said five notable persons would also be conferred with Honorary Fellowships for their outstanding works and contributions toward the success and development of the college. According to him, they are; a former Commissioner for Agriculture and Cooperatives and the Oniru of Iruland, Oba Gbolahan Lawal, former Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Olayinka Oladunjoye, retired Permanent Secretaries, Wale Raji, Dr Yaqub Bashorun and Lekan Akodu. He said they would be recognised for their outstanding commitment to the college since its inception. “To herald the maiden convocation and graduation of Professional Diploma students, honorary awards of fellowship would also be conferred on five persons who had been instrumental to the development of the college. “Our award is not for sale but about hard work and commitment to the development and success of the college,” he said. The provost said the Convocation lecture titled “Concern for the 21st Century economy: what roles do cooperatives have to play in the transition to a sustainable economy?“ would be delivered by the Chief Executive Officer and Principal of the United Kingdom Cooperative College, Neil Calvert. POLL He explained that as part of week-long activities to mark the ceremony, Cooperators in the State would also have the opportunity to network and celebrate the movement in Lagos with a lecture titled “The Roles and Responsibilities of Cooperative Stakeholders in Lagos State” He added that an interdenominational Mosque and Church Services would also be held as part of the ceremony. Ojomu noted that the College had been working to address sector-specific skill gap through the provision of specialized training and sensitisation for the cooperative sub-sector. We are also creating software, doing research to identify problem areas, how it could be resolved and reduce the incidence of corruption/fraudulent activities in cooperative societies. The provost thereby urged cooperators to be committed and be people of integrity. “We will continue to try our best to reduce fraud to the barest minimum,” he said. He said LASCOCO was established in 2018 under section 2 of the Cooperative College Law of Lagos State to fulfill the mandate of Training, Research, Learning and Management of Information Communication Technology to Cooperators and members of the public at both Local and International levels.