ASABA – With the aim of curbing insecurity, Delta State Government has urged the Nigerian Police to reinvent their strategies with criminals and reshape their image with masses to provide effective security. Speaking yesterday during a townhall meeting between the state government, Police Service Commission and other stakeholders in Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chief Patrick Ukah, said the town hall meeting was timely as criminals have reinvented their wheels of criminality. He said this reality called for new strategies to defeat the enemies of peace, adding that the town hall meeting and retreat were the first steps to take as they aim at familiarizing the citizens and residents of the state with the activities of the commission. National Convention: APC Inaugurates 20 Sub-Committees March 7 Groups Urge INEC To Review Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency… He noted that the number of people joining the police had declined probably because of their perception of the police, encouraged the young ones to join the force now to strengthen the security architecture. He charged traditional rulers, opinion leaders, prominent citizens and groups in the state to encourage the youths to show greater interest in joining the police. He told the leadership of the police force to do a lot of homework to make people to be attracted to the job by portraying the force as the friend of the community in their dressing, attitude and actions as they are integral parts of the society. Governor Okowa commended the police and other sister security agencies for their cooperation in ensuring the existence of relative peace in the state. Earlier, the Commissioner representing South-South geopolitical zone and Nigerian mass media; Police service commission, Mr. Austin Braimoh, stated that the community engagement was to directly interact with persons and citizens to educate them about the inner workings and mandate in aiding a smooth relationship between the police and the public. POLL He said the police will endeavour to periodically keep the police/citizens relationship via community engagement forums across the various state and zonal commands across the country. The State Police Commissioner, Ari Mohamed Ali, represented by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr. Sunday Oke, stated that the police have been repositioned to serve the public diligently and urged the participants, including the traditional rulers, to encourage their best materials to join the police. He urged the youths to take pride in the dignity of labour and shun acts capable of taking them into jail and jeopardizing their future.