MINNA – Less than a year after the abduction and murder of a Catholic Priest, another Rev. Fr. Leonard Raphael Ozigi was on Sunday evening ab­ducted while unspecified number of villagers reported­ly lost their lives when some terror groups invaded some villages in Munya Local Gov­ernment Area, Niger State last weekend. Rev. Fr. Leo Ozigi and other clergy men were said to be on their way from Sarkin-Pawa, heading back to Gwada after conducting Sunday service but were intercepted on their way by the terrorists operating along the corridors of Munya. Daily independent find­ings indicates that the ter­rorists numbering over 150 entered Niger from Kaduna state through Jasso river link­ing the two states at Dangunu Ward in Munya Local Gov­ernment and spread across Kuchi and Kabala-Minna road where they operated for hours breaking into people’s homes and shops Saturday night. Our correspondent gath­ered that, Rev. Fr. Ozigi and other clergymen whose exact number and identities could not be ascertained as at the time of this report were said to have ran into the terrorists on their way back from the church service. Meanwhile, reports had it that the terrorist groups have set up a camp at Kuchi village after ransacking some of the communities including; Chibani, Injita, Tsohon-Kabu­la, Josso and were seen oper­ating in other neighbouring villages of Gini and Gunu. Eye witness account told Daily Independent that the terrorists were seen moving into the area late Saturday night in convoy of more than 50 motorcycles of between two and three of them on each motorcycle armed with highly sophisticated guns. “We saw them moving a convoy, there were more than 160 riding in motorcycles with two or three people on each motorcycle. They blocked the bridge linking Munya with Shiroro Local Government for some time as they con­tinued their operations”, the source further revealed. The source also told our correspondent that Rev. Leon­ard and his team might have ran into the blockade by the terrorists on the bridge link­ing the two local government areas and were subsequently abducted.