IBADAN – Oyo State Government through the Ministry of Health has on Thursday, confirmed the outbreak of Lassa Fever in the State with the death of two doctors and another hospital staff. Briefing journalists over the development in his office at the state Secretariat Agodi Ibadan, the State Commissioner for Health, Ode Ladipo recalled the intensified efforts of the state government towards curtailing the spread of the outbreak of the deadly disease since the first case was discovered in the state in January, 2022. He maintained that the medical practitioners numbering about four were admitted into a private health facility earlier this week but the deaths of three occured afterwards. Increasing Chances Of Pregnancy Through Intrauterine… Peptic Ulcer Diseases Ladipo however noted that surveillance activities have been heightened at the grassroots across the state, adding that access to care has also been provided for individuals at risk of the disease. He said, “The state ministry of health wishes to address the cases of death of health workers in the state from Lassa fever. Four health workers from a private health facility were admitted into the treatment centre in the early days of the week, the public is admonished to remain calm while ensuring adherence to strict preventive measures.” “We implore all health facilities across the state to maintain high index of suspicion and report all suspected cases to the LGAs or state health authorities,” “Upon diagnostic investigations all four were confirmed positive for Lassa fever. Unfortunately, three of them consisting of two doctors another hospital staff died despite all efforts at caring for them by experts.” “Nineteen confirmed cases and four deaths have been recorded so far. Surveillance activities have been heightened at the grassroots across the state. Resources have also been deployed to designated health facilities to forestall spread of this disease across the state.” POLL The health commissioner, however, requested prompt medical attention on anybody detected with symptoms of Lassa fever including fever, sore throat, vomiting, generalised body weakness and any other chronic health condition, while admonishing health workers to confirm with the universal safety precautions in the line of their duties. Dr. Ladipo also maintained that qualitative health care requires joint responsibility of all for safety and purpose.