***As aggrieved APC, PDP Joins Rally There was a huge traffic on Tuesday as former governor of Ekiti State, Engineer Segun Oni made triumphant entry into Ado-Ekiti, the state capital where he formally flagged of his Governorship Campaign  on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The former governor was received by a mammoth crowd of supporters, which included aggrieved members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). JUST IN: Segun Oni Joins SPC JUST IN: Segun Oni Dumps PDP The campaign trail kicked off at Ikere-Ekiti  in Ekiti South Senatorial District and second largest town in Ekiti and moved to the State capital where he addressed  his supporters who had waited for hours to receive him. The ex governor thereafter moved through the heart of the Ado-Ekiti, in a csnnival-like manner  . Speaking  at  one of his campaign offices in Ado-Ekiti , Oni said SDP remains the only viable alternative to break the yoke of backwardness and retrogression  allegedly brought upon Ekiti by the APC and the PDP administrations in last few years. The  SDP Governorship candidate urged the people of Ekiti to get their Permanent Voters Card and vote for SDP by rejecting  the APC and  PDP in the June 18 2022 poll. Flanked by his running mate, Ado-Ekiti born Hon Ladi Owolabi, Chief Oni said Ekiti would never miss the APC and PDP as political parties if they gave him the opportunity to return to power. POLL Oni assured the people that they will take absolute ownership of his government as he did during his first term between 2007 and 2010 if elected. “Our election is coming up on June 18, 2022, you are all aware of this. My advise to all of you is to go and get your PvCs and send this government packing .Sending them packing is like a  good riddance to bad rubbish. “You won’t miss both PDP and APC in Ekiti if you vote for me. What is the essence of a government than can’t bring  progress? Please tell them that progress has come and that progress is Segun Oni. By the grace of God, I will not disappoint you. “Your voter card is your power, don’t allow these people to continue to dominate the system and cheat you. Vote for progress, vote SDP. Go and mobilise for SDP, it is the party of progress. Ekiti peoole don’t deserve suffering, sweep them away with your votes on June 18”. Oni predicated the  groundswell of supports he had been savouring among Ekiti residents on his goodwill and impressive governance he ran during his first term, where he placed high premium on prompt payment of salary and pension. Ekiti Guber: We Are Ready To Contest, Win – Oni By-Election: Ex-Ekiti Gov., Oni, Tasks PDP Members On Unity,… He promised to prioritise the security of the people, employment generation, commercial agriculture, good governance, affordable health services, massive road Infrastructures  and would ultimately return power to the people, to whom he holds the power in trust. “I have served you before, you know that I represent transparency and development and these  I will give you you if elected on June 18. I can’t deceive you, it is the same Segun Oni that you voted for in 2007, I shall keep all my promises with you. “I believe in the people and the power shall be in your hands this time, like I did during my first term”.