LAGOS – Although he managed the Super Eagles in 2006 where he led the team to a third place finish at that year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, the former Belgium-based defender, Austin Eguavoen, was not particularly accepted as the kind of coach Ni­geria needed to bring the best out of the team. The Super Eagles beat the Teranga Lions of Senegal in the losers’ final in that year but he failed to retain the post because, like what transpired in January where he replaced Coach Ger­not Rohr for the 2022 AFCON in Cameroon, Eguavoen was in 2006 a stop-gap manager of the team after he came i1n to take the place of then sacked Chris­tian Chukwu, who previously led the Super Eagles to third place finish at the 2004 AFCON in Tunisia. The football house never con­sidered him fit for a substantive role at the Super Eagles then. NPFL: Rangers Humble Champions 3-0 In Uyo 3SC Attempted To Drag NPFL To The Mud – Player Like the 2006 and with Eguavoen on the saddle for the 2022 AFCON, not so much hope was placed on Nigeria to do well in Cameroon not because he could not have won the title but due largely to the sudden change of guard as he barely replaced Rohr with weeks to the tournament. But after winning three games in as many match­es at the group stage, the coach became the toast of Nigerians going forward. Not even a poor display at the round of 16, where the Carthage Eagles booted the Super Eagles out, could make Nigerians less enthusiastic in seeing Eguavoen made substantive coach of the team, hence the Nigeria Foot­ball Federation (NFF) later an­nounced the combo of Cerezo and Emmanuel Amuneke as the men to lead the three times Afri­can champions for the decisive playoff matches against Ghana for a place at the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar in November. However, since the coach made his squad for the playoff against Ghana known to the media, he has come under probe with doubts hanging on the air on how he has asserted himself on the team selection and influ­ence over what happens in the Super Eagles as their manager. This is more from the media which believe that there could be external influence in the se­lection of the players that made up the squad. While the list has been de­scribed as killer squad against the four times African cham­pions by some, some sections of the media, as well as many stakeholders have picked hole in it, expressing reservations in the invitation of some players. For the game, Cerezo invited the trio of Francis Uzoho of AC Omonia, Cyprus; Daniel Akpeyi of Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa, and Maduka Okoye, who plays for Sparta Rotterdam, The Neth­erlands for the post. POLL In the defence, the coach called up Semi Ajayi of West Bromwich Albion, England; Kenneth Omeruo of CD Leganes, Spain; Leon Balogun who plays for Glasgow Rangers, Scotland; William Ekong of Watford; Ola Aina of Torino in Italy; Calvin Bassey of Glasgow Rangers; AC Omonia of Cyprus’ Abdul­lahi Shehu and Zaidu Sanusi of Porto. For the midfield and attack, the following players made the cut; Frank Onyeka of Brentford; Joe Aribo of Glasgow Rang­ers; Wilfred Ndidi of Leices­ter City; Oghenekaro Etebo of Watford and Akinkunmi Amoo who plays for Copenhagen, Denmark, while the forwards include Ahmed Musa of Fatih Karagumruk, Turkey; Samuel Chukwueze of Villarreal; Nap­oli’s Victor Osimhen; Moses Si­mon of FC Nantes; Sadiq Umar of Almeria, Spain; Odion Igha­lo of Al-Hilal FC, Saudi Arabia; Kelechi Iheanacho of Leicester City; Emmanuel Dennis of Wat­ford, and Ademola Lookman of Leicester City. Meanwhile he left the follow­ing players on the standby and they include Chidozie Awaziem of Turkish side, Alanyaspor; Jamilu Collins of SC Padeborn 07, Germany; Chidera Ejuke of CSKA Moscow, Russia; Taiwo Awoniyi who dons the colours of Germany side, Union Berlin; Paul Onuachu of Genk, Bel­gium; Peter Olayinka of SK Sla­via Praha, Czech Republic, and Ogenyi Onazi of Al-Adalah FC, Saudi Arabia. While the list may not be bad, eyebrows were raised when the coach ruffled feathers by declar­ing that the invitation, albeit on standby capacity, of Onazi, who last played for the team over four years ago, was to pacify some in­terests. “Onazi, good player. Wheth­er he’s still good and can play at that level, we don’t know. But that’s why I said to pacify every­body, to ensure there’s harmo­ny here, put him on the standby. While he’s on the standby, I have the final say,” Eguavoen said. Brighton Face Uphill Task Against Liverpool Ranger Coach Charges PlayersOn Adopted Home Ground The revelation from the coach merely elicited curiosity and led to questions on the invitation of certain players at the expense of others. For instance, Ahmed Musa may be the captain but as a forward, what excuse can be advanced for his invitation from Turkey Super Lig where he is not even among the top 20 top scorers while overlooking Anthony Nwakaeme, who plays in the Turkish league leaders, Trabzonspor, with 10 goals. Nwa­kaeme is the fourth top scorer in Turkey. He is the only Nige­rian in the top 10 scorers in that country. Also, while Ighalo’s invita­tion could be understood being the current top scorer in Saudi Arabia with 14 goals, with none of them scored through penal­ty, what is the yardstick for not including Paul Onuachu on the list? With 16 goals in the Belgium topflight, only bettered by Mi­chael Frey of Antwerp with 22 goals in the first position and Deniz Undav of Royale Union Saint-Gilloise on 21 goals, there was no way the striker should not have been in the list and neglecting him like Eguaveon’s predecessor always did merely exposes the lack of technical depth of the coach because as a good manager with a good depth will strive to get the best out of the striker that topped the same league last season, whose hubby as a professional footballer is to score goals. With that record, Onuachu is better than all the invited strikers in the team, including Ighalo and Osimhen, the Napoli man, who is not among the 20 top scorers in the Serie A so far this season and has scored less than seven goals this season. Similarly in Germany Bunde­sliga, Awoniyi is sitting fourth on the scorers’ list with nine goals, only bettered by Robert lewandowski of Bayern Mu­nich on 16 goals, Patrik Schick of Bayer Leverkusen on 14 goals and Erling Haaland of Borus­sia Dortmund on 11 goals. If the player is a German, he sure would have made their team. But like Rohr, Eguavoen dumped him at the standby list even when he is fitter, better and perhaps hun­grier than those in the main list as his scoring record would have said. Sadiq Umar can understand­ably justify his place as he is presently the fourth top scorer in the Spanish Segunda with 13 goals and two assists. Iheanacho is nowhere close to the top 30 goal scorers in the EPL but he has recently shown improvement in his finishing, thus may actually warrant his invitation to the team. There are also some questions on Eguave­on’s choices when other depart­ments are closely analyses. For example, while there may be no room for trials and risks in this game against the Black Stars, some critics believe the coach had taking greater risk by not risking at all and sticking to the players his predecessor stuck with. For instance, the quintet of Balogun, Shehu Abdullahi, Ete­bo, Musa, Onazi and, to a large extent, Ighalo should have no business in this match as the country boasts of quality, ver­satile and young players in their stead. For instance, Kevin Akpogu­ma, Awaziem and Bassey, on account of club forms present­ly, could go as the three best centre back Nigeria has at the moment. Akpoguma has sev­erally received plaudits as one of the best centre backs in the Bundesliga where he is donning the colours of Hoffenheim, re­cently several clubs in both Ger­many and England have made enquires about this multi tal­ented defender. His versatility can actually outmatch those of Balogun and Shehu. Awaziem is doing great things in Turkey while Rangers’ Bassey is in the squad on account of his exploit in Scotland. But according to observers, Eguavoen stuck with the same set of players deployed by his predecessor perhaps in order not to take risks but they are the same set of players that abysmally performed under Rohr. In the middle and like noted, Cerezo stuck with the old order and neglected such younger and very versatile players like Chid­era Ejuke, who can effectively play the role of Etebo better given that the latter is barely coming out of injury. Realising that the Black Stars have their strength in the middle, Eguavoen would have looked at players like Ejuke, Kelechi Nwakali of Huesca, Spain as well as Ebere Eze of Crystal Palace. These players are not only regulars in their clubs but are very fit and versatile, could run and match Ghana in terms of strength. They are creative and could help to shore up possession for Nigeria as they are known to hold the ball well. Ejuke plays in the wing at CSKA Moscow of Russia but he has been several­ly deployed as an attacking and defensive midfielder where he could use his strength and firm to help the attack. While Onazi has been known to play the defensive midfield role very well and has severally functioned as the link between the attack and the defensive but he has seen his good days as the players mentioned above have shown greater versatility in those roles lately and should have seen invitation. Nwakali is obviously a holding midfielder, serving occasional as a linkage between the attack and the de­fence. However, for the fact that none of the players mentioned were invited except Bassey shows that Eguavoen lacks the knowl­edge of bringing creativity and innovation into a game and that could be his own undoing. From the foregoing, it’s ob­vious that the coach may not be prosecuting this game with Nigeria’s finest but chose to go the way of those before him by sticking to the old brigade. Speaking to our correspon­dent, Friday Ekpo said Eguavoen might have wanted to stick to the regular players in the team be­cause of the time for the playoff, however saying Nigerians should support him. “You know the time is short between now and the matches. They may not have more than five days to play the first leg. “So I think he wants to be careful with selection and I hope we all should support him because unnecessary criticism may not be good for the team,” he said. But to Eguaveon’s Super Ea­gles contemporary, Samson Si­asia, while he toed similar part with Ekpo, there still is every­thing wrong with that list. “You need to play people that understand themselves if you bring new ones it becomes dif­ficult for them to understand themselves and play the partner you want to play. “For me it’s not the right de­cision to bring new players, you are better off with the ones you know already that have been playing together and under­stand themselves because you have three days to practice be­fore you go to Ghana. So for me this is not the right list.” To former African Footbal­ler of the Year, Victor Ikpeba, Eguavoen is suffering from se­lection headache and thus Ni­gerians should not dwell on the list much but on the outcome of the match. “We are not the coaches. They must have seen Onazi doing something. What we want to do is see them go out and defeat Ghana and qualify for the World. “We should not dwell on the list. Egu (Eguavoen) has a selec­tion headache. We don’t know if Chukwueze or Moses will start because we have a lot of for­wards. “Europe is different because you play together regularly. Eguavoen has a lot of work cut out, it does not matter who starts.”