Places Al-Makura, Adamu in Second, Third Positions ABUJA – As the battle for the soul of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), approaches its crescendo, an opinion poll conducted among party faithful across the country has once again tipped Senator George Akume as favourite to the party’s top job. Recall that Africa Polling Institute on February 22 released a similar report which threw up the Minister for Special Duties as the best-suited candidate to occupy the most coveted seat in the APC. In a fresh exercise conducted by DBI Analytics Consulting to ascertain the level of citizens’ awareness towards ongoing socio-political happenings in the country, part of which includes the forthcoming APC Convention, the former Governor of Benue State has again topped the log ahead of other formidable opponents. In a press release issued and signed by Segun Olajonrin, Associate Director, DBI Analytics in Abuja, the firm said the “polling methodology adopted was a survey and administered between Monday 14th and Thursday 17th March, 2022. “It involved telephone interviews of a random national sample. A total of 1,011 citizens were randomly selected from phone-owning Nigerians aged 18 years and above; and citizens across the 36 states of the country and the FCT were interviewed. “The sample has a ±5% margin of error and confidence interval of 95%, deemed statistically significant. From the poll findings, 51 percent of respondents said they are aware of the forthcoming National Convention of the APC, while 41 percent are unaware and 8 percent simply uninterested to participate in the poll. “In terms of familiarity with the candidates contesting for the party Chairmanship, 53 percent, 52 percent and 50 percent of respondents said they are familiar with Tanko Al-Makura, Abdullahi Adamu and George Akume respectively. In addition, 45 percent said they are familiar with Senator Sani Musa, while 39 percent affirmed the same for Mustapha Salihu. POLL “Furthermore, the poll also sought the opinion of citizens regarding which aspirant they believe has the leadership capacity, character and integrity to lead the APC. From the findings, Senator George Akume came tops with 32 percent as the candidate with the leadership capacity, character and integrity to lead the party. “This was followed by Alhaji Tanko Al-Makura with 23 percent and Senator Abdullahi Adamu with 17 percent. Others are Senator Sani Musa with 8 percent and Mustapha Salihu with 6 percent,” the report stated.