ABUJA – Nasir Isa Kwarra, Chairman of the National Population Commission(NPC) has said the revised National  Population Policy recently signed by President Muhammadu Buhari, is targeted at reducing the maternal mortality ratio from the current 512 to 70 deaths per 100,000 live births by 2025 and zero maternal deaths by 2030. Kwara stated this in Abuja at a workshop for Journalists on the revised National Population Policy for Sustainable Development organised by the Commission in collaboration with Africa Health Budget Network(AHBN). He also revealed that the National Population Policy also targets to reduce the under-5 mortality rate from the current 132 to 40 per 1000 live birth by 2030. The Policy, according to him, aims to achieve a reduction of the national annual population growth rate to 2 percent by 2030 as well as achieve a reduction in the total fertility rate from the current 5.3 to 4.0 by 2030. As part of the ambiguous target of the Policy, the NPC boss revealed that the policy also targets to reduce the unmet need for family planning from the current 19 percent to zero by 2030; reduce gender-based violence and harmful practices against women and girls from the current 46 percent to 22 percent in 2025 and to zero by 2030 in addition to reducing rural to urban migration by 5 percent annually. On the implementation of the Policy, Kwara said it is complex and multi-sectoral. He said: “All tiers and relevant agencies of government, the private sector, non-governmental organisations, civil society organisations, the media, faith-based organisations, the traditional institutions,  communities, donors and  partners should be actively involved in its implementation.” He added that NPC, as the Statutory Coordinating Agency, would ensure close collaboration, monitoring and cooperation of all critical stakeholders for the successful implementation of the population policy. POLL On the resource mobilisation for the implementation of the Policy, he said: “Government, the media, civil society, and private sector will work together to mobilise resources from internal and external sources for the implementation of the Population Policy. “Government will endeavour to increase its funding level for Population and Development programmes commensurate with the scope and scale of activities required to achieve the goals and targets of the National Population Policy. “Donor and development partners are also expected to provide technical, advisory, financial and materials support for the implementation of the National Population policy.” Also speaking, the Coordinator of the Africa Health Budget Network, Dr. Aminu Magashi, commended President Buhari for signing the Policy, adding that it was a great initiative for Nigeria to use her population in a positive way to address critical areas such as the economy, health, security and sustainable development. According to him, “This is the only Policy in Nigeria that is expected to be signed by the President. “That will tell you the significance of the National Population Policy. Every policy in Nigeria is signed by the Minister in charge of the ministry or the agency, this is the only policy that must be signed by the President. “The family planning agenda is linked to the population policy because without having a robust policy, it will be difficult for Nigeria to achieve Family Planning by 2030. “I really want to appeal to the media to embrace National Policy on Population for Sustainable Development. “One of the objectives of the meeting is to build a friendship between the NPC and the media. “This meeting is actually going to open the door of friendship between the NPC and the media.” Magashi further pledged that AHBN was fully committed to supporting the NPC to ensure that the country achieves the 2030 target of its population. It would be recalled that on February 4, 1988, the Federal Government approved the first National Policy on Population for Development, Unity, Progress and Self-reliance. It sought to integrate population dynamics into national development, taking into consideration the inherent diversities and interests of the people in the country. The maiden Policy was revised in 2004 because of the emerging national, regional and global trends and development. After 16 years of implementation, it became necessary to update the 2004 Policy to incorporate emerging issues and and align it with the current development agenda. Another review that led to the revised Policy was initiated in 2015. The revised policy was prompted by prevailing demographic trends, population dynamics and emerging population concerns in the country that require policy action as well as the need to increase national consciousness on the importance of population management. On February 3, 2022, President Buhari officially launched the 3rd revised National Policy on Population for Sustainable Development.