IBADAN – A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Engineer Popoola Olukayode-Joshua on Thursday expressed optimism to fly the ticket of the party in the 2023 gubernatorial election. Popoola who said security situation in the state is worsen described it as handmade, thus challenging the government of the state to tell the truth about the arrest and detain of the accountant general of the state. Speaking at the declaration of his intention to run for the office of the governor at the Florentine hall, winners way, Basorun, Ibadan, Popoola challenged the Oyo state governor to give an account of the borrowing of his government in the last two years with that of the last administration. PDP Holds NEC Meeting On Tuesday Troops Neutralise Scores Of Terrorists Across States He said, “the people of the state deserve the best governor in 2023. The development of any nation largely depends on the security of lives and properties. Our party is known for peace and development but today, the reverse is the case in Oyo state. None of us has secured again. This is simply because we empowered trouble makers. “In as much as I agree that security in Nigeria is a national issue but we all know that the magnitude of insecurity in the north is not applicable in the south but ours is handmade. That is why we need a true son of the land like POJ who knows the plight of his people to take over at this stage. “On the economy, for how long can we continue to borrow money for payment of salaries? For how long can we empower strangers from Osun state to determine our fate in Oyo state? Our leaders are yet to tell us why the state accountant general was arrested and detained. “The only statement the government made was they are harassing them. Is that harassment or they should tell us how much they have stolen? They pretend to be saints when they are even worse than the devil. We want accountability, not pretence. “In the face of the aforementioned, with great enthusiasm, love for our state, a fierce commitment to a vision of rapid progress, and encouragement of family, friends, associates, and well-wishers, I offer myself and declare to contest the 2022 governorship election in Oyo State on the platform of our party. I am well equipped to defeat the incumbent.”