Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has described the former Governor of Lagos State and the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu as “a visionary, consistent, loyal, enigmatic and master strategist” whose democratic credentials are scholarly materials for study in political economy. Sanwo-Olu, in a congratulatory message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, on Monday, said “Tinubu is very consistent in his thoughts and actions about the development of Lagos State and Nigeria.” According to him, Tinubu stood firmly for Nigerians, even at the risk of losing his life during the dark days of the military junta. He said, “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, like a colossus bestrides Nigeria’s socio-political space with vigour and vision. He stood firmly on the side of the Nigerian people, even at the risk of losing his life and personal belongings during the dark days of the military junta. “A position he took along with other progressives during the annulment of the June 12 struggle led to the end of the military interregnum and was replaced with normal government, which we all enjoy today. “With the return to democracy, Asiwaju displayed political astuteness, courage and sagacity to save Nigeria from degenerating into a one-party state. “His financial wizardry and economic intellect, which he put to good use as the Governor of Lagos State, has taken our dear State to a greater height. Today, Lagos is the pride of Nigeria, occupying an enviable position as the fifth largest economy in Africa. “There are not many leaders in contemporary Nigeria that are as detribalised as Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, whose heart accommodates every section of the country. POLL “On behalf of my darling wife, Ibijoke and the good people of Lagos State, as well as leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress, I wish our National Leader a happy birthday, long life, and sound health for him to continue his service to Nigeria,” Sanwo-Olu prayed.