Contrary to speculation that the members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) are the ones responsible for the renewed insecurity in the Southeast, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has, however, revealed that politicians are the cause of the resurgence of unknown gunmen in the region. Apostle Emmanuel Agomuo, the CAN Chairman, Abia State Chapter who disclosed this alleged that politicians recruit hoodlums for some dirty jobs during the electioneering period but fail to empower them afterwards. According to him, such a person should be held responsible for the worsening insecurity in the region. Biafra: Kanyo O. Kanyo Urges Buhari To Release Nnamdi Kanu IPOB Blasts Uzodimma For Denying Ebubeagu Security Network Speaking further, he said, contrary to allegations by security agencies that members of  IPOB are behind the sad development, hoodlums recruited by politicians might be the real masks behind the veil. The cleric lamented that hoodlums had since hijacked the situation in the South-East to unleash mayhem on innocent citizens. Blaming the greedy politicians who arm and engage the services of hoodlums during electioneering periods but fail to meaningfully empower them afterwards said this led most of them to resort to criminality, adding that when they have no legitimate means of livelihood, criminality and terrorism becomes the new deal. “I don’t think IPOB is behind this barbarity. These are the bad boys politicians use for election. After using them, they fail to empower them and that is why they go back into criminality. Politicians who recruit these hoodlums are to be held responsible for the mess in the South-East.” The CAN boss urged security agencies not to be narrow-minded in their efforts to unravel the real sources of the monster but to be open to all possibilities. POLL An activist, Comrade Kindness Jonah condemned the resurgent and continuous killing in the South-East zone, urging the government at the center to adequately punish those captured in operation to serve as a deterrent to others. He blamed security agencies for not unmasking unknown gunmen captured during operation for the public to know their identity