AKINWUNMI KING Saturday, March 5, 2021, was another day for Independent Newspapers Limited (INL), publishers of Daily Independent, Saturday Independent and Sunday Independent, to honour eminent Nigerians with exceptional performance in their chosen profession and walks of life. Awards were also bestowed corporate citizens who have distinguished themselves as leaders and true servants of the people in their various domains and fields of endeavour. Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Lagos Junior League, Nath Boys Made Me Who I Am Today –… The ceremony, themed ‘Celebrating Trailblazers’, was held at the Convention Centre of the prestigious Eko Hotel and Suites in the heart of Victoria Island, Lagos. Running for years now, the Independent Awards recognise individuals and corporate organisations who have shown true commitment to the welfare of Nigerians and matched same with actions and thoughts that have impacted positively on the lives of many. The awardees were chosen by the Award Committee which painstakingly selected 31 eminent Nigerians for their remarkable services to the nation and humanity. The event, which was aired live on Channels Television, had in attendance, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his counterpart from Bayelsa, Governor Douye Diri; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, Chairman of Air Peace Airline, Allen Onyema, among other dignitaries from various sectors of life. Speaking after he was presented with the Independent Newspapers Limited ‘Businessman of the Year Award’, Oyema urged everyone involved in the face-off between his company and the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, to sheath their swords and embrace peace. POLL The Air Peace boss, while noting that the matter is becoming an ethnicity issue, appealed to those who may be affected by the issue to let go of it and allow peace to reign. “Let me make it clear that the Emir of Kano is my brother, as well as Isa Bayero. It’s on record that Isa Bayero was very instrumental in the setting up of Air Peace in Kano. So, I will not like to be used as an instrument that will destabilise this country”, he said, explaining that what happened was just a misunderstanding. He stressed that Air Peace was born out of peace. “I am also a man of peace from childhood and some people are just trying to blow the issue out of proportion. “I am using this medium to appeal to everyone that is connected and involved in the matter to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign. The matter is gradually turning to an ethnicity issue we should not allow that to happen because I love my country. The Emir of Kano is my brother,” he added. He, however, thanked Independent Newspapers Limited for bestowing the award on him, saying he is elated by the fact that the company could honour him with such an award. Plateau 2023: Govt House PermSec Biggs, Joins Guber Race Removal: Umahi Heads To Appellate Court, Says I’ve… Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, who was awarded the Governor of the Year in Infrastructure and Urban Renewal, appreciated Independent Newspapers for the recognition, describing it as an important award from “the foremost publication in our country”. He expressed belief in the independence of the newspaper in shaping the opinion of the public, just as he disclosed that the state will continue in the path of infrastructural development. “We are on a mission to ensure that Lagos is not only an infrastructure provider but a resilient city that is functional and moving. We will continue to be a source of hope to millions of Nigerians for a better country. We will not relent in ensuring that the state is safe, secure and the largest economy in Africa. We will continue to do more,” Sanwo-Olu said. For Diri, who bagged the Diri, has said his Independent Newspapers’ Governor of the Year Award (Good Governance and Responsive Leadership), the award will spur him to better serve his state and the country. Speaking with newsmen shortly after he received the award, Diri stated that the award was not for him alone but also for members of his Prosperity Administration and all Bayelsans. He appreciated the media organisation for the recognition, noting that he was delighted that his silent achievements were recognised by the media outfits. Describing Bayelsa as a hub of oil and gas activities in Nigeria, the governor said that an enabling environment has been created for investors in various sectors in the state. The governor said, “We are happy that our modest efforts are reverberating and have attracted this award. But it is not to me alone as governor but also to the people of Bayelsa and the team of the Prosperity Administration. “To us, this is a further call to duty. To whom much is given, much is expected. So for us, in the face of dwindling resources, the much that we can muster will be able to impact on the lives and environment of our state. “Bayelsa is relatively one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria. It is the hub of oil and gas activities. “I can assure you that Bayelsa is prepared to host the world. The state now has an airport, which is operational, with two airlines flying to Bayelsa on daily basis from Lagos and Abuja.” The Minister of Transportation, who was recognised for his hardwork in maritime and rural infrastructure, appreciated Nigerians and President Buhari for the trust they had in him. “Serving a great country like Nigeria is a privilege and I’m very happy for the opportunity given to me to serve in this present capacity and I hereby dedicate this award to Nigerians.” The awards saw Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu (CON), the Chairman of BUA Group, recognised as the 2021 Personality of the Year, not only for his efforts in job creation and economic development within the period, but also for his various interventions through his Abdul Samad Rabiu (ASR) initiative, through which he has contributed to the development of critical social infrastructure, particularly health and education, across the country. Rabiu was honoured in that category with Dr. (Mrs.) Seinye O. B. Lulu-Briggs, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Moni Pulo (Petroleum Development) Limited. Also, the trio of Elder Statesman, Chief Edwin Clark; Dr. Ernest Ndukwe (OFR), Chairman of MTN Nigeria Plc, and Prince Arthur Eze, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Atlas Oranto Petroleum, were bestowed with the 2021 Lifetime Achievement Awards for what they had done for humanity over the years. Senator Godswill Akpabio, the Minister of Niger-Delta bagged the Minister of the Year (Probity in NDDC); while Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, Minority Leader, House of Representatives, was recognised as the 2021 Lawmaker of the Year (House of Representatives), and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence, Senator Aliyu Wamako, received the 2021 Lawmaker of the Year (Senate) award. Also, Hon. Mojisola Meranda, the Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, was recognised as the 2021 Lawmaker of the Year (Lagos). Others honoured were Sen Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta for Governor of the Year (Education Infrastructure); Willie Obiano of Anambra, Governor of the Year (Infrastural Development); Engr. Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State, as Governor of the Year (Agric/ Healthcare); Malam Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, as Governor of the Year (Urban/Manpower Development), and Samuel Ortom (of Benue State) as Governor of the Year for Security. Chairman of the Occasion, Engr. Mansur Ahmed, President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in his remarks, appreciated the newspaper for the opportunity given to him to chair the event. Ahmed, who was represented by the Director of MAN, Ambrose Oruche, congratulated all the awards recipients, just as he assured Independent Newspapers Limited that MAN will continue to support the media outfit. Earlier in his opening remarks, the Managing Director, Independent Newspapers Limited, Steve Omanufeme, explained that the Year 2021 Award focuses on people with exceptional performance in their chosen profession and walks of life, hence the theme ‘Celebrating Trailblazers’. Omanufeme explained further that the company’s board of editors embarked on a thorough and painstaking assessment exercise from which the awards recipients were selected. His added, “So today, we are here to celebrate you all for your services to Nigeria, our country, in your chosen fields. Indeed, you all have a rich resume of achievements worthy of emulation. This year’s awards are also unique because, for the first time, we decided to honour some philanthropists making a difference in our society. We are delighted to celebrate them. “These awards are just a token of our appreciation of your rich achievements and we fervently pray they motivate you to greater heights.”