“Governors fume over falling FAAC funds, carpet NNPC.” News Report, March 4, 2022. Most Nigerian prophets don’t want to be reminded of what they predicted as events unfold. Not me. I am always too eager to remind Nigerians about predictions made. Nobody is God; so it is impossible for anybody to be 100 per cent accurate about the future. But, my shots on target have been far above average. I was anxious to deliver my messages for 2022 in December 2021 when the Vanguard Weekend Editor asked me to write a forecast for 2022. The result was: Nigeria 2022: Only a step away from catastrophe. It was published on January 1. Today, already four of the forecasts have come true. First, the 2022 Budget is now under review. Buhari, still operating the “borrow and spend” economic policy has requested of the National Assembly, NASS, for permission to borrow N2.56 trillion more than was in the budget. Second, global price of crude oil has risen above $130/barrel on account of Putin’s war in Ukraine. Nigeria is the only oil-producing country which will not benefit from the bonanza. POLL On the contrary, we are in deep trouble because Nigeria cannot produce up to the quota allowed by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC. With our rig count at its lowest in two decades, we are now paying more to import finished petroleum products than the revenue we earn from exporting crude. Third, the Federal Government and the states are getting poorer. The N574.668bn shared in February is the lowest amount shared since 2012. Less than N600bn was shared only once since 2015; and that was in 2016. What has made the February allocation alarming is the fact that it might continue for the rest of the year unless the Federal Government reverses itself and removes subsidy. It was this possibility which finally served as a wake-up call to the Governors last week. Unfortunately, it is too late for them and their states. Fourth, I warned that in 2022 governance will take the back seat; while politics takes top priority for governors. Given the situation in which the two major political parties find themselves it is clear that politics has moved to the top of their collective agenda. All the governors now spend more time in Abuja than in their states; when unfortunately, more than ever, the states need their governors to stay at home. The states are poised to get poorer at a time when inflation demands that they should be generating more revenue. Paradoxically, the oil-producing states will be hit hardest for reasons to be explained later. How Did We Get Here – Almajiri States? “If a man takes no thought about what is distant, he will soon find sorrow near to hand.” Confucius, Chinese philosopher, 551-497 BC. Very few Nigerian Governors, from Gowon till today, have thought about the long term development of their states – for two important reasons associated with military intervention in politics. First, from the time Gowon was overthrown by Murtala Mohammed and state Governors were changed, followed by another series of changes when Mohammed was assassinated and Obasanjo took over, no Governor could predict tomorrow. There was no point having a long range plan when you could be removed next day. Better to take care of yourself. And, they all did. Second, the destruction of the principle of derivation or true federalism, coupled with the Federal Government taking the lion’s share of aggregate national revenue turned the states to beggars waiting for handouts from Abuja. Today, what we have are mostly almajiri states. Unfortunately, even Governors elected since 1999 have not stopped being mostly safe crackers in Government House. The present crop of Governors is arguably the brightest and best in terms of qualifications and experience in Nigeria’s history. But, despite their paper qualifications and experiences in the past, they are not in any way better than the School Certificate holders of the military era. In fact, none of them comes close to Alhaji Audu Bako, the Governor of Kano state under Gowon, who laid the foundation for turning Kano State (including Jigawa) into the most self-sufficient food producing state in Nigeria today. Governors have all been contented to send their Commissioners of Finance to Abuja to collect cheques without bothering to ask questions about the basis for calculating their monthly entitlements. Underlying their attitude to the matter were two elements. The first was a false sense of loyalty to their President – whether APC or PDP. PDP Governors ignored the long term danger of revenue mis-allocation under Obasanjo, Yar’Adua and Jonathan for 16 years. Obong Victor Attah, former Akwa Ibom Governor, was the only exception. Fighting under the banner of Resource Control, he succeeded in getting a better deal for the Niger Delta when derivation was increased from one per cent to 13 per cent. He did this despite the fact that the President was Obasanjo and PDP. No single APC Governor has had the sense of duty to his state to move Attah’s agenda forward under Buhari. Secondly, virtually all our governors operate in the belief that there will be no adverse consequences to the states if they continue to allow the FG to seize funds belonging to the states under different disguises – fuel subsidy, dollar revenue shared in Naira, VAT allocation without regard to derivation principle, Federal Government’s monopoly of export of crude and import of finished petroleum products. Suddenly, as crude oil prices rise globally, and fuel prices go through the roof, all the Governors are worried about the consequences of their collective blunder. They were jolted out of their slumber by the allocation of only N574.668bn in February – just as the Russian invasion of Ukraine was getting underway. Now the price of crude is the highest since 2014; and Nigeria is about to get wiped out. Wisdom On The Eighth Day Of The Week Now that they are awake, read what Dr Kayode Fayemi, the out-going Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum had to say. “We are very desirous that this petroleum industry is sustained over the long term. But, we see areas of concern, particular in terms of revitalising the industry around transparency, accountability opex…..We’ve just had Federation Accounts Allocation Committee meeting a couple of days ago and the NNPC contributed zero to the Federation Accounts this month…When you look at the statistics, transparency is central to the challenge we face in the oil sector…We ranked 40 out of 58 natural resource countries on the transparency index…” Nigerian Governors, represented by Fayemi, are crying over milk which they were partly responsible for spilling; and they continue to conspire with the Federal Government to spill more. The Nigerian oil industry is dying and cannot be “sustained over the long term” because every Governor since 1999, except Attah, has conspired with the Presidents to destroy it. Now, the NNPC is set to demolish the states and ignite national economic catastrophe this year. The stark choices now confronting Nigeria are clear. Remove fuel subsidy and induce hyperinflation and social unrest or retain it and the NNPC will not only contribute zero to the Federation Accounts; it will generate minus revenue. Already, with crude prices up to $130/barrel, the N2.56tn Buhari requested for last month is now insufficient. He might need up to N5tn by December. Nigerian Governors are betraying the people who elected them. Fayemi is lucky. He will be out of office by the time most stated become ungovernable.