LAGOS  – Human rights activist and publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, on Tuesday, March 1, 2022, formally declared his intention to run for the 2021 presidency. And, by the declaration, he has joined the growing list of aspirants jostling to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. But what are his chances? He would be running under the banner of his party, the African Action Congress (AAC), one of the registered political parties in the country. Sowore had been under court restriction to Abuja, where he had been standing trial over alleged treason for reportedly leading a nationwide protest in August 2019, tagged #RevolutionNow. We ‘ll Continue To Deliver Free, Qualitative Education To… 2023 Presidency: TOTT, Other Groups Drum Support For Osinbajo Sunday INDEPNDENT had in its last edition exclusively reported that the AAC helmsman would be making his declaration. The indication emerged from findings during his latest arrest and detention by the police when he attended the Appeal Court in Abuja last week. Before he was arrested and taken to the police station where he remained for several hours before he was released, some AAC members, on their way to the court, were reportedly stopped by police who searched them and allegedly took away their mobile phones. In a special message to ‘his friends’, Sowore informed that his latest brush with security was due to his planned presidential declaration coming up soon. It would be recalled that Sowore first contested for the presidency as the AAC’s candidate in the 2019 presidential election. Earlier, last Tuesday, Sowore shared a banner with the caption ‘SOWORE FOR PRESIDENT’ on his social media handles. POLL Although he did not give much detail on the banner, Sowore had, penultimate Thursday, after his release, promised not to back down on his desire to govern Nigeria. He said the recent petition filed against him by former member of the House of Representatives, Ned Nwoko, and his subsequent detention, were sponsored by the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government to stop his declaration. The same Tuesday, Sowore sent out a special message to ‘his friends’ that he would be officially announcing his 2023 presidential ambition that day by noon at the Women Development Centre (WDC), Abuja. By midday, the venue was electrified by the presence of thousands of youths from all corners of Abuja who stormed the place to witness the epoch-making event. Also, from the different parts of the country, came stakeholders and supporters, who had been discreetly informed of the event. APC Will Soon Capture Anambra, South East – Umenzekwe Nigeria Bleeding From Corruption – Korodo They came to give a morale support to the embattled youth activist, who had been under series of persecutions for daring the establishment through his #RevolutionNow protests and messages. It was indeed like he Biblical heralding of the Messiah when Sowore, led by his close aides and associates, was escorted along the streets, followed by a crowd of supporters. He arrived the venue to the acclamation of the jubilating youths who raised their fists in salute of the youth activist. Sowore did not waste time as he proceeded with the event. In his declaration speech delivered extempore, titled, ‘RevolutionNow: A Charter for Total Freedom’, Sowore recounted his consultations with different facets of the Nigerian society in his effort to salvage the country from the current doldrums. He lamented the current state of insecurity across the country, the mass killings in the North and in the land, which he said, “were brought upon our people by the long irresponsibility of our rulers who have no other interests other than milking dry our hard earned resources.” According to him, “We continue to let our people know that only the self-security of the people, alongside well-oiled military machinery, can stop the terrorist groups in the North. A clueless regime cannot fight for the long suffering people of the north.” He added: “It is in the light of the consultations we have shown thus far that we would be standing today, bearing our conscience to tell the world of our intentions to write yet another page of moving forward with speed. The Nigerian people cannot afford to lose another four years to cluelessness. “First, we propose a Nigeria without the current documents of woes that are not meant for real citizens. We propose to abolish the 1999 Constitution that was imposed on us by the military and civilian oppressors. In its place, we will have a People’s Constitution that would come on board within six months from the streets, towns, villages, and cities. “Our own Constitutional Conference would see that the masses themselves participate and not just representatives that do not represent the people’s interests. “We are very keen on free, functioning, and quality education at all levels. We will immediately meet with ASUU and all education workers on harmonising and advancing the current demands. The question would not be the implementation of agreements. It would rather be on how massive are the current agreements, for we want to build education policies that would see 70% Nigerians truly educated to higher levels within three years. We will not settle for any standard that does not set world class records. “We will create a health care system that would locate Primary health care centers in the space of five streets in our towns. The health sector of our government won’t encourage brain drain-where nurses and doctors are condemned to run abroad in search of greener pastures. We would water the pasture here. “In addition to providing best welfare packages for our health professionals, we will build health institutions that would attract other health professionals all over the world. We would make standing laws on medical tourism to make sure that Nigeria becomes the bus stop of medical interventions. The era of not having a ‘syringe’ even in the Aso Rock Clinic is gone. “Politics, of course, is concentrated on economics. To the extent that our politics is centered on the collective majority, our economy must be people-centred. We will not accept all those anecdotes of failures that the IMF and World Bank are wont to imposing on Nigeria. We do not believe in greed and power. We believe in redistribution of wealth and collectivisation of benefits. “We will build an economy that will be centred on massive industrialisation and production. We will never accept that our crude oil will be refined abroad. We will revive the refineries on ground and start to build three more refineries within two years. “We are interested in all the components of the crude oil to build a great energy Industry that the world would be proud of. We will take the power of pricing away from the greed of the oil marketers. We will return pricing to the prerogative of state production. “We will have zero tolerance to loans. We are determined not put our future into debt management. We want to be the country that the world would be owing! “We will build with the informal economy that is today the largest but the most victimised. We have a great relationship with informal workers and their organisations. We will build an economy that would be self-dependent and also be able to guarantee self and collective abundance. “To do this is to formalise all small and medium scales trading. We will care for all business innovations and build a grand technological networking that would protect, expand, and organize the business acumens that would make the country the most conducive trading centre in the world. “As for the fact that Nigeria is not safe, we have been so clear about what is to be done. There cannot be physical security without social security. No one can be safe when the majority is hungry.” The AAC National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Femi Adeyeye, who witnessed the declaration, spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT after the event. He said: “Yes, I was there. One of the highlights of the day was how Omoyele Sowore, the aspirant marshalled some of the programmes of the party one after the other. “He was able to inspire the audience towards working together to achieve the goal of having a prosperous country. And as you can see, the political temperature has changed, since the declaration.” Comrade Ayo Moses Ogedengbe, Communications Strategist and member the Movement of The People (MOP), a fledgling masses-oriented political association, in his reaction, stated: “Let me say very clearly that Omoyele Sowore’s declaration is very much in line with his constitutional rights as a citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I believe, personally, that the time has come for Nigerians to do away with the old, tired and expired political horses so as to effectively embrace the new pan African politics being driven by the new guys on the block. “Not only is Sowore qualified to be the next president should Nigerians rise to the occasion in search of a new horse, he is one who has consistently stood on the side of the oppressed people of our country. “And on that path, he shares a rare passion with very few other Nigerians like Seun Anikulapo-Kuti, who has resurrected The Movement of the People (MOP) in search of a revolutionary solution to the perennial problems of oppression that Nigerian peoples suffer in the hands of a kleptocratic political and economic elite.” “Sowore may have his difference in political perspectives in terms of how to go about the revolution, but most of us, in line with the beliefs of our leader, Seun Anikulapo-Kuti, hold Sowore in high esteem. “The clear line of difference, for the avoidance of doubt, is that where Sowore appears to be seeking a top-bottom approach to the revolution, we at the MOP believe very strongly in the bottom-up approach.” Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader in Imo State, while reacting to Sowore’s declaration, described Comrade Sowere as an international figure who has good background knowledge of the workings in the Nigerian polity. According to Adikwuru, “Sowore is a critical mind on the misgivings in the governance of Nigeria and has confronted the leadership with a view to bringing about good democratic governance.” In his 2019 attempt, Mr. Sowore garnered 33,953 votes to place fifth ahead of other new entrants like Fela Durotoye of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), Kingsley Moghalu of the Young Democratic Party (YPP). He was arrested by the Directorate of State Service (DSS) in August 2019 after the election and charged for alleged treason as he and other activists were planning a nationwide protest tagged #RevolutionNow. Since then, he has been in and out of court.