LAGOS – Honourable Jude Idimogu, the lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2, at the Lagos State House of Assembly, and the newly inaugurated All Progressives Congress (APC) Vice Chairman, of Lagos West Senatorial district, have promised to stop opposition parties from the incursion into Lagos West in 2023 general elections. The duo said that on Monday during the swearing-in and inauguration of Chief Babatunde Sunday Aboyade as the vice chairman of the APC Lagos West senatorial district.  Aboyade lamented that the party lost about four Federal House of Representatives and two State House of Assembly seats to the main opposition party in the last general elections, stressing that the unfortunate situation must not be allowed to happen again. “The significance of Lagos West to Lagos APC cannot be overstated and I believe that once our party gets it right in this district, the whole of Lagos will get it right. Idimogu, who honoured the newly inaugurated vice chairman with his presence in the company of hundreds of his supporters, corroborated Aboyade when he said that he would join hands with him to ensure that APC wins overwhelmingly in the district during the next general elections. “We have a capable leader and a friend here in the person of Chief Sunday Aboyade and I know that he has the capacity to bring everybody together. He invited me to this event and urged me to come with my people. You can see all of us and we are going to work with him for a stronger APC in Lagos West,” he said. On the issue of frosty relationships among party leaders, Aboyade stated that it is sad that the unity among leaders and members is gradually vanishing, resulting in a situation where foundation leaders and members are becoming disinterested in the business of the party. “Unfortunately, the delineation of the constituency into a local government and five Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), done to foster unity and bring everybody on board failed to achieve the desired result, as politics of bitterness, negligence and isolation became the order of the day.  “Over the years, the development has led to card-carrying members and party loyalties defecting to other political parties while those who didn’t cross carpet covertly supported candidates from other political parties. “Consequently, votes secured began to dwindle, with the party winning elections by the skin of its teeth, as members-only cast their votes but refused to mobilize others because they were not happy with the party activities,” he said.