The Russian armed forces took under full control Ukraine’s southern city of Kherson, the Russian Defense Ministry announced on Wednesday. The civil infrastructure, life support facilities, and urban transport operate in a routine mode, ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov told a daily briefing in Moscow. “The city does not experience shortages in food and essential goods. Negotiations are continuing between the Russian command, the administration of the city, and the region to address issues of maintaining the functioning of social infrastructure facilities, ensuring law and order, and public safety,” Konashenkov said. Ukraine Foreign Minister Says South Korea Will Take Active Part… U.N. Urges Countries To Open Borders To Africans Fleeing Ukraine Meanwhile, the Russian Airspace Forces carried out a massive airstrike on the military infrastructure of Ukraine, hitting 67 objects, Konashenkov added. The 72nd main center for psychological operations was also disabled with high-precision weapons that allowed to avoid the destruction of the nearby residential buildings, the spokesman continued. In total, as of Wednesday, 1,502 objects of Ukraine’s military infrastructure were destroyed, including 51 control and communication centers, 38 air defense systems S-300, Buk M-1, and Osa, 51 radar stations, 47 aircraft on the ground and 11 aircraft in the air, 472 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 62 multiple rocket launchers, 206 field artillery and mortars, 336 units of special military vehicles, and 46 unmanned aerial vehicles, he added. The rebel forces of Ukraine’s regions of Donetsk and Luhansk moved forward for 75 kilometers (47 miles), and took under control eight settlements, Konashenkov said. Since last Thursday — days after Russian recognition of two separatist-held enclaves in eastern Ukraine — Russia’s war on Ukraine has been met by an outcry from the international community, with the EU, UK, and the US implementing a range of economic sanctions against Russia. POLL Russia has been further isolated after its planes have been barred from flying in European and Canadian airspace, and a number of its banks have been kicked out of the SWIFT international banking system.