–As Stakeholders Lament State Of Party In The Zone ABUJA – Dr George Moghalu, a former national auditor of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and an aspirant in the last Anambra State gubernatorial election has cried out over the sad state of the party in the Southeast geopolitical zone, observing that newcomers to the party have hijacked the party. Speaking to journalists on the sidelines of the concluded APC national convention, the Director General, Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority ( NIWA) particularly expressed concern that stakeholders from the zone were attending the party’s National Convention without the benefit of knowing they are in the new National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. While he admitted that APC courted and invited the former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) elements to join the APC, it was not for them to appropriate the house and chase the rest of APC foundation members in the zone away. According to him leaders of the party including Governors Hope Uzodinma, Dave Umahi, Anambra State’s immediate past deputy governor and a host of other newcomers to APC are now calling the shot in the Southeast geopolitical zone even though they never knew how the APC was formed. He warned that the attempt by joiners to dare stakeholders by failing to consult them on critical issues that concern them would backfire if not properly addressed. “As a critical stakeholder of APC in the zone and indeed the country, I have not attended any meeting of the party in the zone before this Convention. I do not know who the aspirants are and that is not good enough. “We are talking about carrying people along, for building a party. You do not do such things. Even if you want to run or you have a candidate, I have no problem with that, I am not running, other leaders are not running, Ngige won’t leave his work as minister to run for party offices, Dr Onu will not leave minister to contest for a party, Rochas, like him or hate him, he was part of the founders of APC. POLL “And when you are now talking about APC in the South East, people who don’t know how APC is formed are now running the party. That doesn’t make for integrity. “Nobody was consulted, yeah nobody was consulted. No meeting was held, I stand to be corrected. Let somebody say I’m lying. Our responsible position as Party members is to bring to the public this position so that ordinary members will be aware. I will not challenge the governor because I do not go to their meetings, I’m not a Governor. There are other platforms I may not be present on. The only platform I would have the opportunity is if a South East Meeting of critical stakeholders was called, because I know I’m one. “As far as APC is concerned I’m a critical stakeholder. I was the first national auditor of the party, a foundation member. I was coordinating the secretary of the committee when we were forming APC, the 89 members that formed APC. So I am a critical stakeholder. So the only platform I would have had to speak was the meeting of the zone for us to get original members to be involved. “These are the things that create invoiced agitations because when you don’t involve people what you are saying is that they should do their worst. And they may ignore you now and during election they do their worse. “They may pretend now to allow you have the way it when the chips are down, they teach you a lesson. Asked whether the party did not give the decampees full status, welcomed and granted full privileges as members, Chief Moghalu who had over twenty years experience in party administration said that should not constitute a problem for any party man. “No! No! no, we have no problem with that. We were courting them to come and join us. It’s natural, but what we are saying is if you come, you join us. Not to drive us away. “You can’t sit down and make decisions on those that are going to represent us in the NWC without making it all informing. You may not get 100 per cent. Certainly, there’s no way you get 100 per cent acceptance.Even Jesus did not get 100%, out of twelve. So, there is no way you will get 100% acceptance. But the truth remains that the majority will have their way, and the minority their say”. Adding his voice to the sad state of affairs, Senator Ayogu Eze said the development took everybody by surprise, pointing out that he too was never invited to any zonal meeting. He however observed that the trend was the same across all geopolitical zones saying that stakeholders of the party from other zones expressed such misgivings. According to him, it was not peculiar to the Southeast geopolitical zone. He said that the matter should be played down in the interest of peace and allow the incoming National Working Committee NWC to address the challenges. Most APC stakeholders from the zone polled denied attending any Meeting were issues relating to Convention was discussed. They accused Gov Sen Hope Uzodinma, Dave Umahi, Sen Ken Nnamani and a few others of consulting the stakeholders on their representatives.