UYO – Itu/Ibiono Ibom Youth Leaders Forum has called on Governor Udom Emmanuel to refrain from using state resources to advance the political interest of an individual. The youths have further charged the Governor to be democratic in his approach towards supporting his preferred candidate by separating and distinguishing his official position from his personal and private capacity in influencing and or imposing a person or aspirant on the state. Addressing a press conference in Uyo on Tuesday, the youths who spoke through Barr Bassey Bassey Etim said it was the turn of Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency to produce the next Governor for Akwa Ibom State. APC Chairmanship: Stakeholders Kick Against Sen Adamu, Nnamani Ekiti 2022: Segun Oni Storms Ekiti With SDP Flag, Urges Ekiti To… Recall that Governor Udom Emmanuel had on Sunday, January 30, 2022, presented his Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Mr Umoh Eno to PDP stakeholders in the state as his preferred successor. But the youths have declared the move a breach of the accord that had existed in micro zoning the governorship position to Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency, considering the fact that Etinan and Uyo Federal  Constituencies have had their turns in the persons of Obong Akpan Isemin and Obong Victor Attah respectively.. “Greatly dissatisfied by this undemocratic action which is a clear breach of obvious unwritten accord of relevant stakeholder as it were on the zoning of the governorship position in Uyo senatorial district; We the Youth Leaders of Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency state as follows: “That His Excellency the Governor of Akwa Ibom State should not breach the accord that had existed, in micro zoning the governorship position to Etinan federal constituency being part of the old Uyo in the then Uyo Conference District that already had one of their sons in person of Obong Akpan Isemin occupy the office. This would be a clear injustice to Itu/Ibion Ibom federal constituency “That His Excellency is democratic in his approach towards supporting his preferred candidate by separating and distinguishing his official position from his personal and private capacity in influencing and or imposing a person or aspirant on the state. To this extent, we pray that His Excellency refrains from using state resources for a person as against the corporate and cooperate interest of the state. POLL “That the state chairman of our dear party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party must maintain a high level of neutrality in the forthcoming primaries and should act and be seen and adjudged by his conducts as being fatherly to all shade of persons and aspirants devoid of biases of any kind. “That the governor, Mr Udom Gabriel Emmanuel should allow the people of the state – the men, the women, the youths and indeed generality of the qualified voting populace of Akwa Ibomites to choose who becomes their next governor. This would be in sync with the governor’s principle as he particular expressed in the 2019 general elections that “no single person can choose who to lead the state and who not to lead”. “That the Governor can support whosoever he chooses but not to overtly or covertly coerce appointees or political office holders with threats of sanction or falling out of his favour for failing to support his preferred aspirant or candidates, and or expressing their supports for other aspirants. Otherwise, imposition of any guise will certainly bring the existence of our party in Akwa Ibom State to an end, while promoting other political parties. “Finally, that in line with the Maintain Peace Mantra of this administration, we state that peace is predicated on the principle of justice, equity and good conscience. To this end, we appeal to the consciences of the leaders and stakeholders of the state, and particularly, the governor, Udom Gabriel Emmanuel to allow the opportunity for Itu/Ibiono/Ibom federal constituency to produce the next governor of the state come 2023,” the youths stated