ABUJA – The House of Representatives has insisted that the entire body of law enacted by the National Assembly to govern the country’s electoral processes is very much alive irrespective of the court judgment asking the executive arm to delete section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022. The chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Benjamin Kalu, stated this at a media briefing in Abuja on Thursday, saying that the legislature must be allowed to exercise its right of appeal which automatically connotes “stay of execution” and the maintenance of “status quo”. “One thing I want Nigerians to know is that the Electoral Act is alive and INEC is working with the Act. There is no impediment on the Act until our right of appeal has been fully exercised. Are we waiting for 90 days to appeal? No. If possible, by next week, we will be in court. If we miss it by tomorrow (Friday), by next week, we will be in court. So, exercise no fear, the Act is alive,” he said. Kalu, who cited series of “kindred provisions” in the constitution which explicitly speak about who is a public servant and the number of days allowed them to resign before contesting an election, also pointed out that the constitution never mentioned political appointees, a “mischief” he said section 84(12) was enacted to cure. “A difference should be made between who is a public servant and a political appointee knowing fully well that the provision of 84(12) was not addressing public servants. It was addressing political appointees. It was targeted at a particular set of people. If you read section 84(12) together with section 318 of the constitution, you will find out that the definition of who is a public servant was laid by the constitution. It is a rule that we have in law. “Section 318 laid out the classes of people that qualify as public servants. We were not ignorant of that because many of us are lawyers and many others have been in this House long enough. “The principle of the supremacy of the constitution must be considered at all times in the course of enacting legislations so as to establish that there is no offence at all times. “Granted that the constitution remains supreme as the grand norm. But where there is a lacuna, which has not been captured, the legislature has the mandate to legislate on those issues and that is exactly what we did. We discovered that political appointees were not covered by the drafters of our constitution and so, we decided to legislate on that based on the various engagement we had,” Kalu argued. POLL He also dispelled insinuations that the president must have agreed to sign the Act on the precondition that the controversial section would be deleted afterwards. “The president signed it into law, but raised an issue about it. There is an assumption out there that there was a precondition for the signing of the Act. No. “Mr. President was not coerced into signing the Bill into law and was not compelled. He saw the benefits of the electoral reforms and wanted to leave a legacy by cleaning up the space. That was why he signed the Bill into law. “As commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, who has raised an issue, such an issue should not be swept under the carpet. He decided to refer his concern not to the law court, but the parliament and that is how it ought to be in the spirit of the doctrine of separation of power where everyone knows where his power lies. He did not refer it to the Attorney-General. Mr. President was a better judge than what we just experienced recently where the principles that is reserved for the parliament was, in an over reaching consequential order was passed to the executive which ought not to be so if we must maintain checks and balance. That is what played out recently in the judgment given in Umuahia,” Kalu added.