LAGOS – The President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba has vowed that the Nigerian workers will not allow professional politicians to evade critical questions of national development of Nigeria. Wabba, who at the 2022 workers’ political conference themed: ‘Commitment to National Emancipation and Development Through Effective Political Engagement by Nigerian Workers’ solicited for a more united workers in the country said: “Our priorities are eminently captured in our charter of demands which seeks answers to the questions of development in Nigeria”. He explained that the 2022 NLC Workers’ Political Conference seeks to set the Labour Agenda as a guide to our affiliates and workers and for engagement with Nigeria’s political class at federal, state, local government and ward every level especially as we approach the 2023 general election and beyond. ILO Director-General Condemns Aggression Of Russian Federation… African Youth Urged To Embrace Soft Skills For Relevance In The… “Our determination is that in the run up to the 2023 elections, we must not to allow professional politicians to evade critical questions of national development. “Our priorities are eminently captured in our charter of demands which seeks answers to the questions of development in Nigeria. “To say that Nigeria is at political crossroads would not be a statement of alarm. It would be a factual construction of our reality. “With 2023 in view, there is a lot of politicking, intrigues and subterfuge in the political space. Every indication shows that the polity is once again being over-heated. “Sadly, as it has become norm with our cycle of broken politics, the polity is not being heated with questions and answers on how the current political mandate has been used by political office holders”, he said. POLL The labour leader emphasised that the polity is not being over-heated with concerns on how the current ruling elites have honoured the socio-economic rights of Nigerians in Chapter Two of the 1999 Constitution. He said: “The polity is not being over-heated with new ideas of how politicians can meet the expectations of Nigerians who want constant power to power their potentials, motorable roads, adequate security that will keep us from always looking over our shoulders and living wages that will offer workers a chance at decent living. “The near absence and acute deficit of serious engagement with these existential political concerns have provided the context for this Workers’ Political Conference. We have thought hard and long about how our political elites have treated the national questions of good governance, sustainable development and social justice. “We are sceptical of any real commitment to address our developmental concerns. “It is difficult to fault our pessimism. Not with the way collective bargaining agreements, workers remuneration and trade union rights are tossed aside. NDE Trains 50 Persons On Enterprise, Finance Clinic In Edo UNICEF, Tony Elumelu Foundation Targets 20 Million Nigerian… “Our country has not always been like this. During the quest for our national independence, the wheel of our collective liberation from the grips of the colonial masters did not turn until the muscles of Nigerian workers were applied. “The June 1945 nationwide strike action created the big momentum that finally caught the attention of the British colonialists that Nigerians were ready to take their own destiny into their own hands. And what was the fulcrum of our agitation for independence? “It was the demand for equality, decent work, and social justice. “The purpose of this Political Conference themed “Commitment to National Emancipation and Development through Effective Engagement by Nigerian Workers” is to reconstruct the critical bridge of issue-based politics that accommodates the interests of Nigerian workers and people. “Our determination is that in the run up to the 2023 elections, we must not to allow professional politicians to evade critical questions of national development. “This is why we have developed a Workers Charter of Demands. “Our Charter of Demands prioritizes equity, fairness and social justice. Our Charter of Demands asks for free and quality education to tertiary levels for every Nigerian child. “Our Charter of Demands insists that every Nigerian should access free and quality healthcare from cradle to grave. Our Charter of Demands make the argument for the kind of restructuring that brings sustainable development to real Nigerians currently struggling with the crumbs. Our Charter of Demand posits that politicians should no longer be allowed to send their kids to schools abroad or treat their sicknesses in foreign hospitals while the children of the poor are trapped in endless strike actions and poor medical facilities which their failed leadership has imposed on all of us. “Our Charter of Demands also makes a strong case for decent work for Nigerian workers. We are saying that those who contribute to Productivity and Wealth Creation must be the first partaker of their toil and sweat.”