Abuja – The Federal Executive Council (FEC) members rose from their meeting on Wednesday to approve a total sum of N32.742 billion for contract awards under the Ministry of Works and Housing as well as Industry, Trade and Investments. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who briefed State House correspondents on their resolutions, revealed that the first memo approved for his ministry was for the augmentation of the contract of the Zaria-Funtua section of the Zaria-Sokoto- Birnin-Kebbi highway. He explained that the augmentation was for N9.446 billion, increasing the contract sum to a total of N16.924 billion. Explaining further, he said: “The augmentation caters for an extension of the scope of works on that section from 26 kilometers to a total of 64 kilometers. It also caters for the improvement of the pavement from a late rite based pavement to a cement-based, concrete- mixed, stone-base pavement. It also makes provision for extensive drainage works to accommodate increasing rain flow and flooding patterns that we have observed in the last few years. Council approved that memorandum.” He noted that the second memorandum was presented by the ministry on behalf of one of her parastatals, the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) that is statutorily responsible for maintenance and rehabilitation of certain roads. Fashola also said FERMA requested and Council approved contract award to rehabilitate Kwara-Peta-Milda road in Borno in favour of Messrs. CBC Global Civil Engineering and Building Construction. POLL Value of the award is N6,271,985,441. In the same vain, Council approved the rehabilitation of the Uturu-Isikwuato-Akara Road in Abia State at the cost of N13.624 billion, to 18th Engineering Company for 24 months. On his part, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investments, Niyi Adebayo, who briefed on the memos he presented on behalf of his ministry, said the Council approved contracts for infrastructure in one of the six special economic zones that the Export Processing Zones Authority is creating for the special economic zones in Lekki. The Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority is a parastatal under the ministry. He said: “As part of that special economic zone, there is a textile and garment part that is being put up and Council approved contract for the development of an initial five megawatt power plant and electrical reticulation within the park, in favour of Messrs. Mustra Energy Limited, in the sum of N1.5 billion, inclusive of 7.5% VAT with a delivery period of 52 weeks. “Council also approved the construction of an access road, with associated drainage works from the Lekki-Epe Expressway, through the textile and garment park, in favoru of Messrs. Proportion Construction Works Limited, in the sum of N1.9 billion, inclusive of 7.5 VAT, with a delivery period of 52 weeks. “The objective of developing the special economic zones is to establish an economic zone with multi-functions of industry, commerce, trade, medical tourism, recreation and residence to attract foreign investment, create employment and expedite economic growth. “As you’re all aware, constant power supply as well as provision of other infrastructure like roads is very important for the functioning of the special economic zones and as a result of that, which Council approved the contract that I had previously mentioned. We are hopeful that once the special economic zone is functional, it will generate employment for about 3500 Nigerians in the short term, and in the long term, it will provide employment for about 10,000 Nigerians.” FEC also made a resolution locatto acquire lie detector machines and night vision glasses for staff of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) at a total cost of N1.07 billion. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, made the disclosure after the meeting, saying FEC authorised the procurement of lie dictator and digital night vision goggles for NDLEA to enhance their performance. Recall that NDLEA since the appointment of the former military governor of Lagos State, Buba Marwa, has been making significant breakthrough in detection and arrest of drug kingpins in the country. Malami while briefing State House correspondents of some of their resolutions said, “Two memos were presented this afternoon by the Federal Ministry of Justice on behalf and at the instance of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. “As you rightly know, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency is an agency of the government saddled with the responsibility of exterminating illicit drugs trafficking, sales and consumption. “Arising from the fact that they have been doing wonderfully well, in terms of dealing with the scourge associated with drugs, the Federal Government has considered the possibility of making added provisions and employing and deploying technological equipment skills and competencies that will assist them in delivery. “So, this morning, two memos were taken. One, it was a memo seeking the approval of the council for the award of contract for the supply of eye-scanning lie detector. Our technology has improved to the extent that we have in place technological equipment that have the capacity to detect whether you are indeed speaking the truth or indeed you are lying in the course of investigation. “So, for the purpose of enhancing the capacity of the NDLEA in exterminating illicit drugs trafficking, sales and consumption, the Federal Government has considered the need and possibility of indeed providing this equipment to NDLEA. “So, the memo in that respect was presented, it was taken and the contract was approved for MESSRS Zettabytes Technologies Limited to procure for the agency these lie detector equipment. So eventually, on that account, the Federal Executive Council approved the award of contract for the supply of eye scanning lie detector to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency in favour of MESSRS Zettabytes Technologies Limited in the sum of N498,850,000 only, inclusive of 7.5% VAT with a completion period of 90 days. That was the first memo that was taken. “And the second memo is a memo by which the NDLEA through the Office of the Attorney General seeks approval of the council with the award for the supply of digital night vision goggle to the NDLEA, this is equally additional technological device that is intended to support the night operations of NDLEA in view of its capacity to support visibility for NDLEA. “So, the contract too was presented for consideration of the council and the council had graciously approved the award of the contract with the supply of digital night vision goggles to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency in favour of MESSRS R-SET Integrated Solution Limited in the sum of N570,825,000 only, inclusive of 7.5% Value Added Tax.” FEC also observed a minute silence in honour of the victims of the Abuja-Kaduna train terror attack. The meeting, which kicked off at exactly 10a.m, had the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, calling for a minute of silence to be observed first before the business of the day started in earnest. Recall that the terrorists attack resulted in the death of eight persons, with over 46 people believed to have sustained various degrees of injuries including an unspecified number of people kidnapped. In the manifest received from the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), 398 passengers bought tickets, but 362 were validated. The passengers’ manifest excluded the NRC workers and security officials on board the train, while several passengers could not be accounted for.