‘These are some of the things that begin to separate those who would travel far in their managerial careers from those who just have MBAs.’ Who is Olu Akanmu? Olu Akanmu is a Pharmacy graduate of the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University). He started his career as a Marketing Manager/ Regional Manager (Eastern and Northern Nigeria) with Glaxo Nigeria. He went on to work in the non-profit sector as Chief Operating Officer (Nigeria) for Population Services International (PSI), a global reproductive health charity. Olu later moved to the telecommunications sector as General Manager-Consumer Marketing at MTN Nigeria Communications, playing a critical role in the growth of the business in Nigeria. He also worked as the Chief Marketing Officer, Airtel Nigeria before crossing to the financial services sector. He was Executive Director for Retail Banking at FCMB for more than eight years before he was appointed President, OPay-Nigeria in 2021. A thought-leader in Business Strategy, Marketing and Technology, Olu is a much sought-after speaker at business events. He has post-graduate qualifications in business management from the University of Witwatersrand and Edinburgh Business School Interview was first published in Arbiterz. Published here by permission of Arbiterz. ‘One very important thing they did not teach us in business school was ethics. In business, you will be often confronted with choices that will test your values.’ Academic Discipline I studied Pharmacy at the University of Ife but I learnt a lot more than Pharmacy. I was an unusual pharmacy student. I was very active in politics and in campus journalism. I even became Editor of a campus magazine. I was also Secretary of the Association of Campus Journalists and Secretary, Youth Solidarity for South Africa and a member of the Students’ Representative Council. I was also a member of the Senate of the National Association of Nigerian students. So, I studied for a degree in Pharmacy and got an informal degree in everything else through my interests, readings, engagements and active participation in campus debates and students societies on subjects such as – economics, politics, philosophy, history and the arts. I soaked myself in the whole university experience and all that it had to offer. POLL Biggest lesson learnt in University Learning broadly and self-learning beyond one’s immediate discipline. I remember that in our final year, I was helping some of my friends shape their theses in social sciences and international relations. Self-learning makes you very versatile and it’s a habit that has stayed with me. The second lesson is making a conscious effort to embed yourself in your environment. Pharmacy students were supposed to lead very regimented life- lectures from 8 am to 1 pm, laboratory thereafter and studying in the evening. But I was able to do so much more on the campus. I also developed a strong sense of social justice while at Ife; we may not have articulated it this way as young men and women but that was the goal of our engagement in activism. We were driven by a belief that we could create a society that would be inclusively prosperous, just and fair to all. First job My first job was working for Glaxo as a Medical Representative. I was handling sales of prescription medicines. I was responsible for detailing or selling highly technical drugs to doctors, surgeons and consultants so they could prescribe them. The head office was in Apapa in Lagos but I was based in Benin City. I was 22 or 23 years old. There was no office in Benin. I was accountable for myself 300 kilometers away from the head office. No boss was there to tell me what to do or monitor how I spent my day. But I had to deliver on my numbers in terms of sales, the number of doctors’ prescriptions that I generated. So being accountable, being responsible for yourself was one thing I learned. The second thing would be professionalism. Young people have to know this-your first job, the first set of bosses you have and the kind of values embedded in that your early working environment and its culture defines you significantly early in your career. I was very privileged to be to be part of a British multinational where high standards of professionalism and ethical values were ingrained. You pick up a lot of very valuable traits that make you a true professional rather unconsciously. These things remain ingrained in me today. They were formed from the expectations of you by colleagues, bosses, the environment. We interacted widely with colleagues from all over Africa and colleagues from the UK. We were conscious that we were working within the same culture, with same standards of professionalism. I was often in Kenya. Glaxo Med office in London frequently travelled to the continent for what we used to call African Sales Cycle Meetings. All this set a standard of how you report your business, how you report your market, which I think has lived with me till today. The third lesson will be learning something called Mastery which gives you confidence. As a medical rep, I had to go to teaching hospitals to detail prescription medicines to professors of Surgery, Pediatrics and so on. As young 23-year-old, I was presenting at medical seminars where you had professors. The only reason I could do this comfortably was because I had mastery of my products and the therapeutic classes of the products I was selling. Three things learnt in career not taught in MBA courses Looking back after so many years, one very important thing they did not teach us in business school is ethics. In business, you will be often confronted with choices that will test your values. I hope they now teach ethics in business school. I have also learnt the importance of communications and storytelling. A manager with brilliant ideas who lacks communications skills is almost like a manager with no ideas. Business schools typically do not teach the art of storytelling; effective speaking and persuasive writing are very important skills for a manager. I always tell my younger colleagues that a PowerPoint presentation is first and foremost a story. Before starting to work on PowerPoint slides, you first need to make up your mind about the story you want to tell. It is after you decide what the narrative is that you get the numbers to help you tell your story… The presentation is far less interesting or persuasive. Storytelling is a very important skill that business schools should teach. The third thing business schools should teach is problem solving. Managers learn to solve problems as they mature in their careers. But business schools ought to be teaching managers how to solve problems because there is a science behind it. The art of defining problems correctly and breaking them down to its components parts and providing holistic solutions by working methodically through each part of the problem. Another relevant skill is integrative problem solving. Business schools teach you to solve a marketing problem, a human resources problem or an operations problem. In real life, there are not many problems that are isolated in silos. A marketing problem has a finance issue, a finance issue has a revenue issue which has to be solved by marketing and a marketing issue as a people issue requiring you to improve the quality of your talents. A related key skill for a manager is critical reasoning and logic. When you are sitting at a table, you have to have an antenna that alerts you to narratives that need to be challenged. There is an art to interrogating narratives or arguments. Every manager should be taught these skills. These are some of the things that begin to separate those who would travel far in their managerial careers from those who just have MBAs. If I have the opportunity to teach at a business school, these are the things that I will try and ingrain in managers. NEXT WEEK THURSDAY: 90% of people don’t really sit back to reflect and understand why they succeeded or failed – Olu Akanmu