Following the court injunction that David Umahi of Ebonyi State and his Deputy to immediately vacate the statehouse, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has slammed the Federal High Court, accusing it of relying on what it described as the outdated authority of the Amaechi vs Omehia case. Daily Independent had on Tuesday reported that Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja ruled that the defection of Governor Dave Umahi and his deputy, Dr  Kelechi Igwe, from the PDP to the APC was illegal. Justice Inyang Ekwo, in his judgement, noted that the votes which made Umahi the governor belonged to the party and could not be transferred to another party. BREAKING:[Defection] Umahi, Deputy Ask Appeal Court To Set Aside… I Remain Ebonyi Governor, Umahi Declares Reacting to the development, the party said that the court failed to strike a distinction between Amaechi vs Omehia, which was a pre-election matter and the Umahi case, which had to do with an elected governor defecting to another political party. In a statement issued by its Director (Publicity) APC National Headquarters, Salisu Na’inna Ɗambatta on Wednesday berated the court order that sacked Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi and his deputy, Eric Igwe from office. The party, however, described the ruling as a “glaring judicial error” and a “travesty of justice”. “The presiding judge committed a glaring judicial error by giving judgment sacking a duly elected and sworn-in governor and his deputy without relying on or citing any provision(s) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria or any provision of the Electoral Act that empowers the court to sack a sitting Governor and or his Deputy. This is purely a travesty of justice. “The Electoral Act and the judgment in Amaechi vs INEC contemplates who is the right candidate of the party and not the issue of defection. As you all know, neither Amaechi nor Omehia raised the issue of defection to another political party,” he said. POLL The party said it was ridiculous, questionable and shameful that the Federal High Court judge could tow with a weighty matter such as conditions for sacking a governor. The party faulted the Court for failing to rely on any express provision of the Constitution or the Electoral Act or Judicial Authority either of superior courts or even courts of coordinate jurisdiction. Umahi and his deputy were elected under the umbrella of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in 2015 and in 2019, but they dumped the party and joined the APC in 2020. Angered by their decision, the PDP approached the court, asking for their removal. The PDP has since submitted names of its nominees to replace Umahi and his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe to the INEC, in accordance with the Federal High Court’s order. Umahi’s Sack: PDP Submits Replacement To INEC, Declares… Court Judgement Sacking Umahi, Unacceptable, Says APC The party said it has nominated Hon Iduma Enwo Igariwey as a replacement for Governor David Umahi and Fred Udeogu as deputy governor.