Text: Luke 18:35-43 And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging, and hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant and they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by and he cried, saying, Jesus thou son of David, have mercy on me. We could see this in Luke 18:35-39. The man called Bartimaeus cried to the right person, Jesus, who could deliver him to the uttermost. Let me tell you, many people’s faith or trust is highly misplaced. They need healing but trust in the medical experts rather than Jesus. Many trust in the power of the prescriptions and drugs rather than the GREAT PHYSICIAN. Some even trust in herbs, roots, some in charms, magic power rather than the Balm of Gilead. Money Ritual: Stop Preaching Prosperity In Church – Pastor… Delighting In God Although it is not wrong to seek medical treatment or use drug prescribed by Medical Practitioners, you must always remember that it is God that heals. Please you should take not that you should not go to Egypt for help. Bartimaeus sought his miracles from the right source, Jesus, the light of the whole world. Beloved, no matter the challenges you may be facing as you receive today’s message, please look only onto Jesus Christ for your miracles, and always present your request to Jesus in Faith, he will see you through. In another development, Bartimaeus demonstrated strong and unwavering faith in Jesus. He believed that Jesus could restore his sight. His faith was tested. You could see this in Luke 18:36 the large crowd was enough discouragement for a blind man. But then the man called Bartimaeus did not for once see that as a barrier. In Luke 18:39, has this to say he cried so much the more, thou sun of David, have mercy on me and verse 40, Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him and when he came near, he asked him in verse 41, saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight, and in verse 42, Jesus said unto him “receive thy sight”; “thy faith hath saved thee” and in verse 43 immediately he received his sight and followed him glorifying God; and all the people, when they saw it gave praise unto God. At this trying period in life, let me tell you whatever challenges you may be passing through, please have faith in God and believe in him and the word of God should dwell rightly in you and he will make a way for you. That is why in the book of John 14:1 has this to say “Let not your heat be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me”. Be anxious for nothing simple cast your burden upon Jesus who cares for you. Before you can have faith like Bartimaeus; POLL 1. You must repent from all sins. 2. You must be born again. 3. Surrender your life to Jesus Christ. 4. You must study the bible every day. Catholic Bishops Elect Ugorji New President Archbishop Asks Nigerians To Choose Right Leaders PRAYER POINTS 1. My father, help me to be in the right place at the right time, in Jesus name. 2. By the mercy of God, I shall not miss my divine opportunity, in the name of Jesus. 3. Powers assigned to steal my testimony, run mad and die in Jesus name. 4. Divine visitation, visit my life now, in the name of Jesus. 5. Powers from my village calling me into their coven, receive madness in the name of Jesus. 6. Say thank you Jesus for answering my prayers (7 times) 