Mohamed Salah has already admitted that he is “happy” to be linked with a transfer to Barcelona – but his priority is to stay at Liverpool. The 29-year-old is at the centre of a stand-off between Anfield chiefs and his entourage over a new contract, and the Blaugrana are the latest club looking to capitalise on the situation. Should the two parties fail to agree fresh terms before the summer transfer window, Salah will be a back-up option for Barcelona if Manchester City beat them to the signing of Erling Haaland. With his current deal expiring in 2023, Salah would need to be offloaded by Liverpool over the coming months in order for the Reds to recoup a significant fee, with Xavi Hernandez ‘s side wiling to pay £55million, according to Spanish outlet AS. And this season’s leading Premier League goalscorer has hinted that a move to the Camp Nou would be enticing, although is still hoping Liverpool can bend to his demands – reportedly asking for a salary worth £300,000 per week. “I read what was said about Xavi’s interest to sign me,” Salah revealed to Egyptian broadcaster MBC, via Goal, in December. “This is something that makes me happy that a team like Barcelona is interested in me, but I’m happy in Liverpool and we will see what happens in the future. At the moment, I prefer to stay in the Premier League as it’s the strongest league in the world. “I said it several times, if the decision is up to me, I want to stay in Liverpool. But the decision is in the hands of the management and they have to solve this issue.” POLL And a year ago, Salah even expressed interested in playing in Spain at some point in his career, telling Marca : “I hope to be able to play for many more years, so why not? “No one knows what is going to happen in the future, so maybe one day, yes.” Reds manager Jurgen Klopp recently lifted the lid on the state of affairs regarding his star man’s contract situation, admitting that his club “cannot do much more” to convince him to sign a new deal. “I think Mo definitely expects this club to be ambitious, we were in the last years and we are… no, of course we cannot do much more [in the talks], that’s how it is,” Klopp told a news conference ahead of Saturday’s 2-0 win at Brighton in which Salah scored. “But I don’t think it’s about that, I think meanwhile it is Mo’s decision pretty much; I think the club did what the club can do, that’s how it is. “There’s nothing to say about it, it’s all fine. From my point of view it’s exactly like it should be in this moment in time and everything is said. “Nothing happened further, so no signing, no rejection or whatever. So we just have to wait for that, it’s completely fine. There is no rush in that situation.”