IBADAN – The Oyo State government has disclosed that the 2022 World Tourism Day will be celebrated at the Iyamapo Hill at Igbeti, Olorunsogo local government. The Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun stated this on Tuesday at his office while hosting members of the Igbeti Mega Tourism Group, a body of indigenes of the town, who showed interest in the development of tourism potentials in the local government area, known for its deposit of marble. Olatubosun informed the team, led by the Elerugba of Igbeti land, Chief Amos Olayanju that although many people have heard about Iyamapo Hill at Igbeti, to marshal the potentials of the hill and sixteen other tourists sites for economic purposes, stakeholders in the sector will be mobilized towards the 2022 celebration of the World Tourism Day on the 27th of September of this year. Fuel Queue: Lagos Govt Warns Motorists Against Traffic… Aliyu Canvases For Functional Labour Market Information System He added that the attention of tourists all over the globe will be directed to the site before the day of celebration as the Ministry was set to reach out to stakeholders. “We have paid visits to Igbeti and among other sites that have comparative advantage the area of tourism, Iyamapo is our target, because it will attract people within and outside the country. “With our capacity to bring global attention to the site through the support of the media, I can assure you that this year’s celebration, which will be at Igbeti will be notable, it will also afford us to incorporate our youths into the mainstream of tourism so they will take up the challenges in the sector and go further into developing it.” Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun said the opportunity that the meeting afforded the two parties (government and community representatives) ways to work round the clock before the September date on logistics, funding and contact-making. In his speech, the leader of the team, Chief Amos Olayanju appreciates the government for developing tourism in the State, saying the arrangements that would follow the meeting would allow for a successful programme at the 2022 World Tourism Day at Igbeti. POLL He projected the possibility of rise in commercial activities and job opportunities during the period of celebration and that the State will also get revenue from the event.