Facts emerged last night on why embattled Secretary of the All Progressives Congress APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), John James Akpanudedehe was conspicuously absent when members of the committee met recuperating Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe on Thursday afternoon, in Abuja. A close party source hinted that the embattled Secretary deliberately stayed away so as not to worsen an already bad situation and somehow come between the recuperating Mai Buni and his fellow governor over the divisive issues that are still very fresh. Besides the secretary was said to have stayed away having not participated in all the activities of the CECPC while the Chairman was away, and hence did not see the need to join the rest of the members to present their report to the APC Caretaker Committee Chairman. Asked why the secretary was absent at the meeting with the rest of the CECPC members, Buni who was making his first public appearance since returning to the country three days ago however said the meeting was not a formal meeting of the committee. “You know that this is not a formal meeting of the committee. These members of the CECPC just came to welcome me back to the country and wish me well after returning from a medical trip outside the country. ” So, it is not a formal meeting that one will ask whether the secretary is here or not. However, he was in the house earlier today”, Buni told reporters. He used the occasion to commend his brother governor and member of the CECPC, Sani Bello for the many achievements of the CECPC in a very short time assuring that the convention preparation is in full throttle and sacrosanct. “You know that since I travelled the party has not stopped. His Excellency has done very well in managing the affairs of the party. We are here to discuss the issues going forward. POLL “We are now at the finishing line in the preparations for our national convention which is at hand on March 26. We are putting heads together to achieve this task ahead. I want to emphasise that the March 26 national convention is sacrosanct”. Also speaking Gov Abubakar Sani Bello listed the progress made towards the convention to include ” the inauguration of the State Chairmen, adopted some of the zoning formula, and some of the decisions of the CECPC taken before he left the country. I can tell you for free that in the last one week, we have ensured that we are good to go for convention “.