Yenagoa – The founder and General Superintendent of Deeper Christian Life Ministry, Pastor William Kumuyi, on Wednesday said the Church was worried that evil deeds were multiplying in the society despite the increasing number of churches. He spoke during an interview with journalists at the Bayelsa International Airport, Amassoma, where he was received with his wife, Esther, by pastors and members of the Deeper Life Ministry in the state. Kumuyi and some senior pastors are in Bayelsa for the ministry’s global crusade themed, ‘Full Redemption for all through Christ’, being held across the states of Nigeria. He, however, said that the society would have been much more negatively affected if not for Christianity and the establishment of churches. Kumuyi while responding to a question said, “I will say it (increase in sin) is worrisome to the Church, but sometimes when we look at the population, the things that happen, we, sometimes, will interpret whatever is happening depending on the angle at which we look at the events. “In the study of statistics and in looking at probabilities and all those things, we look at the percentage of the society that is doing this or that (evil). When analysed from that direction, you will be asking yourself: if Christianity were not there, if churches were not there, what proportion of the society would have been affected by evil things?” The renowned cleric pointed out that the light of Christianity had overpowered darkness under which a lot of terrible acts would have occurred. “I think we need to thank God that Christianity has brought a real change into families and lives, although we are on our way but we are not where we are going,” he added. On the global crusade in Yenagoa, Kumuyi stated that it would bring salvation to individuals, families and communities in the state and beyond. He said, “It has gone from city to city, state to state, and, by the grace of God, it has touched the lives of millions of people; great things have been done.”