LAGOS  – The media space was on Monday awash with reports that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had finally informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his wish to succeed him but this was almost immediately denied by the vice president. However, the story had gone to town and it is now generally considered, with the presidency literarily zoned to the South, that Osinabjo is in the race against his erstwhile political leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. To be sure, in the APC, there are other top contenders for the position in the South apart from Osinbajo and Tinubu, and these include Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi. There are insinuations that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, are also interested in joining the race. Minister of Labour, Chris Ngige had also expressed interest in the race. Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzo Kalu, and Senator Rochas Okorocha have all declared their interest in the presidency on the platform of the APC amid speculations that some aspirants from the North would soon join the race. The Osinbajo, Tinubu Challenge With the latest development, political observers believe that despite not declaring their intention publicly, both Osinbajo and Tinubu will most likely slug it out at the presidential primary election of the APC. The source who had revealed the details of Osinbajo’s meeting with the President, according to the newspaper, disclosed that, “Certainly, VP Osinbajo has told the president that he wants to succeed him. “The vice president had first consulted some prominent Nigerians who encouraged him to vie for the presidency and they also encouraged him to tell the president himself. POLL “They told him not to allow a third party to tell the president so that the ambition will not be misconstrued.” Another source was quoted to have said that when Osinbajo approached the president with the story, Buhari was not surprised. “Buhari smiled in his usual characteristic manner…he listened to the VP carefully and while responding, he gave him the green light and wished him well without giving him any commitment or assurance of supporting him ahead of other contenders. “He blessed the intention just the way he blessed Tinubu when he visited him in the Villa and unveiled his plan to vie for the presidency. “And I think the president is being careful. Remember what he said while granting an interview to national television.” Even though Osinbajo has yet to openly declare his intention to run for the exalted office in 2023, many support groups and individuals, believed to be sponsored, have already been rooting for him. These groups have been campaigning for Osinbajo, urging him to contest. Curiosity, Expectations At the moment, the question on the lips of many observers, APC stakeholders, and especially those in the camp of Tinubu, is whether Osinbajo will have the courage to contest against his supposed benefactor. For those who are close allies of the duo, Osinbajo, who served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Lagos State between 1999 and 2007 when Tinubu was the governor, may end up not challenging the man, who reportedly nominated him as Buhari’s running nominate in the build-up to the 2015 general elections. In the meantime, groups and individuals in Tinubu’s camp and working for his aspiration, have said they are not bothered by the rumoured presidential ambition of the vice President. The highest decision-making body of the APC in Lagos, the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), in its reactions, said Tinubu remains its choice. Leader of the GAC, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, said the council has endorsed Tinubu as well as recommended him to Nigerians as a genius in statecraft. Olusi said there is no evidence that Osinbajo is running, adding that his ambition has remained a rumour. “I have not seen any conclusive evidence that Osinbajo is running. There are only rumours that the vice president wants to declare. Has he made any categorical pronouncement about his ambition? “For instance, former VP Atiku Abubakar has declared, visited former President Olusegun Obasanjo and told the world that he is running. Others have made similar declarations but as of now, has the VP made such a declaration?” he queried. Olusi, who maintained that a good relationship exists between Tinubu and Osinbajo, opined that it will be wise to exercise caution as the Vice President has not declared his intention to run. On his part, the publicity secretary of the party in Lagos, Seye Oladejo, said in an interview that, “It is within the right of the vice president to want to aspire too. He has been in the saddle as the VP for the past six years or thereabouts. “It is also possible that he might not necessarily be a willing aspirant and for reasons best known to some people, they are trying to push him into the race. “It is also in the public space that a whole lot of people benefited immensely from Asiwaju’s large heartedness. When you call him a kingmaker, I will call him a fisher of men, through him, a whole lot of people have been able to fulfill their destiny, people that would have been largely obscured and just do their thing wherever they belong before entering into political visibility through him. Be that as it may, I think appropriately, our party will handle it, and it might not just be the vice president alone, there might also be other people who want to aspire. He further explained that Tinubu is a democrat and that, “the more the merrier and I am sure with the various people that are also supporting Asiwaju, there is no reason for us to lose sleep over anyone’s aspiration, especially somebody who has not openly declared. “We should commend Asiwaju Tinubu for the way he is approaching this race. First, he went to meet the incumbent president to announce his ambition to him that he intends to aspire for presidency. I think that is the way a gentleman should go about it and there are very few gentlemen in politics,” Oladejo added. Contradictory Claims Speaking recently on a political programme on Channels Television, a member of the APC, Daniel Bwala, insisted that the vice president would not be contesting for presidency in 2023 against Tinubu. Bwala said, “Yemi Osinbajo is not running for President. He is not interested. “I think I know the wisdom behind why VP Osinbajo is not running and he is shooting down every attempt to point towards that. “He may have understood that the general principle of equity and fairness is that one good turn deserves another. He had a principal who supported him for eight years and because Asiwaju has indicated interest, morally, not legally, it would be injurious for the Vice President to express interest. “Secondly, there’s an idea that if someone has helped you and indicated interest, your best bet is to go about supporting him with the hope that he doesn’t get it, he will now throw his weight behind you but you will not challenge him and I think that since the Vice President is not interested, it is important that he comes out and downplay his supporters and support Asiwaju, because if you continue to leave people in limbo, there is going to be a crisis between your supporters and his supporters.” Like other protégés before him, Osinbajo is not only under pressure from millions of his supporters in and outside government to contest the 2023 presidential election even as Tinubu has his eyes fixed on the coveted seat, Osinbajo has also become the new bride in the Nigerian political landscape – harvesting record support across political divide in the last few months. With these in the kitty and if the whispers from some quarters are anything to go by; the odds seem to favour him even if he is yet to indicate interest. Sources within the camp of the vice president claimed that contrary to speculations in some quarters, Osinbajo is without doubt in the race to become Nigeria’s next president. The source admitted that Osinbajo will contest and would declare his intention soon, adding that Tinubu had before now dropped his aspiration to contest since November last year when he was allegedly told that Osinbajo had been penciled down to succeed Buhari but people around him went back to rekindle his appetite to test the waters. ‘‘Osinbajo will contest, even Tinubu knows this. The Vice President is more focused on official duties at the moment. Tinubu is a smart politician and he knows what he is doing. Normally, as a kingmaker, he is supposed to declare last year but because he has seen that the President’s body language favours Osinbajo, he became rattled. ‘‘Mire so, Buhari’s recent interview where he refused to disclose his successor, betrayed Tinubu’s intention. If the President had made his choice known, I bet, Asiwaju would not have declared because he cannot openly go against the President’s candidate. Osinbajo will declare soon,” the source claimed. Some stakeholders in the APC have described President Buhari’s stance on who will succeed him and his indifference to the crises rocking the party in the last two years as tragic. A chieftain of the party and a leading voice in Edo State, Abu Abdulganiyu, recently charged President Buhari to take a decisive position and open up to stakeholders of the party on who succeeds him to save the party from implosion. He said: ‘‘His disposition on party matters is unhelpful, unless it is deliberate. If we have between now and June to agree on a presidential candidate and candidates for other elective positions, the President must be seen to be interested in the survival of the party post-convention. “For APC to win the elections next year requires deliberate efforts to reposition the party for the greater good of all. And who is better to play this role than the President? I am of the opinion that the earlier he begins to realise that he is the ultimate leader of the party, the better. He cannot watch while members destroy the party for their selfish interests,” he advised. Speculations Continue For some observers, Osinbajo’s silence amidst speculations and his recent call on his supporters against using derogatory words on Tinubu speaks volume. They are of the view that his silence to some extent corroborates claims in some quarters that he has been penciled down by some powerful forces in government to succeed Buhari. “His choice to remain silent could be likened to the words of Italian inventor and artist, Leonardo da Vinci who said that, ‘nothing strengthens authority as much as silence’. “We can see the way he has been going up and down the country, doing underground consultations. It is clear that he is going to contest, except he is prevailed upon by the president himself,” a top APC chieftain who pleaded anonymity said. Just like the way the presidential ambition of Tinubu has been gaining traction, with the Governors of Kano and Borno, proclaiming his right of first refusal, Osinbajo candidacy has also been generating interest, with a growing number of support groups and coalitions under such umbrella bodies as the Progressives Consolidation Group (PCG), Businessmen For Osinbajo (BFO), the Osinbajo Grassroots Organisation, the New Tribe Nigeria (NTN) and The Progressives Project (TPP) drumming the divine mandate for an Osinbajo presidency in 2023. While Tinubu’s advocates and promoters are political bigwigs and structures that have benefited chiefly from the kingmaker, most of those clamouring and rooting for Osinbajo are mid-level politicians, activists, scholars, youths and student groups, majority of them doing so in the spirit of national interest. These bodies rooting for Osinbajo cut across different ethnic, political and religious backgrounds. They have resolved to give money bags politicians a fight for their money at the APC’s national convention billed for March 26. “It is a mass movement based on the genuineness of Nigerians who believe that this country deserves someone with the pedigree and quality of Osinbajo’s intellectual capacity, honesty, trust and the fact the he had demonstrated competency during the period he was the Acting President, Olajide Michael, one of the spokespersons of The Progressive Project (TPP), said. Before emerging as the party vice-presidential candidate in 2015, Osinbajo was an active pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), a role which was also counted for in the poll. Few days ago, the RCCG set up a department on politics and governance, which it named “Office of Directorate of Politics and Governance” to help muster support for members with political ambitions. The church, with millions of members and over 32,000 branches across the country, directed its branches to appoint a provincial officer across its levels for this new department. “You are kindly requested to appoint with immediate effect a Provincial officer for your Province and also ensure that the same is done at all levels of the Church- Zone, Area and Parish. The essence of this Directorate is to help coordinate the engagement of our people who are willing to be involved in politics as well as mobilise support for them when required. “Kindly send to the office the undersigned details of your Regional and Provinces Coordinators within the next two weeks of receiving this letter,” the church said in a memo dated February 28, 2022 and signed by the CO/AGO on Administration and Personnel, J.F Odesola. A member of the church, Timothy Olaniyan, was appointed to lead the office. While the church gave a blanket reason on why the office was set up, some members of the public, mostly social media users, attributed the move to the speculated presidential ambition of the Vice-President. Laolu Akande, spokesman to the Vice President, recently disclosed that the VP will soon officially communicate his stance on the 2023 presidential election. Akande fielded questions from State House correspondents shortly after photo sessions with the vice president who marked his 65th birthday on Tuesday March 8, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. He said that at present, Osinbajo is focused on supporting President Buhari to deliver on addressing Nigeria’s challenges. “Well, like he has said up to this time, he is committed to the work that he is elected as vice president and to support the president. “That is what he is focused on now; and like I have also said in my last tweet, whatever will be his activities or whatever he will do will be communicated officially,” he said. Akande also explained that the vice president, based on his observations in the last seven to eight years, was driven by the notion that the government and governance and leadership ought to have a heart of justice and a heart of service. “He often says in most of the meetings that we hold that the reason why we are here is because people put us here. “We are here in the interest of the people; so, he is someone that is committed to that notion of service to the people, whether in government, whether as a pastor, whether as a lawyer. “In every aspect of his life, he understands very diligently the idea that we are here to serve,’’ he said. He said further that Osinbajo had always emphasised on the need to create impact for the people. According to him, the vice president is very inspiring and worthy of leadership. “As you can see, there are many more Nigerians today that are yearning to say that this is the kind of man to follow. “So, happy birthday, vice president,’’ he said.