As the All Progressives Congress (APC) held its national convention to elect leaders of the party on Saturday, Godwin Emefiele Support Group on Saturday stormed the venue of the programme, charging President Muhammadu Buhari to pick the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as his successor. The group, while addressing newsmen at the venue of the convention, pointed out that President Buhari needs a core loyalist, who will continue from where he stops. Addressing newsmen, the Director Communications of Emefiele Support Group (ESG), Benigna Ejimba said that power rotating to the South at this time is most desirable and a panacea for several agitations and cries of marginalization across the country. “It is bearing this in mind and ensuring that the country has by May 29, 2023 a President that will continue, consolidate and expand the visions and landmark legacies of President Muhammadu Buhari that we call that the choice of the President should be a core loyalist not just verbally but in action, a professional to the core in his field of endeavour, a person whose candidature will answer perennial political questions like quenching the quest for the Igbo to be President of Nigeria and satisfying the push for the South-South to complete their one outstanding term. “It has to be a person who has been with the President and who understands where the President wants the country to be in the nearest future. “It has to be a tested and competent technocrat, a person who is detribalized, broad minded, generally acceptable and a believer in the unity and oneness of Nigeria. He must be a patriot who has been part of the success recorded and ready to sustain them. He must not be a controversial person and is very accommodating of our country’s diversities,” the group said. The group said that after rigorious search, they have concluded that the only man, who fit into the description is no other than Emefiele. ESG said: “It is after a very rigorous search that we have come to the unequivocal and emphatic conclusion that only one man fits this bill and we make bold to present to Mr. President for his endorsement and to Nigerians for their massive support to Mr. Godwin, Ifeanyichukwu Emefiele, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria for President, 2023.” POLL The ESG said that why they are drumming serious support for Emefiele is because of his personality and his track record of performance The group pointed out that history is repletef with records that when nations desired economic growth and accelerated development, they enthroned their great economists and financial experts, who helped them overcome their challenges and achieved their set national goals. Meanwhile, the Emefiele Support Group has replied the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for demanding for his resignation. The PDP had called for Emefiele’s resignation for declaring interest to contest the 2023 presidential election. The party had said that Emefiele’s posters and banners flooded the Federal Capital Territory, indicating that he’s interested to contest for presidency under the APC. Demanding for his resignation, PDP had quoted the provisions of section 9 of the CBN Act, which provides that the governor and the deputy governor shall devote the whole of service while holding office, shall not engage in any full or part-time employment or vocation, whether remunerated or not… Reacting to the PDP statement, the Emefiele Support Group, in a statement by its Director of Communications, Ejimba asked the PDP how a poster of the CBN Governor and the President amounts to a breach of the aforementioned section of the law. “Even when the CBN Governor is yet to answer the call to declare for 2023 Presidency. It is quite interesting that a mere poster is generating so much noise from the opposition. “This indeed confirms to us that we are on the right part. As members of the Emefiele Support Group, we made our choice to ask for his Presidency because, in him, we see a man who has shown passion and commitment to our country’s development. “He is a man whose dedication has led him to work both in the PDP administration and retained in the APC administration. It is now funny that the PDP is questioning his loyalty to his service of our country. “This confirms to us that the posters have put the great opposition party in the panic of defeat because they truly know that his emergence will kill their ambition to seize back power in 2023,” ESG said. The group further said that PDP was the first to “discover our fearless and dedicated Central Bank Governor, they know that true Nigerians will go to the polls to vote for the one man that has the ability to place our nation amongst wealthy and developed countries in the world. “Therefore, we will continue our call for a dedicated and committed professional, a loyal person who has been part of great achievements in our country, a tested technocrat, a patriot, and detribalized Nigerian, whose candidacy will ensure unity, peace, and stability in our nation once more. We will not be derailed by the noise but will continue until Godwin Emefiele answers the clarion call to lead our great nation.”