YENAGOA – Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Abubakar Bukola Saraki Contact and Advocacy Council has said that former Senate President Bukola Saraki has the capacity to govern Nigeria effectively. The chairman of the advocacy council, Professor Iyorwuese Hagher, stated this in Bayelsa State at a consultative meeting with the State Working Committee and local government leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the party’s secretariat in Yenagoa on Wednesday. According to him, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) had ruined the socio-economic and security well-being of the country, stressing that the party had also failed to provide the needed leadership that would have brought global respect to the nation. Hagher was accompanied by other members of the council including the secretary, Dr Ahmadu Musa; Aliyu Maigari; Senator Shaaba Lafiagi; Hassan Husseini; Olateru Lekan; Dr Cletus Akwaya; Judith Bindi; Moses Aliyu and David Itopa. He said the country was sick and Saraki, who is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, had the capacity to provide strong leadership that would rescue the nation from the woods. Hagher said, “The problem of Nigeria is clearly the lack of leadership. We do not have a leader to make the country great. But we have found one (in Bukola Saraki). “Because Saraki holds the key to make Nigeria a country of our dreams; to make Nigeria a country where all our children who are working abroad and being insulted because they are blacks; because no black leader of Nigeria’s consequence has come to be respected like (Nelson) Mandela, Ghanaian President or like we have in Rwanda. “Nigeria is lagging behind in leadership and Chief Obafemi Awolowo said it clearly: ‘a nation is considered on account of the size of its pocket and the calibre of its leaders’. We have failed to provide the calibre of leaders that the world respects until now. POLL “So, when a country like Nigeria is so sick and is in the emergency ward, it requires a Dr Saraki to come to the rescue. We beckon him wherever he is, let him come to the emergency room which Nigeria is in now.” He noted that Bayelsa would play a crucial role in the emergence of the next president of the country due to its strategic position in the party and the nation. Hagher, therefore, urged the PDP family in the state to have confidence in the ability of Saraki to lead the country effectively as he had garnered experience over the years from the executive and legislative arms of government. In his remarks, the state PDP chairman, Solomon Agwanana, said they were committed to the mission of the party’s National Working Committee to rescue and rebuild the country, adding that Saraki was part of that mission. He said, “Saraki represents all strata of our society. He is a man that has actually contributed to the sustenance of democracy. He believes in Nigeria.”