Hon. Farah Dagogo, a member of the House of Representatives from Rivers State, represents Degema/ Bonny Federal Constituency. In  this interview with journalists, he shares his thoughts on zoning of the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and political developments in his home state. Excerpts: With 2023 just around the corner, what are the chances of your party, the PDP, especially, in the presidential elections? Nigerians are counting and relying on the PDP for succour and a good direction. Nigerians have now handed over the responsibilities of bringing back hope and salvaging our better tomorrow to PDP. To our advantage in the PDP, we already have a messiah in the person of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to help navigate and steady this ship that the APC government has set on a steep course. Your state governor and other governors of the PDP, particularly from the South, are clamouring for a shift of power from the North to the South, how do you now justify your position? I have said it before and I am restating it. As at now, and as it relates to the exigencies of the behemoth of problems, Atiku is the biblical Moses with the magic wand to begin the move of taking Nigerians and Nigeria to a greater height. There is also the peculiar situation PDP as a party finds itself in. This is a battle of immense proportion. We are in the opposition and if we are desirous of taking over power, which I believe is the case; then we have to go with our best arsenal. This is not a time to be sentimental; we need our emotions to be put in check, detached. It shouldn’t be about North versus the South but about the future of Nigeria and Nigerians. It is not a matter of convenience, but the talk of zoning should be jettisoned for now. In the history of our democracy, presidential elections have always been contested by aspirants and candidates from both the South and North at the same time, be it at the primaries or general elections. In the 2015 presidential election, the calculation and timing to put forward President Buhari as a candidate of the main opposition were right and with other factors, he defeated an incumbent. In Rivers State, in that same 2015, the present Governor took advantage of the then  circumstances to become a Governor even though he was from the same Ikwerre speaking tribe as his predecessor who was governor for eight years. Despite the overflow of emotions, the Governor by next year would have completed a 16 years uninterrupted Governorship by the Ikwerre ethnic nationality. It worked eventually even though the crisis that arose from Rivers State was the genesis of our losing the centre. In all we sacrificed the presidency to get back Rivers State. The same scenario is before the party now and speaking objectively and looking at the indices and permutations, Atiku is a strong factor, a winnable option. Even my governor has said it several times that the party is determined to field the right candidate. We are all in the same boat. That’s my basis and justification for supporting the candidature of Atiku. He knows what he wants and he came prepared. In this situation however, Atiku should be very circumspect of the Judas amongst us. The same people that sabotaged and worked against his victory at the 2019 polls are still holding sway. He knows them, they are treacherous and slippery. He shouldn’t allow himself to be bitten twice. POLL What is your relationship with your State governor as your position might be at variance with his political ambition? Because you asked, I will tell you the way it is; I don’t have any personal issues with him. We might have our disagreements, but such disagreements are strictly on principles. Also, there have been lots of unfounded allegations that I am no longer a member of the PDP. How those that are peddling these lies, right from when I was at the State Assembly, sleep at night amaze me. I am an independent minded individual. Whatever ambition he has, he is free to pursue it just as I am at liberty to mine. When you are fully abreast with this, you prioritize your engagements to sync with that which will be beneficial to your people and not some jamboree procession to prove loyalty where all sorts of uncouth languages glossed with insults are dished out. People of high calibre, both in and outside the government, ridiculed and the misguided laughed at such unfortunate scenarios, I can’t be a part of such. That is not governance. Is this support for Atiku a means to shore up your support base in your state in respect of your political aspirations for 2023? In 2023, by the special grace of God, I would have completed eight years in the legislative arm of government. Four years at the State Assembly and further four at the House of Representatives. If you look at the trajectories, I always make progress by His special grace and with support of colleagues, constituents and other human elements, we made inroads on our way with legacy law makings. Having distinguished that, I will not be seeking re-election to the House of Representatives. On my next political move, I have been consulting widely. At the fullness of time, I will make my intention known, but to whet your appetite, know that I am the potential governorship candidate of the PDP for Rivers State in the 2023 elections. My support for Atiku is based on the genuine love and interest he has shown and demonstrated for the country. I have related with him and realized we shared the same vision aimed at improving and bettering lives as well as taking our economy out of its doldrums. Yes, our interests for our people aligned and on that basis, I am supporting him to bring an end to the suffering, deprivation, hunger, unemployment and other never palatable treatments being experienced by Nigerians. Don’t you consider yourself an underdog considering the list of other aspirants? If you are referencing my age, I might be the youngest. If you are talking of who is well prepared, I am at the forefront. If you want to know who has the wherewithal, support base, reach, pedigree and what have you, you have me. If the above yardsticks form your basis for an ‘underdog’, then, you have your answer. Be aware that political power in Rivers State is never given. Owing to its peculiarity, power is always taken. Like I said earlier, I could be the youngest, which counts strongly for me considering that the youths constitute over 55% of our country’s population, and I have their support. My aspiration will be a massive youth movement never witnessed in the political history of Rivers State. It is a movement that will reverberate through the Niger Delta. That time is nigh. Popularity; I’m well-loved and very popular with the people. I have the temperament to bridge the gap between the younger and older population in the state. Maximum respects and regards for our traditional institutions are assured with me at the helm.  A replica of the youth entrepreneurship development trust fund bill will get legislative backing and be implemented in the state. Industrialization will be fully cultivated with the novel STEAM Federal Polytechnic, Tombia, driving it. Employments opportunities, in an enabling environment, will be provided, payment of pensioners will be a top priority, monies for security votes will be duly allocated to the letter and above all with the quantum of mass popularity, the capacity to get the PDP ticket and eventually win the Governorship election is foreclosed.