WARRI – Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, immediate past Governor of Delta State, Ďame(Chief) Mrs Christy O. Siakpere(JP) are set to grace the 2022 Annual NUJ, Warri Correspondents Chapel’s Press Week Lecture/Award ceremony. This was disclosed by Mr. Okiemute Okpomor, Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists(NUJ), Warri Correspondents Chapel in a statement personally signed and made available to newsmen in Warri. According to the statement, the weeklong event is scheduled to hold between Saturday, March 19 and Wednesday, March 23, 2022. Okowa Celebrates Adeboye At 80 Be Wary Of Mischief Makers, Okowa Cautions Deltans Mr. Okpomor said that the event would climax on Wednesday, March 23, 2022 at the Casa de Pedro Hotel in Effurun near Warri, Delta State. Speaking on the arrangement, the chairman said that the chapel would visit Orphanages on Saturday, March 19, 2022. He said that the visitation would be closely followed by a novelty football match on Monday, March 21, 2022. Okpomor said that the theme of the event was: “2023 General Election and Security”. He added that the occasion would be chaired by Amb. Godknows Igali, former Federal Permanent Secretary and former Nigeria Ambassador to Sweden, Denmark and Norway while Dame (Chief)Mrs. Christy Siakpere would be Mother of the Day. POLL Mr. Okpomor added, “Governor Okowa will be the Special Guest of Honour while the duo of Dr. Uduaghan, immediate past Governor of Delta State and Olorogun(Barr.) Kenneth Gbagi, former Minister of State for Education will be the Guest Speakers.” The Chairman of the NUJ Warri Correspondents Chapel spoke further, “Dr. Uduaghan will speak on the topic: “2023 Elections and Roles of the Media”, while Olorogun Gbagi will deliver a lecture on “Security, Challenges Ahead of 2023 Elections and way Forward.” Mr. Okpomor further disclosed that the royal fathers of the day include: Ogiame Atuwatse 111, the Olu of Warri Kingdom, his counterpart, HRM, Dr. Emmanuel Sideso, Abe 1, the Ovie of Uvwie Kingdom. Others are HRM, Monday Whiskey, Udurhie 1, Ovie of the Idjerhe Kingdom and HRM Mathew Egbi, Owahwa 11, Okobaro of Ughievwen kingdom.