Market Review I welcome us to the last edition of our Traders and Investors’ Town Hall for the month of February. As usual, we hope to learn from one another about developments in the market and the economy in general as they affect, or would likely impact our investment expectations in the short, medium to long-run. The month of February is just a few days to go and in the history of our market over the past five years, this is the first time February could end in green, which tells a lot about the power of policy change as it affects the presentation of full-year results and unaudited Q4 earnings by listed companies as directed by the NGX Exchange Limited and approved by the Securities & Exchange and Commission (SEC). This has significantly changed the face of the market, because we have seen the unaudited accounts before the end of January. For those with 60 days to release their own audited numbers, therefore, it means that they have the first day of March as deadline to submit their results. In other words, we expect more numbers to hit the market early next week and continue into the month of March. That would be a good thing that will help this market to look up. That’s why I want us to listen very well as we discuss a lot of things today to guide our investment decisions so as to know where we are headed. I want us to discuss how we can benefit from this current market volatility and market situation generally, considering the earnings season dynamics, as well as the rallying oil price resulting from the face-off between Russia and Ukraine that is now threatening world peace, in addition to the political tension at home in Nigeria in the months leading to next year’s general elections that is full of uncertainties. In all of these, we need to ask ourselves how we can position our investment portfolios for maximum returns. Price Fixing: AON, FCCPC On Collision Course CBN Mulls Fresh Funding For Lagos Free Zone After N100bn Support But first, in the week under review, we had a mixed market of four days ending in green and one in red. I can tell you that over the last three weeks, we have seen that the market maintaining a sideways movement and consolidating. I can see that a trigger is underway to pull the market out of this region. And movement can be happens- up or down. This can come from any or a combination of the big names if their audited results beat expectations, then I see the market reacting positively and going in the up direction. If not, the market will come down, creating volatility and when the market is volatile, that is when you have high risk that creates opportunities for money-making. But in all of these, you need to apply a lot of caution by employing tools that will help you manage your risk by using the tool I call stop-loss, as well as your resistance and support levels, which are very important also, without forgetting your Fibonacci. All these are what we would use as technical tools that will help you to know where the price of a stock is going. In all, your price and index actions are very important, because that is the only way to read charts. If you read the charts in that direction, you will understand where the market is going. As we speak now, the market has side-trended so far on the daily chart… Why are the impressive numbers from Okomu and Presco not reflecting on their share price? I said earlier that the much-expected liquidity is not flowing into the market as expected and the reason is that the markets is side-trending, after the January market rally the market has been on the oscillation level. Notwithstanding, the NGX All-Share index month-to-date in February has gained about 1.5 percent, and continues to side-trend. That is why we are not seeing much, but as you noted, there is a pullback in Okomu Oil Palm, not for any other reason than the news of an attack on its plantation by hoodlums some time ago. For Presco, notice that the price moved from N87 per share to about N105 each and it has the potential to go as high as N130 each. As such, if you are in these stocks, I advise that you hold your position because both of them can be categorized as defensive stocks on the exchange that are used to hedge against market volatility. For now, the PFAs (Pension Fund Administrators) are still watching to see where they can move funds around in the market and earn good returns. Another factor to note is the payout of these companies. Presco, for example, has about N18.87 earnings per share, and even if the directors decide to retain N10 each, they can afford to pay N7.00, or even N5.00, which I believe will still move the price up. As such, there is no need to panic, if you understand that, then wait. Each stock on the exchange has its own peculiar character and time to rally, because they cannot all rally at the same time. You can see what is happening in RT Briscoe, for example. It is not happening anywhere else. For instance, what happened in Vitafoam, has now repeated itself in United Capital and is going to Fidson Healthcare. POLL All these stocks have their time to move. If you have this at the back of your mind, you will not be worried when your stock has not moved, only be patient. After you have done your technical analysis and then fundamental, the next thing that is very important is patience, because oftentimes, as soon as you jump out of that stock, it starts rallying the very next day, then regrets sets in. Be patient, as long as those things that attracted you to that position are still very much intact. However, if you notice that they have started disappearing, your next move is to run. That is why you have your stop loss to guide you as a trader. For investors, you may have taken a long-term position, it is the same thing. Hold your position, as long as those things that attracted you to that stock are still intact, because every investment is against expectation and when those expectations come, they will move your price up, but when those are not being met, run away from that position. What was the release date for Ecobank Transnational over the past two years? A look at the chart tells the story. However, Ecobank Transnational has not been consistent with the release of its financials, but thank God for the new rule of the NGX Exchange, ETI will not escape the March 31 deadline, no wonder the board quickly complied with the first rule about releasing unaudited fourth-quarter results. From available data, ETI publishes its full-year results before March 31, which means we are in order. The 2020 result was released between March 23rd and 28th, following which it is safe to say we expect the result for last year before March 31, 2022, as it has been over the past few years. Is there any update on Honeywell Flour Acquisition? You would have noticed some volatility in Honeywell Flour Mills’ price, which is a signal that the factors that took the company to its current level are still very much intact, which is to say if you are buying now, no problem. And if it is the case of that you have met your price target and want to exit now, fine no problem also. Note that the merger and related discussions between both Honeywell and Flour Mills of Nigeria are ongoing, and as such, investors are waiting for the outcome. But, if you know that you have made profit, do well to exit. If you plan to enter now ahead of more news as regards the merger, things will become clearer about the situation of things. But remember, every investment is against an expectation. If you are entering Honeywell Flour now, be certain of why you are entering from this onset, and if the reasons why you entered are still intact, nothing stops you from holding your position. I know of some of us in this town hall that bought Honeywell at N1.62 or N1.70, if you decide to sell, you would have made over 100 percent and are good to go, while those who entered at N4.00 or more, may have to wait, but nothing stops from taking profit from a stock that you have made money. Seplat, Exxonmobil Deal Positive For Economy – Mackenzie FIWON, NUPABTW, PEDPAN Amalgamate Towards Recognition, Adequate… What does it mean for Union Bank to hold our stake in its UK Arm in Trust? The board of Union Bank of Nigeria recently announced plans for an extra-ordinary general meeting. The reason is that it is a public limited liability and the directors need the approval of the shareholders to sell the bank’s UK business (UBN UK Limited). Now, after selling, is the board going to share the proceeds with shareholders? Investors are also eagerly awaiting information about what the plan of Titan Bank Limited, the new investors with 89 percent stake in Union Bank is. These are information that will enhance the share price of the bank, going forward. Until there is greater clarity, if you are in Union Bank, hold your position, because news that will come from there between now and March 31, could be capable of changing the dynamics and the face of the stock. I tell you, what will trigger the positive news in Union Bank is there already, except for those who have met their investment goals and objective. If you hit your profit target, exit and move elsewhere. Don’t say because Mr. A is waiting, so you will wait Are you privy to the company Learn Africa is considering a merger with? I also saw that publication about plans to go into a merger and undertake a rights issue (a primary market activity), which is good. For those in that industry, you can see what happened to the price of Academy Press. From as low as 30 kobo, you can see the price at about N1.00 now. We have seen the movement from the share price of University Press in that direction. I remember that a participant on this platform drew our attention to the company’s performance, especially the cash-flow. Before long, we saw the price rally to almost N2.94 each, before coming down. Now, we are seeing some movements from others in that industry. We know that those companies have seasonal sales most times. We note also that today, books are going online, so I don’t know how the company’s operations are dealing with this reality, unless these are going online just as the schools. I presume that people now read less of physical books, except for the new academic sessions. They supply approved textbooks to the schools which are then sold to the pupils or children by the schools, which will also reflect on their numbers depending on the volume. The year-end of Learn Africa is March, but it is in September when the new academic session begins that there is increased activity. I do not have information about which company Learn Africa hopes to merge with, but then, let your investment goals guide you and also, understand the business behind their numbers. Transcorp is now N1.24 each, for us who bought at N1.36, there has been no growth, should we wait? I will advise that you wait. Don’t forget that like Seplat and Oando, Transcorp is also into oil exploration and has oil blocs too. For as long as this oil price rally continues in the aftermath of the Russian-Ukraine face-off, it will continue to impact on the top and bottom-lines of these companies. So, since it also has oil blocs, the company is not relying only on the utility business (power generation) as cash-cow, but also on its oil business. Trancorp is one stock that this global crisis will have indirect impact on, which is why it is a stock to hold, going into the future. We expect the impact of the company’s business in the oil sector to begin to show in its numbers soon, a situation that may affect the price positively. Note that there is a trend in the market now that I am waiting to confirm with the other numbers. Check those companies that have released their numbers, they have all grown their payout because their numbers are also looking better. If that holds constant, therefore, I don’t see Transcorp also paying one kobo as it has been doing for some time now, unless the directors do not want the price to go up and investment to appreciate beyond current levels. For me, Transcorp is a good stock, as such, if you are there and looking at this N1.24 per share, even if you are buying at N1.40 and the result comes with growth in numbers, with payout rising to about five kobo… even when this is small, but because it represents an increase from one kobo to four or five kobo in payout, it is an indication that the stock is moving somewhere. You know also that Transcorp has businesses that generate revenue, only that the company does not have cash at its disposal (recall that Transcorp Power generates electricity that is not immediately paid for by the government). I believe this is a stock to hold. If you are not in now and desire to jump in for medium and long-term, nothing stops you. But for those that are traders, don’t be greedy, if you are buying don’t be greedy, at this price of N1.40 or N1.45… the possibility of that stock touching N1.50 is high, depending on the result and also the liquidity that comes into the market, especially as we enter into the peak of the earnings season toward the end of March. We can see the rate for the 364-day Treasury Bills going south, same as the 91-day bill, a situation that may trigger an inflow to the equity space in search of better returns. Equally important is the fact that if there is a continuation of hostilities between Russia and Ukraine, investors may be considering moving their funds and looking the way of other emerging markets, some of these may also flow into the Nigerian market for higher yields. Therefore, let’s keep our fingers crossed during this earnings season and going into the future, we may see a better trend. Don’t forget that it is a volatile market, and there are high risks associated with volatile markets, which is why you must guard yourself with your stop-loss because your price action will give you direction as to where the stock or even the market is going, so that you can know at what point to cut your loss and move to other stocks. Once you know all these, you are able to stay ahead of the market, but when you don’t, the market will push you front and back, up and down, which is not good for you as a trader or an investor. Can I still expect something good from Eterna Plc? The latest numbers from Eterna Plc was more or less a deflator to the stock. It was not impressive, but I believe a rally in the industry will pull its price up ultimately. But, if the price has hit your stop-loss, this is not to discourage you from taking action. I only see that a rally in that industry will drag the stock along. Also don’t forget that the holding structure of that company has changed with its recent share split which has affects earning capacity. True, there might be some movement in the stock, but if it is on the strength of the numbers, just exercise some patience for now. What are your take on Stanbic IBTC Holdings and Caverton Offshore? The unaudited numbers of Caverton Offshore released recently was not particularly okay, that is why the price fell from N1.76 to N1.49 per share and it is trying to build a support level around that N1.42 and N1.49 each. From what has been said about the market for its chartered flight operations especially as the election years gears up, if the Q1 numbers show an improvement in top and bottom-lines, it will change the fortune of the stock. The good thing is that if you are a technician, once you start seeing a stock trying to stabilize around a strong support level, any trigger by way of information will make it go up, which is why you must study the momentum behind the stock, so that you know the right time to jump in. But if you have stabilized at that price and you need to bring down your unit price, then you can buy before the market starts looking the way of that stock. That is how to trade. Also important, is the fact that it is not only during the political season that the company’s business thrives. I know that Caverton Offshore is heavy in the oil and gas industry, moving the personnel to their bases. However, while the numbers from Caverton was faced a different direction from what we saw in NAHCO and SAHCOL, if we are now seeing patronage from the politicians at this time, that is good as it would boost the company’s numbers at the end of the day. That is why I always advice that you know the business behind any figure you are seeing from the market, because if you understand how a company operates, it gives you an insight into what is likely to happen. If the political angle is anything to go by, we may see improvements in the Q1 numbers and go into the year since this is an electioneering period. You need to begin to analyse which companies would likely benefit from the electioneering activities. The market has priced Stanbic IBTC to where it is today because of the bad Q3 numbers presented by the directors, following which the share price dropped as low as N32 per share. It is the shareholding structure of the company that does not allow it go below a particular threshold, because the free-float is very limited. Equally important is the fact that the small share in issue has also supported the high payout by Stanbic IBTC over the years. Its earnings per share dropped from N7.00 to N4.00, and as such payment of N3.00 or N3.50 can still trigger an upward movement in the price, due to the foreign investor (Standard Bank Group of South Africa, its parent company with 64 to 68 percent stake). PARTICIPANT I: The political patronage of Caverton Helicopters alone is not a factor strong enough to impact its numbers. The major customers of the company are the IOCs (International Oil Companies), but unfortunately, they have not started operating fully to the extent that they will fly their personnel to the different platforms, besides the fact that they have reduced the number of aircrafts in use. But the good thing is that they acquired certification for full flight simulation in October last year. So, the company is now licenced to train helicopter pilots across Africa and Europe, which will boost its earnings. One thing I observed about Caverton is that something last year, some of the directors sold off their shares and I think we need to take note of this in case of any other stock, because immediately they finished selling off their shares the price started going down. This means that they saw what was to come, so they started offloading. AIICO Insurance ceded its PFA business to Stanbic IBTC, what is the fate of investors? For insurance companies, the pension fund administration business impacts their bottom-line, as such, if AIICO Insurance is now selling its own, it will, without doubt, weaken its earnings backbone. Also, AIICO has given bonuses to enlarge its shares in issue, thereby watering down its earnings capacity. With these in mind, you can start selling down your holdings in AIICO gradually to protect your capital, so that you can take advantage of other opportunities in the market. At the second quarterly Master class scheduled for April 2, we would focus on the insurance sector, just as we would be guiding investors on what to do in terms of their long to medium-term investments. The sector is however not just about the bad and ugly, because some of them have potential. We saw what happened in AXA Mansard Insurance after its share reconstruction, just like NEM. At the Master Class, we shall discuss the right time to buy these stocks. Which of GTCO and ETI holds better prospects for investors? Guaranty Trust Company and Ecobank Transnational Incorporated have different value propositions. They have different sentiments and market perceptions. We see prospects in ETI because its earnings have improved and we see that continuing into the future. But for GTCO, there was a slowdown in its share price due to perception and the numbers that emanated from the group. At the rate it is going, we may not see a breakdown due to fantastic numbers. But the company has adopted a holding company structure, which would change the face of the group in the future. If ETI is able to pay ddividendsat the end of the 2021 financial year, it will change the face of the stock, even as its share in issue is also very small. For me, therefore, both stocks are good, depending on your investment objective.