LAGOS – Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Prof. Toyin Ogundipe, has congratulated Nigerian students for the exceptional qualities they exhibit wherever they find themselves globally, especially in the area of sporting activities. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the 26th Nigeria University Games Association (NUGA), hosted by the University of Lagos (UNILAG), on Saturday, Prof. Ogundipe said: “Apart from the negative report about Nigeria, we have been able to prove to the world that Nigerian students are the best. Wherever they go in the world, they are always the best.” While thanking ASUU for celebrating the students despite the crisis between the lecturers and the Federal Government, the UNILAG VC said: “We are determined to do anything that will make the world better.” While describing the 2022 NUGA Games “like the head of an elephant, which a baby cannot carry,” Prof. Ogundipe added: “This NUGA Games is the best so far. Somebody called it NUGALYMPICS, comparing it with the Olympic standard. So you can see that this is a world-class event that we have put together and have been able to showcase to the world.” As regards sustaining the facilities the university has put on ground, the UNILAG VC said: “After NUGA, we are going to make sure that the facilities are properly managed and will not be handled by people that will run it down; it will be something that when you come back in five years’ time, you will be proud of UNILAG, having a facility like this and maintaining it. We are going to give it to a manager to manage it.” Saying that UNILAG remains the first choice university, Prof Ogundipe added that the institution has brought in so many innovations to the NUGA Games. The UNILAG VC handed over the trophies and medals, donated by an alumnus of the UNILAG, Odofin Ogunsanya, to the deserving schools. University of Port Harcourt took the first position; second position went to UNILAG, while NILE University, Abuja, came third in the 2022 NUGA Games competition. Benson Idahosa University received award for the best behaved university in the athletic competition. POLL Prof. Ogundipe handed over the NUGA flag to the NUGA president , who in turn, gave it to Vice Chancellor of the University of Jos (UNIJOS), Prof. Tanko Ishaya, as it is turn of the university to host the 2024 NUGA Games, which is the 27th edition. Expressing gladness while receiving the NUGA flag, Prof. Ishaya said: “We must work harder as any school taking over from UNILAG will face a great challenge. We must upgrade UNIJOS sports facilities to meet the standard.” He added that Plateau State governor is solidly behind the school. On his message for other aspirants, he advised that they should “come and learn from UNILAG and we are ready to consult for them.” UNILAG came second because of the performance in swimming, he said, promising that with the swimming pool, the school will perform better next time. Speaking on NUGA to be upgraded to institutional sports, Prof. Ogundipe said: “We have something like that in UNILAG. Wednesday is our sports day and we are going to make sure that we return to those days we normally have our sports. “We will make it compulsory for our students to be involved in the sporting activities and we will make our lecturers know that there is a need for them to allow our students engage themselves in the sporting activities.”