UYO – Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has advised the newly sworn-in Commissioners in his Executive Council to bring in tangible values to enable his administration land well and safely. Recall that Governor Emmanuel had recently relieved six members of his executive council who have political ambition to enable them pursue their dreams The Governor had also forwarded a list of six nominees who were yesterday screened and cleared by the State House of Assembly. Speaking shortly after administering oath of office to the new Commissioners in Uyo on Friday, Governor Emmanuel said the six joined his team at a very critical moment when his administration is having much to deliver to Akwa Ibom people He charged his new team members to imitate Jesus disciples by putting the interest of Akwa Ibom people ahead of personal interests. “This is another call to duty. From your CV, it is obvious that you are combat ready. Give preference to Akwa Ibom people. do not place your personal interest above the interest of the people. You are coming at a time we have much to deliver. Bring your very best to make sure we land well and safely,” he said. Speaking on the need for political aspirants to remain peaceful during the electioneering, Governor Emmanuel reasoned that any whose intention is to render service to the people would not approach such aspiration with violence. He therefore cautioned that no individual’s ambition is worth more than the peace of over 700million Akwa Ibom people. “Let us play politics with understanding and fear of God. Whoever is opting to serve would never do so through violence, bloodshed and fetish oath. “We have total zero tolerance for violence. Trying to pull another man down does not qualify you. we can do it more cleaner and peaceful than ever before. Let us know that the ambition of one man is nothing compared to the peace of over 700 million Akwa Ibom people,” he cautioned. POLL The six new Exco members sworn in and their LGAs include; Dr. Bassey B. Okon – Itu, Offiong S. Offoh – Ini, Enefiok Isaac – Ikot Ekpene, Iniobong Ekong – Nsit Ubium, Bob Emem – Onna and Engr. Camillus Essien Umoh – Essien Udim