Lagos – Nine years after construction began on the new terminal at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, President Muhammadu Buhari will today commission the new terminal. Construction commenced on the terminal by the Chinese construction company, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), in 2013 with a completion period fixed for 20 months, but the terminal suffered several hiccups during its construction. At a stage, the terminal was abandoned by the contractor due to paucity of funds, which was later resolved by the government. A statement by Mrs. Faithful Hope-Ivbaze, the Ag. General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), said that the terminal was one of five, being built in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano and Enugu, in a bilateral arrangement between the Federal Government and the People’s Republic of China. She hinted that the ones in Abuja and Port Harcourt had been completed and commissioned already, while that of Kano has been completed and would soon be commissioned by the government. Hope-Ivbaze also said that FAAN would sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Lagos State government on the 9km Airport-Shasha- Alimosho Link Road to be constructed by the state government. According to Hope-Ivbaze, the new Lagos international terminal has the capacity to process 14 million passengers per annum and built on a land mass of approximately 56,000 square metres with 66 check-in counters. Other facilities in the terminal include five baggage collection carousels, 16 Immigration desks at arrival, 28 Immigration desks at departure, eight security screening points, six passenger boarding bridges (out of which two have already been installed), two food courts, four premium lounges and 22 guest rooms and spa. Other facilities are 16 airline ticketing offices, visa on arrival and port health facility, as well as praying area, more than 3,000 square metres of duty free space and approximately 5,000 square metres of lettable utility space. POLL She stated that the new terminal is expected to generate about 3,000 direct and indirect employment for Nigerians, as well as enhance passenger facilitation and comfort at the Lagos airport. CCECC had commenced construction of four new terminals at Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt airports in 2013 with completion period fixed for 20 months. Its president, Yuan Li, had told the government during the visit of the Nigeria’s high-powered delegation to the country that the quality of the work to be done at the airports would be of the highest international standard comparable to similar projects executed by the company in other parts of the world. The Nigerian government had secured $500 million loan deal from the Exim Bank of China for the projects, while additional counterpart funding of $100 million was added by the Nigerian government. The National Assembly had in July last year raised the alarm over the abandonment of the new terminal in Lagos, despite the project reaching over 90 percent completion stage. Speaking during the unscheduled visit to the facility at the Lagos airport, Sen. Smart Adeyemi feared that the project may have been abandoned by the government. Adeyemi who was in the company of Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, the Chairman of the House Committee on Aviation was taken round the facility by Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director of FAAN and Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba, the Terminal Manager, South East, FAAN.