Abuja – Former vice president and presidential hopeful for the 2023 election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has said that the coming 2023 election is a choice between two paths: the path of unity and progress or the path of division and backwardness. Atiku, who is declaring for presidency for the sixth time, said that the ruling party wants to divide the nation along political, ethnic, and religious lines. Recall that the first attempt of Atiku to contest for president was alongside the late MKO Abiola in 1993 on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). In 2007, he emerged the candidate of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). In 2010, he contested for the PDP ticket against Goodluck Jonathan; in 2014, he also contested the ticket on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), where he lost at the primary to President Muhammadu Buhari. Atiku, who in 2019, was the candidate of the PDP, but eventually lost the election to the APC candidate, President Buhari, listed areas of his priority and focus when he emerges as president in 2023 to include security, economic improvement, devolution of power and resources to the federating units, among others. Atiku said: “The 2023 election is not just like the usual elections; it is a referendum to decide whether we want greatness or continuous destruction. It is a choice between two paths: the path of unity and progress or the path of division and backwardness. “As the election is fast approaching, we should not be distracted from the devastating conditions we are in now. The ruling party wants to divide us; they want to divide us along the political, ethnic, and religious lines so that we forget to blame them for the rising inflation.” POLL Speaking of his plan when elected, Atiku, whose declaration witnessed a mammoth crowd at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, said, “Under my presidency, I want to focus on five key areas: unity of Nigeria, security, economy, education and devolving more resources and powers to the federating units. “Since the civil war, the unity of Nigeria has never been threatened as it is today. Nigerians are losing hope in the oneness of this country. My fellow Nigerians, I am the unifier that is coming to bond the broken union. “We will open doors for dialogue to hear the grieving voices of all Nigerians. Under my presidency, there will be a new Nigeria, where everybody has an equal voice and is heard. “Throughout my life, I have never looked at Nigerians as divided people. In my eyes, all Nigerians are the same. When I see you, I don’t see Yoruba or Hausa or Igbo or Fulani or a Northerner or Southerner; when I see you, I only see a Nigerian, and I expect the best from you. “All Nigerians are equal and should be seen and treated equally. There is no unity without justice and fairness. That is why I will deliver leadership of justice and fairness.” Atiku who charged Nigerians to work to strengthen unity in the country, noted that it is the role of government to work very hard and promote it. On security, the former vice president lamented that the APC administration has failed in its fundamental responsibility of protecting the lives and properties of Nigerians. “The most significant human right is the right to life, which has not been protected under the APC administration. “Our military forces are fighting on the front lines without equipment and morale. That is not fair. If we get into power, we will increase the welfare of all security forces. We will use modern technology and intelligence to combat insecurity. We will also increase the number of personnel for our security agencies. “Why security? Because national security is the first sign of a functional government, and where it does not exist, we must not blame those who threaten it. We can only blame a government that allows it to be threatened. And if I am elected as your president, insecurity is one thing I will not tolerate,” he said. On economy, Atiku said, “All the macro-economic indicators are not favorable under the APC administration. APC inherited single-digit inflation; they now increased it to about 16%. When APC came into power, unemployment was around 9%; now, unemployment is more than 33%. “The exchange rate was N197 to a dollar in 2015, but in the hand of APC, naira suffered the worst devaluation ever. As we speak, the exchange rate is more than N400 to a dollar, the official rate. “That was not the change we wanted. If we get elected, we will create alternative sources of foreign exchange supply to Nigeria and reduce importation to increase the value of the naira. “They said we should go back to the farmlands. How can you ask people to go to the farms while you have not secured the farms? People cannot go back to the farm because they are afraid, they could be kidnapped or killed. “Under my leadership, we will ensure absolute security because that is the number one condition for economic prosperity. We will provide access to mechanised farming systems and develop the agricultural value chain. We must diversify our foreign exchange sources through exports of processed agricultural products. “When APC came into power, Nigeria’s debt was N12 trillion, and now they increased it to N32 trillion. They still want to borrow more. Under my leadership, we will reduce government borrowing. Too much borrowing comes at the detriment of future growth. “We will operate a liberal economy that allows small businesses to grow through lower taxes and charges for small businesses and low-income earners. We will encourage the expansion of the private sector to spur economic growth.” Atiku, who added that he knows how to create jobs, said that if he can manage his businesses that employed thousands of people, he can manage the nation’s economy well. The former vice president, who said that education should be given free to every Nigerian, at least up to the secondary school level, added that his attention will also be focused on health care, electricity, refineries and also that he will deliver inclusive governance.