ENUGU  – The raging battle for who becomes the next occupant of the Enugu State Government House after Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, next year, continues to gather momentum, amid political intrigues, as some stakeholders warn against scuttling a zoning arrangement they say has existed in the state since the onset of the Fourth Republic in 1999. There are, however, those who swear that there was never a zoning deal, describing the proponents of such as “selfish persons seeking relevance”. Zoning proponents insist that it cannot be jettisoned to avoid a situation where a particular zone dominates the political sphere perpetually at the expense of others in the name of electing the best-suited candidate. Those who know recall that the gentleman’s agreement began in 1999 when the incumbent Senator representing the Enugu East zone, Chimaroke Nnamani, became governor (1999-2007). At that time, they admit, did not emerge through zoning, but the will of the people, handing over office to the then Governor Sullivan Chime from Enugu West, who was replaced by the incumbent, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi from the Northern zone. Barely one year to the general elections, those who want zoning jettisoned argue that since every zone has tasted the office, say it is time to allow the best man emerge, by beginning the experiment from anywhere this time around. Those who want the rotation to begin again from where it started 23 years ago- Enugu East, will hear none of that. Six Aspirants At the last count, there are over six aspirants from across the zones angling to succeed Ugwuanyi in 2023, some of who have indicated interest, while others may still be consulting or watching for the body language of the powers that be, or where the power pendulum would swing. Among those believed to be eyeing the top job, are former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekewremadu, currently representing Enugu West in the red chamber; incumbent Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Edward Uchenna Ubosi, from Enugu East; Frank Nweke (Junior), former Chief of Staff to Governor Chimaroke Nnamani, and later Minister of Information, also from Enugu East; as well as Chief Chinyeaka Ohaa, Former Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Permanent Secretary; and Senator Gilbert Emeka Nnaji, former Senator represented Enugu East. Among the six, only Ekweremadu and Nnaji has formally declared their interest in the job, with the former DSP who was the first aspirant to declare his intention has kicked against the agreement saying there is nothing of such by the people’s Democratic party (PDP). The former DSP whose supporters insist he remains the best candidate for Government House next year, given his wealth of experience and leadership qualities, displayed in all of his years at the senate and, especially when he was number two man at the hallowed chamber. Such experience, they believe, should not be traded on the altar of a zoning arrangement, a situation which has generated controversy since Ekwerenmadu declared for the top job. POLL Show Your Proof Ekweremadu, while announcing his intention to run for the Enugu State governorship race during a media chat, challenged proponents of zoning to show evidence where any such meeting was held, or document signed. But those who insist there was an arrangement are willing to swear that he was a signatory to the deal. An insistent former DSP told the press conference: “There is no zoning in Enugu State. I was the campaign manager of the former Governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnamani in Enugu in 1999, and no one ever met with any leader to discuss zoning to make Chimaroke the governor. Former Governor Chimaroke Nnamani was never a product of zoning. No one made Chimaroke a governor… no discussion on zoning took place anywhere. Then eight years later, Chimaroke called that he was going to present Sulivan Chime. And that’s how Chime became the governor from Enugu West without any zoning discussion, and eight years down the line, there was a heightened agitation for Adada State, and those of us who believed in equity supported the decision for the governor to emerge from Enugu North. And that led to the emergence of the present Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. So, there was no discussion of any zoning arrangement. “In Enugu State, we have the Nsukka people, Nkanu people, Udi people, and Agwu people. So, if we’ve had any discussion then, this would have factored out these cultural zones, and there is none and you know which of these zones have not produced the governor. “I believe that it is in the interest of Enugu State to ensure that every part will have access to the governorship of the state and that has essentially happened. So, if there is going to be any discussion on zoning and the way forward, I believe that the leaders of Enugu will be happy to have that kind of conversation. But before now, he never took place and I challenge any person who said there was zoning to tell us at what point… in whose house and, who and who was there. “Some people have also accused me that I was product of zoning but I was never a product of zoning, both at the Senate and my senatorial district, if there was zoning, I won’t be in the senate for five (consecutive) times. My people had been very kind to me, and that’s why they gave me this opportunity. “I have always believed that while we are balancing equity and justice, we must ensure that there is the content of capacity and ambiguity because that’s the only thing that can take us to the promised land. “So, in summary, nobody ever sat down to talk about zoning in Enugu State. It’s on record that every part of Enugu state has witnessed (the) governorship, except the people of Agwu, and now it’s our turn,” he says unapologetically. When Kinsmen Counter One Another Countering Ekweremadu and others who deny the existence of an agreement, Godwin Ogenyi, a former Commissioner for Human Capital Development and Poverty Reduction in the state, recalls that there was, indeed, there was a deal on rotation of the governorship seat among the three zones, to which he links the peace and unity enjoyed in Enugu today. It is not right, he says, “to disrupt the peace we are enjoying in Enugu state because, we have had peace in Enugu like no other state is. The pattern of zoning has been respected by everybody. “This gentleman arrangement started with Enugu East Senatorial Zone, when Chimaroke Nnamani, became governor in 1999, served for eight years; and handed over to Sullivan Chime who hailed from Enugu West and after eight years, Chime handed over to Ugwuanyi. And so, Ugwuanyi will have to rotate the slot back to Enugu East where it started,” he stressed. Meanwhile, some PDP chieftains from Enugu West, Ekweremadu’s Senatorial district, have disagreed with him, insisting that there is such arrangement, insisting that contrary to what he wants the world to believe, the federal lawmaker was among those who penned the document. They consider it quite unfortunate that he could resort to telling lies on the touchy issue, simply because he is nursing an ambition. A PDP chieftain, Senator Prince Ben Collins Ndu, accompanied by other party leaders from Enugu West zone, maintained that Ekweremadu is being economical with the truth on the issue. The motion for the zoning and rotation of the office, Ndu reminded the naysayers, was moved at the time by former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Chief Dubem Onyia, and seconded by himself after an amendment by a former State PDP chairman, Barr Charles Egumgbe. Continuing, he said: “The motion was adopted and signed by more than 50 participants that included, among others, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, Rt. Hon. Eugene Odo, Engr. Vitta Abba. “I wonder why my brother and friend, Senator Ike Ekweremadu who was physically present in the caucus meeting, and who is a Christian, last Saturday on Solid FM (a radio station), during Lenten period, told a big lie that there is no zoning in Enugu State. “For record purposes and to avoid any benefit of doubt, there is written zoning and rotation of governorship position in Enugu State,” he added. Accepting the challenge to show the signed document, Ndu displayed a document showing the resolutions at the said 2013 meeting and the signatories, calling on “all peace loving citizens of Enugu West Senatorial zone, and indeed, Enugu State to disregard these lies perpetrated by my brother and friend, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, since the zoning and rotation of governorship seat and other positions in Enugu State have brought enormous peace and progress in the State. “I urge my brother and Senator, Ike Ekweremadu to maintain his 2013 commitment in support of a rotational zoning arrangement so as to ensure continuous peace in our dear State,” he said. Economical With The Truth Also in the race is Senator Nnaji who began his career in politics as chairman of Enugu East Local Government from 1997 to 1998, after which he was re-elected from 1999 to 2002. He contested and won the House of Representatives seat in 2003, and was in the red chambers for two terms, before moving to the Senate. Nnaji, who declared his ambition to contest for the gubernatorial race two days after Ekweremadu’s said his aspiration is favoured by zoning. Apparently irked by Ekwerenmadu’s “I know there is zoning in Enugu State because I was there at the State caucus meeting in 2013. We, as NASS members, were all there.” It will, therefore, be a grave injustice, he stressed, not to allow someone from Nike to occupy the Government House in 2023 because it is the turn of Enugu East. Even within the zone, he argues further, there are three Federal Constituencies, of which only Isi-Uzo Federal Constituency has not occupied the coveted office. There is the Divine side, he continues, because “when you also come to Enugu East/Isi-Uzo Federal Constituency, Nike is the first in terms of seniority. So, it’s our turn and God is with us on this project.” Mere Elite Conspiracy But a pressure group- Enugu Rescue Group, while faulting Nnamani’s support for the arrangement, insisted that there was never a time the people of Enugu State zoned their governorship to any area, reminding those who believe otherwise to remember that forgery is a serious offence under Nigerian laws. Like Ekweremadu, they insist such document never existed, describing the purported agreement as fictitious and elite conspiracy being bandied only to grab power and deny Enugu people of quality governance. According to its National Coordinator, Hon. Ejike Iloh, “we make bold to say that by verifiable records on the contests for the governorship of Enugu State since 1998/1999, there is nothing like zoning principle in the state. Power has gone round the three geopolitical zones, but not based on any predefined zoning principle, as Nnamani seeks to sell to unsuspecting Nigerians. In a barrage of questions, the group wondered: “Where was the purported zoning principle when (Nnamani) himself from Enugu East was sponsored by Senator Jim Nwobodo to snatch the gubernatorial ticket of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from Chief Nduka Agu from Enugu West, who was sponsored by another former governor, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo in an epic battle in 1998? “Where was zoning when Nnamani contested against Chief Gbazuagu Nweke Gbazuagu of the All Peoples Party (APP), who hails from Enugu West, in the main election in 1999? “Where was zoning during the highly volatile 2003 governorship election that became a straight fight between Nnamani from Enugu East and Ambassador Fidel Ayogu of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), who hails from Enugu North?” The group said since the governorship had gone round the three senatorial zones, this is the time to be interested in the emergence of the best hands for the job in 2023, not minding who he, or she is, or where such candidate comes from. There Was A Deal But… Also, a political pressure group in the state, Equity and Integrity Assembly (EIA) cautions Enugu politicians against causing unnecessary tension in the State over the zoning of the governorship position. The coordinator of EIS and former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Gary Eneh said it had initiated a third force movement to restore peace, order and a germane political climate ahead of the 2023 political campaign. He said “the objective of the Assembly is to reach out to the people, including political party stakeholders and the general public on the danger of truncating the conventional or traditional formula of electing the State governor, which has had positive and salutary results so far. “We cannot stop talking about Zoning in Enugu state due to the level of political development in my dear state, we are looking for a situation that will accommodate everybody.” Also carpeting the former DSP, Eneh expressed disgust “that a supposed Leader like Ekweremadu could lie because of his ambition, on the issue of zoning in Enugu state,” recalling that Rt. Hon Dubem Onyia had in a full PDP caucus meeting moved a motion for zoning when Governor Chime was governor. He confirmed that “Senator Ekweremadu was at the meeting. The motion was that the governorship of Enugu State should be by zoning. At this point, Enugu West was in the saddle as governor. Before then Enugu East had finished as governor by H.E. Chimaroke Nnamani. “The caucus decision was that the next governor should go to Enugu North after which the zoning will start from Enugu East,” adding that after Senator Collins Ndu seconded that motion, it was put to vote and even Senator Ekweremadu voted. “I was there as a member of the state caucus and still one. H.E Okwy Nwodo confirmed the position among other elder statesmen. The former governor Chime equally confirmed the position. Our worry as a group is that someone who has benefited more than any other person wants to bring crisis and bloodshed into Enugu politics. We as elders will stand against that. “Enugu state has been a centre of peace, not only in Enugu State, but the whole of Nigeria. We must thank the executive governor of Enugu state who has been managing all manner of abuse he is getting from agents of confusion. We therefore advice Senator Ekweremadu to let reason prevail. Let him wait for the turn of Enugu West”. An Anointed? The former Information Minister, another product of the Ebeano political dynasty which has, so far, produced two governors after Nnamani, may well enjoy political Favour to occupy the Lion Building next year. Although, he too is yet to declare his interest, amid a strong rumour at he may have been “anointed” by the powers that be to replace the incumbent. Those who think so easily point to Nweke’s close relationship to prominent power brokers in the state. There is also the rumour that Ohaa is being penciled down by some prominent politicians in the state to occupy Lion building in 2023 as the zoning agreement might swing in his favour, since he hails from Enugu East, which some link to the recent visit by former governor of old Anambra State, Senator Jim Nwobodo, accompanied by his wife, Pat, children and political associates, to Ohaa’s Enugu residence. Nwobodo prayed that God assists Ohaa to realise his ambition in 2023 election,s saying “it was God that gives power, and that nobody can do the contrary if it is the wish of God that Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa becomes the governor of Enugu state in 2023.” The Nkanu Factor Another aspirant that is yet to declare his interest, but who analysts say could be interested, given his body language, is Ubosi, who has been at the state assembly since 2015 in the present administration of Governor Ugwuanyi. His likely major challenge, Sunday Independent learnt, is his place of origin, a town called Isi Uzo, which though is in Enugu East, is hardly seen as such, because of its proximity to Nsukka, the university town. Aware of this seaming impediment to his aspiration, the Speaker is reported as saying at a political rally that “it’s our turn to become governor in 2023, and anybody, or zone that tries to stop us will be butchered.” He boasted that Nkanu land had produced prominent politicians, including the former governor of old Anambra, Senator Jim Nwobodo; former governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnamani; former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, as well as Nweke, the former Information Minister, among others. A PDP Thing Chukwunonso Daniel Ogbe, Chairman of the African People’s Alliance (APA) insists that the zoning arrangement is borne out of selfish interest, because “what we need in Enugu State is not zoning but a visionary leader that’s is capable of alleviating the suffering of the people. “As we all know, zoning is being respected only in PDP, because other political parties are not part of it. We have capable leaders in every zone. So, why the clamour for a particular zone to occupy the Government House again? People talking about zoning are selfish leaders coming to embezzle our commonwealth. Why talk about zoning when people are hungry. Nigerians can’t listen to this zoning because they are living in abject poverty “I want to enjoin all political parties to kick against zoning and let’s support a visionary leader. PDP succeeded in the zoning arrangement in the past because we had no viable opposition. But, as it stands now, we are ready to chase PDP away come 2023,” he stressed. Choosing A Successor Meanwhile, Senator Nnamani, says outgoing governors have the power to choose who succeeds them and that Governor Ugwuanyi’s case should not be different ahead of the 2023 election. The governor, he explains, is the leader who directs the affairs of a political party, and should therefore have a say in who succeeds him without compromising the electoral processes. “I have absolute loyalty and respect for my governor who is also the leader of the Ebeano political family. He has demonstrated capacity and leadership. We are waiting for him to lead the way to go in 2023 and we shall follow,” he stressed. Options Before Ekweremadu With so much uncertainty across the political space in the state, it is clear that a lot of factors will come into play as determinants of who replaces Governor Ugwuanyi, but what is not in doubt is that there will be a lot of horse-trading and compromises in the days ahead, just as the incumbent remains a factor. As the zoning argument continues, some analysts say that the chance of Ekweremadu getting the PDP guber ticket, could be a miracle, because, according to those who know, the big wigs in the party support zoning the seat to Enugu East, including his kinsmen. Ekweremadu’s only hope of succeeding in his ambition, as it stands is to decamp from the party that has always been his fortress, and run under an opposition party to test his popularity. This does not guarantee success since the opposition has never governed Enugu State since 1999. Those close to the power game in Enugu say the former DSP would only continue his aspiration if he is sure mother luck could perhaps smile on him, and his aspiration enjoys the support of the electorate, and in the process scuttle the zoning agreement which will be a big plus to his political career.