The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has accused President Muhammadu Buhari-led government of secretly killing pro-Biafra protesters to provoke the people of South-East into another civil war. Condemning the incessant attacks and security deterioration in the region, the pro-Biafra group said it was still at a loss how government facilities, security agents, and some prominent individuals became targets of the attackers without a response from the Federal Government. Citing the attacks on the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Chukwuma Soludo, and Ebonyi State indigenes, MASSOB accused the Federal Government of attempting to militarise the South East. ASUU Strike: FG  To Renegotiate 2009 Agreement Biafra: Kanyo O. Kanyo Urges Buhari To Release Nnamdi Kanu The group, however, said the struggle for self-determination for Biafra had reached a point of no return, adding that the consciousness and reality of Biafra had sunk very deep in the minds and thoughts of every Igbo person irrespective of his or her political, economical, social, religious and business affiliation or services with Nigeria. Speaking through its leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu in a statement titled ‘Nigeria has expired under President Buhari’ MASSOB said the current mayhem in the zone was to intimidate the people and frustrate Ndigbo from clamouring for the presidency in 2023. He alleged that the planned Islamisation and ‘Fulanisation’ of Nigeria have entered the last stage of its full operation in every sector of the country. Madu noted that the inability of the regime of President Buhari to grant a referendum for Biafra autonomy had brewed more devastative and destruction for Nigeria. The statement partly read, “The pro-Biafra groups that were pushed to arms struggle because of President Muhammadu Buhari’s nonchalant and mass killings of Biafrans in Nigeria have resolvedto intensify their onslaught against Nigeria security agents. POLL “They vowed not to relent until justice is done to the innocent people of Biafra killed in Nigeria. “MASSOB reiterated our total commitment to the actualisation and restoration of the sovereign state of Biafra. We started with non-violence methodology, and we shall continue to maintain our principles irrespective of constant push from the security agents of Nigeria state against us to resort to arms struggle. “We shall not succumb to the antics of our oppressors, because we respect the sanctity of human lives. MASSOB shall maintain the principles of non-violence and civil disobedience.” It added, “MASSOB believed that the state of Biafra can be actualised through non-violence methodology because black Americans and India achieved their freedom through it. We shall remain consistent, unshaken and resolute in all our approaches towards our freedom from Nigeria. “MASSOB condemned the clandestine and surreptitious moves of Buhari’s regime to clamp down and annihilate the leading figures of pro-Biafra independence groups.”