ABUJA – As the race for the 2023 general elections hit up, the daughter of the leader of Pan Yoruba social-cultural group, Afenifere, Mrs Adeola Azeez, has signified interest in to contest for the House of Representatives. To this end, she took to this year’s International Women’s Day (IWD) commemoration to encourage women to play active roles in politics. While empowering over 300 women, including widows and the disabled, across Ijebu Central federal constituency, she insisted that women by their nature were created to play an invaluable role in nation-building, especially in politics and governance. Her philanthropic gesture came under her social investment programme, the Adeola Azeez Community Care Foundation (ACCF). The beneficiaries were drawn from several communities making up the three local governments of the constituency, which are Ijebu North-East, Odogbolu and Ijebu Ode. Drawing from the theme of this year’s International Women’s Day, breaking the bias, she said women must be supported to break glass ceilings in all walks of life because society can only achieve total and sustainable progress when women are given equitable access to opportunities. She also explained that the cash grant and welfare materials were distributed to support the bid of the identified vulnerable women to attain financial autonomy and improve their living standards. Emphasizing the importance of political participation and effective representation, Mrs Azeez, charged women to obtain their PVCs and participate in the voting process ahead of the 2023 elections. POLL “The 2023 is here and it is our collective duty to ensure that our country rises again. I know that you, just like me, are tired of the status quo. But nothing changes by itself. It is what we demand and act on that changes. Do you have your voters card? Have you registered? This is where it starts from. Let your voice count,” she said. Among those who witnessed the presentation of gifts to the women include Hon. Atinuke Bello, the Chief Whip of Ogun State House of Assembly; Hon. Adetutu Elizabeth Oyesanya, the Vice Chairman of Ijebu East Local Government; Hon. Musiliu Idowu, Odogbolu Local Government, Chairman, and Hon. Adekunle Aranmolate, Ijebu Ode Local Government Chairman, among others. Most of them attested to Azeez’s commitment to the empowerment of women and the progress of the Ijebu Central federal constituency, urging the women to support her ambition to protect their interests and improve the quality of representation at the federal level. It is believed that her declaration to contest for the House of Representatives has generated some level of excitement among her constituents. Before delving into politics, she worked for over 30 years at Deutsche Bank, a leading global financial institution. She is currently the West Africa Partner at Sigma Risk, an international financial organization. She also co-founded WIMBIZ, Nigeria’s leading non-profit organization for professional women in 2002.