ABUJA – The Association of Women In Trade and Agriculture, AWITA, at the weekend, demanded sustainable economic policy that would encourage Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, MSMEs, to contribute more to the nation’s economy under a conducive trade environment. President of AWITA, Dr. Ruth Agbo gave the urge during the 2022 People’s Security Monitor conference and recognition award ceremony in Abuja. “Women’s economic empowerment is the transformation process by which women and girls go from having limited power, voices and choices at home and in the economy, to having the skills, resources and opportunities needed to access and compete in local, regional and global markets and benefit from economic gain. “This has informed our choice of theme ‘a change of narrative for women traders and farmers’, with 1000 AWITA women and youths in FCT to mark the international women’s day, adding that women, farmers and youths have a common burden that needs to be expressed and addressed,” Agbo said. She, therefore, advocated for plan to improve the business environment for MSMEs by working together with the government and all stakeholders while urging the federal government to take with all seriousness, the safety of her citizens, adding that engagement with all key stakeholders in the resolution of the security challenge is urgent and paramount. In the same vein, the chief executive officer, People’s Security Monitor, Isaiaka Mustapha said “we all have a role to play in one way or the other to achieve either a good government or bad one that will respect and cater for people or impose on them cruelty, adding If we are really ready to be let off the claws of bondage we presently find ourselves we had better start the orientation of saying no to bad things.” Speaking to newsmen at the occasion, the youth leader of AWITA, Amb Sarki Sylvia advise young women to embrace agriculture for economy growth of Nigeria and more development in order to compete with other developed countries. “Agriculture does not have age limit, time and season. There are so many things to do with agric. I also urge federal government to support women,” she said. POLL For her part, national legal adviser and South-West zonal representative in AWITA, Barrister Ann Akpan, said the association cater for women in agriculture and trade, put them through and bring them together to enable them understand the trade better. “We chose today as International Women’s Day as month of March is celebration for women. We decided to choose today as our own day, as we could not celebrate on March 8 due to some activities. On ‘Breaking the Bias’ as theme of the day, she said it was a moment all women had to come together and act as one, “because the men are taking us for granted. “Right now we are asking for 5/5 which involves indigenship and citizenship. We are asking for three. We are asking for 111 seats in the House (of Reps), also asking for 31 percent appointment.”