Italian oil giant, Eni on Monday said that a blast at its facility in the Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State has cut oil export from its Brass Export Terminal by some 25,000 barrels per day and resulted in a spill. Eni, the parent company of the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), claimed the incident was the second attack in a few days after an earlier disruption on February 28 at its Obama flow station led to a production shortfall of 5,000 barrels per day. A statement by the multinational’s management said that gas output of 13 million standard cubic metres per day had been deferred due to the incident. NAOC had declared ‘Force Majeure’ on expected oil output at the Brass terminal, gas feeds to Bonny NLNG and Okpai Power Plant. Force Majeure is a legal clause in contracts that absolves firms from legal liabilities due to circumstances beyond their control. The statement read, “An incident occurred on the Ogoda/Brass 24” oil line, at Okparatubo in Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. The event was caused by a blast, consequently causing a spill. “All wells connected to that pipeline were immediately shut-in whilst river booms and containment barges were mobilized to reduce the impact of the spill. “Regulators for inspection visit and repair teams have also been activated. State and Federal Government and Security authorities were notified. POLL “Deferred production is estimated at 25 kbopd oil and about 13 MSCM/d of gas. “Force majeure has been declared at the Brass terminal, Bonny NLNG and Okpai Power Plant.” Reports, however, quoted the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) as saying that Joint Investigative Visits (JIV) on the two incidents had been conducted and that the field officers assigned had yet to submit their reports. The Director-General of NOSDRA, Idris Musa, said the two incidents were traced to vandalism, adding that 20 barrels leaked in the February 28 incident while 1,249.8 barrels were discharged into the environment in the second incident.