***’Oil, Gas Industry Lost $50bn Worth Of investments Waiting For PIA’ ABUJA – Going forward, every project coming on stream in Total E&P Nigeria Limited has the notion of reducing the intensity of carbon, Mr Victor Bandele, the Deputy Managing Director in charge ’Total E&P Nigeria Limited’s Deepwater District, has said. Bandele gave the hint while speaking during the CEO Roundtable: Strategies for Confronting the Energy Transition at the ongoing Nigeria Energy Summit at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. Energy Transition: Nigeria Must Clear Resources Of Today To… Crude Oil: Whither Nigeria’s Economy? The Total E&P Nigeria Limited’s Deputy Managing Director in charge of Deepwater District, listed several efforts currently undertaken which is geared towards energy transition, stressing that before any FID decision in any project in Total Energies, that project must demonstrate it is not leading to increasing carbon. “We have more stakes going forward that we are deliberate to make sure that every project coming on stream has the notion of reducing the intensity of carbon. In Nigeria with our partners we embarked on the enlargement of the LNG project in the recent past, we are very supportive of that and will continue to do that. “Going forward there are so many projects that are lined up. We believe there is a market here, we believe there is a will here and the will is demonstrated in the PIA that was recently passed into law and together we want to align with what government is doing to really bring energy to the people and that is why on the downstream side of the business we have 577 filling stations across the country, a significant proportion of these filling stations are now running in solar power, it is deliberate”. According to Bandele Nigeria promises a huge market with her growing population and attendant energy needs, hence Total Energies find this space to be a very good space to invest …”and for that reason, Total Energies is investing continuously in Nigeria and that is our trade Mark. “We claim that we are about 7.6 billion people, by 2050 then we want to have net zero in carbon, we will be 10 billion people. What this means is that we will have more people and we want to transition so this is the big challenge for the industry and for global energy. POLL “Today in Nigeria, we say we are 200 million people we are going to something like 300 million by 2050. The 200 million that we have today, how many people have access to very good energy? So in Nigeria our challenge is even much more so we in Total Energies find this space to be a very good space to …and for that reason, Total Energies is investing continuously in Nigeria and that is our trade mark” he added. Speaking earlier, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timiprye Sylva, disclosed that while the country was waiting for the PIA, Nigeria’s oil and gas industry lost about $50 billion worth of investments. “In fact, between 2015 and 2019, KPMG states that “only 4 percent of the $70 billion investment inflows into Africa’s oil and gas industry came to Nigeria even though the country is the continent’s biggest producer and the largest reserves, he said.” Sylva noted therefore, that the absence of the legal, governance, regulatory and fiscal framework for the industry contributed to the huge loss Nigeria has witnessed. He stated that with the assent of the PIA, President Buhari has assured multinational oil companies and global oil industry investment community of adequate protection for their business interest in Nigeria. Scarcity: Nigeria Needs More Refineries – Group Oil Spillage: Release Mobil, NNPC’s N82bn Judgement Debt… It is commendable that the PIA addressed the relationship with host communities by creating the Host Community Development Trust Fund (HCDTF) to foster sustainable prosperity, provide direct social and economic benefits from petroleum to host communities, and enhance peaceful and harmonious coexistence between licensees or lessees and host communities. It may not be perfect yet, but it is much better than where we are coming from. “It is crucial for all stakeholders as well as all arms of government to embrace the common desire to make the PIA and its intended brief of sanitising the oil industry a reality. It will hopefully engender the enthronement of transparency and openness to the sector, revolutionise the nation’s oil sector and attract more investments to the sector” he added.