ABUJA – Mr Kazeem Tanimu, a social activist and Co-convener of “7th Republic,” an NGO of youths advocating for better leadership at all levels in Nigeria, has slammed Rivers State Governor Nyesome Wike’s declaration to run for president in 2023, saying he “lacks the temperament required to lead Nigeria.” It would be recalled that the Rivers State Governor declared his intention to run for president during a consultative meeting with stakeholders from the PDP’s Benue chapter on Sunday at the Government House in Makurdi. He was quoted as saying “To remove APC from power, I’m the person who can tell them enough is enough. We must take this power and I’m ready to take it for PDP. “God is with us that’s why APC keeps failing every day I’m declaring it (presidential ambition) for the first time in Benue. I’m going to run for election,” he said. However, at a media briefing on Tuesday in Abuja, Tanimu hinted that Nigeria was at a crossroads in its choice of leadership at the centre and needed someone who will not just be driven by the ambition to remove the ruling party(APC) from power come 2023, but who can tackle its numerous challenges. He noted that although Wike has done well for his state in terms of infrastructural development, the leadership at the centre requires someone who is “more tolerant and democratic in his leadership style, considering the multi-ethnic nature of the Nigeria state.” According to him, “I think Gov. Wike does not have the emotional intelligence and character required to lead a complex country like Nigeria, and that would present him as a dictator and not a democrat. “He has done well for his state in many ways, but how can someone who has little or who is always at longer head with traditional rulers in his state respect other people of different views and orientations. POLL “He has the right to seek any elective position as a Nigerian, but I honestly believe that Nigerian needs a true democrat as president at this juncture and not an authoritarian leader,” he said.