ABUJA – The nation woke up on Tuesday to the clamour by one of its respected lawmaker and Senator representing Benue South of Benue State, demanding the support of the National Assembly to have the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) allow prisoners vote during elections. The former Minister of Interior now lawmaker, in a motion titled, “The prerogative of Prison Inmates to vote in general elections in Nigeria: statutory, inalienable and non-negotiable” pitched his argument on the principles of Human Rights as advanced by the United Nations Charter on Human Rights (UNCHR) wherein it submitted the inalienable elements of human rights as basic to all humans regardless of creed, race, economic status, or any other status so acquired. Senator Moro also quoted the provisions of Section 24 of the Electoral Act, 2022, and Section 25 of the 1999 Constitution as amended. BREAKING: INEC Rejects Gov Bello, Mamman As Chairman, Secretary… Political Parties Shouldn’t Break The Law On Campaign Financing… In his arguments, the lawmaker maintained that being an inmate is not an impediment to the prisoners’ registration and voting rights. He also forwarded that the above cited Electoral Act furnishes that denying prison inmates access to the electoral process constitutes an infringement of their Rights as citizens of Nigeria. Consequently, the lawmaker prayed the Senate to urge INEC to among other things, allow prison inmates to register and vote during general elections. The Senate Order Paper for Tuesday March 2022, showed that the motion as contained therein urged INEC and all relevant agencies, “to carryout a voracious voter’s enlightenment in all prisons in Nigeria, to educate the inmates of their rights and necessity to exercise their franchise in general elections; “Urge the Independent National Electoral Commission and all relevant agencies to update its register of votes to take into account the prison population for the purpose of elections; POLL “Urge the Independent National Electoral Commission in collaboration with the Nigeria Correctional Service to locate Voting Centres at Custodial Centres across the country to be used for voting; and further urge the Independent National “Electoral Commission to allow duly registered and eligible prison-electorates to exercise their franchise during all general elections in Nigeria. In all these, the former interior Minister during former President Goodluck Jonathan‘s administration side- stepped the provisions of Section 34 of the 1999 Constitution as amended. Granted the good intention of the motion especially considering the 68,000 electoral potentials locked up in Correctional Centres countrywide, some lawyers have berated the move on the grounds of a gross mental poverty as thought investment into the work. Barrister Ali Abbah, a Benue born, Abuja based lawyer said that “the motion did not consider the provisions of Section 34 of the 1999 Constitution as amended. This section while respecting the provisions of the Constitution on the Fundamental right of the Citizen makes it clear that such right is operational only when a court judgment has not vacated it against a convict. 2023: Tinubu Calls On Buhari, Says We Must Not Forget How APC… PDP Holds NEC Meeting On Tuesday If vacated, the Citizen loses the right to vote as advocated by Senator Abba Moro.” According to Barrister Mohammed Iliya (SAN), “Moro erred in his submission and must therefore understand the place of the  on the matter to guide him in his legislative functions.” But that does not deter Senator Moro who during an interview with journalists soon after presenting  the motion at plenary, maintained that being a Prison inmate is not impediment to the Prisoners’ registration and voting rights. Considering the above, it is baffling that a Senate with 109 lawmakers, and a sizeable population of legal minds will hastily pass such a shallow motion that prides itself to conflict with not just the provisions of the UN Convention on Human Rights, which Nigeria is a signatory to; but the 1999  that serves as the grand norm for national interfaces. This scenario like many where Senators rise in Chambers to move motions, or sponsor bills where little thought was invested in, goes to tell the intellectual gap inherent in the Ninth Assembly. Like a legislative aide at the National Assembly noted, “there’s a dearth of competence in most offices in the National Assembly. Many legislative aides are there not because they’re the right ones to hold the job, but because of the know-somebody syndrome in the country. Look at the quality of Bills and motions lawmakers present at plenary. It tells you that their aides are disconnected from reality and don’t conduct research which is a major part of what we do here. As a matter of fact, it is the reason most lawmakers move Bills for the establishment, upgrade or so, of one school or another. It is a national shame.” Flowing from this, the leadership of the Senate should revisit the Abba Moro’s motion on allowing prisoners to vote. We must as a country invest more intellectual power in our legislations. Enough is enough of the avalanche of thoughtless Bills and motions presented and passed daily at the National Assembly with the objective of ‘fulfilling all righteousness,’ yet little or nothing is engraved in them to serve the interest of the majority of Nigerians. Last year, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said he would support the right of prisoners to vote during the 2023 general election. Represented by his technical adviser on Corrections, Michael Anugwa, the minister disclosed this while speaking on the sidelines of the planning meeting of the Pollrite 23 project in Abuja . Aregbesola said, “This is so because the enabling laws do not remove the right to vote from inmates because they are inmates. “There are certain freedoms that they are denied but voting is not one of them. So, the inmates’ right to vote must be encouraged by all and sundry.” The agency had earlier reported that the Pollrite 23 project is aimed at facilitating civic engagement among communities with low voters’ turnout, including inmates in Nigeria. Carmelites Prisoners’ Interest Organisations (CAPIO) organised the meeting with relevant stakeholders to find a way to achieve the project. Anugwa said he was going to “make a memo to the minister” on the matter and ensure that “inmates will be accorded the right to vote in future elections in our country.” The executive director of CAPIO, Jude Isiguzo, said the project would help enforce the electoral rights of inmates, create awareness and an enabling environment for them to vote.