MOHAMMED SHOSANYA The Russian and Ukrainian war which begun last week is currently unsettling global peace and economic spheres. Perhaps, one of the noticeable impacts of the war is the spiralling cost of crude oil prices. Spike In Crude Oil Price Will Spur Growth Of New Fields In… Scarcity: Nigeria Needs More Refineries – Group Last Thursday, crude oil prices rose above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2014 on Thursday as Russian forces moved into the Ukraine after weeks of building tension, prompting the U.S. and its allies to impose sanctions on the country. Besides, Brent, the crude against which Nigeria’s oil is priced, jumped above $100 per barrel on Thursday, a leap recorded for the first time since 2014, as the invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces heightened anxiety in the global energy space. The commodity traded at $103.47 per barrel as at 6.58pm Nigerian time on Thursday, moving up by $6.47 or 6.68 per cent, before it later fell to $97.8 per barrel the following day. Rystad Energy, a global research company, said in a note that crude oil prices could surge to $130 a barrel because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, “squeezing” consumers who will face higher pump prices and power bills. Jarand Rystad, Rystad’s Chief Executive Officer, said the conflict immediately jeopardizes as much as 1 million barrels a day of crude that transits through Ukraine and the Black Sea and “long-term disruptions could be far more significant,. POLL He added: “The reality is that significantly higher prices are on the horizon in Europe and overseas.” A total halt to gas exports from Russia is unlikely but gas piped through Ukraine represents 8% of European supply and is “very much at risk,” Rystad said. Russian gas fulfills 30% of European demand and alternate sources are “inadequately prepared” to bridge the gap. Nigeria, the leading producer of crude oil in Africa may be at cross roads over maximising the economic fortunes for the spike in global crude oil prices. Stakeholders bemoaned the country’s policies, saying they are amply responsible for Nigeria’s failure to get its economy on right footing through the oil and gas sector Fuel Scarcity: NMMPRA Vows To Deal With Erring Gas Stations In… Fuel Scarcity, Soaring Price An Insult To Nigeria – Expert This February, OPEC jerked Nigeria’s crude oil production target for the month of March, even as the country had been missing its approved monthly output targets. Besides, the oil cartel raised Nigeria’s oil production target for March 2022 to 1.718 million barrels per day, which ma marginal increase from the 1.701 million bpd target that was approved for the country in February. Nigeria missed its crude oil output target for January 2022, pumping 1.46 million bpd as against a target of 1.683 million bpd as approved by OPEC. Chief Timipre Sylva, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, said Nigeria could not celebrate the rising prices of crude oil on account of its failure to meet the oil production quota given to it by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. According to him, Nigeria’s low oil production would not make the country take advantage of the rising crude oil prices. He added: “It is always not something to celebrate because when prices go high, it means other producers will start ramping up their production; for instance, the shale producers in America will now find it profitable. Whereas if the prices are at a certain level, it will not be profitable for them to produce their shale. So once oil prices go up to a certain point, you are encouraging a lot of production that would otherwise not be in the market. “So, we are not happy when prices go up to a certain level. We believe that prices should be at a certain point which would be optimal for us, but suboptimal for the shale producers. That is why we like to have that balance.” Besides, marketers are lamenting that Nigeria’s increased spend on petrol subsidy is barring the country from benefitting from the rise in the price of crude oil They maintained that the rise in crude oil prices would raise the amount spent by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited as subsidy on petrol. SB Morgen oil sector report recently revealed that the amount spent as subsidy on petrol increased by 890 per cent between 2017 and 2021. The NNPC spent N144.53bn, N730.86bn and N551.22bn in 2017, 2018 and 2019 on petrol subsidy respectively. The total subsidy for the five-year period was N4.05tn,the research firm said in its last month report Chief John Kekeocha, National Secretary, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, explained that if there is subsidy, there is a dynamics between demand and supply. He said when oil price increases, absolutely refined products’ prices will increase,stressing that if oil price comes down, refined products prices will also come down. He also said: “In our present situation, if the price of crude oil is high, it means the government is going to make more money in the sales of crude oil but because of the subsidy that has not been removed, the government is definitely going to subsidise fuel for us to sell at the price we sell now. “Except the government is trying to sing a new song of increasing petrol price, but I don’t think they can do at this period. So because of petrol subsidy, the much money they make from the sale of crude, they will still use much money to subsidise the refined products imported into Nigeria.” According to him, Nigeria would not have been denied of the benefits of high oil prices if the country’s refineries were functional. He said: “This is why we are crying that this government must do something serious about our refineries. How can we have four refineries and none of them is working? If we were using our refineries to refine the crude and circulate the refined products, it would have been a very good thing to celebrate the rise in oil prices. “But in this present scenario, Nigeria is shortchanged by humongous fuel subsidy spending amidst the rising crude oil prices. In fact, any time the oil price is getting high, Nigerians will start panicking. “And this is because the little money we make out of the excess will be used to subsidise products. So you can imagine a whole country like Nigeria bringing in refined products from a small nation such as Belgium. It is an insult.” He maintained that petrol subsidy would have been stopped if the government had implemented the Petroleum Industry Act in full. Billy Gillis-Harry, the President, Petroleum Products Retail Outlets owners Association of Nigeria, complained that petrol subsidy was eroding the gains made from the rise in oil prices. Chief Martin Onovo, former presidential aspirant, told Daily Independent that the near the recklessness of the incumbent administration gives it away as government that could manage the country effectively. According to him, the development alone shows that the country can’t derive expected benefits from the increasing crude oil prices at the global market. But Engr. Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), has described the recent spike in crude oil price above $90 a barrel as an excellent opportunity for African oil producers and its service providers to develop new fields, ensure security of supply and affordability as well as increase revenue generation. He spoke recently at the Sub-Saharan African International Petroleum Conference (SAIPEC) organised in Lagos by the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN), He said that the price of crude oil has increased by 50 percent in 12 months and African oil producers should use the opportunity to also make plans towards energy transition, and lowering the cost of services.