Honourable Murtala Ahmed Sule, a stakeholder and member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), seeking his party’s ticket to represent the Gabasawa/Doka Constituency at the Kaduna state House of Assembly has carpeted the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state and at the national level. The PDP stakeholder and businessman seeking for the seat of the Gabassawa/Doka Constituency in the Kaduna state House of Assembly stated that his party the PDP is not an alternative but the answer to the yearnings of the people. In an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, the PDP stalwart bemoaned the lack of qualitative and good representation from their Representatives hence his decision and call to serve by his people He said, “If elected, I intend to pursue and push bills and every other thing that will help my constituency achieve the dividends that they have always yearned for and, in the same manner, ensure that they get it. This will be achieved, by the Grace of God Almighty! “With APC in power, we all know how it has been. Everybody is feeling the pinch, the pains, the total collapse of the economy and the insecurity challenges across the country. This is not peculiar to Kaduna state alone. “The PDP is the party that will give Nigerians what they actually need. What we have been giving since 1999, from when President Aremu Olusegun Obasanjo, the then Governor of Kaduna state, His Excellency, Senator Ahmed Makarfi and what they did for our constituents, our Local governments, our states and the federation as a whole. Therefore, the PDP is not an alternative. “The Peoples Democratic Party is the answer, as the APC is not a party, in the true sense of it all. The good people of Kaduna state and Nigerians generally, for the sake of quality governance, sustainable democracy, security to lives and property, should return the PDP back to power. We are very confident that the people will bring us back, through the ballot. This is so because; they know what the PDP will do Talking about his relationship with his contituency, he said, “As a member of a community, it is only natural that you become a part of the system, especially if you are being governed. I am a part of the people being governed. POLL “Therefore, I feel the pinch. We are not getting good representation from our people hence the urge to make sure that our people get the dividends of democracy which they have been denied, I feel that it is time that we go in ourselves as we can no longer sit back on the sidelines, watching and getting agitated.” Speaking on how the PDP in the state intends to convince the masses to vote for them considering the infrastructural development of the present administration in the state, Muritala said, “We sometimes just look at development as just building infrastructure. For your information, development is far much, more than that. “You could build infrastructure but, if you do not build the people, frankly, you have not done anything. This is a fact. The truth is, these same people, if they are pushed to the wall, when there is hunger and starvation and the people are in deprivation, it could lead to protests and riots. There is no stopping them.”