ABUJA – Embattled All Progressives Congress APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) has clarified that John James Akpanudedehe, Secretary of the party was not sacked; neither did he resign as speculated in the social media. Salisu Na’inna Dambatta, Director (Publicity) of the party said the reports making the rounds in social media blogs were false and never emanated from the party. Clarifying the situation after the briefing on Friday by Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed, Dambata said to the best of his knowledge Akpanudedehe never submitted a letter of resignation nor was he sacked. APC Crisis: Buhari Insists National Convention Holds March 26 APC: Members Plan Heroic Welcome For CECPC Buni Addressing journalists on Wednesday evening when news broke that he has resigned, Akpanudedehe told anxious reporters that he had not resigned and that he was still the secretary of the party. However, he was conspicuously missing from the everyday activities of the party ever since. The Acting Chairman, Gov Sani Bello had on Thursday created directorates for easy monitoring of specific activities in the building up to the party’s National Convention. Although the secretary was assigned a schedule, his office was also not usurped in the schedule released by the party. Dambata stated: POLL “Further to the Media Conference earlier held by the Spokesman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed, the Party wishes to note that the Secretary of the CECPC, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, never sent a resignation letter to the Party to the best of its knowledge and neither was he sacked as some social media blogs speculated. All those are utterly false. “The APC is one family, the Caretaker is one unit. We have an Acting Chairman who is racing against time to deliver a convention and committee members that are united in supporting him in carrying out that onerous mandate. “So please, disregard social media stories that are not rooted in fact or even sound reasoning”.