ENUGU – The controversy surrounding the zoning of the governorship seat in Enugu State has continued to rise following the recent declaration by Ike Ekweremadu representing Enugu West to contest for the gubernatorial election in 2023. Our correspondent reports that the zoning arrangement took another dimension after Ekweremadu in a media chat said there was no zoning agreement in the state as he vowed to contest for the gubernatorial election which is contrary to the view of other leaders who maintained its the turn of the people of Enugu East to produce the Governor. A political pressure group in Enugu State, Equity and Integrity Assembly (EIA) and some PDP chieftains had faulted Ekweremadu for denying knowledge of zoning agreement in Enugu The coordinator of the EIS and former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Gary Ene said “Any attempt to jettison this zoning formula is bound to cause disharmony and hardship to the people, more so to the youths, the ignorant and the weak who would suffer most.” “We cannot stop talking about zoning in Enugu State, due to the level of political development in our dear State, we are looking for a situation that will accommodate everybody. Also, a PDP Chieftain, Senator Prince Ben Collins Ndu while speaking with Journalists with other leaders of the PDP from Enugu West zone, maintained that Ekweremadu is being economical with the truth as far as the zoning issue is concerned. He disclosed that the motion for the zoning and rotation of the guber position was moved by a former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Chief Dubem Onyia and was seconded by himself after an amendment by a former State Chairman Chief of PDP in the state, Barr Charles Egumgbe. In a swift reaction, Ekweremadu who spoke through the Director-General, Ikeoha Campaign Organisation Hon. Ogbonna Asogwa says “ The Ikeoha Campaign Organisation has noted with dismay the desperation of of some elements to stop His Excellency, Senator Ike Ekweremadu from contesting the 2023 Enugu State governorship election. POLL “We note in particular, the communiqué-for-money bribery scandal rocking the state on non-existent zoning, all in an effort to stop Senator Ike Ekweremadu and the forgery and manipulation of minutes of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, State Caucus meeting, which took the makers over two years to produce since they boasted about. “The over N300 Million squandered on series of rallies to drum up support for zoning, all in an attempt to stop Senator Ike Ekweremadu.The press statements, press conferences, and publications sponsored by agents of state against the Distinguished Senator and the nocturnal meetings and fetish practices being organised against Ike Ekweremadu. “Therefore, we refuse to be distracted. We have gone through this path before and we trust God that this too shall pass,” he said.