EMMANUEL OBETA Benefits Of Search Engine Marketing SEM increases your online presence, thereby enhancing your brand awareness and visibility which in turn, leads to online leads and sales generation (which obviously allows you to make money by selling products and services). SEM can also help you provide informational content for your visitors, which they may not be able to find anywhere else. PPC ads allow you greater control over how to present your marketing messages and products, calls-to-action, pricing, bullet points, and other aspects of your PPC ads unlike search engine which will often decide how organic search results are displayed. With Google you can also have access to the option of Product Listing Ads (PLAs), a visual shopping ad that lets users see an image of what they will be clicking on which greatly improves your click-through rate. Based on research PPC search engine ads bring in an an average of $2 for every $1 spent on Small businesses that also use advanced SEM tools and ads strategies experience a revenue growth that is 4X higher than less digitally advanced businesses. Search engine marketing through their paid ads offer better click through rate CTR and higher conversions than more passive forms of marketing. POLL PPC according to Radd Interactive is more easily customised, which allows one to target specific keywords intended for your target audience. Your ads can be customised to appear based on the preferred time of day, day of the week, geography, language, device, and audiences based on prior visits. This ability to customise your ads allows you to really hone in specific products and services towards the ideal audience. Products can also be pushed to appear during certain times of year when they are highly relevant, thereby further increasing their click-through rate and conversions or sales. The median return on investment for search engine marketing can be as high as 23% depending on your business, campaign and budget, which is quite higher than traditional display ads. Content Marketing According to the Content Marketing Institute, Content marketing is a strategic marketing approach focused on creating and distributing valuable, relevant, and consistent content to attract and retain a clearly defined audience and, ultimately, to drive profitable customer action. It answers your audience’s questions and helps you build trust, develop relationships, improve conversions, and generate leads. According to hubspot.com content marketing is considered top priority by 80% of marketers and accounts for 26% of B2B marketing budget. The essence of content marketing is to provide very relevant and useful content to your prospects and customers that will help them solve their issues instead of just pitching your products or services. This new approach to marketing has become useful and prominent due to the continued failure of traditional marketing in achieving the objectives of the organization as more and more people are being dissatisfied with the traditional marketing approach. Content marketing overcomes the challenges associated with traditional marketing methods by starting conversations as opposed to just stating an offering’s unique value proposition. It is also different from traditional advertisement which tells consumers what a company does and how it does it and why it should be patronised whereas content marketing shares knowledge and actionable insights which help consumers understand why they should take action. Great contents create positive experiences for your potential customers who make them come back for more thereby capturing your audience’s attention and continually reinforcing a positive brand impression in their minds which can end up creating traction for your brand across numerous platforms especially the social media. The job of a content marketer can be likened to the role of a mediator who uses the instrumentality of content to mediate and achieve a common ground or commonality of position between the customer and the business organization that he or she is representing. As a mediator he produces contents that are meaningful, acceptable and exciting to the two parties which also represents and appeals to their mutual interests thereby creating a synergy or harmony between the two. The content also acts as an ice breaker in the communication as well as the relationship between the two people such that there is an easy flow of communication, relationship and connect between them. According to Neil Patel, content marketing is a long-term strategy that focuses on building a strong relationship with the target audience by giving them high-quality content that is very relevant to them on a consistent basis such that eventually, when customers make a purchase decision, their loyalty already lies with such organizations and as such they will definitely purchase their product and prefer it over competitors’ options. Contrary to the normal one-off advertising content marketing is a solid demonstration by the organization that they really and genuinely care about their customers not just about their patronage but a deliberate concern on how they can solve their different problems and challenges by providing them useful information to that regard. One of the key objectives of content marketing is to deliver information that makes your buyer more intelligent about the products or services you offer, or about themselves and the general environments surrounding their needs of such products or services or other generally entertaining information that will add value to the life of your customers. In providing such information you are meeting a need that adds to their increasing self-worth, happiness and satisfaction about themselves other than the routine, mundane exercise of a purchase. The challenge for the content creator therefore lies in his or her ability to create a pass off, link or transference of allegiance from the quality, valuable and satisfying information provided and the brand (products and services) being offered for purchase so as to create a synergy between the brand and the valuable information being dished out in the content marketing. Content marketing is therefore an indirect form of persuasive selling or PR effort for the brand where you are selling the brand but actually not directly or forcefully selling or putting the brand starkly in their faces. Content marketing according to Jodi Harris (2019) works by capturing the attention of your target audience members and helping them address their informational and task-oriented needs. The belief is that your audience over time will come to trust and rely on your guidance, recognize your company’s unique value proposition, and ultimately reward you with business and loyalty. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com