Former Governor of Imo State and a presidential aspirant in the anticipated 2023 general election, Rochas Okorocha has revealed why the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu should step down for his presidential ambition. Okorocha who said he would convince Tinubu to step down for him as the party presidential candidate in 2023 disclosed that people naturally love him because he is detribalized and has sympathy for humanity. Speaking at the National Convention of the party on Sunday, Okorocha said He and Tinubu are most likely to be the major candidates from Southern Nigeria while noting that 2023 would present an opportunity for them to make the right choices. He, however, urged Nigerians to make use of their voter cards well because it was worth much more than they thought. He said, “I know that at the appropriate time, it may be because he is the one pushing up in the South-west and I am in the South-east. “So let us see what happens between us. And if that is it, I will ask him to relax a bit so that we can move this section forward. “The people naturally love me and I think it is because they believe I care, they believe I love and have sympathy for humanity, they believe I am detribalised. “They believe I do not know religion or tribe, Muslim, Christian, Igbo or Hausa, Yoruba. All I see is a human being and that is what makes the difference on my side.’ POLL “Whether it is for internal democracy or for general elections, you must ensure that you cast your vote right because the voter’s card contains everything. “It is the education of your children, it is your health, food on the table and security. So I always advise people that the worth of that card in your hand is more than N100 million so do not sell it for N10,000.’’ Speaking further, he stated that the convention was beautiful and looked peaceful and everyone seemed to be excited because they were all trying to see that the much talked about convention came to pass. Talking about the party and its challenges, he said that although time was not on the party’s side “we pray with this exercise coming to completion, we are now sure that we are on track and APC is still a great party in spite of its challenges. “However, as you know, big party big wahala, it is expected and with the leadership shown by President Muhammadu Buhari, we are beginning to see light at the dark end of the tunnel.” Okorocha expressed gladness that the convention was not hijacked, adding that it was much easier for all if the right things were done. “That is all we have been asking, beautiful internal democracy, free and fair where people must be allowed to choose the person they want. “That is the beauty of democracy, so anything outside this is manipulation and it is not good for democracy.”