GOMBE – Generation Unlimited, a global public-private-youth partnership Nigeria, has set to equip 20 million young Nigerians with access to data, digital learning, job-related skills, and livelihood opportunities by 2030. With over 65 million young people aged 10 – 24, Nigeria has one of the largest youth populations in the world, representing an extraordinary opportunity for development and growth, given that the youth unemployment rate currently stands at 37 per cent in Nigeria, With this in mind, the initiative will also benefit those in underserved rural and peri-urban communities, says Blessing Ejiofor, Communication Officer, UNICEF Nigeria in a press release shared to Journalists Ondo To Train Civil Servants As AAUA Inaugurates Business School NDE Trains 50 Persons On Enterprise, Finance Clinic In Edo Generation Unlimited (GenU 9JA), was launched by the Nigerian Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, on 27 July 2021 and has already made important headway in providing, connectivity, digital skills and job opportunities to over 300,000 Nigerian youths. According to Peter Hawkins, UNICEF Nigeria Representative, “Young people are a tremendous resource for Nigeria, and we can help realize their potential by listening to their challenges and empowering them to find the solutions.” He also said the programme will be of great benefit to the country and Africa as a whole because, “Nigeria’s huge youth population represents a great economic potential that guarantees a sure return on investment. “They also have the right to fulfil their potential and their dreams. If we get it right in Nigeria, it will make a huge difference for the African continent as a whole,” he stressed. Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of The Tony Elumelu Foundation said, “This initiative is especially important to us at the Tony Elumelu Foundation, as the core of our work revolves around empowering young Africans.” POLL He added that as Africa’s leading philanthropic organization. “We remain committed to doing this because we know that the future of Africa rests in the hands of young people, and we want to keep playing a key part in shaping Africa’s future. “We are proud to be part of this historic transformation in the lives of 20 million Nigerian boys and girls. The possibility for growth is truly unlimited when a large percentage of young people are well prepared to fulfil their dreams,” he emphasized. With over 20 implementing partners currently onboard GenU 9JA, millions of Nigerian school children and youth will be connected to the internet and have access to digital learning. They will also have access to individualized learning pathways, social impact tasks, and livelihood opportunities through the “Youth Agency Market Place,”