Hell was let loose on Saturday at Sabon Gida community of Langtang South Local Government council of Plateau State when the incumbent Chairman, Hon Vincent Bulus Venman attacked the embattled Chairman of Langtang North, Hon Ubandoma Laven during the resettlement day celebration in the area. Sunday Independent gathered that the attack snowballed into a free for all fight between rival political youths leaving several persons injured in the process. Ubandoma Laven is a political Godson of late Chief Solomon Lar, who was removed as chairman while the Langtang South Chairman is the current chairman of Langtang South LG. Lalong Hails Senate For Approving Law School Campus In Plateau Plateau Gubernatorial Aspirant Advocates New Security… It was gathered that the free for all fight started when the immediate past chairman of Langtang North Hon Ubandoma Laven who is a member of the PDP stormed the venue of the occasion and was called upon by the Master of ceremony to come to the high table to take his seat. According to Lanchang Timpil, an eyewitness said this development did not go down well with the Chairman of Langtang South Hon Vincent Bulus Venman. Timpil alleged that the Chairman of Langtang South Hon Vincent Venman stood up, walked up to the immediate past chairman of Langtang North Hon Ubandoma Laven and slapped him to the astonishment of the dignitaries at the event. ” This action suddenly created tension in the community, which resulted in a stampede between the youths, leading to many people being injured. According to him, as I speak to you, so many people are injured, this is a sad development that has created tension in the whole Langtang South amongst those injured is the Chairman of Langtang South Hon Vincent Bulus Venman and he is currently receiving treatment at home .while Laven was smuggled out. POLL He further added that amongst those injured are the Chairman of Langtang South Hon Vincent Bulus Venman. Another citizen of the state who called himself Titus said the violent clashes among suspected political thugs have increased in Langtang South in recent weeks. Efforts to reach both the Chairman of Langtang South Hon Vincent Bulus Venman and the immediate past chairman of Langtang North Hon Ubandoma Laven before sending this report since the incident occurred was not possible as their phones were switched off.