The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the national level is fast replicating at the geopolitical zones as stakeholders of the party ignore time- tested micro zoning arrangement, setting up mini conflicts among states in the zones . Although the APC, in difference to zoning arrangement, swapped NWC positions between north and south, States that have enjoyed NWC positions in their zones for the past six years are not yielding to their peers , especially in the South East where former Senate President Ken Nnamani is angling to return to the NWC as APC Deputy National Chairman (South) of the party. Recall that aside zonal positions, four positions of NWC were zone to the five States in the geopolitical zone namely, Deputy National Chairman (South), National Vice Chairman South East, National Treasurer and National Welfare Secretary . The former President of the Senate and a member of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Senator Ken Nnamani is said to be pushing to retain his seat in what stakeholders see a as “greedy enterprise”. The Stakeholders believe that Nnamani who is from Enugu State, cannot seek the party’s NWC position when Abia and Ebonyi State are yet to enjoy the privilege. According to source, Enugu State has enjoyed NWC slot through Chief Emma Enukwu (six years) and Caretaker Committee through Nnamani (for 2 years) pointing out that it will be unfair and wrong for the State to produce another NWC member without allowing other states that have not tested the position. Other South East States that had occupied the NWC positions so far include Anambra State (National Auditor) six years and Imo State (National Organizing Secretary) six years. “It stands to reason and logical therefore to allow Abia and Ebonyi States to have the choice of first refusal in the four available slots”,our source who is a chieftain of the party said. POLL Continuing he said: It will be wrong and immoral for the former Senate President, Ken Nnamani from Enugu State to appropriate Deputy National Chairman (South) to himself as being alleged”. He argued that other Geo-political zones are applying such methods of allowing those states that were not in the last NWC to choose first. He gave an example of South South where in the last NWC, Edo, Rivers and Cross River States were in the NWC. According to him, the zone is considering first, Bayelsa and Delta despite they occupied the positions in the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). Also, in the North East, Adamawa, Yobe and Gombe States were on the NWC, now the zone is considering Borno, Bauchi and Taraba States for the NWC positions zoned to them. They have the Deputy National Chairman (North) and National Auditor, plus the statutory National Vice Chairman North East. The situation is not also different in the South West, where states that were not in the previous NWC are considered first. Such states are Oyo, Osun and Ogun.