SLE is a chronic disease in which the supposed body’s protective (immune) system attacks its normal cell and tissues, causing widespread damage in multiple organ systems. It can affect the skin, lungs, brain, kidneys, joints, and blood vessels. It occurs predominantly in young women, especially of childbearing age but can affect all age groups in both males and females. Cause of SLE The cause of SLE is still unknown, but SLE may be precipitated by currently unknown environmental triggers that cause autoimmune reactions in genetically predisposed people. Risk Factors Gender: Even though anyone can get lupus, it most often affects women. They’re nine to ten times more likely than men to develop it. Age: Lupus can occur at any age, but most are diagnosed in their 20s and 30s. Race: Lupus is two to three times more common in African American women than Caucasian women. Family history: Relatives of people with lupus have a greater chance of developing lupus. Only about two percent of children whose mothers have lupus will develop it. POLL Ultraviolet light can trigger flares of SLE, especially in the skin. Exposure to Epstein–Barr virus has also been suggested as a trigger for SLE. SLE In Pregnancy The danger of SLE in pregnancy includes early or late miscarriage. In patients with antiphospholipid antibodies, the risk of recurrent miscarriages is increased. Pregnancy can be successful, mainly after 6 to 12 months of remission, but SLE flares are standard during pregnancy and postpartum. Pregnancy should be timed for when the disease is in remission. Symptoms and Signs of SLE Clinical findings vary greatly. SLE may develop abruptly with fever or gradually over months or years with joint pain and generalized body weakness episodes. Headaches, skin rashes, epilepsy, or psychoses may be initial findings. Manifestations referable to any organ system may appear and can include; Joint manifestations Joint symptoms, ranging from intermittent joint pain to acute inflammation in multiple joints, occur in about 90% of patients and may precede other manifestations. Most lupus polyarthritis is nondestructive and nondeforming. Heart and lungs manifestations symptoms commonly include recurrent inflammation of lung coverings, with or without fluid collection in the chest. Lung inflammation is rare, although minor impairments in lung function are common. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage occasionally occurs. Prognosis has traditionally been poor. Other complications include pulmonary emboli, pulmonary hypertension, and shrinking lung syndrome. Cardiac complications include pericarditis (most commonly) and myocarditis. Lymphoid tissue Generalized adenopathy is common, particularly among children, young adults, and blacks; however, mediastinal adenopathy is not common. Splenomegaly occurs in 10% of patients. Neurologic manifestations Neurologic symptoms can result from the involvement of any part of the central or peripheral nervous system or meninges. Mild cognitive impairment is common. There may also be headaches, personality changes, ischemic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, seizures, psychoses, aseptic meningitis, peripheral and cranial neuropathies, transverse myelitis, choreoathetosis, or cerebellar dysfunction. Renal manifestations Kidney involvement can develop at any time and maybe the only manifestation of SLE. It may be benign and asymptomatic or progressive and fatal. Common manifestations include excessive protein loss in the urine(most often), abnormal urinary sediment manifested by red blood cell casts and leukocytes, hypertension, and edema. Early lupus glomerulonephritis may be misdiagnosed as an asymptomatic urinary tract infection. Hematologic manifestations Hematologic manifestations include anemia, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia (sometimes life-threatening autoimmune thrombocytopenia). Recurrent arterial or venous thrombosis, thrombocytopenia, and a high probability of obstetric complications occur in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies. Thromboses probably account for many of the complications of SLE. Gastrointestinal manifestations Gastrointestinal manifestations can result from bowel vasculitis or impaired bowel motility. In addition, pancreatitis can result from SLE. Manifestations may include abdominal pain resulting from nausea, vomiting, manifestations of bowel perforation, and pseudo-obstruction. SLE rarely causes parenchymal liver disease. Diagnosis The diagnosis is based on SLE should be suspected in patients, particularly young women, with any symptoms and signs. However, early-stage SLE can mimic other connectives (or nonconnective) tissue disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, if arthritic symptoms predominate. Laboratory testing differentiates SLE from other connective tissue disorders. Routine testing should include the following: Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) and anti–double-stranded (ds) DNA (anti-dsDNA) Complete blood count (CBC) Urinalysis Chemistry profile including renal and liver enzymes Treatment of SLE Although SLE is not curable, while there’s no cure for lupus, current treatments focus on improving quality of life by controlling symptoms and minimizing flare-ups. Hydroxychloroquine, the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine, is indicated for all patients with SLE regardless of disease severity because it decreases disease flares and decreases mortality. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and antimalarials for mild disease are usually controlled with NSAIDs. However, chronic NSAID use is discouraged because of gastrointestinal adverse effects (e.g., peptic ulcer disease) and potential renal toxicity. A combination of a corticosteroid and other immunosuppressant is typically used for active severe disease, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, and antimalarials. Treatment includes induction therapy to control acute severe manifestations followed by maintenance therapy. Corticosteroids are first-line therapy. Prognosis The course is usually chronic, relapsing, and unpredictable. Remissions may last for years. The long-term prognosis is generally good if the initial acute phase is controlled, even if very severe (e.g., cerebral thrombosis or severe nephritis). The 10-year survival in most developed countries is greater than 95%. Improved prognosis is in part due to earlier diagnosis and more effective therapies. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com