Nigerian Professionals are canvassing support for Nigeria’s former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar ahead of the 2023 Presidential elections. Membership of the pressure group comprising opinion leaders, volunteers and influencers across the various fields in Canada, America, Asia, Europe are rooting for Atiku Abubakar as the next president of Nigeria. Dr Folus Ejele who gave the perspective of the Professions in a Press statement in Benin, said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirant, Atiku Abubakar, believes in the zoning principle and equity. But Ejele recommended that the Presidential ticket should be given to aspirant from the North East hence Southerners had governed Nigeria for 14 out of 16 unbroken years the party led the Country since the nation’s democracy in 1999. Ejele, the national Coordinator of Professionals for Atiku Abubakar, recalled that four past Presidents has governed Nigeria while two have not had the privilege to lead the country for almost 23 years of unbroken democratic governance in Nigeria, thereby making Atiku a better option to win the general election if given the mandate in order to balance the political algorithm. “Atiku Abubakar himself believes so much in zoning and equity. In the sixteen years of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP), rule in Nigeria on the platform of the party out of these sixteen years, fourteen years was for the South and two years for the North. “The South East and North East. If it is going to go to the North, it should go to North East and later, South East. I think that is what we should be talking about”, Ejele said. He noted that over 5 million eligible Nigerian voters who are persuaded have already key into the group tailored towards mobilizing support and vote for Atiku whom he didn’t have any problem with the River State governor, Nysom Wike. POLL The Coordinator of the body also advised political descents who are opposed to Atiku’s Presidential ambition to stop living in denial by imbibing the virtue of tolerance.in the party which has been emersed in zoning controversies