Headaches are a prevalent health condition that almost 75% of adults worldwide will experience at one stage or the other. The cause, duration, and intensity of the pain can vary according to the type of headache. The main symptom is a pain in the face or head that could be throbbing, constant, sharp, or dull, depending on the cause. Uncontrolled headaches can lead to feeling anxious and depressed. Causes of Headaches Headache is said to be caused by an unknown mechanism which activates specific nerves that affect muscles and blood vessels and then send pain signals to the brain. Types of Headaches Headaches can have causes that aren’t due to underlying disease. Examples include lack of sleep, an incorrect eyeglass prescription, stress, loud noise exposure, or tight headwear. Headaches are divided into Primary and Secondary Headaches. Primary headaches Primary headaches are the types of headaches that result from problems in pain-sensitive structures in the head and aren’t due to an underlying medical condition. These headaches can be episodic or chronic: Episodic headaches may occur not more than 15 days in one month. They can last anywhere from half an hour to several hours, while Chronic headaches are more consistent. They occur more than 15 days a month. In these cases, a pain management plan is necessary. Common primary headache disorders include migraine, cluster, tension, new daily persistent headaches, and medication overuse headaches. Tension Headache is the most common form of headache, affecting three-fourths of the general population. It is closely related to stress, and people with tension headaches feel a constant, dull ache on both sides of the head and pain spreading to or from the neck. POLL Migraine is the third most common and the seventh most disabling illness globally. It is also the second most common form of primary headache after tension headache, and women are three times more likely to develop migraine than men. Migraine occurs when unstable nerve cells overreact due to various triggers such as dehydration, skipping meals, some foods, sleep disruption, hormone fluctuations, and exposure to chemicals. Then the nerve cells send out impulses to blood vessels and cause chemical changes in the brain. The result is disabling pain. Symptoms may include intense pain pulsing from deep within on the side of the head that may last from 4-72 hours when untreated, lightheadedness, sensitivity to light or sound, nausea or vomiting, and sensory disturbances. Cluster headaches are the most severe type of primary headache and are characterized by severe burning and piercing pain around or behind one eye or on one side of the face at a time. They occur one to eight times per day during a cluster period, which may last two weeks to three months. The headaches may disappear for months or years, only to recur later. They are more common in men. Symptoms may include swelling, redness, flushing, and sweating on the side affected by the headache, nasal congestion, and eye tearing on the same side as the headache. New daily persistent headaches (NDPH) are headaches characterized by constant and steady pain that occurs on both sides of the head. They typically occur in people who weren’t having frequent headaches before. They come on suddenly and last for more than three months, and they usually are not responsive to medications. Medication overuse headaches (MOH) or rebound headaches affect up to 5% of people, and it mainly occurs in people who frequently take pain relievers to treat their headaches. People with primary headache disorders like migraine often develop medication overuse headaches which can cause migraine episodes to occur more regularly and become more severe instead of alleviating symptoms. Symptoms include more frequent headaches that are worse in the morning. Secondary headaches Secondary headaches are related to an underlying medical condition, including pregnancy, neurological symptoms like seizure, loss of consciousness, fever, hypothyroidism, stroke, infections, giant cell arthritis, and brain tumor. Examples include allergy or sinus headaches and thunderclap headaches. Allergy or Sinus headaches sometimes happen because of an allergic reaction or sinus infection, which causes pain in the sinus area and the front of the head because of the congestion and inflammation in the sinuses. Symptoms of sinus headaches include Bad taste in the mouth, Deep, constant pain in cheekbones and forehead, Facial swelling, feeling of fullness in ears, Fever, Pain that gets worse with sudden head movement or straining, Mucus discharge (snot). Thunderclap headache A thunderclap headache is a sudden and extremely severe headache that reaches peak intensity in under a minute and slowly fades within a few hours. It could be a symptom of a serious condition requiring immediate medical attention. Thunderclap headache may be caused by any medical conditions like an aneurysm, reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, meningitis, pituitary apoplexy, bleeding in the brain (hemorrhage), blood clot in the brain, blood vessel tears, ruptures, or blockages, stroke. Symptoms include headache worsened by coughing, sneezing, or exercise, headache occurring in those with a history of tumors. It is also crucial for a person to seek medical advice if their headache is severe or disruptive, is persistent, occurs regularly, does not improve with medication, and appears alongside other symptoms, such as confusion, fever, sensory changes, or sudden neck stiffening. Diagnosis Physical examination includes medical history, symptoms, the type of pain, and the timing and pattern of headache. Some headache types may require diagnostic tests to determine the underlying cause. These tests can include MRI or CT scans, lumbar punctures, and blood tests. Treatment Stress management and Biofeedback Stress management teaches how to cope with stressful situations. Relaxation techniques help manage stress. You use deep breathing, muscle relaxation, mental images, and music to ease your tension. Biofeedback teaches you to recognize when tension is building in your body. You learn how your body responds to stressful situations and ways to settle down. Prescription pain relief medications are for frequent and severe headaches and preventive medicines for specific conditions like migraine. Occasional tension headaches usually respond well to over-the-counter pain relievers such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs but using medications too often can lead to a long-term daily headache. It is crucial to follow the health provider’s guidance to prevent medication overuse headaches. Alternative and integrative treatments Several alternative forms of headache treatment, now known as integrative treatments, are available. These approaches include acupuncture, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), herbal and nutritional health products, hypnosis, and meditation. However, a person must consult a health provider before making significant changes or beginning new treatments. Prevention The key to preventing headaches is figuring out what triggers them. Triggers are particular to each person — what gives you a headache may not be a problem for others. Once you determine your triggers, you can avoid or minimize them. Outlook/ prognosis Outlook depends on the type of headache. The outlook for secondary headaches will depend on the underlying cause. Some can be managed through simple changes to routines, while others could be fatal without immediate medical attention. Recently, there have been several new advancements in understanding what causes headaches. Although we are closer than ever before to a cure, currently, there is no cure for primary headaches. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms and preventing future episodes. An accurate diagnosis will be the first step in understanding and managing your headaches in the future. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. In collaboration with Abdulkareem Kamil, a medical student at University of Ilorin. www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com