The volatile nature of forex availability in the Nigeria’ economy exposes its dysfunc­tions. This comes as a result of the nation’s over dependence on imports and the height of structural deficiency in the economy. Neverthe­less, when it comes to achieving eco­nomic stabilisation, the management of monetary variables such as money supply, credit, interest rate, inflation, foreign exchanges etc, have a respon­sibility to align with the fiscal policy, that includes governments spending and tax administrations. In recent times, the central issue of monetary policy in Nigeria, espe­cially with the amount of foreign ex­change the country is earning is with­out its own implications. Sadly, the situation has put so much stress on the nation’s foreign reserves. In a way, this is reversing the gains from our major sources of foreign exchange earnings- channels of crude oil sales, Diaspora remittances, foreign direct investment and portfolio, and non-oil exports. For instance, we are suffering from unfavorable and fluctuating terms of trade and exports. That has often led to recurring deficits in the current ac­counts of the balance of payment of the country; a state of affairs, where prices of exported goods are negotiat­ed from a weak position and coupled with importation that outweighs our exportation. Importance Of Gender Equality In National Development Haba! Baba Buhari Similarly, the rate some Nigerians seek education, medical and luxury estates in foreign countries cannot be ignored, with negative impacts on the naira. Hence, this demands prudent monetary and fiscal policies to save the naira and boost economic devel­opment. Remarkably, the foregoing can be situated within the recently released Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) oper­ating guidelines for its RT200 FX pol­icy. The news of the guidelines was widely reported in the media. In retrospect, the CBN had unveiled the RT200 FX Programme in Febru­ary, 2022. Instructively, this comes as part of the Apex bank’s measures to reduce the increasing demand for foreign currency by importers. This frequently puts excessive pressure on the naira which has serious inflation­ary effects. This, according to the circular from the Apex bank Trade and Exchange Department, states the commitment of the “CBN’s efforts to achieve its goal of $200 billion in Foreign Ex­change (FX) repatriation from non-oil exports over the next five years”. To this extent, the RT200 FX pol­icy in the strident view of the CBN is borne out of the need to develop new strategies aimed at earning more stable and sustainable inflows of FX. Subsequently, the policy target is in order to “insulate the Nigerian econ­omy from shocks and FX shortages”. Nonetheless, as means of clarifica­tion on the FX200 policy guidelines, especially as the major anchor of the programme is focused on the Non-Oil Export proceeds repatriation Rebate Scheme, the circular points out that the “rebate scheme was designed to incentivize exporters in the non-oil export sector to encourage repatria­tion and sale of export proceeds into the FX Market”. POLL Again, the guidelines entail a di­rect interest to draw exporters of fin­ished and semi – finished goods to be eligible for the incentive. Accordingly, “Exporters shall qual­ify for the rebates only where repa­triated export proceeds are sold at the Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) Window. It added further that “Eligi­ble transactions that qualify for in­centives under the Scheme shall be Export of finished and semi – finished goods wholly or partly processed or manufactured in Nigeria”. In the same vein , the circular listed registration with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and Nigeria Ex­port Promotion Council (NEPC), and sale of repatriated export proceeds at the I & E window as part of the guidelines”. However, the guidelines, according to the circular, are subjects to review from time to time. Critically, what is the take away from the implementation of this pol­icy? For us as a country with export based economy challenges, we need a sound and well-articulated policy such as the RT200 from the CBN. That would afford economic diversifica­tions and a productive export base. With the benefits of hindsight, the RT200 FX is an all important oppor­tunity for exporters and investors to change the narrative around our de­pendence nature. Instructively, at the core of the policy are exporters who are the major drivers behind non-oil sector exports. And this is in line with the CBN’s efforts to bridge the knowl­edge gap in the non-oil sector space that is the major goal of increasing FX repatriation through exporta­tion. Fundamentally, RT200 policy is to reverse the economy from volatile sources of foreign exchange and for stable and sustainable inflows. What needs to be done to further sustain the RT200 strategy? First, we need to acknowledge CBN’s readiness to support exporters to boost that sector, since our cumulative non-oil export for the last five years amount­ing to $30bn cannot sustain the forex demands and its abysmal $6bn per annum. Tersely, this represents 15% of the $200bn new target of CBN RT200. However, it is imperative that the Apex bank and the government seek to sustain the policy as a major economic boost to revenue in non – oil sector of the economy. Tribute To Donatus Duru I know The Changing World Of Work! Secondly, Nigeria is currently an import dependent economy with so much pressure on our currency and we cannot rely on the petrol dollar as the nation’s 95% source of revenue. We call on the exporters to justify the confidence the CBN has on them not to jeopardise the policy through unscrupulous activity and round tri­pling in forex dealing. Lastly, the initiative of the CBN is to leverage our non -oil products, especially in agriculture, manufac­turing, mining and raw materials explorations. It is expected that the apex bank would review the policy in accordance with national interest and best practices. Olamilekan, a Political Economist and Development Researcher, wrote in via adefolarin77@gmail.com