“People, especial­ly those from the South West, could have been trekking from Lagos to Ibadan.. if not for our intervention……there was no road.” President Buhari, February 22, 2022. I had to rub my eyes several times after reading this statement in Channels TV Headlines on Feb­ruary 23, 2022 to be sure that it was Baba Buhari, the President of Ni­geria, who actually uttered that ab­solute falsehood. Hard to believe, it was, indeed, Buhari making a statement so totally untrue as to embarrass me as a citizen of this country. Granted, “You cannot adopt politics as a profession and remain honest.” (LM Howe, 1871-1936, VBQ p 192). But, certainly, there must be some lies that are too unbelievable that no politician, let alone a President should not tell. I don’t care who that person is; but anybody who says “there was no road” between Lagos and Ibadan before 2015 should be ashamed of himself. I have lived in Lagos and Ibadan since 1984; and there was never any time I trekked from one place to the other. Nobody, no mat­ter how highly placed, especially someone who spent all those years in rural Daura, can tell me that I drove on grass and mud all those years. In fact, the people of the South West were already driving on well-paved roads when Daura was still a wilderness. We didn’t need any­one from there to build roads for us. Electoral Act 2022 Clause 84 (12): When Two Elephants Fight (2)… Tribute To Donatus Duru I know Lying Against Predecessors The statement, as it stands, is actually a defamation of previous Heads of State, military and civil­ian, and rather than diminishing his predecessors, it was actually a poor reflection on Buhari. To be candid, hereafter, I will find it dif­ficult to believe anything Buhari says. For over 30 years, I was on that road, at least, twice a week. One four occasions, I actually went up and down the road twice in one day. I can claim to be an authority on the condition of the road for decades. Fish Rots From The Head “An institution is the length­ened shadow of one man.” Ralph Waldo Emerson, 1803-1882, VAN­GUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS, VBQ p 105. Until now, I have been wonder­ing why Lai Mohammed, Shehu Garba and Femi Adesina find it si easy to dissemble on factual mat­ters (eg, the President is hale and hearty; this government has deliv­ered 200 times power than what we inherited etc) without any word of caution from above or embarrass­ment on their part. Now I know. They all work for a boss who ac­tually approves of such conduct; one who does not allow facts to get in the way of fiction – if falsehood would serve his purpose. POLL This one, which will not be the last, joins a growing list of such statements made by Buhari which, after being fact-checked, turn out not to be so. A few Nigerians, with retentive memories, would recall the declaration last year that the FG has the list of 10 million people taken out of poverty. A few days after, the Director in charge of doc­umenting the list of recipients of N5000 per month, confessed that he was just embarking on devel­oping the list. Furthermore, a little under­standing of arithmetic should have shown our President that N5000 per month or N167 per day will never lift anybody out of ex­treme poverty. In reality, it actual­ly encourages people to wallow in poverty while pretending to assist them. But, poverty is not my reason for writing today. My objectives are two. First, is to advise President Buhari to stop embarrassing him­self, and us, with such utterances like the one under reference. Sec­ond, is to set the record straight briefly. Brief History Of The La­gos-Ibadan Roads I will be 78 in a few months. I took my first trip from Lagos to Ibadan in 1956 – at the age of 12. There were two Trunk A roads leading from Lagos to Ibadan. One went through Ikorodu, Ishagamu, Iperu, Alomaja and ended at the present Ring Road at Ibadan – be­fore public transporters went to Ogunpa Motor Park. The second passed through Mushin, Oshodi, Agege, Sango Ota, Ifo, Papalanto, Abeokuta and proceeded to Ibadan to burst out at Apata and contin­ue to Mokola and University of Ibadan. They were both single lane roads; but tarred. Akpabio’s Garment Of Honour The Imperatives Of Gender Equality In A Constitutional Society The first Expressway in Nige­ria was planned and executed by the Gowon administration – with Alhaji Femi Okunnu as Federal Commissioner of Works. The 120 kilometre dual carriageway which included three toll gates – Ikeja, Ogere and Ibadan – was the first of its kind in Nigeria. Buhari was actually in government when the road was opened for use. Could it be old age which made him to forget that even if SW people were trekking before the expressway was opened in 1975, we certainly stopped trekking after that? Ten percent of the toll collec­tion was meant for the continuous repairs and maintenance of the road. Unfortunately, Gowon’s suc­cessors, including Buhari(1984-5) failed to maintain the road. Fur­thermore, as early as the mid-1980s, it was clear that the road was carrying a heavier load than that for which it was designed. It needed to be totally rebuilt. The road gradually fell apart and a se­ries of death traps developed. But, there was still a road. Late President Yar’Adua start­ed the current effort to upgrade the road in 2009. Jonathan con­tinued and close to 50 percent was already completed by 2015. So, it is absurd for any President coming into office after 2015 to claim credit for the work done before him. It is absolutely dishonest to say “there was no road”. “Buhari ignorant of S’West infrastructural problems — Afenifere. By May this year, the Buhari administration would have spent seven years without completing a project half-finished by his prede­cessor. Instead of admitting fail­ure, the President is attempting to re-write the history of the South West – about which he knows next to nothing. I totally agree with Afenifere. I will even go further. “You can’t bully reality”. As a further demonstration of his ignorance, Buhari mentioned the Lagos-Ibadan rail service which he was duped to commis­sion. Apart from the “joy ride”he was given by those embarking on deceiving him, Buhari knows nothing more about the rail ser­vice. I know more; because I went on the train with eyes wide open and took pictures. Unless, they have increased the trips, by late last year, only one trip a day was available to and fro. The maximum number of passengers could not have exceeded 4,000 peo­ple. Yet, over 1,000,000 people are on the Lagos-Ibadan road every­day. The rail service simply does not count. Finally, I am yet to meet anybody who took the ride once who wants to repeat it. Is this what Buhari points to with pride? I dis­miss it as arrant nonsense.” Enough of this. Jokes Of The Month “Russian-Ukraine war: FG to evacuate Nigerians from Ukraine – Onyeama.” Mr Geoffrey Onyeama is Ni­geria’s Foreign Affairs Minister. When several serious govern­ments were evacuating their cit­izens, NFG did nothing. Now they promise to evacuate Nigerians after all airports are closed, most Nigerians have fled and are scat­tered. Don’t laugh please! “Why military is reluctant to wipe out bandits — El-Rufai.” The Kaduna state Governor went on to disclose to reporters that “preliminary investigations implicated some police, military personnel.” So, we are sending bandits to wipe out their friends. Don’t laugh!!! “FAAC shares N574.668bn among FG, states, LGs.” I have said it repeatedly; Nigeri­an most states will be totally bank­rupt by the time Buhari leaves office in 2023. The amount shared last month represents the second time the three tiers of government would share less than N600bn in a month. The last was under Buhari in 2016. The one before it was in 2010 under President Yar’Adua. By December this year, public servants in most states will be in revolt. You Will Pay More For Fuel Take it from me; you will pay more for fuel than you expect. Bu­hari, who shifted subsidy removal 18 months is not an economists. And, he is surrounded by people who lack the courage to tell him the truth. With crude oil now over $120/barrel, Nigeria will be spend­ing more than her crude oil rev­enue to pay for refined products. Then we will discover that nobody wants to lend us money abroad. Exchange rate will skyrocket….