Abuja – A prosecution witness, Muktar Dauda, on Wednesday testified against a former senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani. The Federal Government is prosecuting Senator Sani on a two-count charge bordering on influence peddling and obtaining the sum of $25,000 from the chairman of ASD Motors, Alhaji Sani Dauda to allegedly bribe the EFCC to shield him from investigation. At a resumed trial before Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court Abuja, the witness Muktar Dauda, introduced himself as the Managing Director of ASD Motors Ltd. Led in evidence in chief by the prosecution counsel, Abba Mohammed, the witness admitted knowing Senator Sani. “I know the defendant, Senator Shehu Sani. On December 23, 2019, around 8pm, I was sitting down in the office, when he came with my Chairman that he needed to buy a Peugeot 508. “I personally wrote the proforma invoice for him and he went to see my chairman. “When he wanted to leave, he came to my office requesting for an account number to pay for the motor, and I gave him our company’s GTB account. But since then, I have not heard from him in respect of the transaction” the witness stated. He said further: “At ASD Motors, we sell vehicles by issuing a proforma invoice that contains information and if the person is interested, we then issue an invoice. POLL “After issuing the invoice, there was no payment made into the ASD GTB account by Senator Sani, the witness said. Upon cross examination by Abdul Ibrahim, the witness admitted that his uncle, Alhaji Sani Dauda, was part of the company structure. On the question whether his uncle told him that anybody gave him money as bribe, Muktar said, “I am not aware that somebody gave money to bribe my Uncle. Senator Sani was on January 27, 2020, admitted to bail in the tune of N10m following his arraignment by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on a 2-count charge. Sani, according to the charge, was accused of collecting $15,000 from a businessman, Alhaji Sani Dauda, under false presence on November 20, 2019, promising to give the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Tanko Mohammed, in order to influence some pending cases in court. The EFCC stated in the charge that the embattled senator also collected $10,000 from Mr. Dauda to bribe the acting chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu. Trial continues today.