LAGOS – Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly have described the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as a man of courage, and the man that helped the parliamentary to achieve financial autonomy. The lawmakers gave accolades at a special parliamentary session in honour of the former Lagos State governor, to commemorate his 70th birthday, which holds on March 29, 2022. Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa said that Tinubu is their benefactor, adding that he has done well as a leader. According to him, “This is an opportunity for us to recognise all that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has done for us as a leader. “In the face of opposition, he resolved and insisted on being in the opposition leaning towards the Federal government. “It is better to celebrate people that have contributed immensely to the development of the society. This Assembly has distinguished itself in all areas. “This House has been running independently with financial autonomy through the help of Asiwaju. When he came in as the governor, he increased the IGR of the state.” Obasa added that they were at the event to show the people how the parliamentary works and what they do in respecting people, adding that the parliamentary has been working in Nigeria for 20 years running. POLL Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu representing Eti-Osa 2 described Tinubu as a man with a large heart that easily forgives. “Beyond the intimidating credentials of Tinubu, he’s a forgiving man with a large heart. He’s extraordinary. I salute him. The Asiwaju of everything is good. I wish him long live,” said Yishawu In his contribution, Deputy Speaker of the House, Hon. Wasiu Eshilokun-Sanni stressed that Tinubu has done a lot for democracy since he joined politics till date. “It is easy for him to join the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), but he refused and focused on building a progressive party. We call on him to continue his ambition to become the President of Nigeria,” he added. Hon. Victor Akande (Ojo1) used the avenue to address the critics of Tinubu on his presidential ambition. “I want to tell Chief Bode George to pack his bag and leave Nigeria because Tinubu will become the Nigerian President come 2023,” he said, just as he described Tinubu as a political colossus, political mathematician and the doyen of modern day Nigeria. Also speaking, Hon. Abiodun Tobun (Epe 1), described Tinubu as a respected Nigerian “because he is a promise keeper, a bridge builder, a lover of Nigeria, adding that they support him on his ambition to be the President of Nigeria in 2023,” he said. Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade described Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as a detribalized Nigerian, a leader of the people, and a politician with a difference. According to Hon. Rotimi Abiru (Shomolu 2), “Tinubu is a man of many parts, a true leader and the Mungo Park of our time. He laid the template for modern Lagos and he created agencies such as LASTMA, LAWMA, Office of Public Defender (OPD and others.” Other lawmakers also poured encomium on Asiwaju Tinubu, who they said had been able to build several leaders that have taken important positions in the country. The House subsequently adjourned sitting to Monday April 4, 2022.