LAGOS – Civil Society, grassroots organization and community based groups across Yoruba territories are working to set up a committee that will mediate and reconcile the warring Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, All Progressive Congress (APC) National Leader and Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Minister for Interior. The group under the aegis of the League of South West Civil Society and Community Based Organisations while addressing newsmen in Lagos on Tuesday by Taiwo Adeleye, the Convener said the group will brief the people on the outcome of the people driven peace initiative. “We have called this important meeting for many good reasons. We are all conscious of the history of politics in the South West for time immemorial. In the South West, post colonial history teaches us that the region had its own dose of intra-party wrangling with far reaching consequences on Yoruba people and their ancestral territories. APC Chairmanship: Stakeholders Kick Against Sen Adamu, Nnamani Ekiti 2022: Segun Oni Storms Ekiti With SDP Flag, Urges Ekiti To… The Western regional crisis which dovetailed into the 1964 general elections could have been avoided. It started as an ideological difference between the then Premier of Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and his deputy, Chief Ladoke Akintola. Eventually, this crisis snowballed into a major conflict within the Action Group (AG) leading to the emergence of a faction of Chief Akintola presented as an alternative political front which clashed with the established dominion of the Action Group. “Eventually, this cris led to the declaration of a State of Emergency in the Western Region. It developed into the killing and burning of properties in the South West by armed state agents and also by the people themselves. “Also the crisis between Chief Adekunle ajasin and Akin Omoboriowo manifested. This led to riots and arson in the then Ondo state with a far reaching impact on Nigeria. We do not want a repeat of this ugly history,” he said. Adeleye stated that there is no dispute that cannot be resolved and that the groups realize the need for reconciliation between the key actors because continued face off is not in the interest of either of the two. “We do not belong to the school that thinks the crisis must linger. It is an ill wind that blows no one any good. It is a dispute that can set the entire South West on the path to internal combustion. POLL Adding, “We recognized the strength, the potentials, the opportunities and of course the weakness of both actors. We strongly believe that as humans, none of them is perfect. The very reason they must close ranks in the interest of all. Speaking further he said, that this crisis has continued to blossom is a weakness on the part of the two and a show of lack of capacity to manage dispute on the part of all the civil society, organization and community based groups. “In politics disagreements are normal. When such disputes are nipped in the bud, it is for the benefit of all, including the society on whose behalf both actors contend,” he added.