Stallion Auto keke Limited (SAKL), a member of Stallion Group has manufactured its 100,000th Bajaj Keke in Nigeria. This is as the company promised that it would continue to empower Nigerian youths through its activities in Nigeria. A statement by the company said that the 100,000th feat was achieved within 18 months of production in Nigeria. Mr. Manish Rohtagi, Managing Director, SAKL and VON Automobiles of Nigeria Limited, in his speech at an event to celebrate the 100,000th production, attributed the extraordinary feat to his company’s relentless effort towards delivering international quality Kekes’ and creating economic value for Nigerians. According to him, the company embarked on overall cost-effective empowerment programme for the Nigerian youths by making the Bajaj Keke the most affordable in the country at N975,000 per unit. He said: “To this end, we embarked on empowerment of Nigerians, empowerment of females and empowerment of our staff, thereby creating a winning team, which facilitated the unprecedented production of 100,000 units of Bajaj Keke within a short span of 18 months. “For effectiveness, we also introduced auto finance, an essential ingredient of the nation’s Auto Industry Development Plan (NAIDP), thereby working closely with Microfinance banks, towards empowering Nigerian youths. “While we provide the unemployed youths with riding skills and techniques, our partner Microfinance Banks provide liquidity with a zero-gestation period to ensure their daily income as micro entrepreneurs. As a result of the foregoing efforts, driving Keke has, today, become the best Micro Entrepreneurship in the country.” POLL Rohtagi explained further that in return for empowerment and support the company gave the stakeholders, including riders and dealers, it was also getting supports from all spheres of Nigeria. He said this specifically resorted to the achievement of the company within the period. He reiterated that the company would not rest on its oars as it has also rolled out new range of top quality products like the all New Face-Lift Bajaj RE-4S , the new super Keke RE- 250 with higher capacity engine and innovative technology and the Bajaj Cargo. Recall that from inception, the company, in collaboration with Stallion Empowerment initiative (SEI), embarked on training and hiring of females to work either as assembly plant technicians or field mechanics. Rohtagi added that as a result of its ambitious female empowerment programmes, which include training as mechanics and assemblers, Stallion Auto Keke Limited remained the only automobile assembly plant in Nigeria, which has employed many female staff on the assembly line. In line with that vision, the company had, as of December 2021, already trained and integrated into its assembly plant in Lagos, not less than 40 women with a target of training and absorbing 500 female technicians by the end of 2022. Despite its outstanding feat and contribution to the nation’s economic growth, Rohtagi reiterated the commitment of Stallion Auto Keke Limited towards alleviating youth unemployment by continuing to roll out more expansive youth and women-focused empowerment programmes.