DAMATURU – Determined to ensure prompt availability of drugs and other consumables to communities, Yobe State Drugs and Medical Consumables Management Agency (YODMA) has commissioned Potiskum Zonal Warehouse. In his opening address at the commissioning ceremony, the Executive Secretary of YODMA Pharmacist Abdulaziz Garba Mohammed said that the warehouse will cater for the four local government areas of Fune, Fika, Potiskum and Nangere instead of driving to Damaturu, the state capital for the delivery of the items. Vehicles, House Burnt As Filling Station Catches Fire In Awka 2019: Former Ogun Speaker Dumps PDP for ADC “This is part of our vision to bring services closer to the communities, we believe by this we will be easing the transportation cost, the time spent by the facilities to go to Damaturu, they will now attend to their patients promptly”. On his part, the Yobe State Programme Manager of the Saving One Million Lives for Results (SOML-PforR), Dr. Babagana Abba disclosed that Saving One Million Lives have been a great partner to supporting the health sector “because what we do is too much to summarise, we have been working closely with the Yobe State Government”. According to him, the establishment of the zonal warehouse will make a quick way in restocking their pharmaceuticals and improving access to their clients with full access across the zone. Speaking while commissioning, Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni represented by the Commissioner of Health and Human Services Dr Muhammad Lawan Gana congratulated YODMA for taking the drive forward. “As I speak now, we have taken a drive on Gashua, Nguru, Potiskum and Damaturu while expecting the remaining two”. The Commissioner revealed that the health sector has recorded numerous developments which includes upgrading of a warehouse in Damaturu via a partnership with MCRP as well as the support received from SOML for Results as approved by the Governor. POLL Gana said “ensuring that we have a high quality and affordable medication requires that we actually reduce the cost associated with the logistics of the movement of the drug, no wonder we needed to establish this Zonal Warehouses because it is not economically sensible that everyone has to travel to Damaturu to get drugs and consumables”. He charged everyone to continue to strive to commit to ensuring that the people of Yobe State achieve and have access to the best healthcare services delivery. ” I want us to continue to supervise the healthcare facilities and ensure that they do the needful. The era of us going to the PHC or any other healthcare outlet finding it closed or you have the Personnel but they’re not delivering the expected quality services is gone, all the needful have been provided”.