A peptic ulcer is a condition that causes sore or deep erosion (ulcer) to form in the inner lining of the wall of the stomach or the first part of the small intestine (duodenum). Sores in the stomach are called ‘Gastric Ulcers’ while those in the first part of the small intestine are called ‘Duodenal Ulcers.’ Duodenal ulcers affect approximately 10% of the adult population and are two to three times more common than gastric ulcers. According to the latest WHO data published in 2018 on Peptic Ulcer Disease and Deaths in Nigeria, there were 5,123 total deaths from peptic ulcers, ranking Nigeria #54 globally. Increasing Chances Of Pregnancy Through Intrauterine… How Intervention Programmes Can End Female Genital Mutilation… CAUSES Some people used to think that stress, prolonged hunger, stress, or certain foods could cause ulcers, but no scientific evidence supports such claims. Instead, studies have revealed two leading causes of ulcers: • Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) • Pain-relieving NSAID medications. H. pylori and chronic use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) disrupt normal mucosal defense and repair of the stomach, making the mucosa more susceptible to the corrosive effect of the acid normally produced within the stomach to digest food. Very few patients have hypersecretion of gastrin caused by a tumor in the stomach (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). POLL RISK FACTORS Cigarette smoking is a risk factor for developing ulcers and their complications. Also, smoking impairs ulcer healing and increases the incidence of recurrence. A family history exists in 50 to 60% of children with duodenal ulcers. Individuals with Blood group ‘O’ seem to be more likely to get infected with H.pylori. SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS Aphrodisiacs Very Potent In Solving All Sexual Problems, Mending… NAFDAC Commissions 73 Vehicles To Enhance Operational Efficiency Symptoms of peptic ulcer disease depend on ulcer location and patient’s age; Pain is the most common symptom, often localized to the upper part of the abdomen and relieved by food or antacids. The pain is described as burning or gnawing, or sometimes as a sensation of hunger; however, many patients, particularly older patients, have few or no symptoms. Gastric ulcer symptoms often do not follow a consistent pattern (e.g., eating sometimes exacerbates rather than relieves pain). Duodenal ulcers tend to cause more consistent pain. Pain is absent when the patient awakens but appears in mid-morning and is relieved by food but recurs 2 to 3 hours after a meal. DIAGNOSIS AND TEST Health care providers may carry out the following test to confirm the presence of H.pylori or ulcers in the stomach and first part of the intestine. Indications for endoscopy include perforation, obstruction, uncontrolled or recurrent bleeding, and, although rare, symptoms that do not respond to drug therapy. COMPLICATION Problems that can arise from untreated longstanding Peptic Ulcers may include the following: GI hemorrhage: bleeding from the ulcerated part is the most common complication of peptic ulcer disease. There is sudden, intense, continuous epigastric pain that spreads rapidly throughout the abdomen and at times referred to one or both shoulders. Symptoms include vomiting of fresh blood or coffee-ground material, the passage of bloody stools or black tarry stools, and weakness, fainting, thirst, and sweat caused by blood loss. Perforation: The ulcer may penetrate deep and rupture the wall of the stomach or intestine, leaking acidic into space around other organs, causing severe pain all over the abdomen; the patient usually lies still because even deeper breathing worsens the pain. Palpation of the abdomen is painful, rebound tenderness is prominent, abdominal muscles are rigid (board-like), and bowel sounds are diminished or absent. Shock may ensue, heralded by increased pulse rate. Gastric outlet obstruction: Obstruction may be caused by an ulcer’s scarring, spasm, or inflammation. Symptoms include recurrent, large-volume vomiting, occurring more frequently at the end of the day. Loss of appetite with persistent bloating or fullness after eating also suggests gastric outlet obstruction. Prolonged vomiting may cause weight loss, dehydration, and alkalosis. Recurrence:  Factors that affect ulcer recurrence include failure to eradicate H. pylori, continued nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use, and smoking. Less commonly, a tumor. Stomach cancer: Patients with H. pylori-associated ulcers have a 3- to 6-fold increased risk of gastric cancer later in life. TREATMENT Peptic ulcers are commonly treated with medication with complete remission. Sometimes, surgery is required to remove the damaged part of the stomach. multidrug therapy with antibiotics and acid suppression drugs, double therapy, triple therapy, or quadruple therapy OUTLOOK Most people with Peptic ulcer disease have complete remission after medical therapy, and very few people need surgery. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital in Dallas, Texas. Hospital. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics.