ENUGU – A non-governmental organisation, Initiative for Better and Brighter Nigeria (IBBN) has kicked against zoning of political positions in Enugu state. It described the purported zoning by the Peoples Democratic Party in Enugu State as a mere decoy to enslave and deceive gullible electorates in the state. This was contained in statement by the State IBBN Coordinator, Mr. PraiseGod Idoko, on Sunday in Enugu, titles “Addressing Poverty, Unemployment and Inequality: The Bane for Socio-economic Development of Nigeria.” Crack In CECPC Widens Ahead Of  APC Convention APC Convention: Crack In CECPC Widen Idoko urged the state to jettison the fallacious zoning syndrome, since all the three Senatorial zones in the state have produced a governor. According to him, electorate should in 2023 support the entrenchment of good governance in Enugu State by changing the narrative, in order to get a good result. “In Enugu State, issues of poverty, unemployment and inequality have been unattended to. “Past and present government may have tried in one way or the other. But their efforts don’t reflect on entrenching good governance. “A large number of Enugu people are relatively very poor. No means of livelihood, no employment and inequality has been the order of the day. POLL “There’s a very big discrimination in the state in terms of employment or government appointments, some are given preferential treatments than others, thereby sowing the seeds of inequality. “The instrumentality of our Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) must do the talking for us this time around. Get registered and get our PVC”, he added. He pointed out that IBBN was birthed to exterminate this political ills or conundrum bedeviling in the nation and also champion the emergence of righteous politicians to pilot the affairs the country. “IBBN don’t support any political party but rather support the candidature of a person. “This time around, parties will not matter but the person’s character vying through a political party. PDP Chieftain Donates Tents, Furniture To Edo South LGA Party… Aggrieved Leaders Of PDP, APC May Team Up – Awe “We are enjoined to continually preach the gospel of championing good governance in Enugu state, through the enthronement of righteous politicians on the echelon of political positions, Idoko said.