As he clocks 60, popular Nollywood actor, Kanayo O. Kanayo, has taken a trip down memory lane to reveal some of the unsavoury things he had to do to survive as a boy. In a Tweet posted on his official handle, the actor, popularly known by his initials, KOK, said that he had to sell sundry food items to survive. “The young boy From Oboama Ezinihitte Mbaise that went to Enugu to school, sold akamu and agidi to survive is now 60. Things only God can do,” he wrote. Akamu and agidi are local deli made from corn starch and are quite popular as a staple in most Nigerian homes. 50 Cent Threatens To Pull Power Universe Off Starz Lasisi Elenu Pens Emotional Tribute To Late Mum Recently, the veteran actor weighed in on the debate as to whether the Nigerian movie industry is to blame for the seeming bastardisation of morals in Nigeria especially as it relates to fraudsters, otherwise known as yahoo boys. Airing his views, Kanayo noted that it is absurd to lay such a claim because, according to him, Nollywood as a film industry is based on what is called ‘Social Realism’. “Our films are based on the realities of our society. The sad truth is that African society in general and Nigeria has an unwholesome belief and dependence on rituals, fetish etc. A small percentage of movies merely mirror and/or reflect these aspects of our society. Other aspects of our lifestyle like the belief and dependence on religious figures and practices are also captured in our movies,” he wrote. He further added that the most effective way to tackle this scourge is to reorient our society to once again promote dignity of labour and also improve the economic and living conditions of the populace. “If an individual earns twenty thousand Naira monthly he should be able to live off the money. The same way someone can live off twenty thousand dollars monthly. Unfortunately, the socio-economic situation has created a feeling of hopelessness, especially in Nigeria, where a larger percentage of its populace manage to survive,” he added. POLL The actor was also in the news this week when he made a special birthday appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to release Nnamdi Kanu who is undergoing trials on charges of terrorism and other offences.