LOKOJA – The 2022 Batch ‘A’, Stream ll Corps members have been made to undergo a compul­sory COVID-19 test before gaining access to the orien­tation camp in Kabba Local Government Area (LGA) of Kogi State. The NYSC Kogi State Co­ordinator, Mrs. Mofoluwasho Williams, explained that all corps members, camp exec­utives, officials and all visi­tors must comply with the COVID-19 test before gaining access to the orientation camp. She stated that the NYSC is implementing the Federal government’s policies, hence the need to give prime impor­tance to the COVID-19 test in the camp including officials and visitors. In a speech, the Direc­tor-General (DG) of the Na­tional Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Maj.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim encouraged corps members to adhere strictly to the outlined preventive mea­sures against the COVID-19 pandemic and go for the vac­cines. ”Let me also remind you that the Federal Govern­ment’s directive on presenta­tion of evidence of COVID-19 vaccination as a pre-requisite for gaining entry to public of­fices is still in force. ”Therefore, I encourage those who are yet to take the vaccine, to do so without further delay as the rule will apply to you both in your pri­mary assignment and other public places,” he said. He commended the Presi­dential Steering Committee on COVID-19 and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for their continued support towards safe and efficient conduct of the Ori­entation Course within the context of the ‘new normal. He urged all stakehold­ers to support the scheme’s Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD), aimed at providing easier access to free and qualitative healthcare for vulnerable rural dwellers. POLL ”I implore well-to-do indi­viduals and corporate bodies to take a cue from Her Excel­lency, the First Lady, Dr. Mrs. Aisha Buhari, by donating well-equipped ambulances for the operation of the NYSC Mobile Clinics as well as oth­er essential equipment and drugs that will facilitate the conduct of our medical out­reach,” he said. Represented by the NYSC State Coordinator, the DG thanked the federal, state and local governments, security agencies, traditional rulers, corps employers and other stakeholders for their sup­port, especially in the area of security and general welfare of corps members. He enjoined corps mem­bers to promote national unity, integration and devel­opment which are some of the major objectives of the NYSC even as he challenged them to create jobs rather than seek­ing white-collar jobs