GOMBE – The Association of Non-Governmental Organizations in Gombe State has demanded a public apology from Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya over the reckless killing of 17-year-old Rahab Hassan, by the Governor’s convoy last week in Kumo town. Apart from the apology, the association, through its chairman Ibrahim Yusuf, in a press statement made available to Journalists in Gombe, also demanded the State Government to ensure compensation is being given to the immediate family of the late female student with immediate effect. The Governor’s convoy had last week (02/03/2022) killed Rahab Hassan, a student of Government Girls Science Secondary School Kumo, when she along with other students were made to abandon their studies and line up by the road in the name of VIP welcoming of the Governor. Man Who Beat Up Bobrisky In Lagos Traffic After Bashing His Car… N90bn FIRS Election Fund: Vanguard Apologizes To Osinbajo The Association also expressed concern as it condemned in strong terms, political activities, particularly that of political thugs which pose danger to school children in the State, even as political activities hots up. It said, “we are concerned like every other right-thinking person over the conscious citing of a political thugs hub right in front of the Central Primary School, at the heart of the metropolis by supporters of one APC “Mai Katifa”. “This is a gross careless, callous and insensitive act that has continued to put the lives of over 2,500 primary school pupils, 2,000 and 1,500 junior and senior secondary school students respectively, in danger. These children go into the school in pursuit of their education every school day. “Political clash will render the whole students vulnerable as seen in all such clashes over the years, more so, that the build-up to 2023 general elections will intensify such dangers every passing day”, it warned. It also condemned the assembling of students by the roadside to welcome the Governor anytime he is passing, thus endangering their lives and preventing them from their studies saying, ” this is unacceptable and must be stopped”. POLL It appealed to all stakeholders, particularly, the Gombe State Commissioner of Police, Director of State Security Service, Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, the Federal Road Safety Corps, Gombe State Commissioner of Education, State Chairman of the APC and Governor Inuwa Yahaya to ensure immediate removal of the “Mai Katifa” political stand (hub) from the premises of the Central School Gombe within 48 hours for the safety of school children. The statement further stressed that “this recklessness must stop now, especially with the build-up to the 2023 general elections that will further heat up the polity, hence the need for all measures to be in place for the safety of lives and property of citizens”. ANGO is an umbrella body of civil society actors in Gombe State known for it’s pro masses advocacy.