JOS – Former Nigerian Head of State General Yakubu Gowon has flagged off the construction of a new interchange at the British-American Junction in Jos, the Plateau State capital with a call on the residents of the State to continue to support Governor Simon Lalong to complete his developmental projects. Gowon said the flyover project was highly commendable because it will address the traffic situation in the area and enhance the movement of goods and persons within the State. According to the former Head of state of state, Plateau State remains a centre of attraction and a gateway to many States in the country, hence the need to have good road infrastructure for the easy access of visitors and citizens. Ex-Zambian President, Banda Dies Of Cancer At 85 EU Leaders Pledge To Double Military Support To Ukraine Gowon congratulated Lalong for exhibiting political maturity by continuing with inherited projects and completing many of them as well as initiating others across the entire State. This, he said, is giving the State the capacity to attract more development and continue to fulfill its responsibility as the home of peace and tourism. Governor Lalong in his remarks described the construction of the flyover as a major step towards addressing the plight of motorists who have over the years experienced so much challenges passing through the road which is a major link to the North East. He said: “We have not only executed projects (both inherited and new ones), but ensured that every part of the State is touched irrespective of whether the people voted us or not. We have put behind us the era of carrying out projects to favour ethnic, political or religious affiliations. “We are all aware of the nightmare citizens of the State and other road users go through to commute through this corridor. Our decision to take the construction of this fly over and dualization up to Lamingo junction is borne out of the need to place the State on a pedestal for economic growth knowing that the long hours people spend on traffic impedes commerce.” POLL Governor Lalong disclosed that the road is a Federal road, but the State Government decided to intervene while eagerly awaiting the commencement of the Akwanga through Jos to Gombe segment of the project because of  its importance to its people. He directed the State Ministry of Works to liaise with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to ensure that conditions for intervention are fulfilled in addition to a joint-supervision to meet up with the standards and specifications that are set for such interventions to enable us get reimbursed for this work. The Governor said the project is the first road project that his administration has carried out using the Public Private Partnership option where a financial institution is to provide all the funds with the State Government providing the guarantee. “This partnership has not only opened a new vista in project funding for the State, but also affirmed the success of the administration in restoring confidence in Plateau State and rebuilding the economy. I therefore assure citizens of the State and other road users that with this guaranteed funding arrangement and the commitment so far demonstrated by the contractor, this project will be completed and commissioned by my administration before leaving office in May 2023,” he said. Niger State Governor and Acting Chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee and Convention Planning, Abubakar Sani Bello praised Governor Lalong for being resilient and focused in fulfilling his campaign promises to the people of Plateau State despite the challenges of funds. He said the performance of Governor Lalong is a good omen for the APC which has made giant strides in many areas of the economy in all States where it is in power. Lagos NAWOJ Demands Speedy Trial Of Bamise’s Alleged… Canada Slaps Sanctions On Abramovich, Other Russian Oligarchs Commissioner Ministry of Works Pam Bot-mang said and they have been in constant engagements with stakeholders along the corridor which is a Federal Highway in order to ensure that there is no encumberance. He said the total sum for the project is 9 billion naira with cost of funds and the completion period of 18 months. The Long Gamai Miskoom Martin Shaldas said the performance of the Governor in projects is one that is based on equity, justice and fairness. Chairman of the construction company, Cranenburg Nigeria Ltd, Alhaji Nasiru Danu assured that the company will work assiduously to meet the target of completion and the desired quality.