BENIN – In a bid to continuously meet its mandate of reducing the high rate of unemployment in the country, the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has embarked on the training of 50 persons on enterprise and finance clinic in Edo State. This brings the number of persons to be trained on Enterprise and Finance Clinic through the Small Scale Enterprise of the directorate to Eight Hundred and Fifty Person (850) within the 17 Southern States of the Federation. Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, the Director General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), who disclosed this while speaking at the opening ceremony in Benin noted that the objectives of the clinic includes sensitizing the participants to the realities of the Nigerian Labour Market thereby encouraging them to opt for the self-employment as a career path, Ondo To Train Civil Servants As AAUA Inaugurates Business School UNICEF, Tony Elumelu Foundation Targets 20 Million Nigerian… The director general who was represented by the Edo State Coordinator, Mr Solomon Edobor also counseled participants to choose the type of business that would fit their interests, skills and competences. According to him, the training is also to encourage participants who may have been in business already to properly conceptualize their chosen businesses into feasibility business ideas through writing of feasibility studies and interfacing between resource persons. “It is also to mentor participants for the implementation of feasible business plans that have the capability of been funded by financial institutions as well as to link the participants with relevant stakeholders having the wherewithal to assist them in funding their viable projects. Representative of the Director of Small Scale Enterprise Mrs Ngozi Elochukwu opined that the essence of the programme was to enhance Entrepreneurship within the economy. She also called on the participants to endeavour to key into the clinic so as to reap the benefits of the programme. The Edo State Coordinator, Mr Solomon Edobor in his personal remark noted that the clinic/ training consisted of counselling and sensitization, finance seminar, lecture on business among others. POLL He however admonished the participants to be serious with the training, adding that the programme, is one of the Federal Government initiatives geared towards solving the huge unemployment problem in the country.