OUR CORRESPONDENT The Deputy National Coordinator, Ogunjinmi Isaac Ayobami and Michael Lenin, Acting National Mobilisation Officer of the Education Rights Congress (ERC) have condemned events and happenings at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State. ERC said it joined well-meaning Nigerians to condemn the usage of diabolical means by some indigenes of Ile Ife, the host of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) to demand an indigene to occupy the position of the Vice-Chancellor since the establishment of the institution. Recall that following a siege laid on the university community by indigenes of the Ile-Ife to press home their demands, activities at the elite institution were grounded early in the week as some indigenes closed the university’s two major gates armed with charms and other fetish objects, protesting against the appointment of a non-indigene as the institution’s Vice-Chancellor. ERC in a statement made available to Daily Independent, ERC explained that much as the organisation recognised the right of Ife indigenes to protest, it disapproves the resort to charms as a means of showing grievances. “We strongly disagree with the motive of the protest while condemning the invasion of the university and the usage of diabolic items to scare, intimidate, harass and assault students and staff. “As far as we are concerned, students and ordinary staff are not involved in the VC selection process and should not be targeted or intimidated over the outcome. We urge the Students Union, ASUU and other staff unions to publicly condemn the intimidation and assault. “Most importantly, it would be important for all the unions on campus to hold their respective democratic congresses to take a principled stand on the crisis and prevent the students and workers move from being split along ethnic lines. POLL ERC stated that Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), as a Federal institution of learning deploys academic merit and administrative acumen, not ethnicity or religion, to be the main requirement for attaining the position of a Vice-Chancellor and indeed for admission, award of the university’s certificate as well as employment and holding of any other administrative positions. The congress warned that the demand of the protesting Ife indigenes if met would amount to turning the Obafemi Awolowo University into a glorified community secondary school. The congress said the absence of democratic running of the university wass part of the factors leading to numerous disputes arising from the Vice-Chancellorship selection process, adding that the process of decision making in the universities as well as appointment into administrative bodies, are often riddled with corruption and manipulations of all sorts. “It is to counter this as well as the habitual mismanagement of university’s finance that we demand the involvement of elected representatives of students and staff in all decision making bodies of universities. Recall that Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, has described the demands by the indigenes of Ile Ife , the host of Obafemi Awolowo University, that the next Vice Chancellor of the institution must be from the ancient town as crazy.