AKURE – Human rights activist and Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Dr Tunji Abayomi, has dismissed the 1999 constitution review being carried out by the National Assembly as wasteful adventures. In a letter to the National Assembly dated March 2, 2022, noted that what the nation has was Decree 24 of 1999 and not a constitution. He pointed out that if Decree 24 of 1999 were to be amended, there would not be the need for the states to have input. Lassa Fever: Oyo NMA Confirms Death Of Members ‘If Rihanna Was Nigerian’, Toke Makinwa Reveals What Would Have… The human rights activist cautioned the lawmakers to desist from embarrassing constitutionally intelligent Nigerians, noting that this nation still has what the great American historian and philosopher W.E.B Du Bois called the ‘Talent Tenth’ who can command regard and respect in Constitutional knowledge. A statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday in Akure, Ondo State capital, reads in parts: “If National Assembly wants us to be continually governed by the military force Law Decree 24 of 1999 instead of giving us a Constitution from the people, by the people and for the people, it should continue in its wasteful adventures or misadventures. “The wrong and worthless amendment of the Constitution is enhanced in its absurdly bypassing the so-called Constitution amendment to States for approval. “Now, if a Constitution is valid and legitimate, (and this is judged by the procedure of making it not the content) any amendment thereof goes to the people for approval through the legislative representative Assemblies because it is or deemed to be their document, just as the members in the representative’s Assembly are deemed to be the people’s direct delegated agents. “So any Constitutional amendment will not and cannot go to the President for his assent. In Constitutional law, the President plays no role in Constitutional amendment. POLL “Now, if a law (and mind you, a Constitution is not law) is legitimate and valid, it unalterable goes to the President for his assent and not the people because laws are made by the government for the people not by the people for he government as in the case of the Constitution. The people of States through their representatives’ Assemblies have no role in the law-making period. “The question is what is the so-called 1999 Constitution notwithstanding the perverse titling of it as “Constitution” “First it was passed and called Decree 24 of the 1999 (i.e forced law) not by the people but by the military government in exercise of purported co-equal legislative power vested on the National Assembly that was overthrown by the military. “Is there any doubt then, that the so-called 1999 Constitution is a mere law or Decree like any other law made by the National Assembly (or military government as then was) unsubjectable to the input approval or disapproval of the legislature of the several States. There is no doubt absolutely.”