The Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC) on Sunday blamed the outage on some of the turbines of power plants in the country on inefficient national grid operation. Dr Joy Ogaji, Executive Secretary of APGC said that the intermittent start and stop of plants causes wear and tear and adversely affect the plants which cause maintenance issues at a time when they should be optimal. “The GenCos are supposed to start and stop at most 20 times a year but in Nigeria, the GenCos start and stop 365 days every year and this wear and tear are affecting the plants which cause maintenance issues at a time when they should be optimal,” she said. FG Reassures Nigerians Of Plan To Generate 25,000 Megawatts Of… Commission Solicits Electricity Coy’s Cooperation In Revenue… She added that there are low and high seasons but the designers of the market do it such that the impact will not be felt much. “At this period, the thermals are supposed to be doing full blast optimally. That was the design.” She however noted that the design can’t work now because of the management of the grid. “The GenCos are supposed to start and stop at most 20 times a year but in Nigeria, the GenCos start and stop 365 days every year and this wear and tear are affecting the plants which cause maintenance issues at a time when they should be optimal. “Last year GenCos engaged an expert to investigate these issues, it was found that the ramp down and ramp-up has affected the turbines. “For instance, Siemens has told Geregu to shut down the machines noting that if the start-stop continues it will destroy the three turbines until after maintenance. POLL General Electric has also notified Calabar on a similar issue and awaiting maintenance.” Ogaji also said before the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) took over electricity payments in 2015, the Market Operator used to pay GenCos for capacity charge and energy charge based on the privatization contract but NBET illegally stopped that since 2015. “Currently, the unpaid available capacity charge which we’re owed by NBET is N1.644.15 trillion.” The breakdown indicates that for every year, about half of the available GenCos is not paid for as the national grid could not take the energy to consumers. In 2015, GenCos had a 6,661MW capacity but 3,606MW was taken by the grid as 3,010MW was stranded causing N214.9bn shortfall; GenCos had 3,828MW in 2016 with N273.9bn debt; another 236.4bn debt piled due to 3,312MW stranded power in 2017. By 2018, the stranded power rose to 3,699MW worth N264bn and in 2019, it was N256.9bn for 3,599MW unutilized electricity. As of 2020, the GenCos could not earn N266bn due to 3,742MW stranded power while N120bn was the debt for last year when GenCos had 6,336MW capacity but 2,246MW stranded by grid inefficiency. Electricity Tariff Hike Capable Of Pushing Nigerians To The Wall… Aliyu Resumes As Minister, Calls For Synergy Among Players In… On proffering solution, she said: “We want to have a sit down with the government as a matter of urgency if we want sustainability of power in the market, and look at these line items and let NBET bring their book for reconciliation.” Meanwhile, in its reaction, NBET disputed the figures quoted by the GenCos, saying only companies with active gas supply and transportation contracts were paid for unutilized capacity. The Head Corporate Communication, NBET, Henrietta Ighomrore explained that in the country only five power generation companies with active Gas Purchase Agreement were paid for unused capacity. According to her, claims by Dr Ogaji that the GenCos have the capacity to generate 9,000MW was not accurate as inspections by NBET have shown that the capacity does not exist.