ABUJA – A presidential aspirant for 2023 and media mogul, Dumebi Kachikwu, has described Senate rejection of the Electoral Act Bill as a “bold and heroic act.” Congratulating the Senate for its courage and patriotism in thrashing a Bill seeking to amend the Electoral Act 2022, Kachikwu who is the Chairman of Roots Television Nigeria, added that political appointees seeking to contest political positions should first resign their appointments before partaking in primaries. Kachikwu, in a statement in Abuja, said: “The Senate deserves the commendation of all for rejecting a Bill seeking to expunge Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, which bars appointed political office holders from contesting elective political positions without first resigning their appointments. Electoral Act Bill: House Of Representatives To Harmonise With… Electoral Act Bill:  Buhari, NASS Want The Best For Nigeria –… “Nobody can eat his cake and have it. Therefore, let political appointees seeking to contest political positions first resign their appointments before partaking in primaries. “I think this is both fair, just and equitable. Let all aspirants seeking political offices be on the same footing. “This bold and heroic act by the Senate will ensure that political appointees seeking elective offices will not use government resources at their disposal to stifle or muzzle the chances of other aspirants. “The era of using national resources to procure elective position is gone for good.” Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari had in a letter to the upper chamber on 25th February 2022, requested the lawmakers to expunge section 84(12) of the Electoral Act. POLL However, a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja in an order barring the President, Attorney-General of the Federation, Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives and other critical stakeholders from altering the Act. Senate President Ahmad Lawan had rejected the ruling of the Federal High Court, saying the Senate would go ahead to amend the Bill as required by law. The Bill was passed for first reading on Tuesday by the Senate. However, Senators voted overwhelmingly to reject the Bill on Wednesday during its consideration for second reading.