ABUJA – Governors of the 36 States of the federation on Monday convened a maiden meeting with their state’s Attorneys General counterparts to address certain legal issues plaguing the States as a collective. Dr Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), in his welcome remarks at the two-day meeting with the honourable Attorneys General of States, noted that the meeting is of immense importance to the Forum to iron out issues of interest across the States so that going forward, States can foster a united front on areas of similar interest for a better outcome. Independent gathered that the meeting is convened as part of efforts to form a formidable force of state Attorney Generals, in the ongoing battle with the federal government in issues such as a collection of VAT, State Police, among other things. The NGF Chairman stated that the Forum has experienced at different times, challenges in prosecuting some cases at the Federal High Court because the law officer of a State is also prosecuting a similar suit. “The NGF is delighted to hold this meeting with the Attorneys General of the 36 States of the federation to address certain legal issues plaguing the States as a collective. As chief law officers of your States, this meeting is of immense importance to the Forum to iron out issues of interest across the States so that going forward, the States can foster a united front on areas of similar interest for a better outcome. “The Forum has experienced at different times, challenges in prosecuting some cases at the Federal High Court because the law officer of a State is also prosecuting a similar suit. As Chairman, I have at different times also, had to plead with my colleagues to withdraw suits of a similar nature which have already been initiated by the Forum on behalf of States. “I would like to state here that the Forum is not attempting to usurp the authority of any State or that of its Attorney General, but it could be tacky and counterproductive to have a suit of identical nature initiated by both the NGF and by the State, especially as both parties would be expending where the NGF would more easily achieve success because of its collective strength, thereby saving time and resources. “Apart from the problem of duplicating suits, the Forum believes that the time is right for States to align their position on important and crucial issues of interest to the States,” he said. POLL Fayemi reiterated that State Governors have endorsed the principle of the autonomy of the Judiciary and Legislature, and charged the State Attorney Generals, as chief law officers, to review and monitor the extent of implementation in each State, with a view to identifying current challenges and drawing lessons and possible solutions for the future. Speaking further he said: “As you all know, the security situation in our different States demands that all hands be on deck to safeguard the lives and properties of residents and as chief security officers of the States, the Forum through its Peace and Inclusive Security Initiative (PISI) has commenced discussions with Stakeholders on diverse ways to handle these challenges and restore peace to our communities. “Just last week, the Forum hosted one of such multi-stakeholder meetings in partnership with the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) which witnessed very satisfying results. To this end, the Forum believes that the administration of our criminal justice needs to be revisited and I implore you all to prioritise this subject in this meeting”. Earlier, Asishana Okauru, Esq., Director General of NGF, the instruction to convene this meeting was given by the Forum’s principals at the Forum’s meeting on 16th February 2022. This is structured as a 2-day event and the sessions will be guided by an agenda that has already been distributed. ,”I feel I should tell you a little bit about the Forum. It is basically a not for profit organization registered under Part C of the Companies and Allied Matters Act. It operates as a policy hub. Its membership is exclusive only to the 36 democratically elected Governors of our country who as you know are all politicians. However, the Forum itself is not set up to cater for partisan political interest. All members across party lines enjoy the protection of the Forum. “Resolutions are arrived at based on consensus, not unanimity. The Chairman of the Forum is first among equals and he is assisted by a vice chairman. The NGF Secretariat is the administrative arm of the Forum. A few of our officials will be talking to you about some of our projects. “Over time, the NGF has become influential especially in protecting the collective interest of its members and would ordinarily prefer to negotiate with stakeholders and other related parties. However, it has found itself going to court to address a number of issues. And our Legal Desk and lawyers will be talking to you about this in the course of the next two days” Stated the NGF boss.