Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has lauded the effort of the Police Officers’ Wives Association in constructing a skill acquisition centre for Police Officers Wives at Igwuruta in Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state. Speaking during the inauguration of the centre named after Hajiya Hajara Usman Alkali Baba, the President of POWA and Wife of the Inspector General of Police on Wednesday, Governor Wike recalled that, when in June 2021, Hajiya Hajara Usman Alkali Baba first visited and solicited for support to establish the centre for wives and children of police officers in Rivers State, the State Government did not hesitate to partner POWA to establish the centre. Governor Wike, who was represented by Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Tammy Wenike Danagogo, affirmed that it is laudable that the skill acquisition centre has been constructed to enable police officers wives, children and all those who care to learn skills do so. “I remember that during your first visit to the State, you promised to establish this centre, and you severally followed the progress of work and, now we are here to commission the project. “I must say indeed you are a great woman, a lover of wives and children of police officers and a lover of Rivers State. And you are a good woman and a woman of action. You deserve this commendation. “It is good that this centre has been established to enable our police officers wives, children and all those who care to learn skills. This is important that when white-collar jobs are not available, we have other means to empower ourselves. “There is no doubt that we have many challenges with the Nigerian educational system. Unlike other countries, our students are only taught to obtain degrees but not to create jobs. “Skill acquisition, vocational and entrepreneurial training are not available. That is why we have a high rate of unemployment. This is a worthy example. I urge you all to contribute to job creation in the country to reduce crime. POLL The Governor further commended the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman for being committed and professional in tackling issues of security in the state. “I further ask you to extend our sincere appreciation to your husband, the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman. Everyone in Rivers State can testify that today, security in the state has tremendously improved. “This is because of the professional efforts at fighting crime. This is how we need to approach crime. If the police continue to improve, the dream of Nigeria in the near future of having a safe and secure country will be realized. The President of the Police Officers Wives Association and Wife of the Inspector General of Police, Hajiya Hajara Usman Alkali Baba, thanked Governor Wike for his steady support and commitment to POWA.Speaking to the Governor She said, “Personally you have initiated and funded the completion of Rivers State POWA skill acquisition centre for the upliftment and betterment of women and youths in our police community. According to her, “White-collar jobs are not real since they are no longer available in the labour market, hence the need for women and youths to be properly equipped with the necessary skills. “It has been my dream to transform POWA into an economically viable organization through entrepreneurship that can contribute positively to our young and old women and youths. “This will take the traits of insecurity, alleviate the unemployment rate and create wealth and economic prosperity among the police family and as well as add value to the lives of families of the police. She urged all POWA chapters across the nation to emulate the giant stride taken by the Rivers State POWA and replicate its significance in their states and urged beneficiaries to use the centre for the good of all. Earlier, the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Command, Mr. Ebola Friday, thanked the Governor for partnering with POWA to establish the centre and d the President of POWA for driving the initiative.“The Inspector-General of Police is trying to boost our welfare and ensure we get all we need to fight crime to the minimum. What the IGP is doing to us, the wife is doing to POWA. We know this action of hers will help to stabilize the family,” he said. The wife of the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State Command, Mrs. Chimelum Eboka, thanked the President of POWA for taking the time to come commission the project as she promised that the centre will be well used by members of POWA, Rivers State.