According to 90 min, English clubs have been handed a major boost in their pursuit of Darwin Nunez. The SL Benfica star has informed the club of his desire to move to the Premier League in the summer to take the next step in his career. Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur are among the clubs keen on securing the services of Nunez next season. But they are set to face stiff competition from Manchester United, who have intensified their pursuit and have watched him closely on multiple occasions in recent weeks. Nunez, after all, has become one of the most in-demand players in Europe after a glittering start to his career at Benfica. Since joining the Portuguese side in 2020, the forward has racked up 40 goals and 14 assists in just 77 competitive appearances, making a mark not only in the domestic competitions but also in the UEFA Champions League. Indeed, the 22-year-old’s contributions have been vital in helping SL Benfica reach the Last Eight of the Champions League this term. The attacker had notably starred in the 3-0 win over Barcelona in the group stage, while his goal against Ajax helped the club move past the Round of 16 earlier in the month. Nunez’s exemplary scoring record at Benfica have convinced Manchester United to make a big-money move for the attacker in the summer. The Red Devils are bracing themselves for a summer of change, with Anthony Martial likely to leave the club amid interest from Borussia Dortmund. Marcus Rashford could depart from Old Trafford as well, which has compelled the Manchester United hierarchy to go after a new forward who can work alongside the likes of Jadon Sancho, Bruno Fernandes and Cristiano Ronaldo. As for Arsenal, they want to sign a reliable replacement for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who left the club in January. Nunez, to that end, could be an excellent option given his energy and work ethic in the final third, coupled with his impressive productivity. POLL Another potential destination for Nunez is Tottenham, who could be in a great position to offer the youngster regular game-time, especially if they end up losing Harry Kane in the summer. The Englishman has recently emerged as a target for Manchester United, though it remains to be seen whether any of the English clubs are in a position to afford the star striker.