Nigeria is set to strengthen its existing bilateral relationship with the Republic of Cuba using arts and culture as potential tools Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, the Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), made this known in his office when he played host to the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba, Her Excellency, Clara Escandell who paid him a courtesy visit. Runsewe revealed that Nigeria and the Republic of Cuba have very rich cultural heritage, adding that the similarities that also existed both in music and dance needed to be explored to create room for easy affiliation. Nigeria Must Become A Producing Nation – Dr. Femi… Adegbite Woos Investors, Says Nigeria Has Huge Investment… Runsewe remarked that the NCAC has provided a platform for the diplomatic community to gather and rob minds on cultural issues to engender cultural diplomacy. He further stated that the International Arts and Crafts (INAC) Expo also brought other international communities under one umbrella to network their arts and crafts to the rest of the world. Runsewe, however, promised that during this year’s INAC Expo, the Republic of Cuba would feature prominently and would be given an opportunity to speak to the International media on ways to collaborate with the youths for possible cultural exchange programmes. Runsewe commended Ambassador Escandell for dressing in Nigerian attire for the visit and promised to visit the Republic of Cuba soon. Speaking earlier, Escandell said she was in the council to see the man who had projected the image of Nigeria culturally both home and abroad and tirelessly working to use Nigerian arts and culture to show the need for peaceful coexistence among countries of the world. POLL Escandell added that she was also driven by the burning desire to acquaint herself with the council’s programmes as the seat of culture in the country. She reiterated the need for stronger collaboration between the NCAC and the Republic of Cuba to harness the rich cultural heritage of both countries for export. The Cuban Ambassador used the visit to call on the diplomatic community to always make good use of culture as a veritable tool to build strong bilateral relationships in theory missions.