LAGOS – The Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), Lagos State Chapter, has called on the Lagos State Government and the judiciary to speedily look into the murder of the 22-year-old fashion designer, Oluwabamise Ayanwola, who was found dead after boarding the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), in the state. Lagos NAWOJ, while condemning the gruesome murder of Bamise, appreciated the government for arraigning the driver, Andrew Nice Omininikoron at the Yaba Magistrate Court earlier today, but explained that it will be delighted if speedy proceedings and judgment will be achieved within a short period to prove her competence that the matter will be executed judiciously. The statement, which was signed by Adeola Ekine, Chairperson and Lilian Ario, Secretary, read, “As female journalists in the state, our members are keenly monitoring the proceedings and events as they unfold and promise to follow up the matter to a logical conclusion bearing in mind that Bamise was a promising young lady that met her untimely death five months after the completion of her apprenticeship and three months after she gained employment. BREAKING:  BRT Driver Arraigned For Bamise’s Alleged Murder Bamise: Passengers Stranded As BRT Suspends Operations “It is disheartening to still hear that the prime suspect in Bamise’s death has earlier raped another female victim on, Thursday, November 25, 2021 through the same process. “As narrated by the victim, Nice was said to have parked at an isolated place, feigned ailment and took his drug and water. “Suddenly, he was said to have stylishly made advances at the victim who rejected the advances. “Immediately, Nice was said to have reached for a sharp knife with which he threatened to stab the victim. Since there was no help, he succeeded in raping the victim. “Lagos NAWOJ advises the womenfolk to be more security conscious and raise the alarm at any suspicion as we are seen as the weaker sex. POLL “Similarly, we call on Lagos State Government and transporters in general to introduce security alarms and devices in case of such occurrences. “In conclusion, Lagos NAWOJ commiserates with Bamise’s family and the entire women folk particularly the 74-year-old mother she left behind.”