ABUJA – The crude oil business is no longer sustainable for Nigeria owning to high cost of production, Dr. Tope Fusua, Chief Executive Officer, Global Analytics Consulting Limited has said. He stated this Friday while speaking on the topic ‘The Agricultural Sector in Nigeria: Survival, Food Security and a Key Buffer for the Naira’ at the just concluded 32nd Seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors organized by the Corporate Communications Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), in Akure, the Ondo State capital. According to Fasua, while cost of production is about $15 per barrel in other oil producing countries, cost of production of crude has shut up to $30 per barrel in Nigeria. “Crude oil business is no longer tenable for Nigeria” he said. The Global Analytics boss also described agriculture as critical to human existence, countries must take care of their agric sector as a matter of survival, stressing that the sector has always been fundamental to human hygiene needs — food, shelter, clothing. According to him, agriculture and macroeconomic contributed l N41 Trillion to Nigeria’s N173 Trillion GDP in 2021, accounting for 23.7%. Giving the breakdown, he said Crop production accounted for N36 Trillion, Livestock N2.24 Trillion, Fishing N2.23 Trillion, and Forestry contributed N297 billion. He recalled that Nigeria used to spend $2.4 Billion on rice importation between 2012 – 2015, $997 million on fruit juice importation annually, N90 billion on cane sugar importation in 2021 to meet local demands, $7.4 billion on fish, toothpicks, furniture importation and $22 billion spent annually on food imports which has drastically reduced. POLL According to him, Nigeria agriculture can grow through Public-Private models like in China can boost agric productivity while import substitution efforts of government will yield results, stressing that 2.5% of arable land cultivated in Nigeria. He noted that in order to grow agriculture contribution to the GDP from N41 trillion to at least N100 trillion, there is need to sustain ongoing investments through import substitution plus dollar inflows from exports. He recalled that Naira has been on one way track devaluation since 1986, and also listed policies to vigorously pursue to include firming up the impact of CBDC E-Naira, block unnecessary hemorrhages, haul in more foreign exchange, create demand for the Naira, and improve confidence/patriotism of the people among other things.