LAGOS – The People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCo) has hailed the High Court for sacking Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi, his Deputy and 16 other State Assembly members over their defection from the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Coalition also urged the judiciary to make the same pronouncement on Governor Bello Mattawale of Zamfara State who equally dumped the PDP for the ruling party. Dr. Emeka Kalu, the National Coordinator, PDPCo in a statement said that justice could be delayed, but cannot be denied and commended Justice Nyang Ekwo for what it described as a “brave judgment.” Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards Kalu insisted that dumping a political party for the other without any justifiable reason after being elected on such a platform smack of sabotage, disloyalty and a mark of indiscipline on the part of such elected officers. According to him, the judgment indicated that the mandate of power belongs to the political party and not the person to whom the party entrusted the mandate with, stressing that the judgment had taken another fruitful step in delivering Nigeria’s judiciary from the shackles of darkness. Also, Kalu urged the judiciary to take another look at Governor Bello Mattawale, the Zamfara State Governor, whom he said transferred PDP’s rightful mandate to APC. He explained that Mattawale never won the gubernatorial election, rather he was brought into the office on a platter of gold following the Supreme Court judgment that quashed APC eligibility to participate in the 2019 Zamfara State governorship election. He added: “This is a clear breach of trust, ungratefulness and sabotage for a person who did not win any election, but was brought to power through circumstantial reliefs to dump his party in the name of connecting to the so-called ruling party. POLL “People’s Democratic Party has done tremendously well by working to ensure that our stolen mandate is recovered from Umahi and his deputy, even from all the defected Ebonyi PDP State Assembly members. “As one of the committed party faithful, I pass a vote of confidence on Senator Iyorcha Ayu led-National Working Committee of our party to have done this great job. I ask that the same temerity with which the Umahi case was handled should be applied to Zamfara State Governor’s pending suit for speedy retrieval of our hijacked mandate.” He emphasised that with the new electoral law, PDP stood a chance of returning to central power in 2023 if it put its house in order.