Premium beer brand, Heineken will be adding more glamour to this season’s UEFA Champions League (UCL) as the first set of quarterfinalists emerge on Tuesday and Wednesday nights with a mixture of live football matches and entertainment. In the Garden City, popular acts like Sheye Banks, DJ Big N and Ajebo Hustlers will be on the ground at Herbert Macaulay Road, Amadi, Port Harcourt to thrill fans and loyal Heineken customers when Liverpool hosts Inter Milan at Anfield. Former champions, Bayern Munich will also play host to FC Salzburg whom they forced to a 1-1 scoreline in the first leg. The next day, Asaba will come alive with Badboy Timz, VJ Adams, DJ Alonso, Harry Song and Shody the Turn Up King at the Golden Tulip Hotel for what promises to be an unforgettable experience during the match in which former Champion, Real Madrid attempt to overturn the lone goal loss to Paris Saint Germain (PSG). The same night, fans will watch Manchester City rollover Sporting CP whom they trashed in the first leg 5-0. UEFA Slams FIFA’s Biennial World Cup Campaign Super League: UEFA Boss Praises UK PM Johnson And ‘Fan… Heineken, the official partner of the world’s most prestigious club football competition has over the years given fans the opportunity to enjoy the UCL in an unmatched manner. That lovely tradition is now set to be taken to even new greater heights with premium viewing experiences in some selected cities across the country. Beyond the exquisite football action which has always been the hallmark of UCL nights, Heineken will be lacing the frenzy nights with plenty of entertainment with the lined-up artists and DJs to cool the nerves regardless of the outcome of the matches. There will also be numerous side attractions designed to give guests at the viewing centres an incredible and unforgettable experience. The Senior Brand Manager Heineken, Chinwe Greg-Egu, said; “With its Cheers to All Fans campaign, Heineken has chosen to once again celebrate Nigeria’s unique football fans who through thick and thin have kept their love for the sport alive and helped create incredible viewing atmospheres and make football moments live on forever,” she remarked. Heineken, the official sponsor for the UCL for over 27 years, has continued to take the lead in offering its consumers and football loving fans in the country the opportunity to watch live telecasts of all the matches every season.