This story, by SIAKA MOMOH, was first published in New Telegraph on June 2014.The story’s relevance saturates the industry space today as alcoholic concoctions of all shades dominate the shelves in the market place and bars across the country and Africa at large. The beer brewing war which kicked off in Nigeria few years back with the entry of SABMiller, the South African world number two brewer, appears to be getting more intensive going by recent developments in some other parts of Africa. According to an analyst insight report in Euromonitor, concoction beers, or opaque beers, are growing in popularity as the tipple of choice for many low-income sub-Saharan African consumers. These products, says the piece, are relatively affordable, partly due to the use of low-cost and locally grown fermentable starches such as sorghum, cassava and millet. Introduction of concoction beers or cheap beers in to the African beer market by manufacturers is the genesis of the combat. “These concoctions, however, are increasingly becoming a modern business, involving major global brewers such as SABMiller and Diageo. Such companies are using factory lines, thus replacing homemade traditional wooden drums with brick liquid carton packaging and focusing on rural-centric distribution networks,” it explains. Although, according to Euromonitor International, volume growth of sorghum beers in South Africa began to slow towards 2 per cent in 2013, there remains potential for further growth beyond this market in the rest of Africa. As the illegal or untaxed trade of alcohol remains prominent in many African markets, companies like SABMiller are seeking to commercialize concoctions and expand affordability to low-income consumers. It notes that Diageo’s attempt has worked well thanks to the use of transactional packaging to reduce costs; such an example can be seen in Kenya where the Senator Keg brand is sold in large returnable containers suitable only for communal consumption. SABMiller, second largest world brewer, has plans to push up beer consumption in Africa where consumption is low when compared with robust volume consumed in North America and Europe. POLL The company plans to invest up to $2.5 billion in Africa over the five years to build and revamp breweries, its head for the region told Reuters recently, as it looks to slake rising demand for beer in the fast-growing continent. “We are still looking at around 400 to 500 million dollars a year … for the next three to five years,” Mark Bowman, SABMiller’s managing director for Africa told the Reuters Africa Investment Summit. “There’s quite an attractive growth in markets outside South Africa so we will be investing basically to meet and be ahead of demand,” he said in an interview at Reuter’s offices in Johannesburg. It would be recalled that SABMiller, South African world brewing giant, in 2009 in Nigeria , bought Pabod Breweries, Port Harcourt where it owns 57 per cent and Voltic Nigeria Limited (Voltic produces tablewater), Lagos owning 80 per cent of the company, and Standard Breweries in Ibadan, using these companies for soft landing in Nigeria. For over five years or thereabout, this world number two brewer tried to open shop in Nigeria. In its quest to tap a $3 billion (N45.9 billion) informal market, the giant brewer is encouraging farmers to raise cassava and barley for its new discount beers. Diageo’s Guinness Nigeria Plc currently has Orijin, a spirit drink with herbal extracts in the Nigerian market. This appears to be part of the answer to SABMiller’s challenge. It may however want to compete with Alumo Bitters, a popular spirit drink in the market. In an apparent response to SABMiller’s entry into the Nigerian market, Heineken N.V., Nigerian Breweries Plc parent company stepped up the struggle for domination of the Nigerian beer market in Nigeria with its acquisition of two holding companies from the Sona Group which has controlling interests in five breweries in Nigeria. The acquisition provides Heineken with an additional technical capacity of 3.7 million hectolitres, helping to alleviate the company’s current capacity constraints in the market and improving the geographic location of its breweries. In fact, it has since acquired Consolidated Breweries Plc to strengthen its robust share of the Nigerian beer market. And interestingly, this Heineken’s move is clearly a smooth move to puncture SABMiller’s soft-landing strategy – entry into the Nigerian beer market from the fringes, with its acquiring of breweries in Onitsha, Uyo, and Makurdi. Africa is home to a billion people and, after a decade of relative political stability, dozens of fast-growing economies. Although still poor, it is increasingly seen as the next big growth market for consumer goods. But average beer consumption, at 8 litres per person per year, pales when compared with about 70 in North America or Europe, suggesting that few Africans can afford the beverage, which is seen as a status symbol. SABMiller is said to be trying to target consumers of these concoctions by countering its short shelf life problem via innovation whilst also keeping costs down.