UYO – Former Chief of Staff to Governor Udom Emmanuel, Mr Ephraim Inyang-eyen has declared Senator Bassey Albert Akpan to be more deserving to take over from Emmanuel than Umo Eno, anointed by his former boss. Recall that Inyangeyen who is also former Commissioner for Works and personal friend to the Governor was recently relieved of his duties and had recently declared to contest for the Akwa Ibom South senatorial district against the governor’s position, which favours Ikot Abasi federal constituency. Addressing a reception rally for Senator Akpan by the youth and women of Eket senatorial district at the weekend, Inyang-eyen said the same God that told him to support Emmanuel in 2015 was the same telling him now to support Sen Bassey Albert Akpan  “for he would be the governor of Akwa Ibom State”. Confusion As Pro-Tinubu Governors Takeover APC CECPC Wike Berates APC, Says Party Adverse To Internal Democracy “Don’t allow anybody to deceive you; I heard them saying they had revelation via iPad. Revelation is not via iPad. God does not give one man revelation. The Bible says that in the mouth of 3 or 4 witnesses, truth is established. God has told me that OBA is the next governor”, Ephraim Inyang said  The former Chief of Staff reasoned that for stepping down for Gov. Udom Emmanuel to get the PDP ticket eight years ago and for standing by Udom again in 2019 when other serving Senators from Akwa Ibom had left him, OBA (Obong Bassey Albert) should be given the right of first refusal come 2023.  “In 2019, our governor was deserted by the senators that we sent to Abuja. It was Senator OBA that stood with us. If a man would defend the state at moments of war, when “Warsaw saw war” and “war saw Warsaw”, it was only Senator OBA that stood with us to fight the war and we had victory.”  Inyang-eyen said. On his part, the National President, Eket Senatorial Youth Assembly, Comrade Joe Mbong, said the reception rally was organized to honour Senator Albert as a mark of appreciation for his effective and quality representation in the Senate and also bridging the gap between older generation and the younger generation of political leaders. Mbong added that the various youth groups across Eket senatorial were ready to make contributions for the purchase of nomination form for the governorship aspirant in view of his sterling leadership qualities and exemplary legislative skills. In his response, Senator Albert expressed appreciation for the gesture and solidarity shown him by the people of Eket senatorial district, and assured them that there would be party primaries in the state and that he would win as the candidate of the party. “I am not taking this show of solidarity, love and support for granted and I want to assure you that there will be party primaries and by the grace of God and by your votes, I will win as the candidate of the party and will win as your governor in 2023. POLL “Don’t be afraid of any man, you can only fear God, as for me I have conquered fear.  And, I want to promise you that I will not abandon you, I will stand by you, and I represent you the youths, I represent you the women, and by the grace of that same God who made Obong Attah, Chief Godswill Akpabio and Udom Emmanuel to become governors, that same God that will make Senator Bassey Albert governor.