UYO – Akwa Ibom government has declared recent attempt by Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited to sell off some of its assets, even as there is a pending court case, as upsetting and unbecoming of a responsible corporate citizen. The government said it was most irresponsible that the international oil company did not inform it, which is a critical partner, of its intention to carry out such major activity on its shared assets. Recall that ExxonMobil had recently issued a statement informing the general public that it has reached an agreement to sell its equity interest in Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited to Seplat Energy, a Nigerian independent oil and gas company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Seplat Energy Offshore Limited. In an interaction with newsmen in Uyo at the weekend, however, Akwa Ibom State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Uko Essien Udom (SAN), said the state government has filed a suit in court to prevent Mobil from proceeding with the assets sale. Udom informed newsmen of another pending case involving ExxonMobil and the Akwa Ibom State government, initiated by the former, following a revocation of some certificates of occupancy from the company. He said the attempt to sell-off some of the assets, some of which were shared between the duo and the alleged plans by the company to relocate from the state would further frustrate the outcome of the initial court case. “Mobil has not formerly informed the state government that they are selling and leaving. Everything we heard were from the press which is most irresponsible for any corporate citizen. There’s been no direct contact with us. That’s an action that may frustrate the outcome of a pending court case. “Akwa Ibom State government had to enter a court case restraining Mobil from continuing with the proposed sale of its assets and that’s because there is a pending litigation between Mobil and the government of Akwa Ibom State. The attempt to sell its assets, some of which may include assets belonging to Akwa Ibom State, was handled in a manner that is rather upsetting. POLL “Mobil has been in Akwa Ibom State for several years and the relationship has been very good until recently. The fact that they’ll attempt to sell in a surreptitious manner without any discussion with the government of Akwa Ibom State is very distressing and not to be expected of a responsible corporate citizen”, he said. Attempting to provide some insight on why ExxonMobil may have dragged the state government to court in the first instance, Udom said, “All the land in Akwa Ibom belongs to government, the government gives out certificate of occupancy. Some of the certificates of occupancy purportedly old have been revoked. They actually sued Akwa Ibom government challenging the revocation of some of the C of Os and the matter is pending and it’s continuing. “It is, therefore, a big surprise to us that in the pendency of these law suits, they go ahead and attempt to sell some of the assets and leave. That is why we have the order, stopping them from continuing the sale and removing any asset from Akwa Ibom State. The sellout cannot be allowed to proceed because when you have parties contesting ownership of an assets, all those things would be kept in abeyance. “The court has the right to keep what is called ‘subject matter of litigation’. Any attempt by either of the parties to deplete the asset or sell or dispose of them would be resisted by the court. It is contemptuous actually”, he said.