. As Some Governors Move Against Gov Buni, Call NEC ABUJA – A major crack may have opened within the All Progressives Congress (APC ) Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) barely three weeks to the much-anticipated convention of the party as a member of the Caretaker Committee and leading member of the Central Coordinating Committee of the Convention is said to have moved to summon a crucial meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party. The possibility of such action appears far-fetched given the absence of President Mohammadu Buhari, the leader of the party, who is reported to have jetted out abroad on medical check-up, however, the situation looks serious enough to attract a meeting of some APC governors at the weekend in Abuja, it was learnt. APC Convention: Crack In CECPC Widen ‘I’ll Make Ebonyi Economy Best In Africa If… It is not very clear last night why the governors are leading what a source said is “a mutiny” against Yobe State governor and APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Mai Mala Buni. An insider who is aware of the development alleged that the reason for the agitations may not be far from the different permutations and ambitions of the governors which had stalled the convention. The latest agitation we gather is being spare headed by a governor from one of the north-central states who we gathered, is uncompromising on his dream to pick the party’s Vice Presidential Slot. Our source said certain decisions recently taken by the CECPC did not favour realization of his ambition, and specifically cited the composition of the APC Zoning Committee headed by Kwara state governor, AbdulRazak AbdulRahman as one of the issues.Reacting to the development, Yemi Nabena, former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has cautioned against action that could jeopardize the unity of the party going into the Convention week. He said the to hold.meeting without the authorisation of governor Mai Mala Buni is a sham and will not stand.. POLL Nabena said the plot by the governor (name withheld) to destabilise the ruling All Progressives has been on for a while because of his Vice Presidential ambition in 2023, hence his plan to convey a NEC meeting. “I am using this medium to call on our leaders across the states to caution the governor The presidency should also call him to order to immediately drop the plan to convey a NEC meeting without the knowledge of Governor Mai Mala Buni and the Secretary of the CECPC. ” The governor should not destroy the ruling APC because of his personal political ambition of becoming Vice President or whatever in 2023.”