With mounting nutritional challenges facing millions of Nigerians especially in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, private sector operators in the food processing industries as well as government regulating agencies have pledged commitment towards achieving optimal levels in food fortification compliance. This is even as the leading sugar producer in the country, Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc, has won an award, having been ranked as the leading company with significant strides in institutionalising large-scale food fortification best practices. The pledge was made at the 4th Annual CEO Forum of Food Processing & Nutrition Leadership themed ‘Ensuring Improved Health and Nutrition Through Cross Sectoral Leadership’ organised collaboratively by TechnoServe; Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in Lagos. The CEO Forum is the gathering of Nigerian Food Processors and Nutrition Leadership where critical and concerned players in the food processing, health and financing sectors appraise the food fortification situation in the country, which is meant to correct the present food system that has been linked to poverty, hunger, malnutrition, disease, unemployment etc. Aliko Dangote, President of Dangote Group and Chairman of the ADF, who chaired the meeting, said food fortification is a health issue that members of the Forum are committed to complying with in each of the foods their organisations manufacture in the interest of nutritional health of Nigerians. He recalled how the Forum has proposed to be converging periodically to assess how far the compliance has been and expressed happiness that the report for the 2022 was an improvement on the previous report. He also urged members of the Forum to double their efforts to shore up compliance in the area where it is still below expectation. He assured that there was no going back in achieving full micronutrient fortification compliance especially in the pandemic era, to mitigate the effect of the virus. In his remarks, Mr. Bill Gates commended the efforts of the Nigerian private sector involved in the food fortification process and the affected government agencies for rising up to the occasion to ensure that fortification compliance is achieved so that Nigerians could be immune against malnutrition. POLL He said his Foundation was happy to be involved in the task and urged all not to rest on their oars until full fortification compliance is achieved. Giving the report of milestones and compliance trends covered by the Forum in 2021, Mr. Dominic Schofield of TechnoServe listed 14 companies covering 31 brands as having joined the Micronutrient Fortification Index (MFI) ranking for Wheat Flour, Edible Oil, Sugar and Salt.