ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) senators hurriedly met on Tuesday over fear of implosion in the party. The APC Senators, which met in Abuja, expressed concern over seeming disarray in the party. Addressing newsmen shortly after their closed door meeting that lasted for about two hours, the leader of the Senate, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (APC Kebbi North), said that the concern of the lawmakers on the platform of the APC at the moment is to save the party from further crisis at the national level. Langtang South Council Boss Denies Asaulting Ex Langtang North… Tinubu To Be Honoured At The Gazelle News Anniversary/Award… He said: “What we are concerned about is the seeming disarray in the party.” Senator Abdullahi disclosed that the Senators have resolved to serve as uniting block within the party to bring together all the various groups with vested interests. He said: “We are too worried about what is happening in our party and we expressed our concern over the challenges facing the party very close to its national convention. “As a very important stakeholders in the party, we want to draw the attention of everyone involved to come together and unite so that we can have very successful convention in the party. “This is not the time for exchanging regrets about what we could do. What is happening is about the future of our party and government and also the capacity of our party to win elections in 2023. POLL “We cannot afford to come to the convention as a divided entity. Anywhere there are challenges that could cause the party its victory is a loss for everybody. “So we have resolved to meet again to articulate the major issues and then meet with the various stakeholders and aspirants of the party to advise and call for unity and sense of purpose in order to make sure that we unite every faction, every stakeholder of the party, so that the party can emerge victorious in 2023 elections”. The APC Senate Caucus however, commended the Extra-Ordinary National Convention Caretaker Committee for some of the gains it made within the last two years. He said: “We have sat down as important stakeholders as a caucus in this great party, to dissect all the issues that have been affecting our party since the formation of the caretaker extraordinary convention planning committee. “We are quite aware of the challenges that they have faced and we are also aware of the successes that the committee has recorded particularly when it comes to registration of members, they came to harmonise some of the successes of the party, carrying out congresses at the ward, Local Government and at the State levels. Osinbajo Chairs Resettlement Committee’s Inaugural… Court Judgement Sacking Umahi, Unacceptable, Says APC “We commend the performance of that committee in that respect.”