ISAAC ASABOR The Delta State Government in collaboration with the World Bank has commenced a six-week training programme on ICT/empowerment scheme for youths in Jesse communities in Ethiope West Local Government Area, Delta State. The training programme which was under the Delta State Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP), was declared opened by the Executive Chairman of Ethiope West Local Government Area, Hon. Pastor Nelson Owoso, at the training Centre, on Thursday, said it is aimed at building the capacity of youths in digital skill and ICT proficiency. Chief Chris Onogba, the State Commissioner for Environment and Chairman, Steering Committee of Delta State NEWMAP, Chief Chris. Onogba, said the ICTtraining/empowerment scheme was part of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa empowerment programme of taking the youths out of the streets to become self-reliant and employer of labour. The Commissioner, represented by the Project Coordinator of Delta State NEWMAP, Mr. Isaac Ufiofio, noted that the NEWMAP skill and acquisition centre provided for the community by the Delta State Government in partnership with the World Bank, is a communitysupport for6-week training programme. He said the 30 participants undergoing the ICT training from Jesse NEWMAP intervention community would be empowered with starter-packs on Information, Communication and Technological (ICT) management at the end of the course. Chief Onogba, explained that the training programme was part of the climate change adaptation programme of the World Bank that captured the provision of solar-powered light for community health care Centre in Jesse and six solar-powered boreholes for Jesse communities. The Commissioner said, in addition to the training of 30 ICT trainees by the donor partners, the training Centre would also be equipped as a train-the-trainers professional training Centre for Jesse community. POLL While soliciting for the security of the training Centre, Chief Onogba, harps on the proficiency of Ideal IT Center consultancy training institute handling the training and called on the participants to take advantage of the knowledge they would acquire to position themselves for productive ventures. The Executive Chairman of Ethiope West Local Government Area, Hon. Pastor Nelson Owoso, called on all participants to take advantage of the opportunity of the state government empowerment programme so that they can earn living from it. Hon. Owoso, appreciated Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led administration and the World Bank for identifying with the local government on areas of infrastructural and socio-economic development. The Lead Consultant and ICT Specialist for Ideal IT Center, Mrs. Nimota Dekpe, said the training would introduce trainees of what the computer world was about, collaborate online, have their own social media account, as well as teaching them graphic skills and productivity programme that would enhance their productivity at work or as business owners in their communities.