LAGOS  – Nigeria has been said to be the second largest investor in food and packaging technology in Africa. It is said to be behind Egypt and well ahead of countries such as South Africa, Algeria and Morocco, as Nigeria spent a total of £390 million in 2020 on food and packaging technology. Paul Maerz, Managing Director of Fairtrade Messe made the revelation while speaking virtually during a press briefing to announce the seventh edition of the agrofood & plastprintpack in Lagos , organised by Fairtrade Messe, a German trade show specialist in collaboration with the Organization for Technology Advancement of Cold Chain in West Africa, (OTACCWA). Maerz, who noted that the data was from the Germany Machinery Association, said that the level of investment from the country is as a result of its population growth which is driving the demand for food products and machinery. He said that Nigeria’s economy has experience food production increase in recent years owing to the government’s renewed focus on agriculture, but that it is not at the same pace as its population. He said for Nigeria to leapfrog to the fourth industrial revolution in agriculture and ensure it feeds rapidly growing population there must be a proliferation of new technologies across the value chain to drive production and reduce food loss and waste. He said the organiser is committed towards driving conversation around adopting new technologies and innovation through the exhibition. Speaking on the agrofood & plastprintpack exhibition & conference which is scheduled to hold from March 22-24, 2022 at the Landmark Centre, Lagos, Maerz stated that the objective of the conference is to bring the latest technology to Nigeria to enable quality production, drive industrailisation, aid food production and create jobs as well as export of food products to neighboring countries. POLL He said exhibitors are expected from Bulgaria, Côte d’Ivoire, France, Germany, India, Italy, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Poland, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, the UAE, and the USA. He further stated that the event will provide a networking opportunity for international and local industry players to gather to find solutions and share best practices for managing the complexities of the perishable food system and pharmaceutical supply chain while adopting new technologies and innovation. He added that global technology leaders from 15 countries will showcase the latest technologies and solutions for the Nigerian and West African Markets on agriculture, food and beverage processing, plastics, and packaging. “This year more than ever we are expecting top level makers from the agrofood and plastprintpack industry across the country and the region to discuss project , ideas and business with the exhibitors during the agrofood and plastprintpack Nigeria” he said. Also, Alexander Isong, President of OTACCWA said the partnership with Fairtrade was a synergy of purpose because preservation, transportation, and storage go hand in hand with agrofood and packaging, especially in an environment like Nigeria with large post-harvest losses. He said that last year’s exhibition and conference was a great success as they look forward to better collaboration this year. ‘The exhibition will also showcase a wide variety of product ranging from agrofood processing and packaging machinery to food ingredients. This year’s exhibition and conference is all set to become a major international event with registered exhibitors from 14 countries with more to come and will showcase adapted technologies and solutions for the Nigerian and West African market towards more than 2000 specialised trade visitors on the fields of agriculture, food processing, ingredients, plastics, printing and packaging and cold chain. Isong added that the exhibition is complemented by a top level three day conference featuring more than 40 Nigerian and European experts, adding that it will also feature a panel of discussion led by Nigerian and European experts.