Aggrieved residents of Southend estate, located along Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport road Abuja have called on the Minister of Federal Capital Territory  ( FCT ), Muhammad Bello other relevant agencies of government to intervene in attempt to force illegality on them through the distortion of estate’s master plan. The group under the aegis of Concerned Residents said the ongoing plan to erect a mosque and an Islamiya school in an inappropriate place in the estate is a distortion of Abuja master plan and should not be allowed. The residents in a communique issued at the end of its meeting at the weekend accused the chairman of Southend Estate Residents Association, SERA Mr. Goni Bukar of not providing leadership to ensure that the ongoing construction of a mosque which it said runs contrary to the approved masterplan is stopped. SERAP Urges Buhari To Probe Spending On Refineries Oyo NUJ Excited Over Appointment Of Popoola As ACU DVC The communique noted that if the moveby the estate to distort the master plan is not checked could result to a serious disagreement and crisis. It was gathered that officials of Federal Capital Development Authority, FCDA were earlier invited to the estate by Muslim community to reassess a master plan which excluded the construction of places of worship. Not getting any positive feedback, the Muslim community was left with the option of petitioning the estate developer, Samuelson Properties before the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petition where the Managing Director of the organisation, Sam Osivwemu told the committee that the exclusion of religious houses in the estate is in line with its masterplan. Chairman of the committee, Hon. Jerry Alagboso was said to have advised the parties to reach an amicable resolution to ensure peaceful and harmonious co-existence, noting that religion is a sensitive issue in the country that requires utmost caution. The Committee also advised both parties to return in February, 2022 for more deliberations. POLL In an effort to provide soft landing, the Managing Director of Samuelson Property, Mr. Osivwemu allegedly told the community to search for a suitable place, solely for prayers as they have done in a portion of the SERA chairman’s home and get back to him for possible consideration. The Concerned Residents further alleged that the advise of the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petition was misinterpreted by the Muslim community. “Within the period, it is alleged that a section of the Muslim community construed the advice of the Committee as a license to take possession of a space within the estate in exercise of their right to freedom of worship. “The said space is where the estate’s water supply infrastructure is presently sited and operational. The same location is site for other projects such as alternative access gate, gate house, security watchtower , etc. “Without recourse to any consultations or necessary approvals, they mobilized to site and occupied a common space intended to service all residents of the estate” the communique read in part. Festus Keyamo Loses Dad Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (06/03/22) The group noted that due approval has not been obtained by the Muslim community to commence the construction of the Mosque and Islamiyya school for which a N31m fundraising is allegedly being solicited, insisting on adherence to laid down masterplan. When contacted, the chairman of Southend Estate Residents Association, SERA Mr. Goni Bukar described the refusal of the Concerned Residents to come to the table of negotiation as worrisome. He said his efforts to ensure amicable resolution of the issue have been unsuccessful, calling for intervention of relevant agencies of government.