Chukwujekwu Ilozue,Raymond Ozoji Chukwuma Soludo’s entry into Government House in Awka has stirred intense emotions as diverse sections of the people have expressed optimism that the economy of the state would pick up soon and pave way for better life. People believe Soludo’s administration may resemble that of Mr. Peter Obi except that there is a lot more erudition. For instance Soludo talked of “a livable and prosperous homeland” founded in unity”. He said: “Our goal is to build Anambra into a livable and prosperous smart megacity.” Even though the state is jubilant that it has joined the league of petroleum producing states, Soludo is looking beyond oil. Soludo believes that Anambra’s greatest resource is its human capital, and hope to grow and mine this resource to its maximum, leveraging on technology. With his intention to inaugurate the Anambra Innovation and Technology Advisory Council to drive the emergence of the digital tribe and mainstreaming technology and innovation across all aspects of lives, he hopes that International Investment Council, Global Friends of Anambra in Development, as well as the Council on the Ease of Doing Business. POLL A Prayer Answered For Ndi Anambra – Umeh The erstwhile National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Senator of Anambra Central Senatorial District in the 8th Senate, Distinguished Senator Victor Umeh, OFR (Ohamadike Ndigbo) has congratulated the newly sworn-in Governor of Anambra State, Prof Charles Chukwuma Soludo, CFR, describing him as a prayer answered for Ndị Anambra and called on citizens to exercise patience with his administration as he rolls out his visionary agenda. The ex-parliamentarian expressed optimism that under the leadership of Soludo as governor, Anambra State will soon experience a new dimension of quality governance that will be all-inclusive and people-oriented such that other Southeastern States would seek to adopt his blueprint and as such, the APGA Party and governance would spread across more states particularly in the Southeast. “Soludo is coming as a very forceful anchor for the Next eight years,” he assured. We Won’t Create Problems For Soludo – Anambra LawmakersOn their part, lawmakers of the 7th legislature in the state have said that ex-governor Willie Obiano will be remembered for his good heart, philosophical and visionary approach to governmental issues. They said the citizenry won’t be unfair to him because he has done his bit and history will be kind to him. Some of the lawmakers, in their separate post inauguration speeches, said in spite of few shortcomings the former governor did well, especially in placing Anambra state on a pedestal for greater heights. Lawrence Chukwuweike Ezeudu, who represents Dunukofia state constituency in the House of Assembly, said during ex-governor Willie Obiano’s administration people criticised him for giving a lot of young people jobs by making them his political appointees. He said jobs given to youths were part and parcel of the security Anambra state is enjoying at the moment. Ezeudu said some of the youths who were employed by Chief Willie Obiano as political appointees can now boast of cottage industries and other small scale enterprises, stressing that without Obiano many of the youths would have been jobless which according to him would have escalated insecurity in the state. The lawmaker however pointed out that even though Obiano has laid a solid foundation for the new governor, much is still being expected from Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo. He said Ndi-Anambra does not expect an average performance from him especially now that the state is an oil-producing state, has an airport and other money-yielding facilities. According to him, Obiano increased the revenue base of the state with over 300% compared to what it was at the inception of his administration but tasked the new governor whom he said is a famous economist to scale up the revenue base of the state to 5 billion naira per annum without over-taxing the masses and blocking revenue leakages. Meanwhile, Nonso Smart Okafor of Nnewi-North state constituency, believes there are certain areas Soludo’s predecessor did very well, especially bequeathing an airport to Ndi-Anambra. Another area for which he lauded Obiano was the Anambra State Health Insurance Scheme where he said Obiano provided medical care to thousands of people who could not access it due to exorbitant hospital bills. Okafor however said that Governor Soludo should think outside the box to address insecurity in Anambra state because he observed that there are some communities in which contractors cannot work even when adequately mobilised due to insecurity. He said attention to road infrastructure should be uppermost in his administration while the education sector should be revamped completely with employment of more teachers. Noble Chukwunonso Igwe, the lawmaker representing Ogbaru 1 state constituency comprising Okpoko community where the new governor Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo visited, said the truth of the matter remains that ex-governor Willie Obiano did well even though he may not have done the best. Igwe told our correspondent that there were lots of sabotage from those who worked for him citing terror and mayhem revenue scavengers unleashed on people from Bridge Head to Upper Iweka in Onitsha, adding that there were leakages saboteurs feasted on to impoverish the state 