“Delight thyself also in the LORD; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart,” (Psalms 37:4). Reconciliation with God leads to delight in the Lord. Acquainting yourself with God, brings his peace upon you, and everything good shall come your way. God takes delight when we obey all His laws. Observing the law of God, in respect to the Sabbath day eventually leads to satisfaction in God. “If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the LORD, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: Then shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it” (Isaiah 58:13-14). We are in a society deluded by the concept that life is all about the abundance of material things we possess. Life is not about our accumulated possessions, but our life should be about our close relationship with God. Working on a Sunday is disallowed. According to Exodus 20:8-11, Sabbath day must be kept holy. After working and labouring for six days, the seventh day is a Sabbath unto God. The Israelites were fed with manna in Exodus 16. That was a miraculous provision of God. Enough manna was given for each day, but on the sixth day, enough manna that would last for the seventh day was given to them, because no manna was provided on the seventh day. This acknowledges the significance of the sabbath day. Sabbath is generated from a Hebrew word which signifies “resting from labour”. Making the Sabbath day holy means making it sacred or dedicating it to God. Sunday should be made a Sabbath day and must be made different from other week days. We rest from our daily routine that day, and it is also a day we dedicate our thoughts and time to God. Our time must be devoted to worshiping God at all times (every day and every night), but Sunday is special. Money Ritual: Stop Preaching Prosperity In Church – Pastor… The Man Called Bartimaeus (I) Due to your busy schedule, you can be easily caught up with responsibilities during other week days, but Sunday is the day you should have more than enough time for God. Though we read the bible and pray all the time, Sunday is a day we dig deep into the scriptures, in the house of God. Even when the sabbath has passed, these activities help us to feel nearer to God. Saints experience delight in God when they commune with him. We derive delight from obeying God’s commandments. “Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper” (Psalms 1:1-3). Every believer must delight to work in the path of righteousness. We will enjoy the enormous goodness of God by serving him with our whole heart. The comforts of God are also derived. Hypocrites who claim to love God and his ways, but who have not forsaken the ways of unrighteousness have no delight in God. Those who are yet to jettison the sin of adultery, fornication, idol worshiping, stealing, lying, backbiting and many more will not enjoy the goodness of God. Let’s delight in God and he shall give us all our heart desires. Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD, that delighteth greatly in his commandments” (Psalms 112:1).