AWKA – The traders of Donkey dried meat have cried out to the federal government over the destruction and burying of a truck load of their goods worth over N100 million by the Nigeria Customs Service in Kebbi State. The protesting traders in Onitsha, Anambra state and Kebbi state said that Customs impounded the vehicle laden with their goods that was coming to Onitsha Woliwo market on March 8, 2022 and buried the full truck load in the name of endangered species which had never happened since the over 50 years of the business in Nigeria. They described the act by Customs as sabotage,and wickedness against Igbo traders and Christians because according to the traders, the meat was against the Islamic religion. The traders said that the action was to sack over 10, 000 traders of Donkey both life and meat a cross Nigeria, saying that life Donkeys were brought into the country from neighouring countries by the Hausa traders who the trades bought from, killed and dried for sale in different parts of the country. The National Chairman of Dried Meat Preservers Traders’ Association (DMPTA) Mr. Ikechukwu Aniude flanked by the Secretary Mr. Chinonso Aniobi said that since they started doing the business which their fathers handed over to them, they had not experienced such act by the Customs and called on federal government to probe into the broad day destruction of their goods and compensate the owners of the goods. He said that they do the business within the country not outside the county, adding that they don’t export the meat that would warrant such action against the traders. “The question is, when is selling Donkey meat become offense in Nigeria? Is it now Customs wake up in slumber to know that Donkey is an endanger specie? when the Igbo traders are involved. The business has been on for over 50 years across Nigeria. The Donkeys are brought from Benin, Niger Republics and other neighouring countries, Nigerian don’t have them, but the customs allow the Hausa traders to bring them into the country and sold them to us and other traders across Nigeria. “Why is that it is our own dried meat of Donkey that was tagged endangered specie. Our goods loaded in a lorry coming to Onitsha market was seized by customs and buried the full load. It is targeted against Ndigbo, it’s parts of the maltreatment meted out against the Igbo people in this country. The Customs did not stop those that brings the Donkey into Nigeria but when they sell to us and we dry it and package it, it’s against the law” Aniude lamented. POLL The Chairman of Ilela Livestock Market in Kebbi State Alhaji Hamza Ahmed who also deal on life Donkey while condemning the act said that not only Igbo people were in the business, saying that they have been doing the business of bringing in of life Donkeys from neighbouring countries. He said that they supply life Donkeys to dried meat dealers and other meat dealers across Nigeria and nobody had stopped their vehicles over the years and wondered why Customs should not only seize the truck load of the dried meat but destroyed them. “The business is feeding many families and about 10,000 people feeds from the business. We Hausa’s don’t eat Donkey meat but we do the business supplying it to those who eats the meat. We sell to butchers/slaughters and sell to dried meat traders who kill it and dry it before taking it to their various markets in the country. “Government should call the Customs to order. If the government stop the business it will not only affects the Igbo people that sells the dried meat but all of us who sells the life Donkeys because all of us will be jobless and it will increase crime. I’m not happy over the destruction of the goods, the customs should stop given the Hausa led government bad name and do the right thing” Hamza warned. Kebbi Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), had on March 8, 2022 said it intercepted about 1,390 sacks of donkey meat put at the cost of N42 million in Yauri Junction of the state. The Controller of the Area Command, Comptroller Joseph Attah, made this known while addressing journalists in Birnin Kebbi saying, the donkey meat was seized because donkeys were part of the endangered species that were prohibited from being killed.