The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET), recently released the 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP) to the public in Abuja. The SCP will help the aviation industry, farmers, building and construction companies among others to plan accordingly in the New Year. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Information on weather conditions helps meteorologists, pilots, navigators, airline companies and businesses to ensure safe flights and save money by reducing some of the stringent requirements related to carrying extra fuel loads. The development of constantly updated flight plans with respect to available weather information regarding changing wind and general weather conditions can enable aircraft to use fuel more efficiently and navigate their planes in safer environments that avoid turbulence and make air flights comfortable to the travelling public. Encomiums As First Female GM Corporate Communications FAAN Bows… #Independent Awards: Ibom Airlines Bag Aviation Company Of The… Also, weather continues to play a significant role in a number of aviation accidents and incidents. While National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) of the United States reports most commonly find human error to be the direct accident cause, weather is a primary contributing factor in 23 per cent of all aviation accidents worldwide. In Nigeria, the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET) is charged with the responsibility to advise the Federal Government on all aspects of meteorology; project, prepare and interpret government policy in the field of meteorology; and to issue weather (and climate) forecasts for the safe operations of aircraft, ocean going vessels and oil rigs among others. No doubt, the contributions of NiMET to the sustenance of air safety in Nigeria in almost a decade cannot be over-emphasised. From releasing of prompt and believable weather reports to airlines, agriculture, telecommunication, education, defence, health, finance, insurance, power and energy, maritime, building and construction industries, the importance of NiMET to business growth is expanding by the day. Just recently in Abuja at the public presentation of the 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP), which attracted he crème-de la-crème of the aviation sector, government and private organisations, NiMET reiterated its commitment not only towards safer sky through its regular weather forecasts, but also to agricultural and other sectors of the country. Prof. Mansur Matazu, Director-General of NiMET in his presentation said the SCP was one of the agency’s flagship products, an invaluable tool, which has helped airlines and farmers among others improved their yields. POLL According to him, SCP has helped increased and improved the level of preparedness by emergency management agencies, complement the flood prediction by Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA), and served as an advisory tool for many stakeholders at the Federal, State and Local Government levels. The SCP contains information on onset and cessation dates of the cropping season, length of the growing period, rainfall amount, temperature forecasts for the hot season (January to April) and dry spell and little dry season. The document also contains information that has to do with malaria and meningitis vigilance, and socio economic implications of the prediction. He, therefore, noted that the content of the document is multi-sectoral, which will co-produce socio-economic implications of the predictions and relevant stakeholders. He added: “We are all living witnesses to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and how many economies have struggled. In Nigeria, one of the pathways for economic recovery is agriculture. However, many of the agricultural practices are climate dependent and largely rainfed. JUST IN: First Batch Of Nigerians Arrive Abuja From Ukraine Qatar Airways Launches Maiden Flight To Port Harcourt, As… “It is important to recognise the position of the Federal Government of Nigeria on developing the Agricultural Sector for Sustainable Green Economy, focusing on food system development agenda that will lift hundred million Nigerians out of poverty within a decade. “The government aims to prioritise healthy diets and affordable nutrition through inclusive, efficient, resilient, and sustainable agriculture which will contribute to job creations and sustainable economy growth.” Matazu stated further that the challenges of variability in climate viz-a-viz global warming, which has in recent times given rise to high rainfall amounts occurring within a short duration has made flash flood episodes more frequent. He recalled that several roads were decimated in 2021, among, which were the Maiwa bridge, along Bauchi – Kano highway, Ningi local government area of Bauchi state, the single day rainfall event of 16th July, 2021 over Lagos metropolis, which flooded a large portion of Lagos Island including the popular Balogun Market. With such recurring extreme events, Matazu noted that the SCP became a veritable tool to notify relevant stakeholders and emergency managers of the anticipated rainfall pattern within the season for necessary mitigation plans. Also speaking at the event, Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation in his keynote address, pointed out that, in addition to the COVID-19 pandemic, which ravaged the global economy in the past few years, climate change and climate variability has continued to be a reality which Nigerians cannot shy away from. Sirika noted that many disastrous weather and climate events had continued to increase in intensity and frequency, bringing untold hardship to the people and straining further already fragile economy. He reminded the audience that in recent weeks, Nigeria’s aviation industry had witnessed many flights cancellation and delays to bad weather causing economic losses and social discomfort. A case in point is the recent outcry by airline operators in the country, lamenting that in 2021 alone, all the operators lost a whopping sum of about N20 billion due to flight delays and cancellations. The minister further applauded NiMet for the diligence put in place continuously to bring to Nigerians weather and climatological forecasts touching on different areas of their socio-economic lives in accordance with its mandate.