UYO – The immediate past Commissioner for Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport, one of the contenders for Akwa Ibom Governorship seat has warned against experimenting with the future of the state. Okon says at 34, and considering the humongous achievements by successive administrations in the state, it would be suicidal to elect a governor who has not been trained, tested and proven to be competent. In a post resignation media interaction in Uyo on Monday, Okon, said to have been personal friend to Governor Udom for about 40 years said he has within his eight year  service to the state government received thorough training which led to his remarkable impacts on the land, water and air space developments in the state. In his words “For eight (8) years, I served with loyalty, passion, dignity and absolute commitment. The 21-storey Smart Building, the new Governor’s Lodge in Lagos, new terminal building at the Victor Attah International Airport, Ibom Air as well as the progress we’ve made on Ibom Deep Seaport were all possible during my service to the state. I brought creativity and excellence to public service.” “Every vocation needs a well trained professional. At 34 years, Akwa Ibom State cannot afford to be an experimental ground where people come to learn leadership in public service. We need someone who understands Akwa Ibom so that from day one he could hit the ground running.” “My take is that public service is not an avenue for leadership experiment. By God’s grace, Akwa Ibomites will experience a new lease of life with the ‘One With God Team’ on the saddle.” Having served former Governor Godswill Akpabio and Governor Udom Emmanuel as Commissioner for Finance, later served as Commissioner for Urban Renewal and Special Duties and eventually resigned from the Ministry of Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport, the aspirant said the journey had trained him across the key economic sectors of the state. “I have traversed lots of ministries and they gave me in-depth knowledge of the workings of government, so that Akwa Ibom can remain in the line of development and growth. Competence, capacity, integrity are important in leadership”, he said. POLL “The Governor has embarked on several legacy projects, we need someone who can ensure they are completed to meet the purposes they were meant for. the land , sea and air i have worked in all of these”. he said. Speaking further on his experience and competence, Okon said  “God helping me, I discharged my duties creditably as Commissioner for Finance. EFCC has never invited and will never invite me”. On his development plan for the state he said; We have lots of intelligent and enterprising youths. Udom has done so much to create jobs, an average Akwa Ibom person requires a conducive environment to function. we need a business incubation center to train and link youth with business angels (investors with large capital) the right environment for our people and  continued security”. Asked whether he was not upset with the Governor who failed to anoint him as successor despite their 4 decades of friendship, Okon reiterated his campaign theme “One With God”, but added “this year makes us 40 years of friendship. Nothing would stand on the  way of that relationship. We are both interested and passionate about the development of the state.” The former Commissioner who resigned early last week said he had since September 23, 2021 consulted Governor Udom Emmanuel on his aspiration and had discussed the need  for Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency to produce the next Governor for equity and even spread of development in the state.