Following the political feud between the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, Obaseki has finally broken the silence that he is open to “harmonious resolution” with People’s Democratic Party  (PDP) leaders as well as Wike. It could be recalled that Obaseki and Wike in the past few days have traded verbal jabs. While Wike said he was not in the same class with Obaseki when it comes to party politics, Obaseki warned Wike not to cause disruption in PDP, adding that the party is not (Wike) personal property. However, the PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, in his effort to quell the feud, urged both governors and members of the party not to attack one another, but to unite ahead of the 2023 general election. Ayu also advised members not to lose focus of where the party was coming from. “I call on every member of this party to forget their differences. If there are differences, we must settle them in-house. “No party member should attack another party member. If there are any issues, we have different organs of the party to resolve different issues,” Ayu said this in his remarks at the National Executive Committee meeting of the party in Abuja on Wednesday. In an apparent alignment with Ayu’s counsel, Obaseki, through a statement by his spokesman, Crusoe Osagie, on Thursday, faulted those he described as mischief-makers trying to disrupt the ongoing peace process initiated by the party leadership. In the statement titled, ‘Obaseki disclaims social media statements by mischief makers’, the governor noted that some unmaned people are trying to exploit the “ongoing conversation between PDP leaders” to “stir crisis and cause disaffection.” POLL He said, “There has been a flurry of statements and comments on social media by mischief makers who are hiding under the pretext of the ongoing conversation between leaders within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to stir crisis and cause disaffection. “These statements and irresponsible behaviour are outrightly condemned. We hereby distance ourselves from the actions of these detractors. “The National leadership of the party is already dealing with the issues and we are open to the harmonious resolution of whatever concerns that may arise.”