A renowned Economist, Olorogun David Edevbie, an advocate of modern and industrial society has said he will establish an industrial park on the 100 hectares of land donated by Ukwuani people at Ebedei in Ukwuani LGA. He also promised to complete the Kwale Industrial Park project initiated by Governor Okowa in Ndokwa West LGA of Delta State if elected Governor in 2023. Olorogun Edevbie, a very strong PDP governorship aspirant in the state made the promises on Tuesday 1st March 2022, when he led his campaign team to visit the PDP delegates in Ukwuani, Ndokwa East, Ndokwa West, Ika South and Ika North East LGAs. POS Armed Robber Killed, Others At Large In Delta Okowa’s Aide Lauds Onosakponome’s Contribution To Tourism… The development guru said he would attract industries to Ndokwa and Ika nations to create jobs for women and youths in the area. He, therefore, advised the youths to shun political violence and embrace peace so that investors would be attracted to the areas and create jobs. Olorogun Edevbie and his entourage were received at Obiaruku by Ukwuani LGA PDP Chairman, Chief Patrick Kaine; the Elders Forum led by Chief Alonu and Chief Anigala; the Leader of Legislative Arm, Hon. Osaeliogor Clarus; and the Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Mr Macaulay Enwelem, on behalf of the delegates. The vibrant governorship aspirant promised to establish an institution of higher learning that would synergise with related industries to employ their graduates eventually. He pledged to harness the abundant natural gas supply in the area by establishing a 500-Megawatts Independent Power Plant to supply electricity for Delta State. He also promised to fine-tune the State security architecture to create an enabling environment for businesses. POLL The tested and proven world-class Economist Olorogun Edevbie said he would upgrade the moribund Skills Acquisition Centre at Obiaruku to provide robust technical education and complete the Obiaruku Township Stadium within one year in office as Governor of Delta State. He told the delegates that all abandoned and ongoing internal and external road projects in Delta State, including those in Ukwuani land, would be completed by his administration. He mentioned that specific attention in the first year of his administration would be given to the construction and completion of phase 2 Umuebu road, Eziokpor-Umuochi road and bridge, Umusume Bridge and the Ogbe-Asaba road. The same day, Olorogun Edevbie and his team were in Ndokwa West and Ndokwa East LGAs. At Kwale, Ndokwa West, he was warmly received by the delegates led by the PDP Chairman, Ogbuefi Lucky Okuji, the Leader of Legislative Arm, Hon. Ndubuisi Okoroafor; and the Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Chief Linus Eke. Ogbuefi Okuji advised Olorogun David Edevbie to maximise his age-long fraternity and cordial relationship with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa towards achieving his 2023 mandate. He then offered a special prayer of election victory for Olorogun David Edevbie and his campaign team. The Ndokwa Federal Constituency Coordinator of Edevbie Campaign Organization, Chief Godwin Ossai, described Olorogun David Edevbie as a sincere, easily accessible and prolific administrator who worked assiduously for resource control; and as a man of integrity who is also down-to-earth and extremely detribalised. Chief Ossai urged Ndokwa East and West delegates to support Olorogun David Edevbie to demonstrate his modernisation and industrialisation prowess to benefit all Deltans. Delta 2023: Edevbie Not Interested In Mudslinging – Fred… APC Suffers Mass Defection Of Leaders, Members To PDP In Delta Delegates in Ndokwa East took their turn to welcome Olorogun David Edevbie and his team at Ossissa and were led by the PDP Chairman, Chief Vincent Osilonya; Leader of Legislative Arm, Hon. St. Jude Isicheli; and the Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Hon. Basil Chinedum Agbanaji. Chief Osilonya felicitated Olorogun Edevbie for emerging first among the final three aspirants selected by DC-23. Acknowledging Edevbie’s intimidating CV, Chief Osilonya expressed confidence that Governor Okowa would hand over power to Olorogun David Edevbie come 2023. Olorogun David Edevbie debunked political mischief makers who spread false information about his relationship with the people of Delta North, promising to remain the same detribalised person by giving all Deltans equal and fair treatment. He said he was absolutely sure that no other aspirant could be more detribalised than him, given his background and antecedents. He assured the delegates that he would give the youths ample opportunities to taste power in his Cabinet to prepare them for the future adequately. He said it is unfortunate that the Ndokwa nation could not boast of a stable power supply despite an abundance of natural gas in the LGAs, and promised to change the narrative if elected Governor. While promising to actualise the proposed Coastal Road from Oko to Patani, and the dredging of River Niger, completion of the Kwale Gas Industrial Park, Olorogun Edevbie disclosed that from his office as the Commissioner for Finance, he funded the Aboh bridge project. The Guber aspirant urged Ndokwa delegates to support him in the primaries as the Governorship candidate of PDP for Delta State so that he can open up the Ndokwa nation with good roads, emphasising that he has the knowledge and the experience, as well as the international and national networks to deliver on his mandate. The 2nd day of March 2022 was the turn of delegates in Ika South and Ika North East LGAs, the Federal Constituency of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Olorogun David Edevbie and his team of supporters were received in Ika South by the PDP Chairman, Hon. Jude Onya, the Leader of the Legislative Arm, Hon. Solomon Igudia; and the Chairman of the Wards Chairmen, Mr John Obiazi. Hon. Onya said for any politicians to win elections in Ika South, they must be in the same boat with Dr Okowa, who, he said, shows the direction to delegates to follow. Before speaking on his mission to Ika South delegates, Olorogun Edevbie demonstrated his respect for the sanctity of life and humanity by calling for one minute of silence in honour of a mother and son killed in a road accident at Agbor a few days ago. He said he would not discriminate against Ika people and assured them equal treatment and adequate protection during his tenure as Governor. On specific issues in Ika South, Olorogun Edevbie commended Governor Okowa for establishing the University of Delta at Agbor and promised to grow it by working with local and international institutions to make the University functional. He assured the Ika people that he would invite his investor friends within and outside Nigeria to establish industries in Ika land that would provide job opportunities for the unemployed if elected as Governor. He also promised to speedily provide infrastructure for the 181 Battalion of the Nigerian Army at Agbor to beef up security in the locality. He added that Umunede/Emuhu Rest Park initiated by Governor Okowa would receive priority attention for its full realisation, while the Old Lagos-Asaba Road requires pedestrian bridges for traffic management and saving human lives, and promised to complete the Obi Road from the Dein’s Palace to Uromi junction within three years in his first tenure as Governor. He also pledged to reconstruct College Road. He assured the delegates that he would deploy the Ecological Funds for erosion control in Agbor. He asked them to hold him accountable for all his campaign promises. While speaking in Ika North East, Olorogun Edevbie praised Governor Okowa for bringing more women and youths into governance, promising to build on the legacies of the incumbent Governor. He said nobody would be left out in the scheme of things when he becomes Governor of Delta State. He thanked Dr Okowa for appointing him twice into his Cabinet because he trusted his ability to deliver. With every sense of sincerity, he said, “there is no problem between the Governor and me, and I know he respects merit, so I believe he will support me to win.” The delegates were led by the PDP Chairman, Hon. Chuks Agboma; Leader of Legislative Arm, Hon. Roland Okwuokenye; and the Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Mr Abel Njosi, accorded Olorogun Edevbie and his team a warm reception. Hon. Agboma asserted that “if it were possible for us to vote here and now, you would have won because of your track records and pedigree. Nobody has told us not to vote for you. However, try and move closer to Governor Okowa so that he can endorse you as his candidate to enable you to sail through.” The Director-General of Olorogun David Edevbie Campaign Organization, Chief Clement Ofuani, told the delegates in all the LGAs visited that elections have consequences which could sometimes be grave and urged them to support Olorogun Edevbie to become Governor. He recalled that contractors enjoyed prompt payments after job completion when he was Commissioner for Finance. He assured them that Olorogun David Edevbie is the most experienced and well-prepared aspirant for the governorship seat. Chief Ofuani described Olorogun Edevbie as a detribalised gentleman testifying that in 1999, when he was appointed as Commissioner for Finance and Economic Planning, he appointed his two Special Assistants from Delta North, one being himself from Aniocha and the second, Chief Charles Nenyiaba from Ika while he ran an office that was a united Delta.