ABUJA – Ahead of the 2023 election, the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has made a serious case for diaspora voting in the country. Speaking while receiving members of the business community of Nigerians, led by Professor Isa Odidi in his Asokoro residence in Abuja on Tuesday night, Atiku also vowed to bring back most of Nigeria’s best brains, who are scattered all over the world, to assist in the development of the country if elected the next President of the country in 2023. Disclosing what he did to ensure that the issue of diaspora voting came on stream in the country without success, when he was the Vice President under the administration of the then President Olusegun Obasanjo between 1999 and 2007, Atiku said, “I tried to work with the National Assembly, when we were in office, to see how Nigerians outside can vote, unfortunately, I didn’t succeed. “But I believe that it is something that should happen.” Describing PDP as the only democratic party in Nigeria, Atiku who thanked the Nigerians in diaspora for their past support for him, added that “In 2019, when I came out, they supported me massively. I am grateful. I won’t take that for granted.” Earlier, the leader of the Business Community of Nigerians in the diaspora, Professor Isa Odidi said that leadership is a serious task and therefore no country can afford to leave its fate in the hands of people, who want power for its own sake, but lack the basic qualities or qualifications to cope with the challenges at hand. He said: “As major stakeholders in the success and progress of Nigeria, we are concerned about the quality of political leadership in the country. “In fact, the success or failure of a country is directly proportional to the quality of its political leadership. POLL “Leadership requires imagination, resourcefulness, vision, experience, competence and formidable track record. “Above all, a leader must possess the ability to assemble the best and brightest in the management of the country’s affairs. “In a complex and diverse country like Nigeria, a leader must also be someone with a unifying vision, someone who understands and respects our ethnic and religious diversity. “Based on these criteria of leadership, and from our assessment of the political situation in Nigeria, we came to the conclusion that your Excellency (Atiku Abubakar) is the most adequately prepared for the task of rebuilding Nigeria and setting it on the path of economic growth and prosperity. “Your record speaks for you. As a former Vice President of Nigeria, you played a significant role in the implementation of the policy objectives of the Obasanjo administration.”