The UK government will sell Chelsea FC following the country’s frozen on former owner, Roman Abramovich, assets for his ties with Russian President, Vladimir Putin. The world and European champions have been frozen as an asset of Abramovich, who is one of seven Russian oligarchs to be targeted along with Igor Sechin, Oleg Deripaska, Dmitri Lebedev, Alexei Miller, Andrei Kostin and Nikolai Tokarev. The freezing of Abramovich’s assets, which include Chelsea, means the club cannot sell further match tickets, but are able to pay the wages of all employees, including players and coaching staff. Brume Leads Team Nigeria To Belgrade For World Athletics Indoor… Oloyede Charges Ighalo Against Black Stars They can pay “reasonable” costs of travel to and from fixtures but not exceeding £20,000 per game per team and can also pay “reasonable” costs towards hosting home fixtures, not exceeding £500,000 per fixture per team. According to ESPN, the U.K. government would consider an application for a licence to allow a sale. Any such licence would not allow Abramovich to benefit from the sale of the club while he remains subject to sanctions. Where the proceeds of any sale would go is something that would be defined under the terms of a new licence to permit a sale. However, sources have told ESPN that the starting point would likely be that Abramovich could not benefit while assets are frozen. Regarding the day-to-dayrunning of the club, Britain’s minister for sport, Nadine Dorries, confirmed the government has issued a special licence to allow the club to continue to play fixtures, pay staff and enable season-ticket holders to attend matches. This licence will be kept under review and expires on May 31. POLL “I know this brings some uncertainty, but the government will work with the league and clubs to keep football being played while ensuring sanctions hit those intended,” she said on Twitter. “There can be no safe havens for those who have supported Putin’s vicious assault on Ukraine,” U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said.