It is observed that most avoidable road crashes are sometimes occasioned by not only lack of adequate knowledge of road signs, but failure of motorist to adhere strictly to the few existing road signs on our highways. Its ubiquity on our road is desirable at this point in time when crashes on our roads is alarmingly high, motorists and pedestrians alike need these signs to achieve their ultimate aim of getting to their various destinations safely. A renewed consciousness on compliance with road signs will to a great extent reduce carnage on our highways. Knowledge they say is power; It is these road signs that arm you with adequate knowledge of the road you are plying. When these roads signs are complied with, you can and will always reach your destinations safely. Traffic management experts have attributed most accidents on Nigerian roads to lack of proper use, abuse and inadequacy of traffic signs, information obtained from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC),indicated that defacing, damaging and removing of road signs across the country is alarming, and that there was urgent need for relevant authorities to enact laws that would checkmate this ugly trend. According to Professor Oyesiku, Professor of Transport Systems Olanning, Olabisi Onabanjo University: “Lack of road signs in some major locations constitutes hazard to city dwellers, especially at night, as well as traffic jams. In some locations where road signs exist, they are not conspicuously placed for motorists and other road users to see. This has added to traffic challenges in a city like Lagos, especially for visitors”. To Femi Olaitan, a volunteer traffic controller, said the situation shows insensitivity, as vehicles have sometimes rammed into one another as a result. He observed that traffic officers, including the police, see this as not favourable to motorists, who unknowingly use roads designated one-way when there are no signs showing so. And even when there are signs, they are usually tucked away in a corner, where they are difficult to see or read. POLL Olaitan noted that with road signs and functional traffic lights in their right places, logjams often experienced on major roads would lessen. “Road maintenance goes beyond just digging up of roads and culverts. Government should do something about road signs, too. They should be reflective, so that road users can see them during the day and at night. The way our roads are constructed without the right signs shows our state of mind as a people” ,he said. Akpan Augustine, an interstate driver, said absence of road signs has contributed to road mishaps on our highways. He noted that signs tell drivers where there are sharp corners, bumps, schools and hospital, so that they could slow down. He narrated his experience some few years back when he fell into a canal with a narrow bridge in Bayelsa at night. According to him if there had been a road sign warning him about the bridge and a sharp bend ahead he would have slowed down and avoided the accident that eventually happened. He wondered why government would spend huge sums of money to rehabilitate roads only to leave out such important aspect that would make driving easy and save lives. To him, traffic officers are not helping matters, as they usually lie in wait for motorists to take the wrong road and then suddenly jump out of their hiding to make an arrest. He said: “With bold, reflective and clearly defined road signs, the regular traffic jams often experienced on our roads, especially at the junctions, as well as traffic offences often committed by motorists would be reduced to its barest minimum, as motorists would not need to take the wrong routes or lanes. “The current situation enables people to behave anyhow, as there are no clears signs to tell that a road is one-way, blocked junctions ahead, detour and uneven, among others. Ade Oba, a Uber driver said: “Lack of signs on Lagos roads remains a challenge to motorists and commuters, especially those not familiar with them. This has made many to be arrested for breaking traffic laws, which ordinarily would have been avoided”. Fatai Alagbole, a taxi driver, said the situation has reached a point where people in his profession have to put all their skills to bear when driving. He said: “The road designated as one way in the morning could be changed later in the day. So, you have to be at alert all the time, or else you could be arrested many times in a day. It is even worse at night, as many major roads are poorly lit. For instance, the Muritala Mohammed International Airport Road, where major construction work is ongoing has no clear signs to warn commuters of dangers and diversions and sometimes drivers unknowingly run into the boulders at night because they are not reflective. “Road signs prevent confusion as they tell drivers the appropriate speed to drive on a particular road or when they are approaching a merge. They help reduce collisions at intersections, ensure pedestrians’ safety, as well as help drivers communicate with other drivers in a non-verbal way that keeps all of us safe. They are a must on our roads.” For Adele Majekodunmi, not real name, an official of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), the situation is pathetic and sometimes confusing. He noted that during the last Yuletide, some motorists used the opportunity to break traffic laws with impunity. He said: “Although we cannot rule out the fact that there are no traffic signs in some key areas, but we must acknowledge that these signs exist in some other areas, even though they are hidden in a corner. No road, no matter how good it might be is complete without good, visible and readable road signs.” Segun Fagbohun, a Town Planner, with Decross Estate Management and Valuers, said: “While it is true that Nigeria, unlike the U.K with more than 2,500,000 signs and signals, 850,000 road markings and 7,000,000 road signs within roads in England alone does not have adequate signs, we can still boast of some signs and markings. The question to ask is; what is your attitude to these signs? Let us start with overtaking prohibited signs, supplemented with road markings including no change lane, you will be shocked to find that most road users care less about these road markings and signs that are put to ensure smooth and safe traffic. “The double solid marks for instance forbid you from overtaking. The broken lines on the other hand, are used in areas where there are no restrictions on overtaking. In areas where there are restrictions on overtaking, a solid line is painted alongside the broken line. The broken line therefore becomes your legal right to overtake only if the road is clear and safe for you to do so.” Fagbohun added. Adegbite Alfred his colleague said: “What about the traffic light signs? Most often drivers rarely know that they must not cross the stop lines, that they must always stay behind the stop line and that it is only when they have stepped on the stop line before the amber light that they are allowed to move on. More positive and right attitude is desirable at this point in time. “Motorist and pedestrians alike need these signs to achieve their ultimate aim of getting to their various destinations safely. A renewed consciousness on compliance with road signs will to a great extent reduce carnage on our highways. Knowledge they say is power. It is these road signs that arm you with adequate knowledge of any road you are plying. When road signs are complied with, you can and will always reach your destination safety. We need more road signs to promote a safe driving culture”, he added. In 2018, the Federal Government commissioned the signage production plant of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in Abuja, signifying the federal government’s commitment to provide safe roads and prevent road crashes which has always lead to destruction of lives and properties as well decrease in the nation’s GDP. The goal was to eradicate the issues of inadequate, misleading and improper placement of road signs which lead to rise in road traffic crashes and violation hence the presence of the plant will help to produce much more road signs sufficient for the highways to aid road users. At the commissioning of the plant, FRSC’s Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, said the corps carried out a research on Nigerian highway signage and signals in 2014 and found that the nation’s highway were characterized by improper signs and signals confusing motorists than aiding them, vandalised and defaced signs and signals amongst others, hence the need to produce more signage and signals to aid the road users. The plant, according to him, has the capacity to meet the nation’s road needs. He said the plant has been able to produce 6,000 various road signs which are already installed on some segments of the federal highways and hopes to get them across the entire nation’s highways soon. The nation awaits the full impact of that plant, especially in educating motorists on Nigeria’s directionless highways.