Plateau State Governor, Simon Bako Lalong, has expressed his determination to continue to implement town planning policies that will improve the living conditions of citizens in the cities and towns of the State. Governor Lalong stated this while receiving President of the Nigeria Institute of Town Planners (NITP) Olutoye Ayinde and his delegation on a courtesy visit to Government House in Jos .. Lalong told his guests that his Rescue Administration has placed so much emphasis on planning in the development of infrastructure in the State. He said this has been enshrined in developing new infrastructure and upgrading existing ones, particularly in the major towns and cities of Plateau State. Lalong who acknowledged the level of unplanned development in the State as well as abuse of various plans by citizens said the Government will continue to enforce all town planning policies and regulations to ensure that public safety, orderliness and aesthetics is achieved for the good of the people. Lalong said Plateau State is naturally endowed with good weather and aesthetics that cannot be enjoyed in a chaotic situation where people build indiscriminately and without adherence to laid down regulations. He disclosed that the Government is set to flag off the construction of a new interchange at the British America Junction as part of its urban renewal and plan to deal with high traffic along that corridor. Lalong also informed the Town Planners of the ongoing enumeration of houses which will culminate into street naming and house numbering. POLL He solicited for the support and collaboration of the NITP in the actualisation of the development plans of the State. Earlier, NITP President Tpl Olutoye Ayinde said the absence of planning has caused serious problems to the society resulting in disruptions, congestion, diseases, insecurity and other challenges. He said most of the cities and towns in Nigeria including Plateau State are not planned hence the catalogue of challenges that confront living conditions of the people. The NITP President urged the Governor to domesticate and implement the Urban and Regional Planning Act 2004, pledging the support and collaboration of the Institute.