The world of work is changing. Major shifts are taking place in the world of work that are changing the nature of work, the workplace, the type of workforce, and the dynamics of working. Such major shifts include but are not limited to: ·         The widespread adoption of artificial intelligence, robotics, automation, and digitisation. These technologies are changing the nature of work, the workplace, and the type of work in many organisations. New jobs are being created and old ones reimagined and redesigned. Today, there is almost no job that these technologies have not impacted over the last decade, and their impact will continue into the foreseeable future. Many postulates that because of their impact, the workforce of the future would be a digital workforce. ·         The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to a quantum leap in the adoption of digital channels and the universal acceptance of remote work. Today, as a result, more people work remotely than before. Many organisations are breaking the divide between office work and remote work. Work is no longer defined by a place but by the output. Tribute To Donatus Duru I know Akpabio’s Garment Of Honour ·         The nature of the workforce is also changing. Four generations exist in today’s workforce—Baby Boomers, Generation X, Millennials, and Generation Z. While this offers an incredible opportunity to learn from one another, the divide also poses a great leadership challenge—how to manage the various groups to achieve organisational outcomes. ·         The rise of part-time work. More people are working for themselves and doing freelancing than ever before. With a click of the button, you can outsource a part of the work you do to someone in India or Pakistan, for example. However, while the nature of work, the workplace, the dynamics of working, and the skills required for work are changing, there is one immutable truth: organisations still expect their people to deliver on their tasks and goals. The times we are in call for people to better manage themselves to meet organisational goals. Today’s workplaces are looking for self-led people who can deliver business results with little or no supervision. Irrespective of your job role, the nature of your work, and your mode of working—whether remotely or from the office or a combination of both—the principles in this book will help you become more effective at work. If the average person spends about two-thirds of their useful hours at work and in work-related activities, it means that we spend more time at work than in any other activity in life, including time spent with our loved ones and in religious worship. We also spend more time at work than in all other activities put together. POLL Therefore, work plays a significant role in our lives; it is an integral part of life and living. But many people hate the idea of work and working. They believe that work is a curse, not a blessing, and cannot wait to get yonder where there will be no more work. Others start looking forward to a weekend of rest from the first day at work. They celebrate every Friday. They call it TGIF—Thank God It’s Friday. But why should we only thank God for Friday? Why can’t we have TGIM—Thank God It’s Monday? Why can’t people be as excited on Monday mornings as they are on Friday evenings? Why can’t people look forward to work as they look forward to going on vacation? Why can’t people thank God for the opportunity to work and contribute something meaningful to society? This book will help you answer some of these questions. Work is important. It is one of life’s best gifts, and, as you will discover, it is not a necessary evil. Here are some fundamental truths about work: ·         Work forms a significant part of our identity—what we do shapes how we think about ourselves. When people introduce themselves, they usually introduce themselves by their work. They say something like, “I am a doctor, banker, lawyer, engineer, businessman, and so on.” Perhaps it is the reason joblessness leads to depression and sometimes even suicide. Beyond the inability to meet one’s obligations, joblessness destroys a significant portion of our identity, our feeling of importance, sense of worth, role in society, and contribution to others. Saving Nigeria’s Education Sector From Total Collapse Electoral Act 2022 Clause 84 (12): When Two Elephants Fight (1) ·         Work has ripple effects. Fulfilment or frustration at work trickles down to the other areas of our lives—health, relationships, and general wellbeing. ·         Fulfilment at work begins with recapturing the essence of work. If our work lacks meaning and is devoid of a personal sense of fulfilment, we will struggle with the concept of meaning in life, just as many today are struggling with the concept of meaning in life because their day-to-day work lacks a sense of meaning and purpose. ·         Without finding meaning at work, people lack the motivation for work and the commitment to work. What you get from them, at best, is compliance and, at worst, indifference or resistance. ·         Organisations should be “meaning-making” institutions in addition to being profit-making enterprises. Of course, profit is essential, but people do not come to work just to make money; they want to be a part of something great and spend their lives on causes that will outlive them.