The Russian delegation for peace talks with Ukraine will wait for the opposite side at the Belarusian-Polish border this evening, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Wednesday. Speaking at a daily briefing in Moscow, Peskov said Russia hopes Ukraine’s delegation will come for the second round of negotiations. “Let’s hope that happens (the Ukrainian delegation arrives). Our people will be on the spot and will be ready to sit down at the negotiating table in the evening.” Ukraine Foreign Minister Says South Korea Will Take Active Part… U.N. Urges Countries To Open Borders To Africans Fleeing Ukraine Responding to a question, Peskov said “the fulfillment of the conditions formulated by the Russian president to resolve the situation” would be what Russia will consider as a successful result of negotiations. “All conditions necessary to resolve this situation have been formulated quite clearly by the President of Russia (Vladimir Putin) on several occasions. “In particular, we listed these conditions, because Putin explained them in detail to his international interlocutors during telephone conversations,” he noted. Peskov added that Vladimir Medinsky, the presidential advisor, will continue to serve as the head of the Russian delegation. As for a meeting between Russian and Ukrainian presidents, Peskov said it is too early to speak about that. POLL Russia’s economy suffers ‘heavy blow’ Peskov said the Russian economy is experiencing a heavy blow, adding that the government works vigorously to alleviate the stress. “In these conditions, those measures are being taken that will help minimize the risks, consequences and insure us against the rocking of the economy. Since these unfriendly measures are unprecedented, in such conditions, it is necessary to act firmly, thoughtfully, and neatly,” he said. The spokesman promised that reciprocal measures will follow. “The response to these unfriendly, hostile actions, of course, must be analyzed. No one is going to shoot in the leg to spite someone. We will do as we need, as we benefit. And with a sober head,” he said. Nearly 6,000 Russian Soldiers Killed – Zelensky Russia Says Sanctions Won’t Affect S-400 Missile Deal With India Peskov said the Nord Stream 2 project is not dead, noting that the “historical reality” currently makes it impossible to launch the pipeline, but the infrastructure is ready and can be used if necessary. “Common sense and economic expediency speak of the need to launch the Nord Stream 2 as soon as possible,” he said. Since Russia’s war on Ukraine began last Thursday, Moscow has been met by outrage from the international community, with the EU, UK, Canada, Japan, and the US implementing a range of economic sanctions. At least 136 civilians, including 13 children, have been killed and 400 others, including 26 children, injured in Ukraine, according to UN figures. Nearly 680,000 people have fled Ukraine to neighboring countries, the international body said on Tuesday.