LAGOS – The newly appointed Acting Chairman of the APC caretaker committee and the governor of Niger State, Sanni Bello, has revealed that his committee has adopted the report on zoning submitted by Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State and his team. The announcement came to many party faithful as a rude shock because the zoning committee had earlier placed the presidency in the South-West, a move seen by many as an undemocratic way of choosing the party’s flagbearer. This had been argued by many Nigerians that some of the best hands are being locked out of the contest for the highest office in the land. 2023 Presidency: Kogi SSG Drums Support For Bello Yahaya Bello Presents Staff Of Office To 104 Traditional Rulers No doubt, people like Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, who has all it takes to rejig the falling Nigerian standards are being shut out. At this stage of our national development, Nigeria needs all hands to be on the deck, especially from the youthful and experience populace. Why would a governor of Yahaya Bello’s pedigree be left out of the equation when it is obvious that he has the magic wand, considering how he has piloted the affairs of his state. As of today, Kogi State is arguably the most peaceful state in the country despite the prevailing insecurity in the country. This feat can be attributed to the ingenuity of GYB, as the governor is popularly called. POLL In the same vein, Kogi State had been adjudged as one of the few states with very low impact of Covid-19, little wonder the state has become a beehive of activities for all and sundry. Who is this Yahaya Bello and why are some elements in the APC hell-bent on removing him from the equation? Why not allow him to run with others to test his popularity? Why is the sudden arm twisting to stop Bello from the APC primaries? Not a few people and groups of people have attested to the ingenuity of Governor Yahaya Bello to lead the nation to the Promised Land from 2023. For instance, a women group, Southwest Women Arise for Nigeria (SWWAFON) in Lagos recently extolled the virtues of Governor Bello, describing him as a role model for the Nigerian government in the area of women inclusion, and for allowing a good number of women in politics in the state. Election Guidelines: Group Hails Buhari, INEC, Mobilises 50m… 2023: Southwest Youths Storm Lagos, Vow To Change Political… The women, drawn from key professions, said Bello deserved the honour for helping to demonstrate, through his appointments, that when women hold strategic positions in government, society gains. They recommended that the present leadership of the ruling APC should consider giving him the party’s presidential ticket. In another clarion call, a political movement for the actualisation of Bello’s presidential ambition, PYB Frontiers called on Nigerians to rally around Bello to ensure he succeeds President Buhari. Chairman of the group, Hans Mohammed disclosed that the group has commenced consultation to ensure the governor got the APC ticket. While the women group noted that Bello’s leadership would give women better chance, the support group emphasised that the Kogi State governor has what it takes to tackle insecurity in Nigeria. A Christian association, under the auspices of the Christian Youth Leadership Network, also attested that Bello remains the right choice to succeed President Buhari in 2023. The group made the assertion during the opening of its two-day National Retreat with the theme, ‘Kingdom Dimension: Effective Leadership and Governance.’ Just recently, while reacting to a question whether his records were enough to present him as a qualified candidate and the view that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) might zone the 2023 presidential ticket to the South in the spirit of federal character since power would have stayed eight years in the North by 2023, Governor Bello replied: “First, what have I done to merit the presidency of this country? “You simply refer to 2016 when I assumed office, compared it to this moment security-wise, in terms of unity, in terms of infrastructural development. “I think we should not be laid back to the extent that we don’t read and research. I don’t have to come to the television to be blowing my trumpet. You come to Kogi State, you’ll see exactly what we have done. “Simply, you can visit our website and then you’re going to see what we’ve done. Visit kogipedia.net you’re going to see the much we have done. “We have surpassed more than any other person can ever imagine. That in terms of unity, Kogi State today is more united than ever before. “Today, nobody cares where you come from or the religion you practice, Nigerians are yearning for this. “In terms of security before you travel through Kogi State, you hold your breath, today you can travel day and night. Pockets of issues sometimes, but it can never be the situation it was in 2016.” On zoning question, he said: “Then concerning whether North and South, first, I’m an advocate of capacity and ability to serve. “In Nigeria today, we need somebody who has the capacity to serve the country. Today, if you’re flying from one place to another, you don’t care who the pilot is, but who is that person who is experienced to fly from one point to another. “Also coming from the angle of North and South divide, then let us be very fair and equitable. Then, you look into the number of years North have held this position and the number of years South has held this position. “If you add eight years to what South has had and then looking at the North, then you know that there’s injustice as far as that is concerned. “So, if we’re talking about justice, fairness and equity, we’re not just looking at the eight years by the grace of God of that of President Muhammadu Buhari, we should add them together to the number of years the North has had it since 1999 till date, and the number of years South have had it since 1999 till date. Whichever divide whichever argument that comes up I perfectly fit into the arguments.” Just about a few days ago, the Secretary to the Kogi State Government (SSG), Dr. Folashade Arike, said Gov. Yahaya Bello’s capacity, dedication, sincerity, and compassion make him the right choice for President in 2023. Arike spoke in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lokoja. She said Bello had carved a niche for himself and recorded successes across all sectors, adding that his commitment and passion for development is one that Nigerians are yearning for. Arike said that Bello’s style of leadership has also brought unity, peace, and security to Kogi and its people, which is what Nigeria needs more at this time. “Empathy, compassion, dedication, truthfulness, sincerity, capacity to deliver on his mandate, commitment to the cause of Kogi State and Nigeria at large are the qualities of His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Adoza Bello. “Hardly can you find a leader that has so much passion for development as the Governor does. “Alhaji Yahaya Bello is the man that has carved a niche for himself because of the way he has piloted the affairs of the state since assumption of office. “The Governor has helped the state get better and the best thing we can do as Nigerians is to give him the support he needs to succeed and make Nigeria great. “The qualities I highlighted above do not include the fact that he is the youngest man to have ever held the position. That is also something we should ponder about. “He was a public servant as a federal civil servant and when he decided to run for office, he came straight to say he was interested in being the Governor, and the almighty God installed him divinely. “He did not come and say he wanted to be the Chairman of his LGA or the state Assemblymember, but a governor. That is to tell you he is a goal-getter. “To tell you how great he is, he did not only make history in the state but also in law. The legal documents of this country are no longer the same, partly, because of him,” Arike said. According to her, the governor’s investment in infrastructure has changed the landscape of the state, turning places that were hitherto overlooked into areas deserving attention. The SSG added that the comprehensive and all-encompassing reform of the civil services has been successfully implemented, in addition to other sectors. “He has shown doggedness and determination to improve the health, education, road networks, agriculture and other aspects of people’s lives.”