The accusation of price fixing levelled against members of the Air Operators of Nigeria (AON) by the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) may unsettle the aviation industry in the country, OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. The recent hike in airfares by indigenous airlines to the tune of 100 per cent may lead to a bigger crisis if the Wednesday’s report of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) is anything to go by. Though, several aviation stakeholders and analysts are at disagreement on the appropriate airfares for the airlines with many insisting that any airfare below $100 (about N50,000) for one-way trip within the country is a loss for the carriers. Why Are The Impressive Results Of Okomu And Presco Not… CBN Mulls Fresh Funding For Lagos Free Zone After N100bn Support Chief among the stakeholders with this view is Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (retd), who has over the years declared that Nigerian airlines may run out of business due to inappropriate charges. Ojikutu, for almost half a decade has been consistent with his view of equivalent of $100 for an hour flight in Nigeria, even when some believed his notion was wrong. However, many analysts believed there was the need for price change with the continuous skyrocketing price of Jet A1, which is about N440 per litre as at last Thursday, consistent drop of naira against the world’s currencies, especially the dollars, recent hike in ground handling charges, high levies and charges collected by both private and public organisations and others, but frowned at price fixing by the airlines, which they claimed is anti-competition and negates the Nigerian business law. Though, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), the umbrella body of indigenous airlines in the country last week debunked the price fixing allegation of N50, 000 base fares for a one-way ticket for domestic travel, but FCCPC’s report contradicted its claim. FCCPC in its report on Wednesday, accused AON, the umbrella body of indigenous airlines of encouraging and ensuring price-fixing, saying the airlines colluded to increase airfares against Section 107 (1)(a) and Section 108 of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act, 2018 ( FCCPA). POLL A statement signed by Mr. Babatunde Irukera, the Executive Vice Chairman, FCCPC, insisted that the airlines were culpable as they did so in a coordinated manner, stressing that the FCCPA prohibits conduct  or any coordination between competitors including on the platform of trade associations. Irukera said: “Specifically, Section 107 (1)(a) forbids competitors from fixing prices, and Section 108 prohibits any conspiracy, combination, agreement or arrangement between competitors in any manner that unduly restrains or injures competition.” He further stated that coordination in increasing prices (otherwise known as a cartel) is an unambiguous infringement of the FCCPA, stressing that the current and prevailing Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (Air Transport Economic Regulations) in regulation 18.15.2 (i) and (iii) expressly prohibits airlines from engaging in any contract, arrangement, understanding, conspiracy or combination in restraint of competition which includes directly or indirectly fixing a charge, fee, rate, fare or tariff and any collusive action. According to Irukera, investigation by FCCPC indicated that after a series of meetings over a period of three weeks including on Thursday, February 17, 2022, and Saturday, February 19, 2022, in supposedly association meetings discussed multiple industry-wide issues; particularly challenges experienced by AON members. He said the investigation also confirmed that one of the items of discussion during at least one of the meetings where AON listed no fewer than 16 items militating against their operations was to set base or minimum airfares, hinting that the commission’s understanding from intelligence so far gathered was that there was significant controversy and or an initial lack of consensus with respect to coordinated conduct resulting in setting airfares. Seplat, Exxonmobil Deal Positive For Economy – Mackenzie FIWON, NUPABTW, PEDPAN Amalgamate Towards Recognition, Adequate… He said: “The commission’s understanding from the deliberations at the meeting is that the attendees engaged in mutual discussions and exchange of their respective revenue management models or other commercially sensitive information. “In furtherance of the discussions and or resolution at the meeting, certain champions of the coordinated conduct of imposing a base fare or a Minimum Re-Sale Price (MRSP) for their services in a coordinated and contemporaneous manner proceeded to increase their fares to a minimum of N50, 000 across all sectors. Specifically, Air Peace, Azman Air and United Nigeria Airlines immediately proceeded with the increase. Arik followed.” The Commission added that on Friday, February 18, 2022, at 6:31 p.m. Aero Contractors informed its trade partners (travel agents) and its commercial executive team by email that ticket fares were reviewed effective February 18, 2022, with the least being N50,000 across all routes. It said Aero Contractors noted in this communication that all other airlines have effected same increase. The report emphasised further that within days, Max Air also increased fares to the same minimum N50,000, while Ibom Air and Dana approximately 48 hours after, also increased fares although not to the purported N50,000 minimum. It further said that Green Africa Airlines maintained its existing fares between N33, 000 and N38, 650, but progressively increased its fares rising to approximately N47, 000 on its Lagos-Abuja route on Wednesday, February 23, 2022. Irukera noted that as such, the commission with the collaboration of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has commenced an investigation with respect to this subject, but noted that investigation was still at early stages. Speaking on the issue, Capt. Ibrahim Mshelia, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), West Link Airlines, said that the price raise was long overdue and justifiable. According Mshelia, some of the service providers in recent times had increased their rates, while airfares had remained almost stagnant within the same period. For instance, Mshelia said that the ground handling companies had increased handling services from about N20,000 to N70,000, customs duties still being collected for spare parts and importation of aircraft despite the waiver regime announced by the government, adding that access to foreign exchange had also become impossible for the operators. He also explained that the price of Jet A1 has skyrocketed to over N400 per litre in the local market, stressing that virtually all the components of aviation is dollar based. He said: “With all due respect to the airlines’ customers across the nation, N50, 000 is justifiable. As a matter of fact, it is long overdue. All the service providers servicing the airlines have increased their prices and the government is aware of it. NCAA assisted the ground handling companies to raise their fares. “The airlines that were handled N20, 000 before is today N70,000. We are all living witnesses to the exchange rate from N300 to a dollar just a few years ago to N585 today as I speak. The airline don’t buy anything in Nigeria to support their service, except the pilots, cabin crew and engineers and a few others for those who don’t have wet-leased fleet that pay their crew in naira. “For those who have wet-leased fleet, they have to source foreign exchange to pay their crew. Some of the airplanes, you have to look for money to pay financing. Foreign exchange has gone up, we don’t have easy access to it, we have to find a way to adjust.” Also, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director, Research, Zenith Travels said that the new price by the airline operators was justifiable. According to him, the recent hike in price of aviation fuel is a source of worry to any aviation stakeholder, adding that the inflation in Nigeria made it defensible. He, however, said that it was in the purview of the FCCPA, which protects the rights of consumers to investigate the allegation. “I think they are justifying it because of aviation fuel, spare parts, forex and others. The airlines are in Nigeria and they do their businesses in Nigeria and we are all aware of the high inflation rate in the system. “It is difficult to prove price fixing here because the airlines have different fares, even if it is with a difference of N50. What the regulation says is that it should not be low safety traffic, it is not giving a ceiling and above. If it is proven that there is price fixing here, the FCCPA can investigate because consumer protection is against such business ethics.” To Mr. Sam Adurogboye, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NCAA, the airfares regime had been deregulated, even before the establishment of NCAA. Adurogboye, emphasised further that airfare is determined by the market forces of demand and supply, which the airlines have applied in their business management. “What the civil aviation policy said we should check is predatory practice, which means that if all of them decide to be charging N50,000 as base to any route and another person decides to be charging N5,000 tomorrow, the policy says you should call that person and ask him to substantiate how it can recover cost and still be able to run its operations with that amount. “Other than that, the airlines are at liberty to charge any amount, but if they didn’t see a buyer for whatever they fixed, then they will adjust and it has been happening. Now, if the foreign airlines want to increase their own, again what the regulation says we should do is for us to be notified and not to fix the price for them. If they didn’t see buyers for their product, they will adjust,” he said.