Kolapo Kola-Daisi, an astute finance and banking executive with a global clout, is a Senatorial aspirant under the All Progressive Congress (APC) for the Oyo South Senatorial District. The scion of the elder statesman, lawyer and businessman, who is also the Bashorun of Ibadan, Chief Kola-Daisi believes he is coming to politics to make a difference. In a chat with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on his vision for the people, the role of the Nigerian youths in the nation and other crucial issues. Excerpt: Can you tell us about yourself and your antecedents? Kolapo Kola-Daisi was born 43 years ago to Chief Kola Daisi, a lawyer and businessman. I attended the Federal Government College, Ogbomoso, Oyo State. I later went to England and graduated from the University of Manchester with a Bachelors’ degree in Economics. In 2004, I qualified as a Chartered Accountant and became a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Scotland. In 2015, I acquired the Chartered Banker MBA from the University of Bangor, Wales, United Kingdom. I have worked at the Remittances Department of the First Bank of Nigeria, London Branch. I later worked as an Assistant Manager in the Financial Services Division of London office of KPMG International Ltd. I am a Fellow of the Financial Markets Dealer Association (FMDA), a self-regulatory body in Nigeria established for the purpose of building capacity, support and development. Could you tell us about your journey into politics? What really motivated you to dabble in the murky waters of the Nigerian politics? I formerly got passionately interested in politics in 2019. I joined the political race to make a difference. A one-time American President, Harry Truman, once said: “A man has to have a programme. You have to be known for something; otherwise you will never get anywhere.” I decided to use all my financial and banking experience to alleviate the suffering of our people. My people at the Oyo South Senatorial District have been crying out for change. How do you know that they need you at this moment? How do I know this, I have gone on courtesy calls and consultations with stake holders and the grassroots levels. The vibes I received was that people are yearning for effective representation. The people have become fed up with the existing state of affairs and frantically looking for a change of situation. The people are desirous of a new and credible representation at the senatorial level. I have a vision, one of which is to see how we can make Oyo State great again – make it a much better place and on larger scale make Nigeria great. I want to make a difference by utilising all the experiences I have garnered in the business world. And to really make a difference is by getting involved in politics to help the people. Everywhere I go, I see this yearning among our people in the Oyo South Senatorial District that I should come and deliver them from the current doldrums. I see them becoming on me to come to salvage the area and the people from the long neglect they have suffered. As a young man of 43 years, how do you hope to make the difference among the older politicians that have continued to hold grip of politics in the area? POLL As, I told you earlier, if you have a programme, all things will walk together for good. I have a four-point agenda for the people of Oyo South Senatorial District. The first is Human Capital Development. We need to annex human resources we have on ground. The second is that we need to improve the social infrastructure and develop it. The third is that we need to focus in educating and training; and fourthly, we need to empower our women. I call this Women Empowerment and Gender Main Streaming. This will help to engender sustainable development in the society. I am determined to lift the youths and women out of poverty by providing for them amenities of life. Also, when I get to the Senate, I will raise motions and bills that will be favourable to the people of the Senatorial district. I will also work with the state governor to ensure that development is brought to the people of the senatorial district. Our people really need dividends of democracy. Some leaders like former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babangida have been advocating that youths should be given a chance at all levels of governance. What is your take on this? Earnestly, what they are saying cannot be set aside or faulted. At the same time, we still have some tested and confirmed elder statesmen that we cannot ignore. However, the youths need to come to terms with the realities of the day. The youths of Nigeria have the responsibility to take advantage of their huge population in demanding for change. If 90 percent of a population is below 50 years, I think it is about time we take our destiny in our hands. I believe Nigerian youths have the capacity to contribute to the growth and development of the country. We must be proactive in playing a key role in the struggle for a new Nigeria. It is a common saying that politics is a dirty game. Yet, we should not be discouraged if we really want to make our state and country a better place for unborn generation. I think there is a lot we can do. There is a lot we can bring to the table. There is a lot we can share from the little experience we have. What do you see as the root causes of the challenges facing the country, Nigeria, such as insecurity, vis-a-vis ritual killings and kidnapping, among others? The various challenges confronting Nigeria today are due to the fact that we have bad leadership at different levels of government. I am ready to change things if I get the opportunity to serve my people as a legislator in the National Assembly. The electorates are the sole determinants of the leadership they get. The choice the electorates make at the polls rightly or wrongly is what leads to electing competent and incompetent leaders, respectively. Our people should shun politics of stomach infrastructure. Electorates should be able to make informed decisions to avoid voting into office self-serving politicians whose only aim of seeking political power is to feather their own nests at the peril of the masses. How did your family background affect your moral, business and academic quality? I am not rich, but comfortable though my father is probably wealthy. When I finished from the university, my father said he would not give me pocket money again. He also told me not to use his name or influence to get a job and I got a job because I was brilliant. My late mother, Chief Mrs. Serifat Olanbiwonninu Kolapo was actually the silver spoon of the family, from Animashaun lineage. My father did not give her any chance to spoil us. The secondary education I got was from a public school without a toilet. My mother tried to withdraw me from the school, but my father prevented her. For you to want to lead the people at the Senate, you must be a family man. Could you tell us about your immediate family? Kolapo Kola-Daisi is happily married to a business woman and fashion connoisseur, Abisola Kolapo Kola, the daughter of the former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi. The union is blessed with three children. What is your advice to your people? I urge the people of Oyo South Senatorial District to understand that the time for change has come. They should look beyond age and people with deep pocket who may want to buy their votes. They should look for a young and vibrant leader like me who has proved his mettle in several aspects of life. I am capable of turning things around in Oyo South Senatorial District if they give me the chance. I also call on my party members not throw away the chance of having someone like me by pitching their tent with me at the primary. That is how the change we are all advocating for can come.