OSOGBO – Some elders of the ancient city of Ile Ife have backed the protest that greeted the recent appoint­ment of the new Vice-Chancel­lor for the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Professor Adebayo Banire. The elders under the ae­gis of Ife Progressive Forum (IPF) in a petition alleged that oath was administered on members of the selec­tion committee to appoint Professor Adebayo Bamire as the 12th Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the university. At a news conference held at the Community Hall, Enuwa, Ile-Ife, the President, Dr. Famoriyo Gbolade, alleged that the process schemed in favour of Prof. Bamire. He alleged that there was a corrupt manipulation of the vital process of scoring and assessing aspirants to the VC position by the Chairman of the Govern­ing Council, Owelle Oscar Udoji, with the connivance of other members of the committee. “The secrecy surround­ing the exercise is highly suspicious. There was an oath administered on mem­bers of the Selection Com­mittee before the interviews were conducted, after, and during the process of com­piling the results. “The report of the com­mittee to the council was slated for 2 pm, while the an­nouncement of the reports to the public was slated for 3 pm on the same Thursday, March 17, 2022. Was the report expected to be auto­matically approved by the Council? “Besides, the tradition in the academia is to frontload reports before consider­ation. Why were the Council members not given the re­ports at least 24 hours before the meeting, in accordance with academic and admin­istrative practice? “On entering the meeting and after necessary proto­cols, members were given palmtops containing the purported selection reports. They were allowed to hold the palmtops for about 10 minutes, after which the so-called reports were approved. POLL He queried: “Why will the university withdraw the palmtops from members? Is it that the chairman does not trust members? What is it that must be so guid­ed in a public document? Where is it in our academic practice is Oath of Secrecy agreement from committee members?” The indigenes appealed to President Muhammadu Bu­hari and Minister of Educa­tion Adamu Adamu to look into the process that led to the appointment of Bamire. But OAU spokesman Abiodun Olarewaju denied the allegation that members of the Selection Committee were made to take an oath to scheme the process in fa­vour of Bamire. “There are civilised ways of seeking justice, especial­ly if a process is perceived unjust. We learnt that a pe­tition has been written. So, let’s wait for the outcome. I am not aware there was any oath-taking,” Olarewa­ju stated.