LAGOS  – Software Group (SoftwareGroup. com), a global financial technology provider, has announced the launch of its Fast-track Agency Banking software for Nigerian banks that want to expand their reach at speed and competitive cost. Fast-track Agency Banking is an off-the-shelf solution with standard features for the key transactions, fully managed on the cloud. It is powered by Software Group’s DigiWave banking platform for overall digital transformation. The new managed software service comes as agency banking is growing exponentially across Nigeria. Malnutrition: Dangote Honours Late Brother By Commissioning… ‘Julius Berger Is Best Construction Company In Terms Of… Top banks, such as Access Bank and FirstBank, have recently added millions of customers through agents, and more than doubled agency transaction volumes. This recent surge in agency transactions and agents has lifted the proportion of Nigerian adults with a financial account, which rose to between 45 and 50 per cent by the end of 2020, as agency banking transactions jumped from 3 percent of the country’s transactions to 19 percent in a single year. However, that growth has not yet been enough to achieve the National Financial Inclusion Strategy target of 70 percent financial inclusion by 2020. “There is still much to do to deliver financial services to the 38 million Nigerian adults who remain completely unbanked,” said Connor Hanan, Software Group’s CEO Africa and Middle East. According to DataPhyte, over 2 trillion Naira a month of transactions remain unbanked, with 2.72 trillion Naira unbanked in November 2021 alone. Enhancing Financial innovation & Access (EFInA) reports that access to banks remains one of the three biggest barriers to using traditional Nigerian banks for these funds. POLL “With millions of adults still in need of financial services, and access reported as one of the greatest barriers, our software development has been driven by the need to accelerate the creation of agency networks,” said Connor.