A mouthwatering encounter between two top-four rivals takes place at Old Trafford on Saturday (today) eve­ning, as Manchester United face Tottenham Hotspur in the English Premier League (EPL). The Red Devils fell to pieces in a 4-1 defeat to rivals Manchester City last time out, while Antonio Conte’s side put five unanswered goals past Everton. If the cracks were not already apparent for Rangnick at Man United, they certainly are now, as amid multiple reports of discontent behind the scenes, the Red Devils were outclassed and outfought at the Etihad last weekend in a 4-1 humbling. Brighton Face Uphill Task Against Liverpool Ranger Coach Charges PlayersOn Adopted Home Ground The Red Devils were clinging onto fourth spot in the table but have now been surpassed by a blistering Arsenal – who also possess three games in hand – but victory for fifth-placed Man United here will see them return to the UEFA Champions League (UCL) spots before the Gunners face Leicester City a day later. There is also the small matter of the second leg of their UCL knockout tie with Atletico Madrid to come, but having now failed to win any of their last three in all tournaments, optimism cannot be high among the Old Trafford fanbase right now. United can take some solace in the fact that they have strung together a four-match unbeaten streak at home in the EPL – conceding only one goal in that stretch – but that may count for nought against a man with Alan Shearer’s record in his sights. Antonio Conte is the name, inconsistency is the game. The EPL and Serie A-winning coach has overseen a batch of impressive as well as dismal results in North London, but his side needed no second invitation to sweep aside Everton last time out. In a very welcome sight for all Tottenham supporters, Harry Kane surpassed Arsenal legend Thierry Henry in the all-time EPL goalscoring charts with his 175th and 176th strikes in the competition, while Son Heung-min, Sergio Reguilon and a Michael Keane own goal also contributed to a 5-0 Spurs romping. POLL Conte’s side have reignited their pursuit of a top-four place after claiming emphatic back-to-back Premier League wins – also putting four past Leeds – and Spurs could rise back into the top four with a win at Old Trafford, but they would need to do so by a five-goal margin. Of course, Spurs have recent experience in prevailing on the Manchester turf, and they have made a habit of winning one then losing one away from home since the turn of the year, which bodes well for them after defeat to Middlesbrough in the FA Cup earlier this month. Man United stormed to a 3-0 win on Spurs’ turf in a game that cost Nuno Espirito Santo his job earlier in the season, but Jose Mourinho embarrassed his former club with a 6-1 victory at Old Trafford last term, and Tottenham’s recent hot streak in front of goal means that such an astonishing scoreline is not entirely beyond the realm of possibility here.