Apostle Patrick Amanze, founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO)of Sure-Sufficiency Resources Limited, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, said Nigerian entrepreneurs should learn to repay loans and that young Nigerians should not go into any business with intention to make profit overnight. Excerpts: Tell us the services that your company provides? We provide business development services to clients that want to improve their businesses and access funding from the Bank of Industry. NDE Conducts Training In Enterprise, Finance Management For 50… Fuel Scarcity Hurting Small Businesses In Nigeria We package and help companies so that they can access funding. For instance, if have a company that needs injection of funds, we will prepare and package the company and write a business plan will enable you to access the necessary funds. What is your assessment of the state of small businesses in the country? There are many funding opportunities in the country and many people are ignorant of them and cannot access them. Because of their ignorance, they do not have the preparatory process to access the funding. For instance, if a woman gets married, the first thing she does is to prepare for pregnancy and the child; this means she begins to buy baby things. When the time comes, she is prepared for the baby. This is the same thing with running a business. An entrepreneur who wants to grow his business should get training that will help him or her to grow the business. POLL What we do is meet you at the point you are; package you and reformat your business; establish some key processes and help you prepare a business plan that will help you to access funding from a bank. There is widespread perception in the country that the Bank of Industry loans are only on paper and that people do not actually get them. What do you say to this? It is not true; many people have accessed funding from the bank and are continuing to access funding from the bank; I know an entrepreneur whose company got burnt and he approached me and I worked with him and he got N67 million from the bank. He did not believe it was possible at the initial time and there are many companies that I have done the same thing for. In Owerri, I have had seminars and trained people in how to access the funds from financial institutions and they are benefitting from the funding offered by the bank. N50bn COVID-19 Loan: NIRSAL Microfinance Bank, Entrepreneurs… LSETF Lauds Google’s Initiative Aimed At Empowering SMEs,… Many people who are into the palm oil business have accessed the fund and are doing very well. They have got as much as N5 million to expand their businesses. If a group approaches me, what I will do is put them in groups as cooperatives and get funding for the cluster and get their traditional ruler to guarantee the fund. In that cluster, they will begin to do a particular type of business as a cooperative. In that manner, you create businesses and reduce unemployment in the country. There is a tendency on the part of many Nigerians to see loans as largess, and they do not want to repay. What can be done to curb this? Yes that is true; and that is why we advise the government to do campaigns from time to time to make them know that people should repay loans so that others can benefit from the facility. The government should tell people what they should know and not what they want to hear about loans and repayment. Many people have a wrong perception about loans; they do not realise that loans are not free funds; loans should be repaid. What should people do after securing a loan? The first thing they should do is that they should be disciplined in their finances; they should follow the rules in the business plan. If you follow the rules in the business plan and do not divert funds from the loan to other areas, you will be able to repay the loan. It is a matter of orientation. The government is now teaching people to have a proper understanding of loans in the country and the situation is getting better. If you come to me said you want to a loan start buying and selling shoes; I will ask the person if he or she has sold shoes before; if the person said no, I will step back and I will ask if the person can get people who have done the business to be part of the business, if the person said yes, then I will step forward because the person has people around him who have done that business in the past. Part of our duty is to train the people to understand the process and prepare them for it and they will get the funding. The Bank of Industry has billions of naira to disburse; the problem is that people do not have the collateral to access the fund and they want to divert the money to other uses apart from what it is meant for. It is part of our duty to educate clients on what to do to access the fund and use it in line with the terms it was given. What is your reaction to the assertion that the Nigerian business environment is hostile and it is difficult to succeed in business with a loan? That is not true; many businesses are doing well with funds the got from financial institutions and they are repaying. What should business people do to thrive in the country? The first is that they should know the business; they should understand the terrain they are doing business in and they should not jump into a business because their friends are succeeding in it. People should only engage in a business because they have a passion for it; passion is the foundation for growth in a business. I tell people to understand the business; seek information about the business and associate with people who are doing the business and understudy them for a while, otherwise you will get your fingers burnt and end up crying. What is your advice to young people who want to do business? My advice to young people who want to start a business is that they should have the basic information about the business; they should go for training in the business. They should be trained and be equipped with the skills to run a particular business. I say to young men and women in the country that they should understand who they are and what they want to do. They should not go into a business with the intention of making money overnight; everything has a process and they should follow the process and if they go through the process, they can get to the top.