Despite the Federal High Court ruling on Tuesday, Governor David Umahi has assured the people of Ebonyi State to remain calm that he remains the governor of the state. Daily Independent had on Tuesday reported that Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja ruled that the defection of Governor Dave Umahi and his deputy, Dr  Kelechi Igwe, from the PDP to the APC was illegal. Justice Inyang Ekwo, in his judgement, noted that the votes which made Umahi the governor belonged to the party and could not be transferred to another party. BREAKING:[Defection] Umahi, Deputy Ask Appeal Court To Set Aside… Umahi’s Sack: APC Slams Court Judgment, Says Its ‘Shameful,… Reacting to the development, Governor Umahi said he has forwarded a petition against the judge to the Nigeria Judicial Council (NJC) and he is sure of quashing the ruling at the appeal court. Speaking to journalists in Abakaliki, Umahi accused Justice Inyang Ekwo, of bias against him and Ebonyi State, claiming that the judge lacked the powers to remove him as governor as he is covered by the immunity clause which protects him from any form of litigation that is not a pre-election and tribunal matter. Umahi also noted that there were two other similar cases related to the defection of state governors to other parties, in Ebonyi and Zamfara states. He said the two courts in their separate judgements ruled in favour of the governors. “The constitution stipulates that the only way whereby a governor can vacate his seat is either by death, resignation or impeachment by the House of Assembly,” the Ebonyi governor said. “There is no other provision that empowers a hatchet man to turn the constitution upside down. I have listened to the judgement of Ekwo and it is very obvious that he was on a mission. He was making all efforts to upturn the rulings of the Appeal and Supreme courts on issues like this. POLL “We have heard the rumours before now that he was determined to give judgement against all known laws and the constitution to embarrass the APC and the federal government. “For me, I do not feel worried but I feel so sorry for the judiciary. The executive may have a problem, the legislature may have a problem but the moment justice could be purchased, then we are in trouble in this country. And the ruling this afternoon is clear evidence that this country is in trouble.