LAGOS – The Society of Women Accountants of Nigeria (SWAN) on Tuesday urged the National Assembly to revisit the proposed Gender and Affirmative Action bills it rejected on March 1 in the 5th constitution amendment bill. Mrs Nwamara Nnaji, the Chairperson of SWAN made the appeal to the legislators during a programme it organised to commemorate the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD) with the theme: #BreakTheBias. Nnaji said that the bills, if passed into law, will go a long way to correct gender imbalance across the legislative arm of government and reduce the under-representation of women in political offices. IWD: E-Commerce As Tool For Women Empowerment International Women’s Day – Senator Dadu’ut Felicitates… She specifically highlighted that the proposed bills 35, 36, 37, 38 and 68 should be reconsidered and re-presented for passage by the National Assembly. According to her, adoption of the bills will not only benefit women but Nigeria and Nigerians as a whole ” We should not, in 2022, be negotiating the rights of women and the sanctity of the dignity of the girl child. ” This action by the men of the 9th National Assembly has taken the country backwards. ” It undermines the importance and relevance of women’s contribution to the governance of Nigeria. POLL ” We, therefore, call on the National Assembly to re-present these bills as a matter of urgency and ensure that they are passed, ” she said. Nnaji noted that women need and are more deserving to be given 35 per cent appointed positions and cannot and should not settle for 20 per cent because women can only represent women best, in world affairs. She said: “Nigerian men enjoy automatic citizenship of their foreign abode. Why can’t Nigerian women become indigenes of their husbands’ states in cases where couples are from different states?” The SWAN chairperson said that while women should be celebrated, especially every day, the IWD is significantly earmarked to recognise and honour women ‘s accomplishments, increase awareness of women’s equality, enable every woman to appreciate herself, among others. Northern Youth Lauds NYSC Trust Fund Bill, Calls For Speedy… Constitutional Amendment: AATSG Commends  NASS, Wants Revisit Of… Nnaji stated that SWAN which comprised of female members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) had been at the forefront to attend to the development of women and children, especially the girl child. She said the Association within its 44 years of existence have recruited thousands of young women into the Accountancy profession, empowered hundreds of young women with requisite skills for financial independence, awarded a scholarship to several indigent students, amongst others. In her goodwill message, Mrs Comfort Eyitayo, ICAN President said that gender equality is not merely desired by the female population but a global imperative. Eyitayo, represented by Dr Ijeoma Anaso, Deputy Registrar, Technical Services, ICAN stated that the female accountancy professionals are yearning for a world free of bias, stereotypes and discrimination as they celebrate. ” I felicitate with the 14,462 female ICAN members who are championing accuracy and integrity as financial advisers, tax experts, forensic professionals and board room gurus. ” We crave a world where irrespective of your gender, you have the opportunity to achieve your aspirations and dreams, ” she said. The first official international Women’s Day was recognised and celebrated by the United Nations in 1975. The day is set aside to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women and also draw attention to gender equality and the advancement of women’s rights.