A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress(APC), Rt Hon Taiwo Olatunbosun has said that any political party expecting to profit from the disquiet in the party would be disappointed both in Ekiti State and at the centre. Olatunbosun,  former Deputy Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly boasted the ruling has an inbuilt mechanism to resolve whatever misunderstanding amongst its members, unlike the opposition. Featuring on a Radio Personality Interview programme monitored by Independent in Ado-Ekiti christened THE CONVERSATION, Olatunbosun declared that the APC looks good to retain power in Ekiti and Aso rock. The Chairman of the Ekiti State House of Assembly Commission said the opposition party hoping to harvest members from the APC over the January 27 governorship primary would be disappointed on grounds that many of the aggrieved members have resolved to sheathe their swords. He  described the APC flag bearer, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, as a “popularly elected candidate who was chosen by the overwhelming majority of party members.” Olatunbosun said: “For the first time, Ekiti needs continuity, Ekiti needs stability to continue with the development that has started very well under the leadership of JKF (Fayemi). ” The APC is getting stronger everyday and it is in a pole position to win the forthcoming governorship election. Those parties wishing to harvest members from the APC will be disappointed at the end because of the internal reconciliation going on. “Politics is about interests and all the people being referred to as aggrieved, they have said it openly and publicly that they are not leaving the party and they are going to work for the party at the election. POLL “The truth of the matter is that the Reconciliation Committee has been out in place and working very hard on the assignment it has been saddled with. The candidate elected in the primary was popularly elected and as a matter of fact, the election was free and fair He said the assignment of the Post-Primary Reconciliation Committee led by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, has been made easier by Oyebanji’s extension of his hand of fellowship to other contestants many of whom are ready to work for the party’s victory at the polls. Olatunbosun who is also a former Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation believes that the APC would coast home to victory on the strength of what he called “the good legacies and impressive performance” of Governor Kayode Fayemi in over three years in office. “We may have some individuals who may be disappointed that they were not elected at the primary because they would have lived to be governor but the truth of the matter is that we can only have one governorship candidate. “A governorship candidate, a popular one has been elected and he has extended his hands of fellowship to all of them that contested with him and they have Al pledged to work for the party. “The issue of the governorship primary has been laid to rest and I can assure you that all the people that participated in that primary have pledged and publicly pledged that they are going to work for the party. “Until we get to the campaign ground, you will see people, you will see almost all of them (contestants at the primary) on the campaign train, it is then that you will believe that our party is strong, prepared and ready to win and continue in governance.” “For the first time, we should try what we have never experienced and if people are talking about Lagos and other states, what can make a society develop in a progressive manner is stability and this has starter with the food performance of JKF in Ekiti.”