Georginio Wijnaldum ‘accepts’ that leaving Liverpool to join Paris Saint-Germain was a mistake as the French giants look to cut their losses with the midfielder. PSG are set for a major exodus following their humiliating defeat by Real Madrid as they were knocked out of the Champions League. Wijnaldum is one of several players up for sale after a disappointing debut season at the Parc des Princes. The Dutch midfielder was a standout performer for Liverpool, but has failed to replicate that success with Mauricio Pochettino’s men after leaving Anfield as a free agent in the summer. And Wijnaldum and PSG both acknowledge it’s a move that hasn’t worked out for both parties as the Ligue 1 side plan to sell him this summer, according to L’Equipe. The report states that Wijnaldum ‘still has market value’ in England and should be able to find a new club back in the Premier League. Wijnaldum said in October that he was “not completely happy” in Paris due to his lack of playing time. He told Dutch news outlet NOS: “I can’t say I’m completely happy, because the situation is not what I wanted. POLL “But that’s football and I’ll have to learn to deal with that. I’m a fighter. I have to stay positive and work hard to turn it around. “I have played a lot in recent years, was always fit and also did very well. This is something different and that takes getting used to. “I was really looking forward to the new step and then this happens. It is very difficult.” Jurgen Klopp admitted at the start of the season that it was difficult for Liverpool to adjust without Wijnaldum on and off the pitch. The Liverpool boss said: “Even when we prepare for an opponent like Chelsea, we look at our games against Chelsea and see Gini running around there. “We still have to get used to that. It is not only on the pitch we miss him but we really, really miss him in the dressing room as well.” There are no suggestions that Liverpool would be interested in reuniting with Wijnaldum but the player insists he would love to return to Anfield one day as a supporter. He said: “If it’s possible, I would love to come back,” he said before his final game for the club. “The feeling I have, the feeling my family has with this club, is only good things. “I hope that it would be possible that I come back to watch a game and support Liverpool because I will be a Liverpool supporter for life.”