ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS), in collaboration with the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), undertook a taxpayer education/enlightenment campaign in Abuja to bring locals up to speed on current tax trends. The campaign aimed to raise awareness about taxation and recent changes in tax administration, as well as effectively communicate the FCT-IRS tax processes and focus to FCT inhabitants. Mr. Haruna Abdullahi, Acting Executive Chairman, FCT-IRS, in his address of welcome said the Service, as a new tax body, is always open to greater cooperation with stakeholders from the Federal Inland Revenue Service CITN, other critical tax professionals and practitioners in widening the campaign. Abdullahi said the programme will be rewarding, and FCT and indeed Nigeria would be better for it, given the calibre of the resource persons that handed critical issues, that would contribute positively to the development of the taxation system. He added that in terms of tax operations and compliance, its focus has been on the personal income aspects of the employee under the Pays-As-You-Earn (PAYE) scheme at about 75%, self-employed under direct assessment at 10% and others 15% respectively. In his words, in order to surpass its revenue target of 202 billion Naira for the year 2022, the Service is re-strategizing and refocusing on three streams of tax- namely tax on rental income, capital gains tax, and business premises registration fee before the end of the year. He, however, reiterated the resolve of the Service to sustain aggressive public enlightenment and sensitisation campaign to mobilise prospective taxpayers, with a view to boosting the revenue base of the FCT Administration. POLL In his keynote address, CITN 15th President, Chief Adesina Adebayo, who was represented by Samuel Agbeluyi, CITN’s Vice President, said the programme is highly commendable, as it’s tended to provide enlightenment on taxation of partnership business in Nigeria and recent changes in tax legislation. Also speaking at the event, the Vice-Chairman, Senate Committee on FCT Senator Tolu Odebiyi hinted that the FCT-IRS as one of the key revenue generators for the FCT has done well, especially in putting together needed institutional frameworks. He described the event as apt, as it will enable the Service to further set up structures required to widen its revenue base and efficiency in the system He, therefore, assured us that the Senate is doing anything possible to work with the FCT-IRS to not only widens its revenue base but ensure efficiency and accountability in the system. Similarly, Member, House Committee on FCT, and Deputy Chairman House Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Igariwey Iduma Enwo said it was a very laudable and deliberate collaborative effort towards improving the tax system in the FCT. According to him, “Taxes are at the core of the relationship between the govt and citizens as a civic duty, which enables the provision of critical infrastructure and services to the citizens “We stand ready and committed to amending or enacting laws to enhance a robust tax system in the FCT”, he stressed.