UYO – Akwa Ibom Patriots have advised aspirants and the electorate to desist from engaging combative electioneering languages as the 2023 general elections approach. The elders have warned aspirants to avoid all forms of intimidation, insult or any attempt to prevent others from carrying out the ongoing consultations in a peaceful atmosphere. In a press conference addressed by Chief Bassey Inuaeyen in Uyo on Tuesday, the elders reminded Akwa Ibom people of the time when politically motivated killing and assassination were experienced in the state and begged the youths to ensure such a closed chapter is never reopened. “If the motive is to serve our people, then no one should intimidate anyone, insult opponents or prevent others from the ongoing consultations. “Now that our state is enjoying unparalleled peace and tranquillity, all of us should ensure that this peace is sustained. The history of politically motivated violence and assassinations is a closed chapter that our state must not, cannot and should not reopen – not now, not ever. “We must remember the atmosphere of fear and insecurity that enveloped our state. We remember our mothers, fathers, sons and daughters who were kidnapped, maimed or in many cases killed gruesomely. We remember how it was difficult to move about freely in our state”. he said Inuaeyen, therefore, tasked the youths to reflect on the peace and tranquillity, industries, infrastructure and other developments attracted by Governor Udom Emmanuel, and work hard to sustain the state, which he said has become economically viable. The elder statesman tipped the youths “When that politician asks you to cause mayhem and attack your fellow citizens, you should ask him if he too will bring his sons and daughters to do likewise”. POLL The Ibom Patriots used the occasion to endorse Governor Udom Emmanuel’s preferred successor, Pastor Umo Eno. “On the issue of Governor 2023, Ibom Patriots that consists of the best of Akwa Ibom had preferences for other aspirants, but in the interest of peace and harmony, we put aside emotions and individual interest to unanimously endorse Pastor Umo Eno”. “We believe that with pastor Umo Eno after Governor Udom Emmanuel, the future is assured. We believe our decision is in the best interest of our people,” he said.