The north London giants are sitting fourth in the Premier League table, three points ahead of closest top-four chasers Tottenham Hotspur with a game in hand. Mikel Arteta has done a commendable job to lift his side from a woeful start to the season and looks keen to add more quality players to his squad in the summer. According to Corriere dello Sport (h/t The Express), Napoli’s Fabian Ruiz will not wait around for the likes of Real Madrid and Barcelona if Arsenal come calling for services. He favours signing for either Real Madrid or Barcelona but would be ready to move to the Premier League if neither of the Spanish heavyweights launches a transfer bid, the report adds. Ruiz, 25, has been a key performer for Napoli over the years, catching the eye of various clubs in the process. He is enjoying a fine campaign in Serie A, with the creative midfielder’s six goals and three assists in 25 games helping Luciano Spalletti’s side challenge for the Scudetto. However, the Spanish international is out of contract at the end of next season, and with no renewal in sight, Napoli could cash in on him in the summer transfer window. In Thomas Partey, Granit Xhaka, Albert Sambi Lokonga and Mohamed Elneny, Mikel Arteta has just four options who play primarily central midfield roles currently in his squad. Partey and Xhaka have shown signs of building a strong partnership at the heart of Arsenal’s midfield, playing a crucial role in their side’s rise to fourth in the table. However, beyond the duo, the Gunners do lack serious depth, with Lokonga inexperienced and Elneny out of contract at the end of the season. And as loaned out pair Matteo Guendouzi and Lucas Torreira are set to leave the Emirates Stadium permanently, signing a central midfielder has to be at the top of the manager’s agenda. In that aspect, Fabian Ruiz fits the billing perfectly at Arsenal. POLL A versatile player, Ruiz can operate in any position across the midfield and create opportunities for his teammates. Tactically smart and technically strong, he can glide smoothly with the ball past players, can provide assists with crisp through balls in the final third, spread play using his vision and score important goals for his team. The Spaniard is skillful, industrious and tenacious, blessed with a hammer of a left foot capable of scoring spectacular goals. The ex-Real Betis man would immediately improve the Gunners’ quality in midfield, whilst adding much-needed depth. Ruiz has been a consistent performer for Napoli in the years gone by, and he could come in at the Emirates Stadium as an instant upgrade on Xhaka. His versatility is an added bonus and would give Arteta the tactical flexibility required in bigger games. As Fabian Ruiz is slowly heading towards the final year of his contract in Naples, Arsenal must go all out for his signature.