Aguleri, Anambra-East local government area, the country home of the outgoing governor of Anambra state has dissociated herself from a trending viral video in the social media where a woman was stripped naked and compelled to sit beside her late husband’s corpse amidst booing from angry mob. Although the true story of the man’s mysterious death has not been ascertained but a cursory look at the trending video revealed that an angry mob accused the woman of promiscuity and marital infidelity. They said she would take responsibility for her husband’s death because they believed that tradition forbids a promiscuous wife to cook for her husband, alleging that the woman had been cautioned severally about her lifestyle but she allegedly remained adamant until her husband’s sudden death. Icelandic-Nigerian Singer, NonyKingz, Speaks About Pioneering… APC: Learn From PDP’s 16 Years Of Failure, Buhari Warns Party… Although DSP Ikenga Tochi, the Police Public Relations Officer of the state police command released a statement on the incident saying that the Anambra State Police Operatives rescued a female victim from an angry mob in Aguleri. The statement has it that the rescue was as a result of a trending video of where a lady was publicly molested and assaulted on an alleged incident of causing the death of her late husband. It maintained that the Commissioner of Police CP Echeng Echeng while describing the act as barbaric, stated that one suspect was already in custody and therefore ordered an immediate study of the video with an aim to identify the suspects, arrest and bring them to book. The statement also disclosed that further information revealed that the deceased had already been buried before the video started trending. The victim was rescued and she is currently receiving medical care in the hospital. Although efforts made to reach the traditional ruler of Aguleri on the phone were unsuccessful as he didn’t respond to several phone calls but the Public Relations Officer of Aguleri Town Union Hon. Anthony Omazu said that social media have been misused by youths of nowadays. POLL Omazu said, ” These boys and their use of social media is very senseless and stupid. This is a family issue. The lady did not sleep with her husband because they alleged that the lady has been running around with men and her husband lost his life after eating her food. That is what I heard from my investigations. They said when the husband died, the woman became possessed and started confessing that she had a charm under the bed that made her husband not to talk whenever men clustered in his house and the wife’s shop. That whenever the family confronted him, he would say he has no problems with his wife. She was taken to the shrine where she continued to confess having charm under the bed and the people decided to parade her naked round the villages. However, my position is that what they did to the woman is barbaric and unlawful. If they feel the woman committed a crime they should have taken her to the police and not to parade her naked. It is absolutely wrong. Nobody knows what killed the man even though they alleged that it was the woman’s food that killed the husband due to her promiscuous lifestyle. “ Lighting Up Nigeria: NDPHC Signs PPA With APL Electric, Eko… Oyo State Assembly Hopeful, Ogunwole Rejoices With Olubadan,… Also the President-General and Chief Servant of Aguleri Town Union, Chief Barr. Hipo Chibuzor Onwuegbuke who spoke with our correspondent on the said trending video, said all the people who appeared in the video will be arrested by the police including the deceased elder brother whom he said masterminded the conspiracy against the woman. Onwuegbuke told our correspondent that investigations revealed that the woman and her husband used to have some problems and when eventually the man died, family members vent their spleen on the wife. Though he said the matter has been reported to Otuocha Police State and the woman in question has appeared before the police. The PG said, ” We are going to use that video to arrest all those involved in this inhumane act. All the women in the video will be arrested and they will tell the police what really happened. So the true story has not been heard from the horse’s mouth. I know it was an organized crime to malign the woman but they didn’t know it would boomerang into such magnitude as to affect the image of the town.