Traditional rulers in Akoko Northwest/Akoko Northeast federal constituency in Ondo State have put on hold the mutual political arrangement between the two local governments to rotate the constituency seat at National Assembly in order to allow the current representative, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, to return to the assembly the second time. Converging on the palace of Olukare of Ikare-Akoko, the 23 monarchs, for the first time, discussed the performance of the federal legislator and decided to endorse him for a second term. In a communique signed by Olukare of Akure,  Oba Akadri Momoh and all other monarchs present at the meeting, the traditional rulers said: “After giving considerable thoughts, we have decided to endorse the political credentials of our dear son, Rep. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, which is widely treated and strongly backed by our people and far beyond our constituency. “Besides the overwhelming grassroot support of Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, we have thoroughly gone through the credentials of the candidate in question and have equally analysed his performance since he was elected to represent our constituency in 2019 till date.” Citing the lawmaker’s unprecedented performance as the reason for the decision, the traditional rulers took turns to reel out projects and human capacity building programmes are done in their domains by the lawmaker. In his remarks, the Oosunla and paramount ruler of the Erusu Kingdom, Oba Sunday Olaniyi disclosed that it was the first time the traditional institution would take such a drastic decision. He emphasized that previous legislators representing the constituency at the Green Chamber couldn’t make landmark achievements because they lacked the connection and political alignment necessary to influence projects to the constituency. The traditional rulers declared their support for the federal legislator, promising to address residents, particularly politicians in their individual domains to support Tunji-Ojo’s re-election bid. POLL The communique reads in parts: “He has facilitated the reconnection of our communities through regular construction of roads, more than we have witnessed since the advent of democracy in 1999. This has improved the economy of our constituency as we can now easily transport our produce. “We, therefore, resolve  to give our total and unflinching support to ensure he is reelected for the continuity of this unprecedented effective representation of our Constituency.”