The newly-elected Deputy National Chairman South of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Emma Eneukwu on Monday said that the ruling party is committed to making Southern Nigeria its fortress. Enenkwu who gave this assurance in Abuja said that APC had become more united, indivisible and committed to delivering the dividends of democracy to all Nigerians. He also expressed his unalloyed, immeasurable and unquantifiable encomium to President Mohammadu Buhari, leaders of APC across Nigeria, party faithfuls amongst others for their unwavering support and prayers all through the convention period. According to him, they were what, made his victory a reality, adding, “Be assured that APC will take over the south and we are going to make a statement of intent, with the forthcoming elections in Ondo and Ekiti states. By the year 2023, PDP would be dead in the entire southern part of Nigeria.” He said,” I thank God for making the highly anticipated national convention of our great party a success. Many had thought that it will not happen, some said, APC will not leave up till April 2023, but God has shamed them” “I want to in a special way, appreciate the efforts of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the necessary leadership for the party especially, when it was most needed. “His intervention saved a lot for the party because it made APC more attractive and enviable, it disappointed all the 5th columnist, who had Projected the downfall of the party” “It ensured that they are astonished and quiet with great fear that, the party would be an object of Democratic principle measurement in the world” POLL “I want to appreciate all our leaders for their unwavering support towards my emergence, I Thank all the party faithfuls, who came across Nigeria to be part of the Convention, it was very marvellous, the crowd were absolutely thrilling” “The supports that you all gave me from the First Day till the last Day were  phenomenal,  breathtaking  outstanding” “The Convention has proven to the whole World, How United and committed APC is and How They are always abiding by the Democratic principles. APC in the southern part of Nigeria will take over the zone” “We want to make the South, a bastion of APC, This is because, APC is the party that has shown Nigerians, that, they are for all.” He also assured that all remaining internal issues bedevilling the party in the entire Southern part of Nigeria would be resolved before the party primaries, so as to go to the election and win all the available positions. “We are going to start the process of finalising our unity in the party” “We went to the Convention as one House, we will go to the party primaries and general elections as a Family” “Be rest assured that, APC will take over the South and we are going to make a statement of intent, with the forthcoming elections in Ondo and Ekiti States.”