In his remarks during the closing ceremony of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, International Olympic Committee President, Thomas Bach, was unsurprisingly lavish in his praise. He remarked on the “outstanding” Olympic Village, “magnificent” venues, and “extraordinary” organisation – a “truly exceptional” Winter Olympics, Bach said. Truly exceptional they were, but for reasons both good and bad. Even before the start of the Games, the Beijing Olympics were shrouded in controversy. The only city in history to host both Summer and Winter Olympics, Beijing and the IOCfaced widespread criticism from politicians, athletes, celebrities, and the wider public uneasy that China was being allowed to host a global event that could be used to ‘sportswash’ its image. That criticism was aimed at two fundamental areas: human rights and censorship. There has been long-term concern about human rights in China, particularly in the Xinjiang region where millions of Uyghurs – Chinese Muslims – are reportedly subjected to persecution and sent to re-education camps. The presence of a Uyghur athlete, the cross-country skier DinigeerYilamujiang, lighting the flame at the opening ceremony did little to dispel those issues. Then there is the case of Peng Shuai – the tennis player who accused a high-ranking government official of sexual assault before vanishing for several weeks, both physically and online. Peng has since denied making the claims and has made public appearances but concerns she has been coerced remain. As for censorship in China, state-controlled media and social media significantly limit freedom of speech, and there are bans on many forms of entertainment, including all casino games, violent video games and any movies and television shows that depict the Chinese government in a negative light. Still, the Games went ahead and the diplomatic boycott from many powerful nations madeabsolutely no difference, just as expected. POLL Despite the concerns, the Games progressed without a hitch and the focus soon centred on the sports and the athletes – at least for a while. There was the redemption story of snowboarder Lindsey Jacobellis, who clinched gold in the board cross 16 years after throwing away the title by showboating on the final jump; there was American Nathan Chen, who dazzled his way to figure skating gold; biathlete Johannes Thingnes Boe, who won four golds to help Norway once again top the medals table; and ski superstar Mikaela Shiffrin, who was targeting five golds and left with none but earned praise for her bravery in fronting up and speaking powerfully to the media. But controversy wasn’t too far from the surface and these Games will now forever be remembered for Kamila Valieva, the 15-year-old skater whose failed doping test shone a fierce light on a system that essentially allowed for the exploitation of a vulnerable teenager, as well as the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC), which has been plagued by doping scandals in recent years. The same system allowed Valieva to continue competing as the doping agencies and the IOC awaited the results of her B samples. With the eyes of the world on her, and its weight on her shoulders, Valieva crumbled. She fell twice during her routine, broke down in tears, and exited the ice to a stern telling off from her coach EteriTutberidze. How a 15-year-old girl – one of the greatest figure skaters the world has ever seen – was allowed to be put in such a position demands answers from the IOC. Her failed doping test, and the way the ROC routinely discards its talent, means Valieva is likely to never compete at another Olympic Games. While the Valievasaga cannot be blamed on the Beijing Games directly, the fact that one of the most stunning Olympic scandals played out in China only added to the overall controversy of the country hosting the event. Yet, there is a sense that China will be pleased with how the Games went. The criticism that many feel China deserves never dominated the discourse and for most of the two weeks, the attention was set firmly on the athletes. Meanwhile, the biggest scandal of the Olympics did not do any reputational damage to China. The same cannot be said of Russia and the ROC. The hosts also finished third in the medals table, achieving nine golds, while the divisive closed-loop system which imposed severe restrictions on movement ultimately proved a success – of 1.8 million PCR tests administered, only 437 positive cases were reported. These wereindeeda “truly exceptional” Winter Olympics and ones that will never be seen again – for better or for worse.