…As Agency Facilitated Deals Hit N146bn ABUJA – Aliyu Abdulhameed, the Managing Director of Nigerian Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System For Agricultural Lending otherwise known as NIRSAL Plc, on Tuesday disclosed that the newly birthed F-AGC Agribusiness Solution Services, would provide traceability of funds to financiers and lead to efficiency in the farms. Abdulhameed, who made this known during an interactive session with journalists in Abuja, disclosed that the agency has facilitated the flow of over N146billion into agricultural commodity value chains from commercial banks. Dolapo Marks Osinbajo’s Birthday At North-East Children’s… Electricity: Low Generation Cause Of Widespread Blackout –… According to him, the services is a new innovation, a sort of fee-based, largely technological expertise that NIRSAL is set to offer willing buyers in the upstream segment of the agricultural value chain which is set to revolutionize the the sector. The NIRSAL boss, who emphasized the need to ensure adequate financing is provided for the entire agriculture value chain, insisted that the agency’s job can only be said to be completely when banks lend, projects succeed, and borrowers pay back. “NIRSAL Plc is tasked with galvanizing organic economic interest in Nigeria’s agriculture sector; to build conditions that enable borrowers and lenders engage in the creation of new value across the sector. “Because we measure our milestones in terms of volumes of finance facilitated, which runs into billions of naira, some people get the impression that we are lenders. “When we say that NIRSAL Plc has facilitated the flow of over N146billion into agricultural commodity value chains from commercial banks, we mean that we have brokered deals whose value add up to that figure. POLL “Banks, very conservative with depositors’ funds, have long shied away from lending to agriculture because of their high perception of risks. Therefore, NIRSAL Plc necessarily creates conditions that influence a change in perception under a purely commercial logic. We refer to it as fixing value chains. “When banks lend, projects succeed, and borrowers pay back, our job is done. We at NIRSAL Plc wake up every morning and go to work for the sole purpose of triggering and sustaining this flow. “Our innovations in this regard have been well publicized, chiefly, the Agro Geo-Cooperative farming model, which gives primary production a new impetus for attracting finance and investment. “Still in line with our mandate, we have now birthed the F-AGC Agribusiness Solution Services, a suite of fee-based, largely technological expertise that we are set to offer willing buyers in the upstream segment of the agricultural value chain. “This innovation will provide traceability of funds to financiers and lead to efficiency in the farms. Voting Against Gender Bills “A Modern Day Tragedy’… Electoral Act: Gbajabiamila Refers Buhari’s Letter To… “In all, financiers, which are largely the banks, remain the first critical market we are labouring to serve. At the other end are farmers and other agripreneurs to whom we are offering our innovations as platforms on which financiers are already standing, ready to do business” he said.