DANIEL ABIA, PETER IHEJIRIKA P/HARCOURT  – It was another landmark achievement in the commercial Industry as the President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mine and Agriculture, (PHACCIMA ), Sir Mike Elechi among other stakeholders joined Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike on the lunching of Qatar airways. The event which took place at Port Harcourt International Airport, Onuegwa had in attendance critical stakeholders in Business and hospitality Industry. NSCDC Marks Civil Defence Day In Style, Vows To End Illegal… RIWAMA Boss Warns Against Open Defecation, Indiscriminate… The Governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Mrs Ipalibo Harry Banigo said that the state government is committed in improving a bilateral trade with other countries hence the lunching of direct flight from Doha to Port Harcourt and urged the business community to make good use of the advantage. Sir Elechi, PHACCIMA President, expressed joy over the development, saying that it is another opportunity for direct business transaction in the affected countries, adding that Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce Industry Mine and Agriculture as a business entity would as always give its support to Rivers State government for business activities to thrive in the state. Other dignitaries at the event include, the Chief of staff Government house, Chief Emeka Woke, Commissioner for Commerce and Industry Mrs. Ify Nwankpa, Head of Service, Rufus Godwin among other stakeholders. The Qatar Airline Inaugural flight QR 1433,(Boeing 787-8 Dream liner ) touched the tarmac of Port Harcourt international airport Omagwe signaling their entry into the Port Harcourt international Air route. The highly elated vice president Africa, of the Qatar Airways Hendrik Perez during the event at the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa expressed gratitude to the Rivers State Government for her hospitality, describing Port Harcourt as an important economic hub in Nigeria even as he expressed optimism that the new flight would link Rivers State to the world’s financial market and PetroChemical hub. POLL Governor Nyesom Wike, represented by the Deputy governor, Rivers State Dr (Mrs) Ipalibo Harry Banigo, in his remarks, said that the state government has developed and is also implementing an Ease of Doing Business Policy Framework that has enhanced the development, growth and sustainability of businesses in Rivers State. Continuing, Wike said “This is happening at a very auspicious time, when we in Rivers State are witnessing a total infrastructural renaissance, we are building ten flyovers, six has been commissioned three will be commissioned next month and one next year”. The governor, however eulogised Qatar Airways noting that their choice of Port Harcourt the Garden City of Nigeria, as a destination would further enhance the economic activities within the region, increase the economy of the nation and also bring in foreign investments into the Country. The governor stated that he was delighted to officially receive the Inaugural Flight of Qatar Airways to Port Harcourt, Rivers State and thanked the Federal Aviation Authority of Nigeria and Qatar Airways for making Port Harcourt their destination of choice. In his remarks, Nigeria’s Ambassador to Qatar Yakubu Ahmed, said this event would facilitate closer ties, mutual trust and trigger areas of interest between Nigeria and Qatar, and noted that these connections have the potential to push the frontiers of bilateral relations towards a more robust cooperation in oil and gas. Rivers Council Chairman Tasks Immigration On Recruitment Of… We’ve Brought Down Piracy In Gulf Of Guinea – NIMASA DG In his contribution, the Qatar Ambassador to Nigeria Dr. Ali Al-Hajri, stated that they were proud of the occasion even as he described the event as a bridge between Rivers State, Nigeria and the World through the Middle East, adding that it was an important effort that would make Nigeria the largest market in Africa.