The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has joined numerous friends and well-wishers both in Nigeria and in the Diaspora to felicitate with Ambassador Ignatius Chukuemeka Olisemeka who turned  90 years on Saturday. Olisemeka was a career diplomat who served as a Nigerian Ambassador to nine countries, including Spain, Israel, Canada, the United States of America (USA) with a climax as Nigerian Foreign Affairs  Minister in 1999. A press statement by the Igbo socio-political organization on Sunday states that the life of Ambassador Olisemeka is a veritable tribute to hard work, probity, humility, discipline and creative intelligence. Nnamdi Kanu’s Continuous Detention Provocative – Afenifere,… Ndigbo Passes Vote Of Confidence In Ohanaeze President-General “While in public service, he demonstrated an uncommon sense of ethical principles, innermost convictions and resolutions with a cheerful courtesy and candour. References are often made that while Olisemeka served as an Ambassador in the US, he once directed the diplomatic staff to withdraw their children from private to public schools. “In line with Nigerian syndrome, public schools in the Washington DC metropolis were well-equipped but diplomats preferred the private to public schools as a form of elitism. This was not only a cost-saving measure but a strong message to the Washington D. C community that prudence is key. “The above Olisemeka disposition is a moral to the highly placed Nigerian public officers that introspection pays better than the flamboyance, unnecessary display of ostentation and avoidable capital flight by sending their children to expensive schools abroad for education to the detriment of the worsening conditions of Nigerian schools. According to the statement, Olisemeka’s devotion to the service of the nation was above and beyond the call of duty. “He discharged his duties with an amazing commitment, incredible promptness, zest, elegance and panache. Above all, Olisemeka exemplifies simplicity, morality, integrity and honour even at his retirement. POLL “Olisemeka remains a worthy ambassador of the desired balance between the Igbo culture, urbane and native intelligence. He is indeed an accomplished and quintessential career diplomat and elder statesman. While wishing the former Ambassador well, the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ambassador Professor George Obiozor expressed pleasure that Olisemeka has attained 90 and refers to him as an exemplary diplomat with several enviable attributes.