BENIN – Edo North Chapter of the South-South Movement Group (SSMG) on Friday explained their interest in the pressure on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to contest the 2023 senatorial election, saying that the call for the former Governor of the state to contest the Edo North senatorial seat was the demand of the generality of the people and not just the group. The convener, Mr Vitalis Eshokene who addressed the media in Benin pointed out that while they were not disturbed with insinuation about their ethnicity, they remain resolute to join the masses in calling on the former governor to contest. Eshokene noted that the call is not borne out of any selfish interest but the need to change the narrative in the senatorial district. Association Drags Edo Market Woman Leader To EFCC Over Alleged… Oshiomhole Congratulates Obaseki, Urges Governor To Be… He further said that while the group acknowledge the fact that the district is blessed with capable hands, Oshiomhole’s antecedent in public service however stands him out. According to him, “He rose from being a mere tailor to become the President of one of the largest labour union in Africa, NLC and also became a governor of the heartbeat of the nation. “We all know his achievements in these offices, so there is no point asking whether he did perform in these positions. “Our desire to get Oshiomhole to contest is to replicate what he did as the governor of Edo and President of the NLC. “There is no gainsaying that Oshiomhole, while he was governor of Edo State, left an indelible developmental footprint and for God to have given us Oshiomhole we want him to come and perform what he did for the State in Edo North by attracting people’s oriented projects. POLL “Asides this, the district needs a rallying point; Oshiomhole is in a better position to provide this leadership which is currently lacking in the area. “So, if calling on Oshiomhole to contest is a sin that has warranted us to be labelled as ‘Political Jobbers’ we will gladly accept the name in good fate.” While maintaining they were not bothered about the name-calling, Alhaji Mustapha Buddy, however, emphasised that members of the group are not just mere voters in the district, but sons and daughters of Edo North. “We must also let the name-callers know that we are not hungry people as we still manage to take care of our families in spite of the present economic hardship, without asking for their help. “As for not being from the district, perhaps, the naysayers should carry out due investigation on our identities; myself, Buddy is from Ekperi axis, Eshokene is from Okpekpe to be precise and Isa Omozuapo is from Weppa. This is just to mention but a few.