Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention, Coalition of All Progressives Congress (APC) North East Youths Vanguard on Sunday endorsed the candidature of Hon Rinshola Abiola as the APC National Youth leader. The Convener of the Coalition, Comrade Abdullahi Ibrahim made the disclosure in a Press Conference held at the APC State Secretariat in Bauchi on Sunday. He said that the endorsement is necessary considering her wealth of experience and her outstanding sacrifices to the Ruling party. “As we set to elect new leadership that will paddle the affairs of the All Progressive Congress for the next 4 years, we are obliged to address the press on the following reason which is germane to the progress of our party”. “You will all agree with us that the Youths remain the backbone of every society, such that its future can not only be predicted through the deed of the youth but can also be presumed from the acts embarked upon by the youths of that particular time” “In all aspects of electoral processes, the role of the youth cannot be underestimated, the mobilization of voters which is the threshold to every electoral victory is highly carried out by Youths. “Therefore, we can succinctly posit that the position of the youth in democracy is that of a pillar in a building whereby if it seizes to exist, the building can not stand” “As we approach the National Convention of the All Progressive Congress, we the APC Northeast Youth Vanguard converged here today to affirm our wholesome support for Hon. Rinsola Abiola candidature as APC Youth leader” POLL “This is not because we felt we should throw our support behind her, but due to her antecedents in the area of grassroots mobilization throughout various assignments and positions she held either by the party leadership or in many support groups” “Her vast experience in the area of mobilization will forever be a selling point for our party in the forthcoming general elections. “This should not be taken for granted, we believe she remains the best among all the Aspirants currently jostling for this exalted office of APC Youth leader haven considered her background in political participation” “As a female contestant and considering the roles women play in mobilization and sensitization towards sustaining the gains and Securing the future of the national Democratic institutions, Her Endorsement become necessary and timely”. “Since the return of the fourth Republic, Women have continued to play Significant roles in the elections and in the emerging victory of the current Change Government. Women are the majority voters, we are very sure her victory will mark a turning point in our great party” he said Abdullahi Ibrahim then solicited the support of delegates and party leadership to ensure the delivery of Youth’s most friendly leader that can mobilize and win elections for the ruling All Progressive Congress. He assured that her emergence will change the narratives and will open more opportunities for the active Youths Participation in the Process that will return our great party to power.