ABUJA – National Centre for Artificial Intelligence Robotics(NCAIR), a subsidiary of the National Information Technology Development Agency(NITDA) has partnered Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA) to empower eight indigenous technology Startups through its “iHatch initiative.” iHatch Initiative is a start-up incubation programme aimed at increasing the number of innovation-driven enterprises by Nigerian youths. The incubation programme which will be mid-wived by NCAIR, would provide an excellent opportunity for startups with innovative business ideas along with a prototype of their products or services. FCTA Partner JICA To Standardise Abattoir Operations In Abuja iHatch is also a five-month free intensive incubation programme designed to help Nigerian entrepreneurs perfect their business ideas through a series of coaching, lectures and boot camps, to generate viable and scalable business models. It focuses on youth, innovation, entrepreneurship and technology. Participating startups will receive free offline and online interactive training from experienced coaches and mentors from over the world. Other benefits include free co-working space for the duration of the programme and investment opportunities. In his remarks during the iHatch incubation opening ceremony on Thursday in Abuja, Mr Kashifu Abdullahi, Director General of NITDA, said the programme was critical to digital Nigeria. POLL Abdullahi said that iHatch was designed to train, mentor and empower promising Nigerian tech entrepreneurs. He stated that the programme would boost Nigeria’s wealth creation drive through effective capacity building. According to him, “President Muhammadu Buhari promised to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. “To achieve that, the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami, formulated National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy(NDEPS), that policy is the backbone programme that provides digital innovation and entrepreneurship in Nigeria. “At National Information Technology Development Agency(NITDA) part of the implementation of the policy, we are partnering with Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA) to see how to create enabling environment, train our startups that can come up with innovative ideas to create wealth and prosperity for our country. “So this initiative named ‘iHatch’ is crafted to identity promising startups with promising ideas. “To help, train, mentor, incubate them and for them to turn their ideas into products and services as well as train the start-ups on how to pitch their ideas to potential investors so that they can get funding”. Also speaking, the Japanese Ambassador to Nigeria, Amb. Matsunaga Kazuyosh, said his country was committed to promoting digital transformation in Nigeria. His words, “I believe the biggest asset of Nigeria is not natural resources but human capital. “So the Japanese government is now focusing more on not just helping the establishment of infrastructure, agriculture, medical and security but also digital transformation and green energy in Nigeria. “Innovation is key to promoting digital transformation and green energy. I am very happy that the ‘Ihatch’ programme will inspire Nigerian youths to brush up on their innovative ideas and maximise opportunities for empowerment. I hope this programme will contribute to the success of not only the Nigerian market but also the global market.