JALINGO  – One Hundred and Seven graduates of the Federal University Wukari, Taraba State, made First Class Honours during the recent 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th combined convocation at the university. In his address earlier, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Jude Rabo, described the day as great and special in the lives of the graduates. The VC said the day formally marked the end of the journey many of them started years ago towards preparation to play diverse roles in supporting the development aspirations of Nigeria and the global community. Golden Morn Empowers Young Agripreneurs To Boost Sustainable… Ukraine/ASUU: Education No Longer At Ease For Nigerian Students… “The university has found you all worthy and in learning and thus worthy of the award of the various degrees conferred on you. I rejoice with you, your parents and your friends for attaining this feat. You must note that this is a stepping stone to the future and you must be prepared to make the best of it as you strive for excellence in your personal and professional endeavours. The VC gave the breakdown by faculties as follows: Faculty of Agriculture and Life Sciences 672, Faculty of Humanities Management and Social Science 2,266 and Faculty of Pure and Applied Science 1,059. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has enjoined youths and graduates of the Federal University Wukari (FUW), Taraba State, to embrace technology and engage in innovation that would add value to society. President Buhari, the Visitor to the Federal University Wukari gave the charge during the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th combined convocation at the university. Buhari, represented by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, commended the university for widening its academic base by increasing the number of faculties from 3 to 9 and urged the university to work diligently in collaboration with the private sector and relevant government agencies to ensure that they have the best possible teaching hospital facilities for the medical programme. POLL While congratulating the graduates on the successful completion of their various degree programmes, the President reminded them that they belong to one of the most resilient, dynamic and energetic populations. He, therefore, called on the graduands to take full advantage of the knowledge and skills acquired to innovate and make value addition. He disclosed that the Federal Government was ready and willing to create an initiative that would create wealth, jobs and opportunities hence establishing initiatives programmes like the N75 Billion National Youths Investment Fund and the Central Bank of Nigeria as creative sector funds. “In our determination to address youth restiveness in Nigeria, I have recently approved the Investing in Digital and Creative Enterprises (IDICE) programme and over 600 million dollars to support young tech and creative sector entrepreneurs through the provision of finances, skills development, infrastructure and the Nigeria Jubilee Fellows programme that would begin this year 2022. Under the programme, 20,0000 young graduates who have done the National Youth Service Corps would be given fully paid internships that will last for 12 months in reputable private and public organisations across the country. The idea is that participants would gain relevant carrier and life skills that would impact their lives and society.