ABUJA – Senator Abdullahi Adamu, All Progressives Congress (APC) new National Chairman, has suggested in the wake of Tuesday’s attack on Kaduna bound train that the government should look beyond terrorism in seeking a solution to the spate of insecurity. Beyond the military response to which the military has made the tremendous sacrifices, Senator Adamu said there should be a broad-based search for solutions to the challenge especially since this is not conventional warfare. Speaking when he formally took charge of the reins of office as Chairman of the ruling party, the former governor of Nasarawa State noted that the timing of the attack and other associated development around it suggest that something is fishy, adding the earlier suggestion about sabotage, should also not be overlooked. “The timing of these events are quite disturbing considering the economic situation of the country. And, we are not going to go all out and start crying. We will have to face the situation more squarely. As the attention is on terrorists. “And I think we need look beyond terrorism. Something is amiss somewhere. And we will stand up for the government and support it in different ways we can. And then see to the end of it. And this will not be left entirely to the military operation. They are doing very well. “As a proposal, we are not fighting a conventional war. So, it is difficult to pass judgment. But all I have to say is that we appreciate our men in uniform. They are doing their best. This not just terrorism simplicita, as lawyers will say. I will dig into it and see what we can do. “Much earlier, some times back, there were talks about saboteurs. They are still in the books. And I will try as much as possible to see what exactly is going wrong with our security infrastructure. “And some have said it is infiltration and they have done so much harm. Because it is not a conventional war you don’t easily plan it. You don’t say they are going to be here or there tomorrow. Port Harcourt or Ilorin. You don’t plan it. Because you don’t know because they work with the devil while we work with God” POLL Senator Adamu said his emergence as APC Chairman can only be through as he never imagined a month ago to occupy the position, as he expressed appreciation to President Mohammadu Buhari who he said is allergic to failure as the party ahead of the 2023 general election. He charged his colleagues on the NWC to work with him a team and not begrudge him, vowing to deal decisively with any acts of disloyalty. “I want to say on behalf of the new NWC that it is not going be a easy time for us. We have a major event that is going to test the water but how stable we are as a party . That is the general election that is coming. For me, by the time, we start working, our main task will be how we handle the elections as a party. How we will win the general election? People are talking, oh, APC does not have an incumbent on the ticket. We will have the honour and the integrity and the legacy of the current president on the ticket. “We will work day and night. We have less than 12 months to face the general election. So, everybody should buckle up. The little I have had about the president is that he has complete allergy for failure. So, failure will not be in APC from today. We will work for success together. If any of you my colleagues who is with me, don’t begrudge me. If there is any issue, let me know. “I promise you in the spirit of collective leadership that team is the only way. I cannot deliver alone. What I am asking for is something called ‘loyalty’. You have to be loyal. You must have one team. If you bring division tendency, we will deal with it. This country is greater than any one of us. And this party is bigger than any single member of this party. So, that is the spirit I am taking the leadership of this country”. Earlier Gov Mai Mala Buni, the CECPC Boss said the Caretaker Committee has attained about 70% success in the task of rebuilding the party.