A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Doyin Okupe on Sunday advised the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone its presidential ticket to the Southern region of the country. The PDP chieftain gave this advice while congratulating President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of APC for a successful and hitch-free National Convention held on Saturday in Abuja. Okupe advice is sequel to the presidential zoning ticket crisis currently rocking the opposition party. Okupe who is also vying for the position of President of Nigeria in 2023 enjoins the APC leadership to follow the path of righteousness and justice to go further & elect a southern candidate at its presidential primaries. In his congratulatory letter, he said, ”I, Dr Doyin Okupe, Nigerian, PDP Stalwart and Presidential aspirant on my own behalf and on behalf of my family, wholeheartedly congratulate, President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Buni and his team and the entire APC members throughout the federation on the extraordinarily successful convention held at eagle square on the 26th& 27th of March 2022. ”If the truth must be told, this successful outcome was contrary to the expectations of many Nigerians including me, and even some members of the APC itself. ”I am pleased to observe that the president finally threw his weight behind the peace resolution efforts and politically exploited the respect that many of the APC leadership has for him. ”I will enjoin the APC leadership to follow the path of righteousness & justice to go further & elect a southern candidate at its presidential primaries. POLL ”I am not a member of APC & never will be. but I am a major stakeholder in the Nigerian project and the quest for national rebirth therefore I will lend my voice to actions by any political party that takes commendable steps that will move Nigeria closer to the desires of its teeming population. ”I acknowledge that APC has just taken one of such steps and I heartily congratulate them. May God continue to guide our leaders and political elites on all platforms to do what is right, just and equitable at all times, in Jesus’ mighty name. ”I am Dr Doyin Okupe. I am running for President.”