LAGOS – In a bid to rid the state of the menace of land grabbers and ensure that those found culpable of the crime are prosecuted, the Lagos State Government on Thursday organised a stakeholders forum for residents of Badagry Division. The stakeholders meeting organised by the Ministry of Justice and the State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers is to inundate the residents of the Lagos State Taskforce on Land Grabbers Law, 2016. Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (S.A.N), the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, disclosed that the meeting is to intimate stakeholders on the Law and how it protects the rights of landowners, communities and indeed the State from the activities of Land Grabbers. Land Grabbing: Ukwulu Community Runs To Government For Rescue Obaseki, Oba Of Benin, Igbinedion To Grace NUJ… Onigbanjo, who was represented by the Solicitor General and Permanent Secretary in the State’s Ministry of Justice, Ms. Titilayo Shitta-Bey noted that the State is leaving no stone unturned to educate Lagosians on the negative effects of land grabbing as this has led to the breakdown of law and order, economic instability among others. The commissioner further disclosed that the Ministry is working with relevant agencies of government for proper implementation of the Land Grabbers Law, 2016 so as to nip the menace in the bud. The Attorney-General however charged traditional rulers, who he described as custodians of customary lands to move against the activities of Land Grabbers in their domains, while also sensitising the youths and other members of their Communities on government efforts on Land Grabbing. He warned that the State Government will not tolerate the activities of Land Grabbers in the State, noting that the Land Grabbers Law 2016 has provisions to punish offenders with up to ten years imprisonment and a fine up to the sum of five million naira or both.  Also speaking, Coordinator, Lagos State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers, Mr. Owolabi Arole said it is imperative to brainstorm with major Stakeholders on indigenous ideas to nip the activities of Land Grabbers in the bud. According to Arole, most land grabbers are often not indigents of the State, but unscrupulous elements who have found means of creating mayhem and to this end his Agency will not rest on its oars until it rid the state of land grabbing activities.  On his part, the lawmaker representing Ojo Constituency 2, Olatunji Tijani said there is a clear line between Land Grabbers and Land Owners, adding that the menace of land grabbing is a result of lack of partnership among stakeholders and the never-ending rot in the system. The Aladi, Onijanikin of Ijanikin Kingdom, Oba Dr Momodu Afolabi Asafa clamoured for unity among traditional rulers in the domain adding that land matters should not cause disaffection and disunity among residents  Stakeholders at the sensitisation exercise who were drawn from various parts of the Lagos West Senatorial District called for more synergy between government, law enforcement agencies and stakeholders to further stamp out the activities of Land Grabbers in the State. POLL The stakeholders also attribute the rise in land grabbing activities to greed and illiteracy. The event with the theme; ‘’Land Grabbers, the Law and Your Rights’’ had in attendance lawmakers, judicial officials, traditional rulers, security personnel, representatives of religious bodies, landowners, residents among others.