According to Calciomercato, Liverpool forward Divock Origi is closing in on a summer move to Serie A giants AC Milan once his contract at Anfield runs out. The 26-year-old has been at Anfield since 2014. He has since made 171 appearances for the Reds, scoring 40 goals and assisting 17 more. Origi might not have been a starter for any of Liverpool’s managers in the last eight years, but he has often chipped in with several key goals when called upon. He played a key role in the Merseyside giants’ thrilling comeback against Barcelona before putting Tottenham Hotspur to the sword in the 2019 UEFA Champions League final. He continued with this impressive habit of scoring important goals in the 2020/21 Premier League campaign as Liverpool ended their 30-year wait for the title. Eight years since joining Liverpool, it would appear that Origi is on his way out. Just 26, he is entering his prime and could do well to become a starter at most other teams. With Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Olivier Giroud not getting any younger, the Serie A giants need just such a striker.  The Belgian international has proven to be a resourceful player, capable of linking up well with his teammates. Not only can he lead the line with aplomb, but he can help get the best out of Rafael Leao, Alexis Saelemaekers and even Brahim Diaz. With Milan looking to re-establish themselves as the Serie A’s premier club, signing Origi could prove an excellent business piece. The player’s representatives have already met with Milan officials, and an agreement worth €4 million in wages appears to have been reached. While the deal is not finalised, it appears to be proceeding well. Paolo Maldini is extremely keen on landing the player who has also attracted attention from several other clubs in England and Turkey. POLL While he is certainly valued at Liverpool, Origi is far from a regular starter. The signings of Diogo Jota and Luis Diaz has seen the Belgian fall down the pecking order, making him the club’s sixth choice attacker at best. A move to San Siro will certainly see him garner more playtime and make a name for himself as a regular. Origi has already scored at San Siro, netting Liverpool’s winner against AC Milan in the UEFA Champions League earlier this season. The Serie A giants will hope that it is the first of many for the 26-year-old at their legendary home ground.