Hon. Vidiyeno Bamaiyi, the national Secretary-General, Young Progressives Party, YPP, has described as peaceful and orderly the manner in which the YPP, conducted its ward and local government elections and inauguration, saying that it demonstrates its readiness to take over in 2023. of the party has said in Ilorin on Saturday. The national party chieftain also took time out to comment on national issues, slamming President Mohammadu Buhari over his recent attempt to amend the newly passed Electoral Amendment Bill, 2022. YPP on Saturday conducted the party Election/Inauguration of all 193 wards and 16 Local governments in the state. Gov. Bello Commends Delegates For Peaceful Conduct Of LG… Snapchat Joins EU Code Of Conduct To Fight Hate Speech Speaking to newsmen at the Adewole, Ilorin Ward of the state, Hon Bamaiyi expressed optimism for the party ahead 2023 general election, saying that the peaceful conduct of the party’s electoral process through a consensus arrangement demonstrates a readiness by the party to achieve “ballot revolution” in Kwara. “We are going to shock the nation in 2023 because we are for new breed progressive politicians. “I am also happy that we have a large population of women with us. “YPP had the largest registration of women in politics, progressive youths as party members and we saying no to all old brigade politicians,” Bamaiyi said. Speaking also on the party election/inauguration, Mustapha Idris, deputy chairman, Ilorin West, the largest Local Government in the state, said that the conduct of the whole process is rancour-free. POLL “There is no contention, factionalisation or parallel election and congresses as you can see. ”This demonstrates our readiness ahead of the 2023 elections,” Idris said. At the Adewole ward for instance where Daily Independent monitored the party process, Alhaji Salaudeen Kayode Is-Shaq emerged chairman.Other officers are Mukhtar Ambali as deputy chairman; Ibrahim Abdulrafiu as state secretary-general; Adekola Ahmad as Treasurer; Olowokogbe Abdulwaheed as Financial secretary, while Omowumi Apaokagi emerged as the party’s woman. leader. Also in Ilorin, Bamaiyi has criticised the president for even attempting to amend the new electoral law barely before its take-off. “What it shows is a lack of understanding of the legislative process on the part of the president and his aides. News Content: Australia Regulator To Conduct Inquiry Into… Edo Govt. To Conduct Baseline Survey To Prevent Neonatal Deaths “That bill was brought to you which you rejected asking the National Assembly to amend mode of party primaries to accommodate consensus arrangements. “You should have also injected the clause about the public officeholders. “What this shows of the presidency is a total ignorance on the legislative process,” Bamaiyi added.