The Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has reiterated that the Federal Government is committed to its promise of lifting about 100 million Nigerian youths out of poverty through digital skills acquisition. The Minister gave this assurance at the closing ceremony of national digital skills development training for unemployed youths held at the National Youth Development Centre in Ode-Omu, Osun state. Dare disclosed that about 133 participants who benefitted from the training would be equipped with brand new laptops. Represented by Segun Oke, Director of Procurement from the Ministry, the minister explained that a total sum of N75billion has been approved by president Mohammadu Buhari for the establishment of the Nigeria Youth Investment Fund for the period of 2020 – 2023. He hinted that the fund was dedicated to investing in the innovative ideas, skills and talents of Nigerian Youth. “This Ministry, in the realization of her commitment to youth development and to complement president Mohammadu Buhari commitment to lift up 100 million Nigerians out of poverty has developed practical and market-relevant digital skills acquisition for Youths from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal capital territory. He  argued that “the approval was done by the government in a clear demonstration of determination and commitment of all to one of the potential strategies at reducing the rate of youth unemployment, poverty and restiveness, especially among the youth and the attendant vices plaguing our nation.” “You may wish to note that, this Ministry in the last two months, in the area of job and employment creation, has conducted the following skills acquisition and empowerment programmes: POLL A Scale-up Training for Vulnerable Youth Entrepreneurs from the 36 States and the FCT at National Youth Development Centre, Odeomu, Osun State from February 6 – 18, 2022. National Skills Development Training for Vulnerable Youth (Youth Living with disabilities) at National Youth Development Centre, Jos, Plateau State from February 6 – 18, 2022, He added that “Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) are changing the world of work, creating new jobs and business opportunities, transforming labour markets and educational systems, and significantly contributing to the social and economic development of countries.” The Minister said: “The rapid rate of change in the skills required for technology-enabled employment, and self-employment exceeds the ability of current educational and training systems. This creates challenges, including high unemployment rates among young people coupled with fewer opportunities”. “Access to 21st-century skills in technology, digital and ICT by the youth will improve productivity, create employment opportunities and global networking that meet global labour market and the more reason the skill areas covered by this training vis-à-vis Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, Programming, Digital Marketing, Web Design among others are strategically chosen to build the capacity and support our unemployed youth to become relevant in the business of the present century. “ “This Ministry, in the realization of her commitment to youth development and to complement president Mohammadu Buhari commitment to lift up 100 million Nigerians out of poverty has developed practical and market-relevant digital skills acquisition for Youths from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal capital territory. “I enjoined our youth to explore the opportunity created by the fund to support their business ideas. I am pleased to announce to you that a considerable number of the youth population have benefitted and will continue to benefit from the fund. The gestures are a clear demonstration of the commitment of the government to support the acquisition of livelihood skills among the youth.”