BENIN – Chief Patrick Agbator Campaign Group (PACG) has called on the People of Esan Central, Esan West and Iguenen Federal Constituency to ensure that vibrant and articulated people are sent as their representatives in 2023 to avoid making the mistake of the past. PACG made the call while announcing Chief Agbator, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) intention to contest the position in the forthcoming election in a statement made available to newsmen in Benin on Tuesday. According to the group, the type of person the people of Okpebho need as their representative in 2023 is a man who is selfless and committed to good governance, articulate, committed to the people’s welfare and one who not only believe in service but have foresight and vision for nation-building. PACG noted that there are myriads of problems confronting the three local governments of Esan Central, Esan West and Iguenen local government areas, which include employment for the teeming youths, good roads, industries, maximum security for the people, among others which, they said can only be solved through the combination of Federal, state and local government’s efforts. “Immediate solution to these problems can only be found by having the right person representing us at the Federal House of Representatives and such a proactive man can be found in the person of Chief Patrick Agbator who has such capacity and competence for the job. “Chief Agbator is a very successful businessman, who has impacted heavily on the people. He is an employer of labour, men and women boys and girls all over the country currently employed in his business empire. “He is a man keen in lifting his people above the present circumstances of the day and desirous of taking his people to a greater height therefore, his coming is of God’s design. “He has been tested and trusted as a man who can facilitate major federal government projects to the three local governments (Esan West, Esan Central, & Igueben) that make up his constituency. POLL “A Loyal Party Man, a Pacesetter and a Peacemaker. One who is ready to sacrifice his last Kobo just to put a smile on the faces of others. He is articulative and eloquent, fit and proper to represent the good people of Esan central, Esan West and Igueben Federal Constituency. “Together, let’s support, nominate and vote, Chief Patrick Agbator as Member, Federal House of Representatives come 2023 because he has the requisite knowledge of the needs of his constituents and the ability to articulate the right policies to set in motion the interventions of the government,” the group declared.