The Governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has agreed with President Muhammadu Buhari to adopt consensus candidates for all the offices of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The APC Governor’s Forum also aligned with Buhari on the candidature of the former Governor of Nassarawa State, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu as the consensus candidate for the post of National Chairman.  Daily Trust had exclusively reported on February 24 the endorsement of Adamu by President Buhari during his meeting with the governors. The endorsement of Adamu, 76, raised dust in the ruling party. However, at the end of the governor’s meeting with the president yesterday at the State House, Abuja, the issue was finally resolved. The meeting convened ahead of the Saturday’s convention of the APC was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and 16 governors from Kebbi, Plateau, Kogi, Yobe, Ogun, Kaduna, Ekiti, Ebonyi, Imo, Niger, Jigawa, Kwara, Zamfara, Nasarawa, Osun, and Borno States. The ruling party has 22 governors. Seven persons including a former Governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura; Senator Sani Musa (Niger) a former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari; Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume (Benue);  Senator Abdullahi Adamu; Turaki Ilorin, Saliu Mustapha and Saidu Etsu have bought forms for the national chairmanship position. A governor from the North West told Daily Trust that there was no objection when the endorsement of Adamu was raised. He said the issue of the national secretary was also resolved. POLL A top source, while corroborating the governor’s statement, said during the villa meeting, the governors aligned themselves with President Buhari’s position on Adamu. “They aligned with the president’s position on Adamu as the national chairman while all other positions are as per the zoning earlier approved by the president,” the source said. It was gathered that the governors are putting finishing touches on the unity list of other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) in line with the earlier zoning arrangement approved by the president during his previous meeting with them.