Nigeria’s first female Vice Chancellor, Prof. Grace Alele-Williams, crossed over to the other side of life on Friday, March 25, 2022, leaving behind one of the most enchanting records in Nigerian academia. As I tried to craft a celebratory piece for her, I find myself rather unable to rise to the occasion. Words failed me. But I owe her a memorial. Here then is a tribute to my Vice Chancellor – the woman who the Nigerian press nicknamed the Iron Lady – an acknowledgement of her clear-headedness and strong will, similar to those of late British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, who – in her days at 10 Downing Street – had the world at her fingertips. Alele-Williams was a Professor of Mathematics at the University of Lagos when then military president, Ibrahim Babangida, appointed her as Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin by military fiat. Babangida’s decision was a deft response to the succession crisis at the institution when the position of Vice Chancellor became vacant at the completion of Prof. Adamu Baikie’s tenure. So, straight from Lagos, Prof Alele-Williams made a quiet but historic entry into Benin City to preside over the affairs of one of Nigeria’s most acclaimed universities. The warring academics who wanted to occupy that exalted position were believed to have slunk into their scholarly recesses because there was little they could do about the Federal Government’s choice in the form of protest at the time. Those were the days of the jackboots. The men at Dodan Barracks were not trained in the fine politics of negotiating with stubborn academics, and everyone concerned knew this, which was probably why resistance to ‘the outsider’ was held on a leash, but only for a while, and as soon as the new administrator started giving hints that she was not just a primus inter pares, resistance gathered steam, especially among academic activists. The skirmishes were in the news and the courts were called to adjudicate. At the height of these disputes between Alele-Williams and dons who had, in her own reckoning, breached the institution’s regulations, she was sometimes called ‘Mamangida’ by ‘busy-body’ writers in mischievous reference to Babangida who had appointed her. At the end of the day, however, she won the battle to instill discipline in the university. Now, I became a student of the university during her second term as Vice Chancellor. It was a period of consolidation for her. She had by then largely established her mark in administrative standardization and was then looking at structural remodeling. Matriculation was on the rise and had begun to overwhelm structures erected in the 1970s – clearly, the pioneer administrators of the school had not looked very far ahead of them or were hamstrung by paucity of funds. The responsibility to reconstruct or adjust existing structures to accommodate the emerging development fell on the laps of Prof. Grace Alele-Williams. More halls of residence were needed, padded seats and desktops in lecture halls had been over-used or misused and were giving way just as other facilities. While devising short and long terms strategies to address the inadequacies, she also embarked on landscaping. She ran into trouble with the student union over what it considered then as mere cosmetics, demanding instead more tangible offerings such as extension/erection of lecture and residential halls. There were frequent disputes between the school authority and the student union in those days. And one of my favourite moments was when going to the Solidarity Park to listen to our aspiring Ciceros, some of them rising to comedic grandiosity sometimes while others found love in platitudes on the podium. I enjoyed the sweet sense of entertainment from those student rallies. I remember the lamentations against Alele-Williams over her alleged tyranny and all the attempts to rouse students into protests. As I have already mentioned, those were light-hearted moments for me, but sometimes the occasions degenerated into hostilities and the police would then be called in. My old travelling bag was always kept in readiness for those times when the hostilities would boil over and the authorities would issue an urgent order for students to vacate their hostels. I pitied those who usually arrived campus after holidays with their entire family inheritance. Theirs was the struggle to pack heavy boxes and trudge with them to the motor park under tension. Mine belongings were just a few clothes and such other little comforts which I threw into my bag and then set sail without a care in the world. I had, at one point, come to realise and settle for truncated academic sessions. It probably began in our time and has endured to this day. UNIBEN was then a hotbed of student activism. We fought over poor facilities on campus and we fought over military dictatorship in the country. It took a toll on our academic package. We counted it as part of our university experience. I may have veered a little from the subject of this piece, but she was all through part of that narrative. Indeed, for me, no record of Prof. Alele-Williams as an education administrator would be complete without a copious treatment of her protracted engagement with student activists. And that brings me to the other side of life on campus then: the world of violent confraternities. As in other campuses, UNIBEN was infected by that single most sinister aberration. As the student population grew, the monster also grew. At some point, it was possible to see hear of students being ‘obtained’ in an open space in broad daylight. Though this was not very common, that it did happen at all was a sign that the campus was turning into a jungle and needed some environmental sanitation. Prof. Alele-Williams did just that. She initiated one of the most far-reaching campus purge ever known in the country. But before she did this, she gathered students and lecturers at the school auditorium where she revealed the contents of various intelligence reports on her table. She then gave her motherly advice to all to repent, join the student Christian Union or any other campus association in which members carried out open and peaceful activities. Then she appealed to those who did not believe in peaceful associations to kindly find somewhere else to nurture their peculiar instincts or they would be compelled to leave with ignominy. It was a momentous gathering and, of course, many students heaved a sigh of relief at the fact that the school authority had finally made an unambiguous statement on the matter. But they equally doubted if there would be any significant change. Well, those who harboured doubts did not have long to wait. In a matter of weeks the school got hold of the registers of blacklisted groups and soon began to roll out the members’ names in national newspapers as part of the notification of their expulsion from the school. The publications were very extensive and a large chunck of the student population was broken off. The result? Peace like never before settled upon the campus. Channels of complaints were opened for students to reports known acts of intimidation or any such unseemly bahaviour to the authorities and they promptly took actions on reported cases. It was a spirited evil-cleansing of the campus. And that was when it occurred to me that indeed any authority or government that is unable to uproot any pervasive social malaise from a society within its purview is part and parcel of that disorder. I saw, with admiration, the school authority genuinely expediting action on the platform of its mandate. Thereafter, I convinced myself that any authority that has the power to ignite positive actions against negative developments but is unable to do so, should have no excuse whatever for its failure but abdicate its position right away. It is very important to mention that no student whose name was published in the papers in those days ever found their way back to the campus while Alele-Williams was still holding forte, whatever their parents’ social status. Everything she did was thorough. There were threats but she was unfazed. Of course, I am aware that there were complaints of witch-hunting and other such tales against the school but I had no way of knowing whether those complaints were genuine. All I knew was that Prof. Alele-Williams set a template for confronting that scourge and other dons in danger of assuming administrative headship of tertiary institution may well take a look at how she did it. POLL One clear testimony of the fact that she truly tamed the monster was that as soon as she completed her tenure and left the school, there was a sudden explosion of violent activities on campus. As a campus journalist, I had written – on the eve of her exit – that the devil which she had held in a tight leash would soon find robust freedom for renewed invasion. It did. These are some of the profound memories I have of that rare breed called Grace Alele-Williams. For years I held her in very high esteem and about a decade and half ago I met her at an event in Victoria Island, Lagos, and promptly went up to her to introduce myself. At the mention of UNIBEN her face lit up. It was some joy to see. I had thought I would meet her again but since I didn’t, I’ll keep that chanced meeting in my memory and cherish that expansive glow on her face that I saw. It was great to have had one of my transformational phases in life under her supervision. Adieu, the Iron Lady.