LAGOS – Former Lagos State Commissioner for Special Duties and Publicity Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of  All Progressives Congress (APC), Honourable Seye Oladejo, has declared his intention to represent Mushin Constituency 2 in the House of Representatives. He declared his intention on Friday March 18, 2022, at a meeting held with party executives at the APC Secretariat in Mushin. Speaking at the meeting, Oladejo appreciated God Almighty and all the party faithful for all the successes and achievements being recorded within the constituency. “Next to God are human beings, the leaders empowered to direct the affairs of this great party.  They deserve nothing but honour whether they are present here or not,” he said. He added, “I must sincerely honour our number 1 leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Everyone here will agree with me that Asiwaju is a special divine creator who stands out among political leaders in this country. “And it is often said that politics is well done locally. At our level, our Apex leader is my boss, Senator Olanrewaju Solomon. He is a leader who always wishes that his followers become great. “Senator Solomon was instrumental in my emergence as the Secretary to Mushin Local Government.” While eulogizing the party Chairman, Alhaji Babatunde Adisa Shitta-Abbey,  Oladejo explained the motive behind the declaration of his intention. POLL “I have come here to declare my intention to represent Mushin Constituency 2 not because I consider myself as the best among the politicians in Mushin but because of my burningdesire to give qualitative representation to my people”. After appreciating the efforts of past and present representatives within Mushin Constituency 2, he boldly stated that he possesses the qualities and prerequisite skills needed for the post. “I can make bold to say that I am one of those who are capable to contest for this post. I have served in different political capacities. My political journey began as a ward secretary, and I have served as the state commissioner. “Considering the sensitivity of this post, an experienced, bold and qualified person must be chosen to represent this constituency,” he explained. He, therefore, appealed to the leaders and members to support him. Also speaking at the meeting, the party Chairman, Alhaji Babatunde Adisa Shitta-Abbey, applauded the humility of Hon Seye. He explained how the ex-commissioner contributed immensely to the victory of APC in the last election. “Hon Seye (Oladejo) is a strong pillar of APC. I still remember how he supported our leader, Hon Ganiyu Solomon towards the achievement of his political ambition,” Shitta-Abbey said. While imploring Oladejo to intensify efforts to resolve some contentious issues within the party, he assured him of maximum support from all the APC leaders and members in Mushin Constituency 2.