ABUJA – The Minister of Mines and Steel Development Arc Olamilekan Adegbite has hinted that the Ministry has become technologically savvy in its bid to make it easy for would-be investors to access information about mining. While adding that, Nigeria has huge investment opportunities in the mining and Minerals Sector. This is as the Ministry is intensifying efforts to attract direct foreign mining investors for the actualisation of the diversification of the economy from crude oil to mining. 2023: Elect Right Leaders Or Nigeria Is Doomed,  Atiku Tells… Nigeria, Building On COVID-19 Experience To Strengthen Health… He gave this hint when he played host on a delegation of Optiva Resources Ltd, a UK based Investment Organisation and their investment Advisers, NPL Advisors, saying, “you can now apply for licence and certificate online”. Adegbite expressed delight that the visit was coming just a few months after the “Mines and Money” Conference held in London recently. He, however, enjoined the delegation to visit other Agencies of the Ministry, for them to get a full grasp of the mining potentials in the country Earlier in his remarks, Francis Nwokedi, the Managing Director, NPL Advisors, revealed that even though Optiva Resources Ltd has invested in a number of projects across Africa, he stated that this was the first time they were showing keen interest in coming to Nigeria. Reiterating the huge opportunities in the mining and minerals sector in the country, he disclosed that the purpose of the visit was to look at areas the Organisation can invest. POLL Speaking also at the event, Abdulrazaz Garba, Director General, Nigeria Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) stated that Optiva Resources Ltd interest to invest in the mining sector is very encouraging as the Federal Government has provided funds for massive exploration of the mineral potentials of the country. Garba, while giving an elaborate run down of the agency’s activities, disclosed that 7 strategic minerals have been identified as low hanging fruit in the mining roadmap. They include Coal, Bitumen, Limestone, Iron Ore, Barites, Gold and Lead/Zinc Ore. Meanwhile, Director, Investment Promotion and Mineral Trade, (IPMT), Yunusa Mohammed stated that the visit shows clearly the Ministry’s effort at wooing and attracting international investors. Adding that “the investors are here to look at the mining assets we have in Nigeria”. The delegation is also billed to visit the Mining Cadastre Office (MCO) and the Solid Minerals Development Fund (SMDF).