The newly established Hydro Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) is to take off with no fewer than 400 workers with 70 per cent of the workers from GL 9 and below The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Commission, Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq Yelwa disclosed this at the opening of the 7-days induction course for the newly recruited staff which took place in Minna, Niger State. Yelwa, however, told the newly recruited workers drawn from; Makurdi, Lokoja, Birnin Kebbi Jos, Niger and Ilorin headquarters of the states covered by the activities of the Commission that issues of indiscipline will not be treated with levity. HYPPADEC To Train 490 Kogi Youths On Vocational Trades HYPPADEC To Electrify Seven Riverine LGAs In Benue, Drill… To ensure that HYPPADEC meets the needs and aspirations of the founding fathers and in line with statutory obligations, it is important for the workers to exhibit a high sense of responsibility in the day-to-day running of the Commission. “Senior Staff and Junior Staff Disciplinary committees have been put in place. We want them to know that they are not in the Commission to play around, they have been recruited for service delivery and they are expected to take their jobs seriously”. Yelwa told the foundation staff, “We have longed for this Commission for a very long time, our ancestral homes have been lost to flood-related causes so you must provide succour to our people many of them are grandfathers and mothers who died for this cause”. Arrangements for the payments of accommodation and feeding of participants attending the induction course from outside Minna has been made and therefore emphasised the need for seriousness on the part of the workers including 70% of them experiencing civil service work for the first time. In order for the people in the catchment areas of the Commission not to be caught napping as a result of the NIMET prediction, Yelwa further hinted that this year’s sensitisation of Riverline communities in the people of the affected states has already commenced. POLL Because of the proactiveness of HYPPADEC, “We have sponsored community announcements in some local dialects to draw attention to the dangers as expressed by NIMET. Last year there was not much havoc because the people were well informed”. Our correspondent reports that the new Commission has 5 Directorates including; Finance and Administration, Operations, Engineering and Technical Services, Community and Rural Developments, Legal Services and Planning Research and Statistics.