Oyo State Police Command has dispelled shooting rumours between its officers and a corps member, described the report as mischievous. A statement issued by the State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Adewale Osifeso, stated that the preliminary investigations conducted by officers revealed that it was a case between a reckless driving Corps member and some officers that were on legal stop and-search-duty along the New Garage-Ibadan-Ijebu-Ode Road. A copy of the statement made available to INDEPENDENT stated as thus; “The Oyo State Police Command wishes to dispel rumours making the rounds about a shooting incident involving a Police Officer and a National Youth Service Corps member as mischievous and a fictitious imagination of mischief agents. Preliminary investigations/Independent Witness Accounts revealed that a reckless driving Corps member in the company of his colleagues while returning from their Community Development Service (CDS) in a White tinted Toyota Camry with Reg No ABY 237 JR was flagged down by operatives on legitimate Stop and search duties along the Black Horse axis, New Garage, Off Ibadan-Ijebu-Ode Road. However, he drove directly in the direction of the Officers, thereby knocking down, one Sgt Agbadahun Bright. Resolute in his actions and in a view to escape, he drove off without batting an eyelid and veered off his lane towards the direction of other incoming vehicles till he ran into a Tricycle from where the Policemen caught up in him. On sighting his returning colleagues from their various Community Development Service Groups, he immediately raised a false alarm about being shot at by the Police Officers thus inciting the now riotous corps members to completely cut off the flow of traffic by blocking the road and other adjoining routes before proceeding to attack any officer in sight. POLL The statement further maintained that “Assertively no shot was fired at the scene by any officer(s) before or after the incident at the Corps Member or his vehicle rather the riotous corps members smashed the side mirrors of the Officer’s Kia Operational Vehicle, broke its windscreen and deflated all its tyres. The riotous corps members then pounced on Sgt Agbadahun Bright and stabbed his right cheek with a sharp object. The officer was immediately rescued by swift Police reinforcement and is at present receiving medical attention. The Commissioner of Police however wishes to state assertively, that while being civil and professional in the discharge of their duties as expected, Officers and Men of the Command would no longer condone acts of hostiles such as these from members of the public. Meanwhile, investigations are ongoing and updates would be provided in due course.