…As PDP Honour Siloko in Udu WARRI – Delta State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Olorogun Kingsley Esiso, has charged aspirants to elective positions in the 2023 general elections and prospective delegates to the party primary election to resign without further delay, stressing that the Rt. Hon. David Siloko, Chairman of the party in Udu LGA in the state was a testimony to legendary performance in a short time. Esiso spoke during the ceremony held in Ubogo community, Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, adding that the grand reception for the Udu party Chairman was a pointer that he is doing well with all politicians in Udu. He urged politicians in Udu to always listen to Siloko as he will not lead the party astray, emphasizing that anyone who wishes to contest for elective positions or to be a delegate should resign their positions as PDP is a law-abiding political party in Nigeria. On his part, Chairman of the occasion, and Chairman of Udu Local Government Council, Hon. Chief Jite Brown, thanked the planning committee members for putting up a wonderful reception for the Party Chairman whom he said has done much for the party since his emergence. Earlier, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Moses Segba Esq., who read the welcome address on behalf of the Udu PDP, stated that since the election of Siloko, he has left no one in doubt that he meant well for Udu. He noted, “that is why in less than two years, he has registered indelible footprints in the sand of time, provoking changes and monumental physical development of the party to write his name in gold as the best performing party Chairman in Delta State. “Siloko, through concerted efforts, ingenious thought, carefully articulated policies and program of action, built the party ultra-modern secretariat to decking level without support from Government and also introduced the Udu PDP empowerment program designed in line with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s vision of ‘Stronger Delta Agenda’ to empower PDP faithful who have worked and have been supporting the party during and after elections in Udu”, he added. POLL Elated Udu PDP Chairman, Rt. Hon. David Siloko who could not hide his joy thanked his co-executives for always cooperating with him which led to the success story. He pointed out that the grand reception would spur him to do more for the party. The ceremony had in attendance, State Chairman of the PDP, Olorogun Kingsley Esiso Esq.; Hon. Chief Peter Uviejitobor, Member, DTHA, Udu Constituency; Chief Jite Brown, Chairman Udu Local Government Council; Barrister Mrs Eloho Awinoron Esq., Vice Chairman, Udu Local Government Council; Olorogun Henry Afure Sakpra, Commissioner for Special Duties (Special Project); Chief Vincent Oyibode, DESOPADEC Commissioner; Olorogun Eddie Ono-Sorhue, Member, Delta State Advisory and Peace Building Council; Rt. Hon. Solomon Ahwinahwi, House of Representatives Aspirant; Olorogun Taleb Tebite, House of Representatives aspirant; Omiragua Samuel Marierie, House of Representatives aspirant; Olorogun Eunice Daji Okoh, Houses of Representatives aspirant; Olorogun Andrew Orugbo, Chairman, Governing Council, Delta State Polytechnic, Oghara; Dcn. Raymond Edijala, Executive Assistant to the Governor on Political Matters, Hon Justice Iyasere, former Vice Chairman, Udu Local Government Council, Hon. Karo Goru, Hon Emmanuel Kpomalefe, Mr. Sakpaide, Delta Central PDP Woman leader, the twenty Councillors of the Udu Legislative Arm led by their Leader, Rt. Hon Emmanuel Owholo among others.