It may be a surprise and unbelievable to many people that I do not prepare or write my sermons. I do not even read the bible but when it is time to deliver a sermon, it is on the pulpit the spirit of God tells me what to say. It is the spirit that directs me on what to say throughout the period. Sometime I glance through the scripture without studying it. What I am doing is to deliver the word of God and am not afraid to do so at any time. Brethren what is making the people of God to be afraid? People are afraid of death, they do not want witches and wizards to kill them but there are other ways that can cause death. People forget that accidents can lead to death apart from motor accident. For instance the food and water we eat and drink can cause an accident that can lead to death if part of the food or the water goes to the brain not that anybody is bewitched. There are several ways that can lead to some one’s death so there is no way a person cannot die. My concern is that you should not be afraid to deliver God’s message when He sends you on an errand or do His work when you are expected to God always set His eyes on the person assigned to deliver the errand and the destination of the errand. In the Bible, God sent Jonah on an errand to the city of Nineveh, he felt reluctant to deliver the message not afraid. His reluctance was based on premise that God in his mercy can later have a change of mind and forgive the people of the town. This might in turn bring ridicule to him and cause the people to mob him to death. Money Ritual: Stop Preaching Prosperity In Church – Pastor… Delighting In God He decided to find refuge in the vessel that was to sail out. Jonah’s action almost implicated many people which might had led to their death. But God wanted Jonah and people to know that He controls the universe and the things in it. He allowed storm to threaten the vessel and made the passengers to take an action that led to Jonah being thrown into the sea and a big fish swallowed him, swam to the city he did not want to go and vomited him there. So what he did not want to do happened to him(Jonah 1 & 2 ) The lesson from Jonah’s case is that nobody God sends on errand or to do certain work and refuses to deliver the message or do the work HE will force the person in his own way to deliver the message or do the work. It is evidently important that the message of God must be delivered. Do not hesitate to do what is expected of you as a follower of Christ especially in propagating the word and work of God. Deliver the message of God. What are wein the presence of God? Some people would say they are servants of God. No. We are regarded as slaves God. The Bible says in Genesis 2 verse 15 “Then the Lord took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend and keep it”. Therefore it was not after the curse on Adam that the problems of man started. God did not create us as His children but as the Gardner and keepers of the garden. Man is a slave of God that requires working for God and delivering His message. Do not allow people to influence you or prevent you from doing the work of God A person that causes others not to do thewill of God will firstly be judged before the person that disobeyed God. The Bible says in Genesis 3 verse 14 – 15 “ So the Lord said to the serpent Because you have done this, you are cursed more than all cattle and more than every beast of the field…” Then to Eve verse 16,” I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception; your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you” Then to Adam, verse 17 – 19 “Because you heeded the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you , saying, you shall not eat it :Cursed is the ground for your sake; in toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life…” It is better for everyone to be diligent in doing the work God most especially the workers in the church. Do not relent your effort and remember that you areslave of who is to work in God’s vineyard.