As the nation is once more poised to amendment certain troubling aspects of the present constitu­tion, it is important that we also restate what we believe are the political and jurisprudential contexts in which it could be said that a constitution has been properly adopted, amended or abrogated. A Constitution is not an ordinary piece of legislation that could be enacted at will by the Legislature or any other political insti­tution that is subordinate to the People in their sovereign mass. For all practical pur­poses, a constitution is an agreement, or a Covenant made by the People for them­selves and duly endowed with the norma­tive quality of a binding code – a law. Constitution-making involves the process through which the people consciously ar­ticulate how they wish to be governed in­cluding their preferred State philosophy, its fundamental goals and values. In the scheme of things, the Constitution pre­dates governments established under it and that is why it could, within the con­ceptual framework Marbury v Madison, assume the juridical quality of supremacy. So, the idea of a government perfecting a constitution document for itself is ra­tionally impracticable, more like a child validating his father’s paternity! In its strict juristic sense, a constitution is the act of the People, and it binds every­one and every institution within. Another way of clarifying the nature of a constitu­tion is to see it as a Social Contract, i.e., an agreement or Covenant solemnly entered into by the people for their own self-gov­ernance. While a constitution may spell out how it may be amended, the final and decisive act of promulgating those amend­ments into life is however reserved to the People, usually through a Referendum/Ratification. It is critical for Constitutionalism, Rule of Law and Due Process that a constitution must be the Will of the people, hence the popular attestation: “WE THE PEOPLE…” Unfortunately, that proprietary claim can­not be substantiated with respect to the various Constitutions that have been foist­ed on Nigerians since 1979 because the peo­ple were not sufficiently involved in the processes, thereby tainting the outcomes with the legal stigma of ‘constructive forg­ery’ and you cannot rectify or regularise a forgery through amendments. Electoral Amendment Act: Triumph Of Tenacity Micro, Small And Medium-Sized Businesses: Decision Making Is… The current Constitution “has been variously condemned as being “inappro­priate,” “fraudulent” and “an imposition,” etc., all combining to undermine its over­all authenticity. Amongst the most serious issues that Nigerians have raised against it is that it is not their deed (non est fac­tum), i.e., they did not at any time, directly or indirectly, agree on its final contents. Consequently, it becomes irredeemably defective because it is not autochthonous, i.e., not self-generated from within the peo­ple but an imposition by State institutions with dubious legitimacy. The theory of ev­ery legitimate constitution is that it is the conscious WILL of the people. How do we practically involve the People in constitu­tion making? The usual process is through an elected Constituent Assembly or a rep­resentative Convention which derives its power directly from the people and, at the end, a referendum or similar formalities by the people which affords them the final say; a sovereign opportunity to accept or reject the document.” “The 1979 Constitution from which all subsequent post-Second Republican con­stitutions have sprouted is based on the American model. Unfortunately, those who copied it did not follow the legitimising procedures which the American inventors adopted. The Americans did not under­mine the legitimacy of their Constitution by referring it to the Continental Congress that was then in session to “enact it into law” just to massage their political egos as the “Fathers of the Constitution.” Instead, they took the document directly to the People for their sovereign endorsement/ratification which then makes the opening phrase of the Constitution, “We the Peo­ple…,” meaningful and factual. Citizens obey their constitution largely because they are morally obliged to do so having solemnly committed themselves to it goals and philosophy at the point of ratification; it is also a practical manifes­tation of the validity of the document as a binding Covenant because valid agree­ments should strictly be honored (pacta sunct servanda). On the contrary, there are deafening allegations of “military imposition,” “contraption,” “anti-feder­al” provisions, etc., all across the country. No Nigerian constitution since 1979 has met with the sovereign approval of Ni­gerians, a development that has brought on the polity a pitiable sense of anarchy and open resentment of the constitution­al order. To a reasonable extent, the 1979 Con­stitution which was preceded by a na­tion-wide discussion, the “Great Debate”, followed a diverse Constitutional Drafting Committee and eventually a mixed Con­stituent Assembly (partially nominated and partially elected), would probably have passed the “legitimacy” or “validity” test if it had been referred to the People for validation in a referendum. To make matters worse, the retreating Obasanjo-led military junta unlawfully tampered with the text of the draft consti­tution contrary to what was authoritative­ly articulated by the Constituent Assembly on behalf of Nigerians who nominated/elected them. Those roguish mid-night insertions textually contaminated the ex­press will of the People and it led to the conceptual bastardy that has trailed the constitution till date. POLL The military junta effectively corrupt­ed the clean copy of the proposed 1979 Constitution as agreed to by the Constit­uent Assembly thereby textually breaking the jural nexus between the People and the Constitution, a development that nat­urally triggered the non est factum Rule which operates to vitiate written agree­ments for lacking consensus ad idem. The damage was completed when, instead of taking the document to the people, they arrogantly proceeded to enact it via a Decree as if it was an ordinary statute. A Constitution-making process, includ­ing amendments, should procedurally end with the People’s ratification and no more. That does not involve re-inventing the wheel. There is no doubt that the present Con­stitution needs serious alterations to bring it in line with the desires of Nigerians as well as offer an assurance to the various nationalities within the federation of the continuous relevance of the federal sys­tem of government because we are now practically running a unitary form of gov­ernment. The draft amendments as pre­sented recently to the National Assembly contain some improvements even at the risk of verbosity, but it curiously omit­ted the major raison d’eter for the whole exercise, namely, establishment of State Police and Restructure. It is therefore an incomplete exercise which is essentially postponing the evil day. Furthermore, the ongoing amendment process fails to ad­dress the recurring fundamental question of constitutional legitimacy; I am afraid, all the good efforts put into the exercise could end up being a colossal waste for this reason alone. The question now is: If the Constitution were a physical structure which needs im­provements but is also embroiled in a bit­ter title dispute, i.e., there are conflicting claims about its rightful owner, which of the two issues should a wise person tackle first? It does not make sense spending so much money, energy and time trying to improve the physical status of a building that is subject to an imminent forfeiture order to a defective title (e.g., C of O). In the same vein, trying to amend a con­stitutional document whose legitimacy is being seriously questioned without first addressing the lingering questions is noth­ing but a futile exercise because no matter how well you improve on a property with a defective title, you have no guarantee that a bulldozer will not lawfully level it down some day.” It is therefore unwise to paper over the fundamental problems of the legitimacy of the Nigeria Constitution as well as its structural deficiencies while busying ourselves about amendments to it just for the fun of it because you cannot “put something on nothing and expect it to stand.”