The Governor of Rivers State and presidential hopeful in the 2023 general election, Nyesom Wike on Thursday described the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirants and other members of the party who are against zoning as ‘selfish’. Wike, who spoke at a meeting with PDP senators and members of the House of Representatives in Abuja said that the founding fathers of the party were not wrong in introducing the zoning policy and asked members of the party to stick to it. According to him, the party has a constitution that provides that there shall be a rotation of offices and elective positions for fairness, equity and justice. He said, “Our founding fathers never made a mistake; they know the complexity of this country. It is not because they don’t want merit, no, but they said for Nigeria to move forward, this is the way we are going to do it for fairness, equity and justice. “The constitution provides that there shall be a rotation of parties, offices and elective positions for fairness, equity and justice. Some people argued let us win first before we share. But when we zoned in 2017, what did we have, were we in power? “People should speak the truth; it doesn’t stop you from running for election. You want because I want to run for president, to go and tell lies to people, we don’t do that; that is not fair.” “We all agreed, zone it here, it doesn’t stop you from running for election. But don’t scatter what the founding fathers have laid down because of your selfish interest.” Wike who also spoke in Abeokuta, Ogun State on Wednesday insisted that he remained the best presidential candidate that can defeat the APC in next year’s election. POLL He stated this when he and former governor Fayose of Ekiti State met with Hon. Ladi Adebutu. He added that he has managed Rivers state very well and if given the opportunity he will develop Nigeria the way he has done in his state. Wike and Fayose joined Adebutu at the Ake Palace Ground in Abeokuta, where the former lawmaker officially declared his ambition to contest for the governorship seat on the platform of the PDP.