The police in Delta State have arrested forty-three suspected cultists, neutralized three daredevil kidnappers and nabbed two suspected killers of an Army officer. In a press briefing at Asaba by the Commissioner of Police Delta State, Ari Muhammed Ali on Thursday narrated that on 15/3/2022 at about 1400hours, while acting on intelligence gathered, operatives from the command Special Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crime squad trailed a suspected kidnapping syndicate operating within Sapele, Oghara and Abraka axis. He added that the kidnappers were trailed to their hideout in Oghara where three of them were successfully neutralized by the operatives and two AK 47 rifles, three pump action guns and sixty-two rounds of live ammunition were recovered. He explained that on 14/3/2022, a cult clash ensued between Eiye and Arobaga confraternities in Jesse community, Ethiope West local government area where four suspected cultists were killed. He noted that he immediately directed the Command State Anti-Cultism Unit, Dragon Patrol, Eagle-net special squad and Safe Delta Patrol teams to Jesse town with a view to ensuring that sanity is immediately restored in the Community. “Consequently, three members of Arobaga confraternity namely: Victor John ‘m’, Nelson Friday ‘m’ and Festus Friday ‘m’ who were alleged to have killed the four members of Eiye confraternity were arrested. POLL “Also, as part of measures to forestall any further break down of law and order in any part of the state, I ordered that intensive raiding be carried out on suspected cultists hideouts by DPOS in their areas of responsibilities. “In compliance with these directives, the DPO ‘A’ Division Warri led a combined team of Police/Vigilante Patrol teams and carried out an intensive raid at Ogedengbe and Hausa quarters respectively. During the raid, twenty-one suspected cultists were arrested. “The State Anti-Cultism unit and the Command raiders squad also carried out raids in different parts of the state and arrested Nineteen suspected Cultists. “I assure you all that the Command will not relent in the fight against Kidnapping/Cultism and is more than ever before willing to identify, raid, arrest and prosecute anyone found wanting”. Meanwhile, the Police Boss stated further that two suspects, Godwin Asamada and Okose Endurance have been arrested in connection to the murder of the army officer, Lt. M. M. Musa.