LAGOS – Dr. Osaren Emokpae,a corporate strategist, theologian and development economist, has been appointed chairman of the Wilson Badejo Foundation (WBF). According to a statement by the foundation, the appointment followed the transition of the founding chairman, Rev. (Dr.) Wilson Badejo and vice-chairman, Rev. (Mrs.) Yinka Badejo. The statement added that the appointment of the new chairman was unanimously adopted by the board at a meeting held on March 6, 2022, which was chaired by Elder Segun Olusanya. Emokpae, founder of EDJOHN School of Management, is also chairman of several organizations, including LAPO NGO, Havilah Group, Mindshare Group and Concorde Security. Emokpae, is a fellow of Institute of Marketing, Fellow of APCON, Fellow of Management Consultants and has two doctoral degrees in Philosophy and Organisational Resilience. An Alumnus of Oxford University, Cranfield University, Hertfordshire University and University of Lagos, he is both a corporate strategist and theologian, anchoring two highly watched ‘ The Wealthy Place’. He was the Founding Chairman of Foursquare Leadership Institute, former chairman, Foursquare International Conference Centre, Idimu, founding president MIPAN, a founding member of Mcpherson University Board of Trustees, BOT and Founding Pastor, Lakeview Foursquare Church. He is bringing his wealth of experience, expertise, goodwill and social equity to lead the new Board of WBF. Also elected are Mr. Femi Badejo as Vice Chairman of WBF and Miss Oreoluwa Badejo as Director, WBF POLL In his first address to the board of WBF, Emokpae stated that to immortalise the visioner/former chairman, Rev (Dr.) Badejo and vice chairman Rev (Mrs) Badejo, the foundation would be totally restructured with institutions and processes to enhance robust corporate governance in fulfilling its mandate to make significant contribution in reducing poverty in Nigeria. He further stated that the board’s committees would be developed as instruments of effective administration and governance structure of the foundation and that a performance evaluation framework will be installed to appraise all directors in exercising their functions. He also announced that the next WBF lecture would be held in the Institute of International Affairs with erudite scholar and Director General of the Institute of International Affairs, Professor Eghosa Osagie as guest speaker. The occasion would have the General Overseer of Foursquare Gospel Church in Nigeria, Rev Sam Aboyeji, as chairman and Mr Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media as very special guest of honour. Among eminent personalities already invited, include Pastor Tunde Bakare, Dr and Mrs Godwin Ehigiamusoe, Founder, LAPO Microfinance Bank and Dr Iyi Uwadiae, immediate-past Registrar, West African Examinations Council (WAEC).