CHIOMA UMEHA For the umpteenth time, stakeholders have decried the effects of gender inequality on gender relations,  saying that it has untold individual and national consequences on overall development. Specifically, they said that gender inequality constitutes significant obstacles against women’s efforts towards socioeconomic opportunities and development in Nigeria. CBN’s RT200 FX Policy And Forex Scarcity Haba! Baba Buhari Recently, there was serious outcry when Senate threw out the bill seeking gender equality in what many described as hilarious, but memorable session. Gender equality is critical to national development and it is actually a pre-requisite to national development aspirations, which Senate should promote rather than denigrate. Many proponents of gender equality opined that if  Nigerian Senators are real patriots desiring the progressive growth and development of this country, then they should be at the forefront of those championing gender equality rather than being seen as part of those inhibiting it. Contrary, it would appear that people generally believe that women are being done a favour when gender equality is promoted. By contrast also, no real progress can be made by any country that ignores gender equality. Gender equality ensures that men and women are represented equally in social, economic and political spheres of life. Commemorating the International Women’s Day 2022 themed, ‘Gender equality today for sustainable tomorrow,’ the Mothers And Marginalised Advocacy Centre (MAMA Centre) reiterate its undoubted position that gender equality is an imperative for progress on socio-economic emancipation and development in societies across the world. Hence, the need for adequate legislation and policy attention to addressing the huge differences in the types of inequality faced by Nigerian women across cultural representation, political inclusion, socio-economic capacity, education attainment, domestic burdens and marital spheres. POLL Just as we are seriously perturbed by the deliberately imposed marginalisation, stigmatisation and low visibility that impede adequate, efficient and effective participation of women, particularly in political leadership in Nigeria. The group said, “While we follow with keen interest, the recent development and surreptitious moves to shrinking inclusive space, we are displeased and express total discomfort with the renewed effort by the male-dominated National Assembly to obstruct and sabotage enabling legislative frameworks supporting inclusiveness and equal opportunities. “We condemn the recent selfish action of the House of Representatives Special Committee on Constitution Review for adopting a bill seeking to alter sections 48, 49,71,77,91, and 117 of the 1999 constitution by creating one senatorial seat and two federal constituencies in each state and FCT for women. “We observed from such ill-thought piece of legislation or amendments to repeal the existing but embattled Gender and Equal Opportunities Bill; Support for Women Participation in Elective and Appointive Positions Bill; and other gender-related Bills in the National Assembly as uncivilised, dictatorial and undemocratic development that must not be welcomed in our democratic process and history.” It is disturbing that almost three decades after the Beijing Declaration, Nigeria still records a woeful women representation in political and elective positions, especially in the National Assembly where out of 109 members of Senate and 360 House of Representatives, only 29 are women, just 6 per cent of the total. Tribute To Donatus Duru I know The Changing World Of Work! Recall that Nigeria joined the world to adopt the Beijing Platform for Action established in 1995, which calls for 35 percent Affirmative Action for women; and one of the promises of the President Muhammadu Buhari during his presidential campaign was to make his cabinet gender inclusive. He boldly told Nigerians that women will make up 35 percent of his cabinet as part of his commitment to take the country to the ‘Next Level’. In overall, only 16.3 percent of women are represented as against 35 percent the President promised. According to Mama Centre, these legislative barriers and policy inactions pave way for the existing glaring gender gaps in political structures and processes including low numbers of women in political party decision making structures; limited involvement of women in household, community and political spheres; unclear rules and procedures in recruitment and conduct of parties’ primaries. The group therefore called for the immediate Domestication of the African Charters Protocol on the Rights of Women in Africa, which Nigeria ratified in 2004 as well as domestication of the UN Convention on Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), which Nigeria ratified in 1985. They further called for increasing priority for the passage and assent into the Gender and Equal Opportunity Bill by the National Assembly to demonstrate the legislature’s concern for the rights of women to equal opportunities with guaranteed appropriate measures against gender discrimination in political and public life. The time for full implementation of the 35 percent Affirmative Action and existing gender policies that empower women politically, economically and socially is now. Mama Centre demanded mandatory implementation of parties’ policies that enable equal participation and eliminate gender discrimination at all levels to encourage equal participation. Through this measure, political parties will facilitate and promote women’s participation in politics especially within party structures and throughout elections.