SIAKA MOMOH In January this year, Nigeria’s apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria, issued a policy titled“GUIDELINES ON THE INTRODUCTION OF E-VALUATION, E-INVOICING FOR IMPORT AND EXPORT IN NIGERIA”. MAN and a number of other stakeholders have reacted to the policy statement. We republish some of these reactions here for the benefit of the general public and of course the CBN. The CBN circular was issued on January 21, 2022. It is therefore over two months today that this vital policy statement was made. What is CBN’s response? Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Background MAN appreciates the efforts of the CBN and by extension the Federal Government, to sanitize foreign trade transactions in Nigeria. Without a doubt, we are persuaded that it has some measure of impact on the foreign exchange profile of the country, which appears to be a major reason for the guidelines. It is however necessary that the apex Bank’s attention be drawn to some issues that require clarifications and others that should be reviewed… The Issues • We noted that the implementation date on the circular is scheduled for 1st February, 2022; whereas the guideline itself was issued on the 21st January, 2022. This is just 11 days grace before implementation. This is rather hasty. A circular on monetary or fiscal guidelines requires adequate adjustment time. This is more so when it involves international trade and transactions; where a minimum of 90 days allowance of time is normally required, as many operators would have opened Form M and concluded deals either for import of export. Straightaway, one must say that transactions already embarked upon before the commencement of the guidelines should be exempted and the commencement date should be extended by a minimum of 90 days. POLL • The new regulation is primarily aimed at achieving near accurate value of imports and exports in Nigeria. It says any Form M or NXP that bears a unit price in excess of 2.5% of the verified global checkmate price will not be approved. This is concerning as it will checkmate the opportunity of our exporters to derive higher value for their exports. Besides, we are worried about the determination of global price verification mechanism and benchmark prices. •What happens if some companies are able to negotiate better prices due to their scale of order and are able to get competitive lower prices? Will these competitive prices be within the benchmark? Clearly, this aspect of the policy will lead to several challenges on valuation down the line including a floodgate of valuation issues with Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). • We also seek clarification on paragraph D of the guidelines; wherein the CBN is directing that … “the content of the electronic invoice authenticated by Authorized Dealer Banks is only advisory for the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS)”. This means that the NCS may vary it, probably uplift the FOB when issuing the PAAR. MAN considers CBN and NCS as agencies of the Federal Government and hence should harmonized their functions in this regard. Otherwise, businesses and indeed our members, will be subjected to paying unnecessary and additional FOB upliftment by the Nigeria Customs Service. This is in addition to a situation that may arise where the CBN forces such importer or manufacturer to reduce its price if it is considered not in conformity with the benchmark pricing. • In paragraph H, the CBN directs supplier and buyers to transmit their authenticated invoices would be transmitted through the CBN appointed Service Provider to the Nigeria Single Window portal. While MAN considers this measure as a step to check perceived malpractices, we believed that the essence of Single Window’ policy is being diminished and this could introduce unnecessary bureaucracy with attendant multiple charges… • Finally, the annual subscription fee charge of $350 per authentication by suppliers on the portal meant to maintain the system, is a clear disincentive to suppliers of imports to Nigeria, particularly raw materials and spares for manufacturers. This has potential of triggering a run-on Nigeria business by their foreign partners and simultaneously encourage these suppliers to look elsewhere in the region as well as the continent. Conclusion The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) therefore, would appreciate that the CBN considers all the issues raised above and suspend the policy guidelines for now; as well as give adequate consideration for a stakeholders’ dialogue with a view to addressing the concerns… Mondaq The provisions of the Guidelines are generally laudable and reformative. The digitization of the documentation process for procuring foreign exchange for import and export transactions is long overdue and consistent with the evolving trends and practices of the digital age. This will further fast-track the review process and ensure that decisions on the status of each application are communicated in good time. Concerns The moratorium period of less than two weeks to the implementation of the Guidelines is considerably insufficient. Given the relatively profound impacts of the Guidelines on import/export transactions in the country, it would have been desirable for a longer moratorium to be provided in the Guidelines so that relevant stakeholders can make necessary adjustment in preparation for compliance… Furthermore, less literate/ non-computer savvy merchants may stand the risk of being excluded from forex for their transactions. As is common knowledge, Nigeria has a large population of non-literate persons and an even larger population of persons that are unable to operate computers… Additionally, the annual subscription fee of $350 payable for registration and authentication is high. Rather than paying $350 as annual subscription, a reduced renewal fee of $100 be paid after the expiration of first registration. This is because, the difference of $250 is quite substantial when converted to our local currency and can be saved by the importer/ exporter in the Nigerian economy. In similar vein, the annual cumulative supplier’s invoicing threshold of $500,000 prescribed for the eligibility for exemption of individual invoices not exceeding $10,000, should be reduced to $100,000. This will guard against the likelihood of abuse of this regulatory exemption. Lastly, there are doubts on the availability of the technical capacity and infrastructure required to facilitate the implementation of the Guidelines… Proshare Despite its powers to regulate import and export trade transactions, stakeholders have deemed this policy to be a unilateral determination of prices of goods, notwithstanding that the CBN maintains that same will be based on verified global benchmark prices. Indeed, there are still fears that local factors peculiar to different countries and markets, which ultimately determine the prices of goods, may not be fully considered. Overall, the subsistence of the digital evaluation and invoicing regime may turn on how the CBN is able to navigate the myriad of challenges trailing implementation of the policy. We believe a lasting solution to the crises consists in a better coordination among the relevant agencies involved in international trade transactions in Nigeria, including CBN, the Customs, Authorized Dealer Banks, Shipping Lines & Airlines, and the Nigerian Port Authority, among others. A well-coordinated and broad-based consultation should also be organized with all sector stakeholders, such as the Customs Agents/ Pre-shipment Inspection Agents, Freight Forwarders, CBN-appointed Service Providers, and others. In particular, where the Customs considers an increase in duties on imported goods, it should be clearly communicated to the stakeholders and not hidden under implementation of the e-valuation and e-invoicing policy. Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has commended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on the introduction of e-Evaluator and e-Invoicing for import and export, noting that it will enhance trade transactions and boost revenue. Dr, Chinyere Almona, LCCI Director-General however said there should be a pilot phase to help identify potential challenges and deal with them before the commencement date of 1st of February, which is only 10 days from the issuance of the guideline, noting that it does not give sufficient time for proper transition. She also noted that issues of legal liability are not clear, and dispute resolution mechanisms need to be articulated. Muda Yusuf, CEO CPPE The Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) says the newly introduced electronic invoice (e-invoice) will worsen the country’s trade transactions process. In a statement by Muda Yusuf, chief executive officer of CPPE, the e-invoice and e-valuator policy would only aggravate an already defective international trade transactions process. “We recall that only last October, the Director-General of the World Trade Organization, Dr[Mrs.] Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala expressed worry over the high trade cost in Nigeria, which she said was an equivalent of 306% tariff, which is above the African average. She stated this while addressing the Mid-term Ministerial Performance review of the federal government,” the statement reads. “Her assertion summarises the harrowing experience of Nigerian investors in the international trade process. “There are issues of overlapping regulation, excessive documentation, weak application of technology, physical examination of cargo, extortion, inadequate cargo handling equipment, stifling bureaucracy, difficult transportation logistics, challenges of access to the ports and weak dispute resolution system. “We should therefore be seeking to alleviate the pains of investors in the economy, not exacerbate it. “The E-invoice and E evaluator policy will only worsen an already bad international trade transactions process.”