ABUJA – A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Dele Momodu, has said that it is practically and legally impossible for a political party to disqualify an aspirant on account of zoning after collecting a whopping N40 million for services not rendered. Dele Momodu, who was at the PDP national secretariat, Abuja to pick his expression of interest and nomination forms, added that it is a total fallacy based on an absolute distortion of facts of history and Mathematics to say Southern candidate can’t win the presidential election. Addressing newsmen shortly after picking the forms, Momodu, who said that Nigerians will no longer sell their soul for 20 pieces of silver, appealed to all men and women of good conscience to join him in this movement to put a stop to the rascality of those who feel Nigerians are permanently helpless and hopeless. He lamented that the world has already left us way behind as a result of our addiction to narcoleptic leadership and the inability to exorcise the daemons of democracy, adding, “we can rid ourselves of the manacles and shackles of the depressive state and oppressive nature created by much-vaunted purported political demigods and warlords.” Challenging those who felt Nigeria and Nigerians can be bought or bribed by the highest bidder, the aspirant said, “on the issue of zoning or no zoning, I believe that allowing all aspirants to buy their forms at N40 million suggests that the race is open to all, regardless of what part of Nigeria they come from. “It is practically and legally impossible for a political party to disqualify an aspirant on account of zoning after collecting a whopping N40 million for services not rendered. I wish to humbly suggest to the formidable Southern leaders not to panic about Zoning at all. “Let me quickly respond to the unfortunate suggestion that no Southern candidate can win the Presidential election. This is a total fallacy based on an absolute distortion of facts of history and Mathematics.” Addressing newsmen shortly after picking the governorship expression of interest and nomination forms, the Abia aspirant lamented the infrastructural deficit in the state. POLL A group under the aegis of Abia Professionals Forum, which picked the forms for Professor Greg Ibe noted that the developmental rate of Abia is still far from expected. Speaking on behalf of the group, while addressing newsmen in Abuja, Engr. Arinze Anthony Nwokeji, said “over the years, the quest to bring development to Abia State and fixing the huge infrastructural deficit of the state has been daunting. While all the successive administrations, military and civilian, including the short-lived third republic made efforts to give Abia the much expected quantum leap in development indices, yet the developmental rate is still far from expected. “Our challenges are increasing and becoming more complex and therefore cannot be solved in traditional ways. A response that goes beyond incremental improvement is what is required in Abia. “We must increase our pace of change to meet up with our challenges and be ahead of it. Simply put, Abia needs a man with brainpower and imagination. A man with the spirit of invention and organisation, vision and action. He must have the political will and the preparedness to govern our State at this particular time in our history. “Determined not to experiment any longer, and as professionals who bears the brunt of poor governance, we have gone to search for a man who can meet the criteria we have set for ourselves for Abia in 2023. “We have found in Professor Gregory Ikechukwu Ibe OFR, like that man who can give us a breath of fresh air in Abia. Professor Ibe is a legendary Nigerian Business Executive, an entrepreneur par excellence. He is a moving spirit for educational transformation in Nigeria, a humanitarian and philanthropist.” Also speaking, the Campaign Director General of Ibe, Hon. Emeka Okafor said that the aspirant has what it takes to bring investors to Abia, to develop infrastructure, to bring up the youths to a reasonable standard. He said: “I can assure Nigerians that when Gregory becomes the Governor of Abia state, unemployment will be a thing of the past. He creates jobs, he is a professor of entrepreneurship. He has proven integrity. Because of him, the US has donated over 2 billion dollars to Nigeria. With his connection, foreign investors will have a place in Abia and Nigeria as a whole.”