Renowned Economist Olorogun David Edevbie has assured the Aniocha people of Delta State that his administration would execute massive infrastructural projects in Aniocha North and South LGA’s if elected as Governor in the 2023 general elections. Edevbie, a PDP governorship aspirant for Delta State 2023 general elections, gave the assurance on Monday 7th March 2022, when he led his campaign team to visit the PDP delegates in Aniocha North and South LGAs, ahead of the PDP gubernatorial primaries. At Issele-uku in Aniocha North LGA, Edevbie and his entourage were received by the delegates led by the PDP Chairman, Dr Charles Ochei, the Leader of the Council Legislative Arm Hon. Paul Okonkwo; and the Chairman of the Wards Chairmen, Chief Nwoko Uche. Dr Charles Ochei said the delegates would do their best but prayed God to do the rest to give Edevbie victory at the polls. APC: Members Plan Heroic Welcome For CECPC Buni IWD: SWAN Urges NASS To Revisit Gender Bills An elder in the area, Chief Henry Nzekwue, testified that he was appointed Director in Delta Trust Mortgage Bank courtesy of the detribalised Edevbie and urged the delegates to support him massively at the PDP primary. For his part, Olorogun David Edevbie promised to address the severe erosion problems in Ukwunzu, Obomkpa, Ubulubu, Ugboba, amongst others, in Aniocha North LGA. Regarding the power problems facing the area, the guber aspirant said he would ensure a step-down of the power line from Okpai to serve Delta North, which would improve electricity supply to Issele-Uku, Onicha Ugbo, Onicha Olona and other communities in Aniocha North LGA. He promised to take concrete steps towards mitigating the lack of portable drinkable water in the two Aniocha LGAs. Olorogun Edevbie, a three times Finance Commissioner in Delta State, told the delegates that industries would be encouraged to develop Kaolin and coal deposits in Ugbodu, Obomkpa, Ukwunzu and Ubuna communities in Aniocha North to create jobs for the teeming unemployed youths in the locality.