Former Commissioner for Works during  Ayodele Fayose’s administration in Ekiti State, Mrs Funmi Ogun, has declared interest to run for the House of Representatives. Ogun, also secretary of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in Ekiti State  who recently turned down the Deputy Governorship slot  in a controversial manner said she desires to  represent Ido/Osi/Ilejemeje and Moba Federal constituency of Ekiti State. The PDP chieftain  who hails from Orin Ekiti in Ido/Osi local government area, revealed that  she had gone to Abuja to procure the nomination and expression of interest forms to contest the National Assembly election in 2023, with high hope of winning and give her people qualitative representation. Mrs Ogun maintained that the candidate of the party, Hon Bisi Kolawole stands a better chance of winning the election, leaning on former governor Fayose’s impressive performance and being the most embraced  governor in Ekiti history. The former member of the State’s Executive Council, said she embraced the well wishes, support  and advice from her constituents to replicate the superlative performance she exhibited as a Commissioner at the National level, saying the present occupant of the seat has grossly disappointed the people. Debunking the claim the PDP has been emasculated with the emergence of Kolawole as the party’s flag bearer, Ogun stated that the party has a bright chance of trouncing  the ruling party  in the forthcoming  polls. “The PDP is more united and stronger than ever to win. We have a good chance in this election, no doubt about that. Check you records very well, the PDP government of Ayodele Fayose remains the most acceptable in Ekiti history. “Fayose is the most acceptable politician to Ekiti people because of his welfarist programme and ties with the grassroots and less privileged. So, we have no fear for June 18, we are winning.” POLL “The ruling All Progressives Congress and have nothing to campaign with, since they assume office it has been one tale of woe or the other, the people are passing through pain, hunger and being pummeled by insecurity from every side, in fact it’s safer living in Ukraine now than Ekiti state hence the ruling party will fail in this election. So, the noise that the party had been weakened by Kolawole’s emergence was a mere cheap talk and skeptics will see on election day”, she stated. On her ambition to be member of House of Representatives, Ogun promised to make the right sacrifices to give her constituents the best representation they deserve if given the mandate to serve. “Ekiti people knew my capacity to deliver on any task given to me. As a commissioner, I supervised the best projects in Ekiti history which are the 1.1km flyover built by the administration of  Governor Fayose at Okesa area. This project still remains the best legacy project of all time, others include and not limited to the governor’s office, high court complex, Oja Oba and so on.” “This confirms how diligent I am at  assigned duty. The flyover remains  the longest flyover built in any state in the Southwest and I will do better if people could elevate me with their votes in 2023.” “Though, I am sure that they will support me because of the hopeless situation the current occupant of the seat has brought to our people”, Ogun said. Ogun thanked Fayose, and the Acting Chairman of the party, Lanre Omolase, for their support, pledging to revive the pedal of campaign and ensures that she delivers for PDP in the impending election. Mrs Ogun maintained that the candidate of the party, Hon Bisi Kolawole stands a better chance of winning the election, leaning on former governor Fayose’s impressive performance and being the most embraced  governor in Ekiti history. The former commissioner said this in Ado Ekiti on Monday while unveiling her intention to contest for the  House of Representatives in 2023 to represent Ido/Osi/Ilejemeje and Moba Federal constituency of Ekiti State. Mrs Ogun, who hails from Orin Ekiti in Ido/Osi local government area, revealed that  she had gone to Abuja to procure the nomination and expression of interest forms to contest the National Assembly election in 2023, with high hope of winning and give her people qualitative representation. The former member of the State’s Executive Council , said she embraced the well wishes, support  and advice from her constituents to replicate the superlative performance she exhibited as a Commissioner at the National level, saying the present occupant of the seat has grossly disappointed the people. “Fayose is the most acceptable politician to Ekiti people because of his welfarist programme and ties with the grassroots and less privileged. So, we have no fear for June 18, we are winning. “The ruling All Progressives Congress and have nothing to campaign with, since they assume office it has been one tale of woe or the other, the people are passing through pain, hunger and being pummeled by insecurity from every side, in fact it’s safer living in Ukraine now than Ekiti state hence the ruling party will fail in this election. So, the noise that the party had been weakened by Kolawole’s emergence was a mere cheap talk and skeptics will see on election day”, she stated. On her ambition to be member of House of Representatives, Ogun promised to make the right sacrifices to give her constituents the best representation they deserve if given the mandate to serve. “Ekiti people knew my capacity to deliver on any task given to me. As a commissioner, I supervised the best projects in Ekiti history which are the 1.1km flyover built by the administration of  Governor Fayose at Okesa area. This project still remains the best legacy project of all time, others include and not limited to the governor’s office, high court complex, Oja Oba and so on. “This confirms how diligent I am at  assigned duty. The flyover remains  the longest flyover built in any state in the Southwest and I will do better if people could elevate me with their votes in 2023. “Though, I am sure that they will support me because of the hopeless situation the current occupant of the seat has brought to our people”, Ogun said. Ogun thanked Fayose, and the Acting Chairman of the party, Lanre Omolase, for their support, pledging to revive the pedal of campaign and ensures that she delivers for PDP in the impending election.