Nigerians have reacted to the report of a police officer who attempted to kill a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member by shooting his car at New Garage, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Thursday. A Twitter user, @_mideO disclosed this on Thursday via on Twitter, stating the police officers fled the scene after shooting the car, however, no one was hurt as the bullet grazed the windshield of the vehicle. A police man just shot at a corp member car at new garage Ibadan not quite long @SavvyRinu @YemieFash pic.twitter.com/Cvd8vjI9IU The Twitter user further posted pictures of the police vehicle which was abandoned by the police officers at the scene. The State government via its Twitter account @Oyo State Government Feedback wrote, “Thank you for bringing this to our attention, @TheGreatHabeeb. @_mide0, we hope no one got hurt. We have escalated this report to the authorities. Remember to always call 615 toll-free for security emergencies.” This incident led to many reaction and comments from Nigerians on Twitter, as they urged Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde to look into the issue. @itzhamilton wrote, “Orita police station is something else. If you pass front of their station and you’re a young guy they will stop you. Search you and search your pocket. I’ve seen it with my eyes and experienced it.” @Betapikinartz wrote, “Omoh. This na headshot. It’s how the bullet didn’t go through that is the saving grace. Why government wan kill government pikin@oyostategovt @officialnyscng @PoliceNG. Life is not assured again.” POLL @iOhJay wrote, “Why are our policemen always trigger-happy? Any small thing, they’ve pulled the trigger. This is insane!” @babz9ja wrote, “Recklessness at it’s peak. Thankfully the windshield is a good one.” @ifureJack wrote, “Police hate to see Corp members drive here in ibadan. We face this every week, even with our uniforms they’ll still treat one like a thief.” @Ogundeji_OLA1 wrote, “This guy just scale through, like this is pure Grace, I guess the gun isn’t okay because it ought to penetrate the screen and the bullet would hit him in his head.”