AKURE – The Arijodi/Ologunmolare family in Akure, Ondo State capital, has returned to court over misinterpretation of the judgement handed down by Justice Aderemi Adegoroye on land dispute between some members of the family. This was disclosed by the head of the family, Chief(Mrs.) Cecilia Taye Ologede yesterday while reacting to her alleged removal as the head of the family and Pastor Akintade Oni as secretary of the family. Dismissing her alleged removal and that of Pastor Oni, Chief(Mrs.) Ologede said the other party got the interpretation of the judgement delivered by Justice Adegoroye on December 3, 2021. In suit No. AK/71/2016 filed by the Arijodi/Ologunmolare family against Chief(Mrs.) Ologodr and Pastor Oni, the applicants averred that the respondents could not unilaterally alienate or transfer any interest in the Arijodi/Ologunmolare family land. Justice Adegoroye in his judgement said: Chief(Mrs.) Cecilia Taye Ologede and Pastor Akintade Oni are the family head and secretary respectively. “That Arijodi/Ologunmolare family shall set up a standing committee comprising of Chief(Mrs. Cecilia Taye Ologede and Pastor Akintade Oni, including the claimants and some other principal members of the family. ” That the committee shall be in charge of the partitioning/sales, transfer, alienation or any other forms of dealing with the Arijodi/Ologunmolare family land in such a way as shall affect the right of ownership of any person or group of persons.” The Committee shall be in charge of the partitioning/sales, transfer, alienation or any other forms of dealing with the Arijodi/Ologunmolaare family land in such a way as shall affect the right of ownership of any person or group of persons.” POLL Subsequently, Chief(Mrs.) Ologede and Pastor Oni had invited all parties to the palace of Deji of Akure on January 13, 2022 where a standing committee was constituted with members cutting across all the parties. But on March 15, 2022 the other party appointed Mr. Boluwaji Ajayi Aladekanye as head of the family, removing Chief(Mrs.) Ologede and Pastor Oni as head and secretary of the family respectively laying claim to Justice Adegoroye’s verdict. The Aladekanye-led group claimed that Chief(Mrs.) Ologede had refused to convene meeting to constitute the standing committee. Chief(Mrs.) Ologede had claimed that the other party ignored severally invitation to different meetings she convened. However, the family has returned to court for interpretation of the judgement. The date for hearing is yet to be fixed by the court.