The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, will chair a public lecture to mark the 2022 International Women Day (IWD) in Kano State, in recognition of his tremendous contribution and support towards promoting the course of women development. The lecture with the theme: ‘Break the Bias’, slated for March 10, 2022 at the Sa’adu Zungar Auditorium Complex, Mambayya House, Gwammaja, Kano by 10.00 a.m. prompt, is being organised by The Kano Civil Society Forum (KCSF). KCSF is the umbrella body of over 200 Civil Society Organisations (CSO) in the state, working on human right protection, good governance, gender equality, peace building and sustainable development. Digital Identity Key To Deepening Open Finance In Africa –… Airtel Supports Nigerian Families, Friends In Ukraine With Free… Other collaborating partners of KCSF in hosting the programme include the Aminu Kano Centre for Democratic Studies, Bayero University, Kano, Women and Orphans Development Network (WORDNET), International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and Positive Pathway Initiative (PPI). “In recognition of your tremendous contribution and support towards promoting the course of women development in the State, we write, most respectfully, on behalf of the collaborating partners, to invite you to serve as the Chairman of the occasion,” KCSF said in a letter addressed to the EVC. Over 500 participants, mainly women, drawn from different women groups, children rights promotion and protection focused groups, women entrepreneurs, women academics, professional career women in both formal and informal sector, as well as CSOs are expected to participate in the event. Activities lined up at the event to be chaired by Danbatta aside the public lecture on promoting women equality and suggesting ways to break the bias of discrimination against women, include presentations of awards to recognise some women who have supported immensely towards protection of women and children, and also contributed to socio-economic and political development of the society. The EVC is the founder of Danbatta Charity Foundation (DCF), which has sponsored many girls’ scholarship since its inception. POLL The United Nations earmarked every March 8 to celebrate IWD, which is one of the most important days specially dedicated to celebrate the socio-economic, cultural, political and professional career achievements of women as well as a call for accelerating gender parity around the globe.