Nigerian have reacted to the news of the missing lady identified as Ayanmole Bamise, who was found dead with her private parts missing after her disappearance from a BRT bus at the Chevron area of Lekki en route to Oshodi on February 25. Recall that the Lagos State Police Command apprehended two suspects, stating that the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, has taken over the case. However, the news of her death has gotten reactions on Twitter as many are sad to hear that a government bus is no longer considered safe for citizens. Nigerian Youths Mourn Bamise, The Young Lady Who Was Killed… (UPDATE) Missing BRT Passenger: We Have Arrested Driver –… According to a Twitter user, @Odogwu_Nomso wrote, “Can’t enter Uber you will get kidnapped, can’t go with your own car you will get robbed, can’t trek you will miss, can’t enter BRT you will get murdered. The Lagos Government has to answer for this one, enough is enough.” Another Twitter user, @mec_00_01 wrote, “To think we’re still mourning the lady that was killed in Akwa Ibom when she went to look for work, and now this! Nigeria will mess with your head.” @LawrenceOfurum wrote, “I know this man so well I entered one of the buses at Lagos terminal last two weeks and he was the driver, the particular bus he used wasn’t having any AC and charging port, he was so harsh. I pray they find this man.” @renikethagem wrote, “This story no clear! But it doesn’t matter much cos someone life was lost! I retweeted already but @RuggedyBaba @VictorIsrael_ we need clarity. “How did she take the bus? Where? Was there not people in the bus too? How is this possible? We are talking about BRT oh!” POLL @IAmBlackForever wrote, “2023 election is around the corner, politicians are killing people for money rituals but na only yahoo boys dem dey blame for the killings. Ever wondered why most of these murder case are swept under the carpet? Open your eyes.” @ijDtreasure wrote, “Gosh they say don’t enter private cars because of safety, she entered BRT !! Lagos state government owned and still she was murdered!! What other safety measures should the ordinary man take fgs!” @Chinwendu2014 wrote, “No no, this Soo painful. She trusted the BRT bus that was why she entered it.Why are people so heartless?Why would someone be employed without background check? This is extremely painful.Our government keep cutting the lives of our youth short. There are killing us.” @Olayinkux1 wrote, “This definitely not the first time they’ve been doing this under the disguise of government bus. My prayer goes to her family and love ones. And I hope justice catches up with everyone one involved.”