Abuja – There are indications that the resurgence of COVID-19 in China, Vietnam, Germany and Hong Kong may have started creating panic in Nigeria, as the Presidential Steering Committee headed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, has been reactivated. Boss, who addressed the media on the latest global trend, noted that Nigeria was not isolated from the new cases being recorded around the world. He gave a cursory statistics of the situation on ground, saying so far, the world has recorded over 471 million confirmed cases, six million deaths and over 11 billion vaccine doses administered. Bringing it back home, he said Nigeria recorded 255,103 cases and 3,142 persons have died as a result of COVID-19. The SGF also mentioned that China had even reintroduced lockdown in selected cities, a development that should call for concern. “We still have the national response in place as we continue to monitor global trends and adapt them with our situation in country. “There has been a consistent decline in number of cases around the world but that does not give us the leverage to let our guards down yet because there are predictions of rebounds as we can see in China, South Korea, Germany, Vietnam, France, Hong Kong. “In fact, China has reintroduced lockdowns in some cities due to the spike in cases. POLL “We have vaccinated over 20 million persons with at least the first dose. These number is not very encouraging, hence, the need for all eligible Nigerians to come out and be vaccinated.“ However, the PSC has reviewed these situations around the world and applies such to the situation in Nigeria and have revised the international travel protocols, which should come into effect on Monday, 4th April, 2022 as follows: in-bound (fully vaccinated) passengers arriving in Nigeria will no longer be required to take a pre-departure PCR COVID-19 test. “On arrival, for fully vaccinated passengers, a sample will be taken at the airport for rapid antigen test by the NCDC within the arrival hall of the airport; passengers who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated shall take a COVID-19 PCR test 48 hours before departure, or do a day 2 and day 7 test on arrival. “Such passengers will be expected to pay for their PCR tests through the travel platform; fully vaccinated passengers will not be charged on arrival for rapid antigen tests at the airport; rules that apply to fully vaccinated adults also apply to children aged 10 – 18 years; they will not be required to have pre-arrival PCR tests but will have a sample taken at the arrival hall but not charged. “All passengers travelling out of Nigeria are encouraged to be fully vaccinated and to fully comply with COVID-19 protocols and requirements in their country of destination. “The PSC wishes to put Nigerians on notice that two major religious festivities (Easter and Sallah) are approaching and we shall be experiencing increased passenger traffic in and out of the country. While the PSC prepares to escalate surveillance and other control activities, we urge the states and all Nigerians to also increase their vigilance and take measure to moderate activities”.