The Federal Government has assured that Nigerian researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs would benefit from the 100 billion EUROS programme recently launched in Abuja to provide funding support to them. Overseeing Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, Mr Idowu Afe gave the assurance on Monday in his welcome address at the 20th Meeting of the National Council on Science, Technology and Innovation. It would be recalled that the European Union Ambassador to Nigeria/ECOWAS, Samuela Isopi, had announced at the just concluded Technology and Innovation EXPO 2022, that “Nigerian researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs are now eligible to submit proposals for funding under the European Union Programme–Horizon Europe-Africa Initiative.” Isopi explained that Horizon Europe is the European Union’s research and innovation framework programme running from 2021–2027, with close to a 100billion EUROS budget. Addressing delegates drawn from various states across the country and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Afe pledged the Federal Government’s support in assisting Nigerian researchers and innovators to access the funding support for Research and Development. The Permanent Secretary further said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration had promised to invest 0.5 per cent of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product(GDP) in the development of the science, technology and innovation ecosystem He said the ministry was working assiduously to come up with guidelines for the implementation of the fund. He pointed out that Nigeria must take the bull by the horns to drive technology and innovation in order to achieve self-reliance in various sectors of the economy. POLL As part of the efforts to reposition the ministry, he said the management has come up with a new vision and mission statement for the Ministry. According to him, “the new vision of the Ministry is to be foremost National Science, Technology and Innovation Establishment in Africa, comparable with the best in the world while the new mission statement is to deploy Science Technology and Innovation in achieving sustainable knowledge-based economy for the nation.” Afe, therefore, solicited the cooperation and support of the States and Local Government Areas in the implementation of the revised STI Policy 2022, recently launched. The theme of this year’s 20th Meeting of the National Council of Science, Technology and Innovation is “Achieving Nigeria’s Competitiveness through Application of Science, Technology and Innovation.”