LAGOS  – In order to cushion the effect of the 2020 flooding for farmers in Lagos state, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), has distributed yam seedlings to 1500 yam farmers in different parts of the state. Ibrahim Farinloye, Coordinator, Lagos Territorial Office of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), while speaking with Daily Independent during the distribution exercise at the Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority, Oko- Oba, Agege, said the intervention is to support farmers who lost their farm produce due to the 2020 floods. He said the programme is a Federal Government intervention project to cushion the effect of the 2020 floods, tagged, ‘2020 Agricultural Intervention,’ adding that the support started with supplies of farm inputs such as fertilizers, seedlings and the likes. How To Invest In Food Stuffs Packaging Business Urban Farming Initiative Has Potential For Improving Food… “Due to the many events like flooding that occurred in that year and other related issues the Federal Government decided to intervene with agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, seedlings, assorted seedlings like maize rice and what we are doing currently is yam seedlings for planting for the year. “It was meant for the recovery of losses sustained by farmers at that time to ensure and strengthen the federal government’s campaign on food security,” he said. Farinloye added that the intervention was done in collaboration with state and local government along other agencies such as Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Seed Council of Nigeria, stressing that what is being distributed is improved varieties so that it can boost the productivity and increase the income of the farmers as well as ensuring food security. “The yam seedlings are meant for 1500 farmers in Lagos state alone, we have over 280,000 seedlings for Lagos farmers, each of the farmers are expected to get nothing less than 200 seedlings. “We are taking the seedlings close to them in their various locations such as Ikorodu, Badagry, Epe and other areas, but some of them also prefer to come and pick it here in Oko Oba. If we pile them too much it will affect the seedlings, so based on the discussion with ADP and some of the state actors they said it is better for it to be in pieces rather than putting them together. POLL “It is a continuous programme, and we will keep distributing until the last person picks up his or her seedlings,” he added. Speaking further he said the intervention is taking place across the 36 states. On the selection of the beneficiaries he said NEMA did assessment and enumeration last year to identify the farmers that were affected. He said other produces have been done and this is the time for yam farmers. CSP Sola Omilade, Officer in Charge of Disaster Management Unit, Lagos State Police Command Ikeja, said that the initiative is from the Federal Government through NEMA. Lagos APPEALS Urges Farmers To Own Project How To Invest In Meat Processing, Packaging Business She said it is part of the alleviation for disaster for the farmers in the country to assist them to boost their production in the country, and to increase and improve the availability of food for the country and the citizens at large. Some of the beneficiaries appreciated the government for the gesture stating that the seedlings will go a long way in assisting them and increasing their productivity. One of them, Yisa Tawa Modupe, an aquaculture and crop farmer from Ikorodu appreciated the Federal Government for its timely support, stating that she received supply of fish and fish feed last year in an effort to assist them in fish production. He also appreciates the government for the yam seedlings stating that she is still thinking of how she will buy yam seedlings to plant in her farm. She, however, called on the government at all levels to put farmers first and continue to assist them so as to boost their productivity to ensure food security.