ABUJA – The House of Representatives Committee on Interior on Wednesday set in motion the machinery for the amendment of the enabling legislation establishing the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps NSCDC, Federal Fire Service, the Nigeria Immigration Service and the Nigeria Correctional Service with a view to bringing them under one governing board. This was at a 2-day public hearing on six security agencies’ establishment laws with the objectives of working timeously to strengthen these agencies to tackle insecurity in the country. The main bill under scrutiny by the Committee is titled ‘A Bill for an Act to Amend the Civil Defence Corps Act 2007 to Institutionalise the Collaboration Between the Corps and Relevant Security Agencies to Strengthen its Complementary Role in the Maintenance of Public Order and For Related Matters’. Other bills include, ‘A Bill for an Act to Repeal the Federal Fire Service Act (CAP F29 LFN And Enact the Federal Fire and Emergency Service Bill to Provide for Additional Powers for Effective Service Delivery And for Related Matters. ‘A Bill for an Act to Repeal the Immigration and Prison Service Board Act (CAP 12 LFN 2004 And Enact the Civil Defence Corps, Correctional, Federal Fire Service And Immigration Services Board Act (CAP 12 LFN, 2004 And Enact the Civil Defence Corps, Correctional, Federal Fire and Immigration Services Board Act to Provide Policy Direction to the Corps and Services And Appoint, Promote And Excercise Disciplinary Control over Officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Fire Service, Nigeria Correctional Service, Nigeria Immigration Service And For Related Matters. Declaring the hearing open, House Speaker, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila said the amendment of these security agencies establishment Bills would help to strengthen them to carry out their mandates of tackling insecurity. Represented by the Deputy Leader of the House, Hon. Peter Akpatason, the Speaker said the enabling laws that give birth to these agencies need to be strengthened so that they can perform their duties of protection of lives and properties optimally. Other invited stakeholders including heads of notable security agencies such as the Nigeria Army, Nigeria Navy, Nigeria Air Force and the Federal Fire Service supported the amendment of the laws establishing these agencies. POLL Chairman of the House Committee, Hon Nasiru Sanni Zangon Daura had earlier in an opening remark assured the stakeholders of the House Committee’s unwavering commitment to bring into effect a new set of laws that would strengthen these agencies to address the numerous security challenges facing the country.