MAKURDI – Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has declared his intention to run for president of the country on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with a vow to tackle insecurity head on. He made his intention known in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, while speaking with national delegates of the party at Government House, Makurdi, on Sunday. Wike, who further called on the delegates of the party not to sell their votes but to consider him for the position, later addressed newsmen, stating that his area of priority would be in the area of security. He also appealed to the people of Benue State to vote for him during the forthcoming party primaries. According to him, “Today you can’t talk about security, anywhere in this country, and without security you can’t talk about governance; as you take oath of office, you must protect lives and property and if you can’t protect lives and property, you can’t talk about governance. “The major thing is to secure lives and for the first time in this country, we see terrorists trying to take over an airport. It means that planes cannot land and if they do, it will not be safe. We were talking of attacks on farms and it has gone beyond farms now. “What this means is that security will be our priority and you know before now there used to be kidnappings on the streets of Port Harcourt and what did I do? Everybody had to sit down; we have service commanders and we asked, what do we do? POLL “We said I need ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ and I said ok I’m going to provide ‘A’, ‘B’ ‘C’ but I’ll also make sure that this A, B, C I have provided or have given funds to be provided, has it been provided? If it has been provide, where are they? “And if they are there, then we have to provide incentives for those who are going to work to motivate them to do the job.” Earlier, while addressing the delegates, the Rivers State governor alleged that almost all the presidential aspirants on the platform of the party were responsible for the party’s defeat in 2015. Apparently, taken a swipe on former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Wike noted that most of them deserted the party, when it needed them most. “Let these people who are interested in the presidency in PDP tell us their contributions; you claimed to be one of the founding fathers of the party, but you left and came back, you have become an ordinary person in the new PDP. “Assuming, you form a company and run away because the company was not doing well, you come back and found that it is now doing well and you want to come and take over, how possible will that be? “Some people want to use Nigeria to get back there private businesses, so let them mention their private sector businesses that survived. “Everybody is an employer of labour, even me I have 50 people in my house, so everybody has been employing people according to his capacity.” The Rivers State governor also pointed out that all the while, through thick and thin, he had stood for the party, adding that he had contributed immensely to the growth of the party, whereas others didn’t. Wike further alleged that “in 2015, most of these people made us (PDP) to lose the election. “I have spoken truth to power, I don’t have problem with anybody but have to tell them the truth. Umahi and others insulted me because I told him that you cannot take our mandate away. “As governor, I have performed well, I can go anywhere with my shoulders high, how many of them have challenged this government (APC government).” Earlier, Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, who lauded the contributions of Governor Wike to Benue as well as the internally displaced persons (IDPs) assured that the people of the state would support his aspiration. “Periodically, you have been helping us, particularly during the 2018 crisis in the state. We will support your aspiration because you have sown a seed and you need to reap it.” Ortom, who said he was a vanguard of the Southern presidency, stated that “on Southern presidency I stand”.