LAGOS – As countries celebrate the International Women’s Day, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has urged everyone, stakeholders, including governments and civil society groups   to support country-driven and gender-sensitive approaches to mitigate climate change impacts, especially on vulnerable women and girls. Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa,  made this call in  her message to mark this year’s International Women’s Day. Moeti said that Women and girls, especially those living in rural, poor and remote vulnerable areas in low- and middle-income countries, including Small Island Developing States, are more susceptible to changing climatic conditions. Due to their gender, they bear a disproportionate burden of the effects of climate change in their social and reproductive roles. IWD 2022: WHO Supports 19 Member States To Assess Capability Of… One Woman Dies Of Cervical Cancer Every Two Minutes –… The WHO Regional Director for Africa lamented  that increasing incidence of extreme weather conditions push African women and girls to devote more time that could be better spent on productive ventures catering to the basic needs of their families. “This includes provision of water, food, and fuel for lighting, heating and cooking. “Such extreme events also have direct and indirect health repercussions for women and girls, including the interruption of health services. Emerging evidence suggests that air pollution and heat contribute to poor reproductive health outcomes, due to their impacts on cellular physiology and organ response. Potential consequences include infertility, intrauterine growth retardation, low birth weight, perinatal mortality, pre-term delivery and associated pregnancy complications. Disruptions due to drought, floods, conflicts over natural resources and forced migration are an added concern. ” Also Indirectly, environmental degradation and changing climate patterns raise the risk for the emergence and re-emergence of diseases such as Dengue fever, Chikugunya and the Zika viruses, and for exacerbating the spread of water- and vector-borne diseases such as malaria, cholera and schistosomiasis – all of which disproportionately affect children and women, especially pregnant women. “Inadequate access to water can impede agricultural production, with significant potential risks for food security and consequent nutritional deficiencies and anaemia among women and girls, because of their unique nutritional needs. She further added that Women and girls are also at higher risk for sexual violence, sexual exploitation, abuse, trafficking and intimate partner violence, along with psychological stress, anxiety and depression in response to displacements as a result of climate change events. POLL Dr. Moeti said to address the challenges, gender-responsive action is needed along with equitable development that recognizes and addresses the particular vulnerability of women and girls to the consequences of climate change. “It is also important to harness the power of women to effect change at community level, and in the development of policy instruments and national climate response plans. Women’s organizations must be prioritized to receive the necessary financial and technological support to make a meaningful contribution to addressing the threat, while access to land for women farmers should be assured to build food security and equitable land ownership. “Addressing the health impacts of climate change requires innovative thinking and a more holistic, population-based public health approach.” She however pledged WHO readiness in providing guidance and technical support to governments to ensure that health and environmental responses, including climate change strategies, are integrated, equitable and just. “In the African Region, 19 Member States have been supported to assess the capability of their health sectors to withstand the threats posed by climate change, and the same number have committed to the COP26 Health Programme for sustainable, low-carbon health systems. In addition, 22 Members States have developed national health adaptation plans. let us all remember that overcoming these inequities will result in better health, development and prosperity for all. Nigeria To Unveil Family Planning 2030 Commitment This Week Child Maternal Mortality Rates Surpasses That Of COVID-19 In… It could be recall that on 8 March every year, the world marks International Women’s Day. It is an opportunity to recognize the achievements of women globally, and to take stock of our progress towards gender equity, and of the challenges that still lie ahead. This year’s theme, “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”, celebrates the achievements of women and girls who are leading efforts on climate change adaptation, mitigation and response to build a more sustainable future.