LAGOS  – The management of Caverton Helicopters has declared that the airlineissafe, inhabitable financial condition and always has the re­quired number of well-trained, type-rated and professional crew on its payroll. The airline, in a statement signed by its management, em­phasised that the global econo­mies were adversely affected by the impact of the COVID-19 pan­demic, saying that the company was not immune from the effect. It will be recalled that are port had claimed that no fewer than 20 of the airline’s pilots resigned in recent months to join its rival due to paucity of funds in the airline and loss of some of its contracts. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tear… Obasanjo Remains Quintessential Leader At 85, Says Sanwo-Olu The airline hinted that the country and the industry operate a free-market economy whose cardinal principle is free entry and exit, including labour. It said it is within the con­stitutionally guaranteed rights of those who left the company to do so, as it is within the rights of others to come on board. The airline insisted that the experienced technical personnel hired always come from other companies too, both within and outside the country. ”Creating a sensation out of some staff leaving one organi­sation for another organisation amounts to making a mountain out of a molehill. The relevant point is that Caverton always has the required number of well-trained, type-rated, and professional crew (pilots and engineers) from virtually all continents of the globe to meet the complex needs of its premi­um clients. ”It is also worth stating that regular audit review is not alien in a highly regulated sector like the oil and gas industry. The sus­pension of flights with one of our esteemed clients is to ensure such a review. It is a part of our contract with the company. We are positive that we will return to normal operations once the audit is concluded,” the compa­ny explained. POLL It regretted that the oil and gas market it primarily served was particularly hit due to low demand occasioned by lock down across the globe, which affected its operations as clients reduced flights, dropped contracted aircraft, and reduced rates. But despite this, the manage­ment pointed out that it always met its obligationsto its staff and suppliers.