The United Nations (UN) Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr Matthias Schmale has said that the gender dynamics of climate change are still relatively poorly understood in Nigeria as in other countries. Schmale stated this at the UN Women Intergenerational Dialogue for Climate Justice ‘Women and Young People’s Leaderships, Strategies and Partnerships’ which was held weekend in Abuja, stressing that women are still generally lacking in climate-security policymaking and practice to date. “Gender inequality coupled with the climate crisis is one of the greatest challenges of our time. In Nigeria as in other countries, the gender dynamics of climate change are still relatively poorly understood, and women are still generally lacking in climate-security policymaking and practice to date. “Without gender equality today, a sustainable future, and an equal future remains beyond our reach. “In rural communities, in particular, drought and other extreme weather events leave women and girls more susceptible to forms of gender-based violence including child marriage, as well as rape. “Gender equality is an essential precondition for successful climate change adaptation and mitigation responses, and equitable social development. “Women are increasingly being recognized as more vulnerable to climate change impacts than men, as they constitute the majority of the worlds poor and are more dependent on the natural resources, which climate change threatens the most. “At the same time, women are disproportionately affected by climate change, environmental degradation, and natural disasters. POLL “Similarly, women’s disproportionate burden of unpaid care and domestic work implies that they are commonly responsible for fetching water or collecting cooking fuel. With the increased climate incidences, women need to invest more time to meet these families’ needs”. He further said that despite increasing evidence, there has been limited policy action and linkages between gender, social equity and climate change. According to the UN Chieftain, this has been largely due to policy inadequacies in mainstreaming gender in mitigation and adaptation to climate change. “Programmatic and advocacy agenda has not effectively prioritized social outcomes, and more importantly, the differing impacts on vulnerable groups, especiallywomen and girls. “To forge a sustainable future for us all, women and girls must be front and centre, leading the way. “Forums such as these that promote intergenerational dialogue, remain instrumental in promoting women’s rights, sharing best practices for advancing gender equality, documenting the reality of women’s lives throughout the world, and shaping global standards on gender equality and empowerment of women” he added. Also speaking during the event, Ms Comfort Lamptey, UN Women Country Representative to Nigeria and ECOWAS, said that climate justice is at the forefront of the global agenda and indeed feminist climate justice is one of the six pillars of the Global Acceleration Plan on Gender. Lamptey disclosed that the Generation Equality Forum also set six catalytic Action Coalitions to drive investment and produce tangible, irreversible results on gender equality during the UN Decade of Action (2020-2030) to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals. According to her, the six pillars are: Gender-Based Violence; Economic justice and rights; Bodily autonomy and sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR); Feminist action for climate Justice; Technology and innovation for gender equality and; Feminist movements andleadership. She said that Nigeria committed to the Action Coalitions, and explained that Action Coalitions are global, innovative, multi-stakeholder partnerships that will mobilize governments, civil society, international organizations, and the private sector to catalyze collective action; spark global and local conversations among generations, drive increased public and private investment and deliver concrete, game-changing results across generations for girls and women.