LAGOS – Nigeria needs N2.9 trillion ( $5.0 billion) to  effectively to women’s needs for both contraceptive services and maternal and newborn healthcare yearly, Prof. Christopher  Aimakhu, a Professor of Obstetrician and Gynaecologist has said. Aimakhu spoke while making his presentation, “Analysis of Family Planning Budget and State Of Contraceptive Distribution Logistics In Nigeria at a three-day media training organised by Rotary Action Group for Reproductive, Maternal and Child Health. He explained that NIgeria would be needing $26.09 per capita, a total that is roughly the same cost as meeting the need for maternal and newborn care alone. The Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, College Of Medicine, University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, provided further breakdown in his presentation titled, “Analysis Of Family Planning Budget and State Of Contraceptive Distribution Logistics In Nigeria. He said, “If full provision of modern contraception were combined with adequate care for all pregnant women and their newborns, maternal deaths would drop by 68 percent (from 61,000 to 19,000 per year) and newborn deaths would drop by 85 percent (from 255,000 to 38,000 per year).” The 2018 estimated annual cost of providing contraceptive services to the 6.2 million women of reproductive age in Nigeria who are currently using modern methods is US$67 million. This includes direct service costs for drugs, supplies and personnel, as well as estimated indirect (programme and systems) costs. Meeting the need for modern contraception among all women in Nigeria who want to prevent a pregnancy would cost $546 million annually, an increase of $478 million over current costs. This additional investment would provide improved quality of care for current users and coverage for new users, he noted. Maternal and newborn care at current levels costs $591 million annually—$484 million for care related to intended pregnancies and $107 million for care related to unintended pregnancies. Fully meeting the current need for maternal and newborn care without increasing contraceptive use would cost $5.1 billion annually. However, if all need for both contraception and maternal and newborn health care were met, the cost of maternal and newborn care would be reduced to $4.5 billion. POLL Because the cost of preventing an unintended pregnancy through use of modern contraception is far lower than the cost of providing care for an unintended pregnancy, for each additional dollar spent on contraception would reduce the cost of maternal and newborn health care in Nigeria by $1.24. “Fully meeting women’s needs for both contraceptive services and maternal and newborn health care in Nigeria would cost a total of $5.0 billion each year—$26.09 per capita—a total that is roughly the same cost as meeting the need for maternal and newborn care alone.” Listing some of the health benefits of meeting women’s need for services, Aimakhu said that unintended pregnancies, unplanned births and abortions would reduce drastically. “If all unmet need for modern contraception in Nigeria were satisfied, unintended pregnancies would drop by 77 percent from 2.5 million to 555,000 per year. “As a result, the annual number of unplanned births would decrease from 885,000 to 200,000 and the number of abortions would drop from 1.3 million to 287,000,” he said. Aimakhu who is also the Secretary General Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria (5OGON), also itemised the  family planning 2030 commitments which include, building partnerships to improve access to family planning through various collaborations. This includes collaborations with local and international NGOs (Non-Governmental Organisations), CSOs (Civil Society Organisations), FBOs (Faith Based Organisations), traditional and religious leaders. Others are collaborating with government ministries and Parastatals to address socio-cultural barriers and limitations to family planning services, promoting Behaviour Change Communication (BCC) messages to foster positive perceptions about family planning. The rest he said are ensuring age-appropriate health information for in-and out-of-school young persons through youth-friendly services, adding, “This will go a long way, if religiously followed.”