Following the terror attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train by bandits on Monday March 28, 2022 evening, which claimed the lives and abduction of sev­eral passengers, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has called on Nigerians to unite against terrorists, bandits and saboteurs. MURIC’s call was con­tained in a statement issued on Wednesday March 30, 2022 by its director and founder, Professor Ishaq Akintola. The statement reads: “Ban­dits attacked the Abuja-Kadu­na train yesterday (Monday March 28, 2022). The attack led to the killing and abduc­tion of some passengers. “We strongly condemn this attack. It was mindless, vicious, brutal and barbaric. This is also a major evidence of the extent to which unscru­pulous elements can sabotage the good efforts of the govern­ment to provide comfort for the citizens. “With hindsight, the latest attack may not have been too surprising particu­larly with the ominous signs presented by previous activ­ities of bandits in the zone. It is obvious that Kaduna Airport was attacked last week because the bandits had become desperate since they could not find enough victims on the roads. “Our security agencies should be more proactive. In­telligence Transport Systems (ITS) should be used in all our transportation networks starting with the modern rail­way line and critical national routes of our roads. “They should all be linked with control rooms of the se­curity agencies. We also need tactical surveillance teams at critical locations along the modern railway lines. Not only that, unmanned aircrafts and drones can be used to collect information during the trains’ working hours. This will prevent crim­inal elements from springing surprise attacks on innocent passengers. “The citizenry must also be security conscious. They need to complement the government’s efforts. No­body should tell us that the present government did the wrong thing by introducing a modern rail system but the people benefiting from it must be prepared to pass in­formation about suspicious moves at sabotage.”