Chief Augustine Nwazunku is the former Executive Secretary, Ebonyi State Agency for Control of Aids, (EBOSACA), and currently, a lecturer in the department of Environmental Health Sciences, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. In this interview with SAMSON NWAFOR, he speaks on his plans to contest for governorship election in Ebonyi State in the 2023 general elections on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) among other issues. Excerpts: Do you agree with those agitating that the governorship seat should return to Ebonyi North where it started in 1999, and do you think Izzi people should be considered? Izzi man by nature, does not want to stress himself. It’s innate and intrinsic lifestyle of an Izzi man to love his friends and even love him more than himself. But Izzi man does not accept that despite the love he shares with you, you still tress him. That’s why they tell you that an Izzi man uses cutlasses on people. This is because if you come to his house, he may go to neighbor’s house and asked to be lent a cola, food or meat to serve his friend,but if he comes and that visitor/friend rejects it, he will see it that the man is discriminating against him or stigmatizing him. He will tell you, “if you cannot share with me, please, leave my house.” And if you continue to pester or disturb him, he may raise his cutlass because he does not like disturbance or stress. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tears… APC Convention: Group Warns Against Imposition Of Consensus… Another character of an Izzi man is that he is always very satisfied. He behaves as a rich man. Because a man who is rich is a man who is satisfied with what he has. So, Izzi man is satisfied with what he has. Now, it was a general consensus by practice, incidentally, when a bad thing last for a year, it becomes a norm. So, since the thing (governorship) started in the North, revolves to the Central and then to the South. Now, it should come back to the North. But I know a lot of people will contest, even outside the North zone. But I think, this thing having gone from the North, through Central and South, obviously will cause more energy and resources reversing it. It’s better to peacefully and brotherly roll it off again from where it started. The Izzi people have been essentially the host of the State capital. I think it’s normal to say, Izzi people, thank you, come and take your turn. I think it’s cheaper to continue what we have started than to struggle to cause more energy and more resources to try to reverse it. Why are you interested in occupying Ebonyi State Governorship seat in 2023? Having observed a lot of unattended areas, unfinished businesses, unharnessed potentials in the State, I consulted the God of my realization, having used the hands of my fellow man then to support me, I now ask Him, ‘choose my own hand as the hand you will use to nurture other Ebonyians and all residents of Ebonyi State’.  And based on that, I decided to ask my fellow human beings to allow me to apply to be assessed and be admitted or engaged as the Chief Servant of Ebonyi State in the position and office of the Governor of the State come 2023.  So, based on that and realizing that there is no masquerade that decorates itself, and realizing that the office of the Governor which is the pivotal platform for service for the people of Ebonyi State, is owned by Ebonyi people and not my private property; therefore, having consulted the God of my realization, I have to inform those who are the owners of the position and the portfolio, that’s the masses. Currently, in Nigeria, we don’t have independent candidacy; So with that, I have identified myself with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which has been my party for ages, as a platform, and having notified them essentially, I join my party to ask the masses that I have applied to be assessed and to be granted the opportunity to serve as the Governor of the State, come 2023. POLL And realising that it is not a one-man-can-do thing, I said the best way to share my vision is to let the people know, and even the local setting, they are town criers, and the Media platforms and domain are the universal town criers of the contemporary world. So, having discussed with my immediate family, I have decided to discuss it with my extended family, that’s the Media. Actually, I don’t think I’m looking for a political consultants that I will pay an agreed amount for them to say, go and sit down in your house, we shall do the work for you, but I’m inviting the masses, partners, well wishers, progressives and those who are ready to serve humanity to come around so that we will discuss, plan and assess the needs of the Masses, the needs of Ebonyians, so that subsequently, we give them what they need and we won’t be giving them what we feel that they need. That’s the reason for this initial invitation for everyone to participate in the planning, because it’s what we plan now that we will subsequently be implementing. So, if we get all stakeholders inputs, it means that we will subsequently do what will satisfy everybody’s need, because one man’s meat may be another man’s poison. We wouldn’t be there to be giving them what will not be of any value to them. It’s on this premise and on this inclination that I have reached out to the press, that this is the time for us to meet together and initiate a process of making an Ebonyi State that will be better than it has ever been, because in my cultural setting it is said that tomorrow, definitely, will be better than today. That’s the drive of every man. In reference to those who have been governors of the State, they did their matchless best, but still in my cultural setting, there is this submission and prayer of every man:”let my son grow greater than me.” So, definitely, we have started a journey where Ebonyi will be greater than it has ever been. We have started a process where we will surpass the services delivered by the previous governors. That’s in summary, the reason why we are taking this first step. The discussion continues, the dialogue continues, no one man knows it all. The reason why I’m calling everybody is that, left alone, I cannot do it because it’s not a one man show. In God, we started this journey in all sincerity and the light of God will surely guide us through the electioneering process. Kwankwaso Declares Intention To Dump PDP My Vision Is Modernisation Of Delta State – Edevbie If you are elected the Governor of Ebonyi State in 2023, which area or Sector will be your major priority? If you cut off one of my fingers, I am no longer a complete human being. If I fall down and lost one of my teeth, I am defective. So, in the drive to improving the lots of Ebonyi State, there is no sector that will be neglected. Any sector of the socioeconomic life of a people you neglect, you are not ready to make them happy, and you are not ready to give them life. So, every sector must be attended to. I think from my experience, any time somebody suspends a given part of a whole, he is only trying to run away from his responsibility, demanded by that sector. That’s why you need to rationalize. In order of things, you say prioritize, but when you prioritize, you rationalize. Prioritize does not mean you should drop something that is critically essential. Prioritize means what is the scale? Cut your coat according to your cloth because you can go out naked, you must wear cloth. So, there will be no issue of focusing on this and abandoning the other, because anytime you abandon the other, you are not whole. And If you are not whole, you are sick, and anybody who is sick is in pain. Therefore, all sectors will be carried along simultaneously based on resources availability. Government can never be poor. You are hardly seen during PDP’s events in the State. How active are you as a PDP member? I’m a PDP member. I have my membership card. When you say you don’t see me around, it depends. There are multiple party activities at different levels, from ward to national. So, may be, the ones I attended, we didn’t meet. Or we may have both attended but we didn’t see ourselves. As required by my party, principles and practice, I’m an active members of my party. And when you think we should do it how every other person is doing, I don’t believe so, because if you do it the same way, you get the same result. But if you deploy a new technique or approach, you get new result.