ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) senators in the upper chamber of the National Assembly on Wednesday took another route different from the party on the crisis rocking the party, where Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State was replaced by the Niger state governor, Sani Bello as the Chairman of the caretaker of the party. The APC Caucus in the Senate after a second day running of their emergency meeting declared that Buni remains the substantive Chairman of Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the party. Fielding questions from Journalists after their meeting, the leader of the Senate, Yahaya Abdullahi disclosed that various issues facing the party were exhaustively deliberated upon with a clear indication of peace ahead of the March 26, 2022 National Convention of the party. Can Aivoji Turn Around The Fortunes Of Lagos PDP? Major Highlights Of Independent Newspapers Awards He said: “These are trying times for major political parties in the country, the very reason we in the APC as Senate caucus met for the second day running this week towards required collaboration with other stakeholders for the unity of purpose in the party ahead of the coming National Convention and 2023 general elections. “Required strategies have been mapped out by the caucus to bring all interests groups together in making the party stronger and well-positioned for the 2023 general elections. “The reported storm in the party by the media is not true as there was no leadership crisis. “Governor Buni to us, remains the Chairman of National Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the Party. “He will resume in that capacity any moment he returns from Dubai where he went for a medical check. POLL “Governor Sani Bello who is acting in that capacity now is doing so to avoid a vacuum in leadership and most importantly, to put in place required arrangements for the forthcoming National Convention of the party 17 days from now.” The senators, who attended the meeting that lasted for about three hours were; President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, his Deputy, Ovie Omo – Agege, the Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu and other principal officers. The caucus, which specifically resolved to meet with CECPC of the party, leaders of Governors Forum and aspirants/candidates from this coming weekend, adopted seven-point communique geared towards dousing any form of tension in the party.