★Agency Denies Infractions, Says It’s A Quasi Private Entity ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Friday said it is exploring all available avenues before welding the big stick against the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting (NSPM) Plc over infractions contained in audit queries issued by the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation AuGF covering 2017-2019. The House through its Public Account Committee at a Public Hearing noted that as a public liability company, every avenue pertaining to issues raised in the queries must be diligently investigated before the Committee will approve the punishments recommended by the AuGF on the alleged infractions. The panel announced this position via a resolution, explaining that it is to give the Agency a window to provide enough evidence to back up its explanation on the queries. Queries emanating from the Auditor General’s Report against the NSPM plc for the years under review has it that a sum of N91.096 million which appeared in the consolidated financial statements as expended on Property, Plants and Equipment could not be verified with the Assets Register due to non-existence of proper non-current inventories ledgers. This and similar sceneries which played out to consumables, and not captured in inventory receipts and issues ledgers, according to the queries catapulted the total sum of amount that could not be confirmed in the company’s financial statement to N98 million. The audit query also alleged that the NSPM made payments totalling N14.426 million to staff as salaries and allowances between 2016 and 2019 without evidence of approval from the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission. The query alleged among other things that figures contained in NSPM plc Statement of Financial Performance were different from the balances obtained from the Trial Balance. POLL The Agency’s Secretary I.S. Garuba in response to the queries said its financial statements have been with IFRS compliant since 2013, adding that its ledgers, inventory receipts are up to date. He explained further that as a quasi-private entity, the NSPM plc does not go through the Nigeria Income and Wages Commission for the determination of staff salaries and as such overpayment of staff salaries as contained in the queries could not have come up. The committee, therefore, gave the Agency 4th April-date to reappear with documentary evidence to back up the replies to the queries, warning that failure to convince the committee that the infractions contained in the audit queries were not committed, the committee may accede to the AuGF’s recommendation that the whole amount captured in the infraction be refunded to government consolidated account.