…As PEBEC Implements 160 Reforms In 6yrs ABUJA – Ahead of the release of the report of ease of doing business (EoDB) report in the second quarter of 2022, Federal Government on Wednesday hosted stakeholders from the 36 states of the federation to brainstorm and review gains so far achieved. Dr Jumoke Oduwole, Special Adviser to the President, Ease of Doing Business and Secretary, Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) said the two-day workshop tagged: ‘Technical Deep Dive’, which began Wednesday would afford participants the opportunity to compare notes, talk and peer learn, stressing that all the states are in attendance. FirstBank Rewards Customers With N50m Worth Of Prizes In Verve… PTAD Allays Pensioners Fear Over Delay In Payments Oduwole said the participants comprised reform champions from all the states of the federation, adding that the exercise is part of preparations ahead of the release of the new edition of the ease of doing business report billed to be made public in the second quarter of 2022. “The sub-national ease of doing business has been ongoing since 2017 where the National Executive Council (NEC) approved the collaboration with the PEBEC replicating the sub-national ease of doing business at the sub-national levels. “What that means is that each state has a council, in some states it is chaired by the governor, like Nasarawa, Sokoto, in some states it is chaired by the deputy governor, like Kaduna state, sometimes it is chaired by the Secretary to the government and the Head of Service. And then, each state has a reform champion, and here, in this technical deep dive, is the reform champions from all the states partnering with their colleagues at the federal level to talk about how we can improve the business climate in Nigeria. “As you know, no business is domiciled at the federal government, every business has their location in one of the states’ or the FCT. So with this collaboration, we are making sure that all the issues MSMEs have talked about in the last six years are replicated across states. So the PEBEC on its own has implemented over 160 reforms over the last six years” she said. Dr Oduwole further explained that the two-day workshop is aimed at bringing together the different State Reform Champions to discuss the methodology for the Subnational Report, and also, to share experiences on how they have enabled varying reforms and activities to create an enabling business environment in Nigeria. POLL Also, speaking during the event, Khalil Nur Khalil, the Executive Secretary, Kaduna Investment Promotion Agency (KADIPA), noted that his state has done a lot of reforms but is still working on a platform to make monitoring the impacts of the reforms easy and timely. “Kaduna state has done quite a lot in terms of reforms on the ease of doing business. The challenge is to actually have a dashboard where we are monitoring these reforms so that we can sustain them. “So consolidation of the data capture for the MDAs that have done the reforms is the current challenge we are facing. We want to put it together, we want to optimize the dashboard so we can monitor the reforms that we have already achieved, to see how we can sustain them going forward, so that when we are providing data, and monitoring the days, time, costs and procedures, it takes for you to get permits, and licenses we are able to see in real-time and be able to take action very quickly,” he said.