“I am beginning to wonder, how many fools it takes to make the term “My Fellow Citizens”. Honore de Balzac, 1799-1850, in LOST ILLU­SIONS. If you are a Nigerian, who has not lost hope in Buhari, you must either be a damn fool, a liar or a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress, APC, or all of the above. A government based on pure conspiracy, headed by a rusty and ill-educated leader and powered by fre­quently lying to itself and the people can produce no other result than what we are experiencing now. By the time Buhari is finished with us on May 29, 2023, we will also be finished. Before providing the summary of our present predicament, permit me to answer a query from one of our readers. He asked: “Dear Dele, I have noticed that your predictions always come true about Nigeria. But, why don’t you advise government instead of writing “I told you so” as you do all the time?” Dear brother, I have learnt from bitter experience that Nigerian gov­ernment officials don’t accept advice from those outside their circle of as­sociates and top party members. The advice will be ignored; and, if writ­ten, might be subjected to attack and ridicule. Presidents, Governors and Ministers prefer to be wrong their own way than be right based on un­solicited advice. So, why bother? State Of The Nation March 2022. “If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.”William Shakespeare, 1564-1616. Nobody, with the minimum amount of common sense, except those identified above, can read the news released daily in Nigeria with­out feeling a deep sense of despair. Last week, I published an article on the ruling political “party” – the APC. Apart from reminding “Fellow Cit­izens” of the origin of the APC and my warnings in 2013, I also brought to our collective attention, the names the members now call themselves — “Yahoo-yahoo governors (including their chairman) and back-stabbers (referring to the majority of Gov­ernors). And, the lies! the lies!! they told using Buhari’s name to embark on a coup. Readers should ask: what sort of ruling party is led by people so lacking in self-respect. Today, I seek to summarise the pre­dicament in which we find ourselves under Buhari. It is painful; yet there is no hope in sight. It will end by re­minding usof warnings in 2019. As usual, you ignored the warning. Now thousands have been slaughtered by bandits and farmers have fled the farm on account of herdsmen. POLL Power Collapse “Let there be light.” First Order by Almighty God. To the best of my knowledge, there is no nation, not even certified Banana Republics, which suffer from power supply as the largest econo­my and most populated country in Africa. Surprisingly, the situation is getting worse. The average power distributed per day in 2021 was less than in 2015 — contrary to the lies the FG and spokesmen spread. Below is the evidence. March 14. Generation plummets to 1,339MW March 19. Power Gener­ation remains low at 2,301MW –only 14 power generating plants were sup­plying the grid. Generating Capacity Stranded power 2015 6661MW 3,010MW 2017 3,312MW 2018 3,3699MW 2019 3,559MW 2020 3,742MW 2021 6,336MW 2,246MW Source: The Association of Power Generating Companies, APGC. Four things about those figures which should scare all of us are the following: • Contrary to falsehood proclaimed by FG officials, the generating compa­nies actually generated more power in 2015 than they did in 2021. So, we have achieved decline in generating capacity in six years; and the seventh year of Buhari administration prom­ises to make things worse. • Gas turbines have all been wrecked; and there is no money to re­furbish or replace them. Hence, gener­ating capacity will continue to decline. • Transmission is far behind gen­erating capacity, and, will not keep up for lack of funds. • Corruption and incompetent managers appointed to sensitive po­sitions by Buhari’s FG, have guaran­teed that things can only be worseh­enceforth. The Minister of Finance made an announcement recently which few Ni­gerians noticed. She said “the Federal Government has removed subsidy on power.” Translation for my Fellow Cit­izens: you will pay more for power and receive more atrocious service into the bargain. Grid collapse is here to stay. Increasing Food Insecurity, Hunger And Malnutrition “An army marches on its stom­ach.” Napoleon Bonaparte, 1769-1821. Napoleon should know better than anybody else about food. As the mili­tary commander and ruler of France, he was called upon to provide for the stomachs of his people – in and out of uniform. He made sure food was not scarce. The same cannot be said of Nigeria in 2022. Here is the evidence. “Bread, rice, record 42%, 48% price hike in five years – NBS Report.” Bread still remains the staff of life in many countries. But, long before Buhari, it has taken back seat to rice in Nigeria. Nevertheless, bread, rice and corn (maize) still constitute the bulk of our food. There is no need to go into the details provided by the National Bureau of Statistics, NBS. One thing is certain. The majority of working Ni­gerians have not had a salary or wage increase in the last five years. Pension­ers, in particular, as well as those on fixed incomes have experienced more acute hunger and malnutrition in the period under review. A few weeks ago, some actors gath­ered in Abuja, stood before what we were told were rice pyramids. Unfor­tunately for us, they were just fool­ing around about a serious matter. I certainly hope the man in the middle was not President Buhari. I took two steps about the show. First, I asked three scouts to go to the venue shortly after the stage show to gather paddy rice which would certainly spill from broken bags. Two, they were carefully inspected and it is doubtful if the rice on display was harvested in Nigeria. Let me stop there for now. Bread, meanwhile, is set to become more expensive for four reasons. One, Russia and Ukraine between them export about 30 per cent of the world’s wheat. Right now, very little is coming out of that war-torn area. Two, the rise of crude oil price will increase the transportation costs of the consignments reaching us. Three, the actors who stood in front of rice pyramids,could not build a wheat mole hill because the efforts made on wheat through the Anchor Bor­rowers’ Programme, ABP, has failed miserably. Billions of naira has been thrown away needlessly. The same is true of cotton; whose funds have been mostly embezzled. Four, virtually all Nigerian bakeries operate on diesel fuel. With diesel now approaching N700 per litre, bakeries are faced with two options: increase bread price or stop producing. Any way you look at it, my Fellow Citizens will suffer more. Seun, the VANGUARD ace car­toonist, on February 17, 2022, asked: “Who’s the Petroleum Minister?” The obvious answer is: “The same guy who imported adulterated fuel; created problems for Nigerians; and went to rest for two weeks from his labours in London.” There is more to discuss; but let me pause to blame My Fellow Citizens for the lashes we are receiving now. I predicted it in 2019. I begged you in these words. “Buhari’s first twenty appoint­ments, out of which only Femi Ade­sina, was the most senior revealed nepotism on a scale never before at­tempted by a Nigerian Head of State except Buhari himself in 1984-5. .. Apart from the fact that a Daura fea­tured then, as now, it was as if nobody else was fit for office unless from Dau­ra or related by blood or marriage to the place…Failure to appoint Minis­ters and heads of Departments and Agencies, for almost six months, was not a sign of caution as his two spokesmen would have us believe. It signalled lack of preparedness….The recession of 2016 was made worse be­cause we have an economic illiterate as President who unfortunately has no good economists among his closest advisers. Nigeria is now the poverty capital of the world and will contin­ue to lead the planet….Immunity… impunity enjoyed by killer herdsmen became a global concern only since 2015. It is difficult to be Life Patron of a group without sharing its beliefs. Let me summarise quickly. Nep­otism/regionalism, unrelenting eco­nomic insecurity and increased per­sonal insecurity which will follow the re-election of Buhari mean thumbs down… On anti-corruption effort… friends receive the hug; perceived op­ponents get the hammer. Where is the integrity?” BeforethatI hadwarnedyouthatThe NextLevelIsPureAnarchy. Now, MyFel­low Citizens, you are reaping what you sowed by voting for Buhari in 2019. The man announced a few months ago that he has done his best. I believe him. So don’t expect anything better till 2023. Instead, prepare for some­thing worse. To be continued…