ABUJA – The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has called for the signing of the two Memoranda of Understanding between Nigeria and China in an effort to boost tourism between the two countries. The Minister’s call was made known in a statement signed by Segun Adeyemi, Special Assistant to the President (Media), Office of the Minister of Information and Culture. The Minister, who made the call in Abuja on Thursday when he receivedthe Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Chui Jian Chun, on a courtesyvisit to his office, said the two MoU are on the Facilitation of GroupTravels by Chinese Tourists to Nigeria as well as Travel Facilitationthrough the Approved Destination Status (ADS). He said Nigeria, like China, has huge tourism attractions to giveeffect to the MoU, adding that if just 1% of the 130 million Chinesetourists who travel annually comes to Nigeria, that will be 1.3million tourists, which will be a big boost to tourism in Nigeria. “There are two MoU between Nigeria and China on the Facilitation ofGroup Travels by Chinese Tourists to Nigeria and Travel Facilitationthrough the Approved Destination Status (ADS). Though the two MoU date back to 2019, they have not been signed. It is important that our twocountries work together to negotiate and sign these MoU to promotetourism between them,” Alhaji Mohammed said. He recalled that in 2002, Nigeria and China signed a BilateralAgreement to encourage cooperation in the field of tourism betweenboth countries, adding that the Agreement focused mainly on the exchange programmes, human capacity building, joint marketing and investment. The Minister said though some Nigerian officials received shorttraining on tourism in China and online, the dearth of skilledmanpower in the tourism sector in Nigeria has made it imperative toseek more advanced capacity building and scholarship programmes inTourism Statistics and Tourism Satellite Account (TSA), tourismdevelopment, product development among others from the Chinesegovernment. He also harped on the need to encourage exchanges between the twocountries in the area of film production, which will avail Nigerianfilmmakers the opportunity to improve on their technical competence infilm-making. POLL Alhaji Mohammed commended China for extending its cooperation withNigeria beyond culture and tourism to infrastructure development inthe country. He listed the Lagos-Ibadan and Abuja-Kaduna standard gauge rail lines,which are already in operation, the ongoing work on the Kaduna-Kanorailway, Abuja Light Rail, the upgrade of the Port Harcourt-Maidugurinarrow gauge, Abuja-Keffi-Makurdi road and the building of a new airportterminals in Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Kano, among others, asthe ”visible monuments that testify to the warm relations and greatcooperation between the two countries”. The Minister also lauded the cooperation between the StarTimes ofChina and the Nigerian Television Authority, which culminated in thebirth of the Integrated Television Services (ITS), which is theFederal government-owned signal distributor that is playing a majorrole in the Digital Switch Over in Nigeria. He urged the Chinese Ambassador to facilitate the granting of the500-million-dollar loan to Nigeria by the China Export-Import Bank forthe execution of three major projects in the public broadcast sector. “Also worthy of mention, Your Excellency, is the 500-million-dollarloan which we are seeking from the China Export-Import Bank for threemajor projects – the digitization of the NTA, the construction of aheadquarters complex and transmission network for IntegratedTelevision Services (ITS), a Federal Government-owned signalthe distributor that is a major component of the country’s Digital SwitchOver (DSO), and the construction of an ultra-modern Media City inIkorodu. ”I want to use this opportunity to appeal to Your Excellency tocontinue to use your good offices to fast-track the evaluation and approval process of the loan by the China Export-Import Bank, and to thank you for your efforts so far in this regard,” Alhaji Mohammed said. In his remarks, Ambassador Chui said China is re-strategizing itsbilateral relations with Nigeria to focus on Growth, Development andProgress. He said the new strategy, tagged “5 GIST” will be a holistic, completeand sustained approach to focus on political support, economiccooperation, security and military collaboration, internationalaffairs coordination, infrastructure, ICT, industry, investment,import and export, among others. The Ambassador said the new focus will be anchored on people-to-people communication and relationship as well as cultural exchanges.