Two former transition committee Chairmen of Langtang South LGA Hon. Rims Nimchak and Hon. Nanzing Saure with nothing less than 12,000 of their supporters has defected from the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at Langtang South mega rally 2022. The mega rally tagged the “Great Movement” which was held at the Mabudi Central field had in attendance the big Masquerade was in the person of former APC State chairman LeteP Dabang who recently defected from APC to the PDP in the state and several state officials of the party. The Plateau South zonal PDP chairman Hon. Simon Domle, state organising Yakubu Chocho and the publicity secretary of the party John Akans and host of others Grace the Mabudi Mega rally. Speaking at the rally member representing Langtang North/South Federal Constituency said PDP is a large family with a human-oriented manifesto and indeed the greatest political party in Africa. According to her,,” it is a party that believes in and implement Democratic tenets which have given rise to the popular slogans “Power to the people'”. According to her, Mabudi mega rally marks another opportunity for them to demonstrate what PDP as a great party is known for, and for its openness. “The party opens her door wide for any person who wants to return and said to over 12,000 returnees that they have taken a bold step in the right direction. The federal lawmaker added that it is now the right time for them to come together and rebuild their house adding that with God on their side, the party will have resounding victories all over the country come 2023, especially in Plateau State. POLL While recieving the decampees, the zonal chairman of the PDP who represented the State chairman Hon. Chris Hassan at the event said the Langtang South mega rally was a pointer that Plateau is the home of PDP and come next year’s general election his party will sweep the State. According to him, from now on, his party will be receiving decampees from the wards, local governments and at the State level saying PDP on the Plateau remains a party to beat. The former chairman of APC in the state Hon. Latep Dabang popularly called the big Masquerade who was guest of honour at the event, said PDP is doing very well judging from the recent outing of the party in Jos North/ Bassa Federal Constituency and Pankshin South state Constituency bye-elections. According to him, Beni Lar Has done well in Langtang North/ South and they want to replicate the same in Shendam. ” I’m going tell my junior brother governor Lalong in Ajikamai that Shendam LGA is already PDP “. Dabang added that he will also cage one small boy making noise in Kanam. Similarly, the chairman of Langtang North Ubandoma Joshua Laven in his remarks, said he was very excited to welcome their brothers and sisters to the home of our founding father of PDP, late Chief Solomon Daushep Lar.