According to reports, Arsenal are among the clubs interested in signing Lyon star Houssem Aouar this summer. The midfielder has consistently been linked with a move to Arsenal. During the summer transfer window in 2020, he was reportedly a key target along with Thomas Partey. Aouar has continued to be an integral player for Lyon over the past couple of seasons. He has now played over 200 times for them across all competitions. The Frenchman’s contract is due to expire in 2023 and there are growing concerns from Lyon’s side that he will be departing. Calciomercato (via Sport Witness) have hinted that Aourar could ‘pack his suitcase in June’ and leave this summer. The report points out that the player changed his agent earlier this year and this is viewed as him pushing ‘towards a new adventure’. It is ‘well known’ that Arsenal are interested in him. Though they add that Inter Milan are also vying for his services. Elsewhere, Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta’s handling of the Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang situation has been praised by Ally McCoist and Gabby Agbonlahor. POLL Aubameyang departed north-London in January, joining Spanish giants Barcelona on a free transfer after falling out with Arteta. Aubameyang was criticised for a number of off-field issues and was initially stripped of the captaincy. His final appearance for the Gunners came in the disappointing defeat Everton at the start of December. McCoist said: “Everybody was talking about the Aubameyang situation, saying ‘you’ve got to get him back in the team’ and ‘do this with him’, it looks like he’s done completely the correct thing with him. “It showed some steel.” Former Aston Villa striker Agbonlahor added: “You look at the Aubameyang situation and all the players are going to be frightened to step out of line, in a good way. “He’s stamped his authority on this squad of players. “If anyone tries to step out of line, Arteta will be like ‘you’ve seen what happened to Aubameyang, I’ll do the same with you’. “He’s made an example out of Aubameyang to make himself a stronger manager. I think it’s worked, to be honest.”