…As Mustapha, Sani Musa, Al-makura Collect Forms At N20m ABUJA – Kano State Governor Umar Ganduje, Chairman Protocol Subcommittee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Convention Subcommittee, has declared that activities leading to the party’s National Convention is in top gear, noting that about 250 young men and women have been engaged to undergo training ahead of the Convention. This is as top contenders for the party’s National Chairmanship race Tuesday dropped the mandatory N20milion to Alhaji Saliu Mustapha, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa and Senator Umaru Tanko Al- Makura, former governor of Nasarawa State all drop the mandatory fees of N20 Million to pick forms for the position. The party has levied N20 Million, for the Chairmanship position, N10 million for Deputy National Chairman while other positions including Vice Chairman, secretary and other top Zonal positions cost N5million. Gov Ganduje said the protocol officers would be trained to cater for the many dignitaries that will grace the occasion. “You know there will be many dignitaries; legislators, governors, president and vice President even ministers who will be there as observers anyway. It is a gathering of who is who not only in APC but in government. So, our protocols and ushers must give the best services to befit our great party at the convention”. The governor assured that the desire of the resolve issues through Consensus is ongoing adding that the court order stopping the convention is being addressed. Earlier Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed had explained that forms for all the elective offices at zonal has begun at Zonal and National level. He said the Zonal there will no separate Zonal Congresses as they will be moved to they will be held alongside the national convention. POLL “The Caretaker has mandated me to say that the sales of forms have begun for all the offices, both zonal and national. And like I said on Friday that the zonal Congresses now will be moved to the National Convention to all happen on the 26th of March on Saturday. “So, there’ll be no separate zonal Congress, apart from the national convention. All would happen on the same day. Of course, we expect stakeholders at every zone to meet and decide on certain things. Zoning had already gone out; you already have the list of the zoning arrangements.And then the prices for the zonal positions. “The forms for the position of the national chairman has been agreed by the party to be sold a N20 million, The forms for the position of the national secretary is agreed to be sold at the price of N10 million. The forms for the position of the deputy national chairman South and North would be sold at the same N10 million. All other NWC positions will be sold at N5 million. NWC positions, not all other offices. “All other NEC positions. Those are the deputy positions that are not members of NWC. Those are NEC positions; forms are going to be sold at N1 million.”