ABUJA – The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has commissioned its integrated farm estate located in Achara-Ubo Emekuku community in Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State. Speaking during the commissioning ceremony at the weekend, Executive Secretary of NALDA, Prince Paul Ikonne, said the Estate would provide 600 direct jobs to farmers in poultry, piggery and goat sections, while additional 200 farmers would be engaged in the processing, packaging and export of the farm produce. Ikonne explained that this initiative was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision to create jobs for the teeming unemployed youth and women to guarantee food security in the country. While explaining the benefits of the integrated farm estate to the host community and the State in general, Ikonne said: “Achara-Ubo farm is expected to take in 600 farmers, the processing and packaging section will soon start, which will take in additional 200 people and the crop section will soon start because we have provided the tractors. “This farm will be a centre that will train farmers within and outside Imo State and the 200 beneficiaries have been trained and empowered with knowledge and they are the first set of people to benefit from this project and as they pass out in the next six months, they will start their own farming activities and another set of people will come in. “The activation of this farm is one of the ways to demonstrate the passion of President Muhammadu Buhari in the area of agricultural development.” He revealed that the farm estate was abandoned for over 30 years, adding that NALDA took it over and resuscitated it. Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Adebayo Pegs Nigeria’s Free Trade Zone Cumulative Investments At… He said: “The farm is purely the desire of President Muhammadu Buhari to reactivate and reform farm estates across the country because the President believes that going back to the land is the only way our economy can be sustained and our youths will be gainfully employed to achieve food security and we are very hopeful that the farm will be very productive and that the farmers will begin to earn income.” He further revealed that in the first year of the entire project,  approximately 1,000 farmers would be engaged in the area of animal husbandry, processing and packaging. Apart from farming, Ikonne disclosed that the farm estate would be used for the training of youths in agriculture, adding that the beneficiaries would be provided with loans from the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN). “The good thing is that this place would become a training ground for the youths in Imo State as they pass through one year here and they will be established. “We are partnering with the CBN to give them support, a loan that they will use to establish their own farms, so for the first one year, they will be here, they will get the technical knowledge, they will know how to rear their own animals and then the Central Bank loan comes in to support their projects. “The loan is across the country and we are looking at N3 million per farmer and it is a revolving loan, as they are productive, so with that, you will see that the number of the unemployed will reduce in the State and across the country.” To ensure its sustainability, Ikonne noted that the farm would be handed over to the community to take its ownership for proper management.  He said: “So, I charge the beneficiaries to take the project seriously as you pass out, you will get this soft support facility from the Central Bank of Nigeria that will help you to start your own project, the enabling environment given to NALDA to reactivate this farm is encouraging. “So farmers, women and youth, is time for us go to back to the farm because, that is the only way we stay safe in the near future, create jobs and ensure food security.” POLL The Executive Secretary of NALDA added that President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the establishment of three cassava processing plants in Imo State, which would engage 1,000 women during this farming season to enhance more production of garri and feeds for the animals.  Also speaking, the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma, said the farm would be secured and sustained through local security and several trainings that would put a larger number of beneficiaries on the track of sustainable animal husbandry. Uzodinma stated, “The partnership with NALDA is to enable the Federal Government to bring more equipment to enable off-takers to take our products to the appropriate market and thereby making us earn more income and increase our internally generated revenue.”  He revealed that the State Government in collaboration with the Federal Government would invest N18 billion for the revival of the moribund Songhai Farm, while thanking the leadership of NALDA for the wonderful work done. One of the beneficiaries of the programme, Agba Kingsley, Head of the Goat Department, who left block moulding business to farm, said he has found farming more lucrative.  While calling on young Nigerians to embrace farming, Kingsley said, “Government is doing well by establishing the farm and the business is profitable, so if Nigerian youths have interest in farming, the outcome will be profitable for them, they should join us.” Another beneficiary at the poultry section, Nnadi Sylvia, said the business has helped her to employ an additional 10 people.  Sylvia said, “The farm has helped my family and being part of this, is a great opportunity and when people see me now, it’s obvious they will know that I am benefiting and I have engaged 10 people.” Similarly, the Project Coordinator, Emeka Ugwunali, expressed hope that the programme would help the host community and beneficiaries to improve their living standard. The NALDA’s farm estate occupies 35 hectares of arable land with six poultry houses with 18 pens that contain about 15,000 birds, three goat houses with 196 goats and three piggeries, which contain 108 pigs.  It also has three solar-powered boreholes, access roads, drainage and solar-powered street lights.