Abuja – The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has urged the federal and state governments to help businesses cope with the country’s erratic power supply and rising diesel prices. Bioku Rahmon, the chairman of Kwara and Kogi states branch, said there was an urgent need to save players and investors from the impending orgy of unemployment and mass closures of companies. While the manufacturing business is still recovering from the massive strangulations caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the continued energy crisis is the polar opposite of what the industry can’t handle right now, according to a statement released by Rahmon on Monday. It explained that the electricity from the national grid has recorded no improvement, which is greatly affecting activities of MAN members. The association called on the state and federal governments to bail its members out and save the manufacturing sector a major catastrophe. It asked that interest rates on industrial loans be reduced by commercial banks, widen the window of foreign exchange (FX) to industries and a drastic reduction of interest rates as done with the COVID-19 era palliatives to 2.5 percent. According to the statement, “Renewed wave of inflationary pressures further plunged the buying masses into extreme depths of poverty with concomitant erosion of customers’ disposable income (DI) and hence culminated in low patronage of our industrial finished products. “Foreign exchange (FX) scarcity has worsened significantly, even as industry players continue to experience a sharp and growing shrink in the FX windows. POLL This has led to major downturns and stress in the purchase and acquisition of foreign components for production. “The above have long resulted in sharp depletion in the key performance indicators (KPI) of the manufacturing industry such as capacity utilisation, unsold goods inventory, and sector contribution to National Gross Domestic Product (NGDP) especially since 2020. “In 2021, the unfriendly operating environment and inconsistent business and investment policies of the government further paralysed the manufacturing industry leading to weak results in the sector, all of which were further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.” Rahmon appealed to the government to evolve measures that will address the challenges. He said, “We appeal to the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Kwara State government to rise to our urgent rescue to cushion the effect of this crisis on industries. We, therefore, recommend the following as vital matters and measures of utmost necessity and urgency. “A gas-powered energy distribution plant exclusively supplying power to industries should be installed in a state like Kwara State. “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should give directives to commercial banks to reduce interest rates on industrial loans. “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should further widen the window of foreign exchange (FX) to industries. “A significant and drastic reduction of the interest rates charged on industrial loans and other loans released as COVID-19 interventions or palliatives to 2.5% will be apt, because the challenges arising from the ongoing energy crisis are far more biting than during the COVID-19 period.”