The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has reiterated its commitment to deliver credible elections that would meet the expectations of the general public in Ekiti State. INEC National Commissioner, Mr Samuel Olumekun, made this known in Ado-Ekiti at the opening of a 2-Day “Election Monitoring And Support Centre” (EMSC) workshop organised for key officials. Olumekun also assured that the commission would leave no stone unturned at ensuring that the Jube 18, Governorship Election is free, fair, credible and acceptable to all stakeholders. According to him, the workshop was the third in the series, since the first edition in 2014. “In the light of this, therefore, training of election officials remains a significant aspect of the conduct of a free and credible election “We are aligning our preparation with the use of the EMSC tool because as we understand, the EMSC has become the practice for managing electoral plans and implementations,” he said. The INEC Commissioner explained that “the workshop was organised, based on the fact that conduct of an election in a challenging environment, required duty officials to possess adequate skills, so as to be able to deliver credible results that would meet the expectations of the general public. “This workshop is part of the deliberate efforts of the Commission to deliver on its core mandate of conducting acceptable polls POLL “The fact that every election is different is a greater impetus for us to use the EMSC tool to our advantage towards a successful implementation of the Ekiti governorship election, scheduled for 18th June.” He explained that the EMSC strategy is a tool, set to assist election administrators, in managing electoral plans by monitoring implementation in such a manner that the commission’s readiness for election can be easily evaluated “It also assists in early identification of threats and challenges, and equally informs on how to deal with identified threats and challenges”, he added. In his welcome remarks the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in the State, Dr Adeniran Tella hinted that  26 political parties would be participating in the poll in the 2,445 Polling Units and 177 Registration Areas. He said the workshop was an indication of the determination of INEC to conduct a free, fair and acceptable election in Ekiti. The INEC boss said the workshop would assist the commission to achieve another quality election which would be a reference point in the annals of the nation’s political history. Among the top INEC officials present at the workshop included; INEC National Commissioner, Frog. R. H Gunusi, SA to INEC Chairman, Prof. N. J. Kuna and the Chief Press Secretary to INEC Chairman, Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi.