The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), through the Digital Transformation Technical Working Groups (DT-TWGs), has conducted a five-day workshop with seven Federal Public Institutions (FPIs) to enable seamless implementation of Nigeria’s e-Government Master Plan. DT-TWGs are required to ensure that all ICT and digital technologies-related policies and regulations are adhered to by their organisations to foster the development of a sustainable digital economy. Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, Director-General of NITDA, while declaring the workshop open, gave a background on the essence of the workshop. Inuwa represented by Director IT Infrastructure Solutions (ITIS), NITDA, Dr Usman Gambo Abdullahi, recalled that the Nigeria e-Government Master Plan (Ne-GMP) was approved and launched by the Federal Executive Council on the 24th of May, 2019. He added that President Muhammadu Buhari, alongside the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami), unveiled and launched the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) for a digital Nigeria at the opening ceremony of the eNigeria Conference, Exhibitions and Awards on November 28, 2019. According to Abdullahi, these two documents set clear directions for government digital transformation in Nigeria, which NITDA is taking strategic steps to implement. “To reduce the complexity associated with digital transformation and accelerate the achievement of expected values from the deployment of IT systems, digital technologies, innovations, and edge against the lack of strategic architecture, insufficient collaboration, integration, sourcing, or effective project management, NITDA in 2018 and 2019 developed the Nigeria e-Government Interoperability Framework (Ne-GIF) and the Nigeria Government Enterprise Architecture (NGEA),” he said. He noted that globally, the Enterprise Architecture (EA) is being utilised as a standard tool for implementing digital transformation plans and strategies. POLL He said, “These documents form the foundation for taking government-wide IT deployment from silo-based to an integrated whole-of-government approach and ultimately an asset for digital government transformation.” He elaborated that the seven layers of NGEA, which are Business, Service, Data, Application, IT Infrastructure, Security, and Performance are centred around people and processes, with each layer having high-level expectations for FPIs, and as well specified best practices, standards, tools, reference models, and recommendations that will help achieve the value propositions and citizens’ expectations for government digital services. Hence, he said, NITDA, under the directives of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy has embarked on many initiatives such as the NGEA/Ne-GIF National Implementation Committee comprising 40 critical FPIs representatives and IT industry players to govern and advise on government-wide digitisation of processes and functions, Phased assessment of IT systems, Digital Services, and Capabilities for 200 FPIs to establish AS-IS situation analysis, and provided capacity for over 448 DT-TWG members across the 100 FPIs inaugurated earlier, and several others, in line with implementing the e-Government Master Plan. “Digital Transformation calls for a rethink in how public institutions do business and deliver public value and experience to customers. Transformation cannot happen effectively on the outside unless it happens on the inside”, he noted. Consequently, NITDA has taken another step to establish Digital Transformation Technical Working Groups in seven- Federal Public Institutions with the following responsibilities and expectations; to play the role of advocates for the digital economy and digital transformation-related activities, advise their Management on adoption and utilisation of digital technologies for business transactions.