The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has appealed to the Federal Government to provide a lasting solution by making domestic refineries operational as there is lingering fuel crises in  Nigeria. It also called for a definitive resolution of the challenges in the oil and gas sector to end fuel queues in Nigeria, while urging the government to end importation of petroleum products. NACCIMA, at its first quarterly council meeting hosted by the Abuja Chambers of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) and presided by the NACCIMA National President, Ide J. C Udeagbala, also pointed out that the nation’s economy had improved since its last meeting in Benin, Edo State. Simba Unveils TVS King Deluxe Plus iTouch 3Wheeler in Enugu,… AfCFTA Names Three Nigerians Advisory Council Members Specifically, it said that the growth in national output had slowed down slightly from a 5.01 percent growth in the second quarter of 2021 to a 4.03 percent growth in the third quarter – indicating a continuous positive growth over the last four quarters since the recession witnessed in 2020. It, however, assured commitment to carrying out its mandate of advocating and strengthening those sectors of the economy that were of keen interest. On data collection on insolvent industries, NACCIMA disclosed that progress had been made across the country through its secretariat. “The data gathering exercise is to help drive private sector activities, in collaboration with member-chambers, for advocacy, business development, and trade promotion activities. The Secretariat was mandated to intensify these activities to focus on promoting market access opportunities, as well as, develop an empirical report on the state of insolvent industries and factories within each state of the federation. POLL It also assured support to its women wing – the NACCIMA Women Business Group (NAWORG) and encourage the Youth to join NACCIMA Youth Entrepreneurs as part of strategy to encourage young people into the Chamber movement.