Ahead of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s primary, the South-East zone has called on the leadership of the party that the existing zoning patterns in states and constituencies must be strictly observed and adhered to in every state and constituency of the zone. The South-East zone made the call while aligning with the stance of the Southern Governors’ Forum (SGF) that the next president of Nigeria should come from the southern part of the country. Briefing newsmen after the Zonal Executive Committee (ZEC) meeting of the PDP held in Enugu, the National Vice Chairman (South-East), Chief Ali Odefa, disclosed that it was unanimously agreed the PDP should zone its apex ticket to the southern part of the country ahead of the party primaries. Odefa said, “We said where there are zoning patterns they must be strictly observed and adhered to in every state and constituency”. “We also went ahead to make interventions for our members who are holding political and elective positions in Anambra State who didn’t defect to other political parties but stood by the PDP in times of bad weather. They should be given support to return to their various offices”. He further disclosed that the zonal leadership of the party would make a presentation to the National Working Committee (NWC) for assistance in that regard. The meeting was well attended by the leader of the party in the South East and Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, his Abia State counterpart, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, the National Secretary of the Party, Senator Sam  Anyanwu, members of the State and National Assemblies, members of PDP National Executive Committee, NEC, Board of Trustees, BOT members, among others. Meanwhile, some politicians who are aggrieved with the way their parties are being run, yesterday, launched a new political movement called the Nigeria Voters Assembly (NVA). POLL Addressing a press conference in Abuja, Dr Abdullahi Bello, who is the national secretary of the movement, said the group is bringing innovations to the electoral system. He said the movement is targeting 65 million Nigerians into its fold, adding that by the next elections, Nigerians are going to witness its impact on governance.