ABAKALIKI – National Association of University Students (NAUS), has given the management of Ebonyi State University (EBSU) till Thursday this week, to end academic activities in the University or face consequences. The Association said it would no longer accept a situation where academic activities would be going-on in EBSU while Nigeria Universities are on strike over the bad state of the public Universities and the condition of Lecturers. Senate President of NAUS, Comrade Obute Godwin who stated this at press briefing in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital, warned EBSU management not to go ahead with its planned commencement of examination on April 11, 2022. Obute said: “It has come to our notice that the management of EBSU, has refused staff and students to join the ongoing national struggle for the revitalization of publicuniversities in Nigeria. “We have watched with total disgust, the needless infighting between ASUU-EBSU chapter and a certain Divine Mandate Lecturers, as a result of this fight, less than 20% of our students are on campus, receiving lectures and taking continuous assessment, while the remaining 80% are in trenches. “Our attention was also drawn to a circular from the University management that examination will start on April 11,2022. “After due consultations with relevant stakeholders, the National Association of University Students (NAUS), wishes to state as follows: “That the current suffering by our students in EBSU is completely unacceptable to us. The families of two of our students that died recently, in the departments of Applied Microbiology and Guidance & Counseling, must be adequately compensated by the management of EBSU. Their deaths could have been avoided were it not for the decision of the management to keep them in classes while others are in trenches. POLL “If the state government want to disengage Ebonyi state university from the ongoing ASUU strike, we’re not against it, but the govt should first increase the monthly subvention being paid to the school to enable them pay up to date workers salaries, allowances and honorarium, if not, the school should be allow to participate fully in the ongoing struggles for the revitalization of public universities, because in the end only our students bears the consequence of the needless fight. “We’re giving the management of EBSU from now till Thursday the 31st of March 2022 to permanently end all academic activities in the school, any attempt to continue academic activities beyond this date will not be accepted by the National Association of University Students (NAUS), & there will be consequences. “We are calling on the state government to prioritise the security of lives and properties of our students, we will no longer tolerate the unending avoidable death of our students in Ebonyi state.”