Rental Income and Cash Flow Offerings from the stable of MiddleChase Property, Independent Newspapers ‘Real Estate Company of the Year 2021’ is blazing the trail and redefining Nigeria’s property market. Junadia Edim, the Group CEO, Arkbridge Integrated Limited, the parent company, speaks with Daily Independent on these unique offerings and a number of issues in the industry. Excerpts: May we meet you? I am Junadia Edim, Group CEO, Arkbridge Integrated Limited. I am an Accountant by training. I practiced accounting for a while before switching to my real passion which is administration and organising. I have been with the firm for about eight years. Tomorrow is, actually, my eighth-year anniversary and It’s been good all the way. Tell us about MiddleChase? MiddleChase is a subsidiary of Arkbridge Integrated Limited. It is our sales and marketing arm and was established in 2018. The company (MiddleChase) started off by creating a niche called Rental Income and Cash Flow offerings. POLL We decided that rather than do what every other person is doing, we want to create a different niche for ourselves, which is selling and developing properties that anyone or the average man can afford. Before now, most of the properties in Lagos were either high-end or low-end. So, it is either you are buying luxury property in Ikoyi or you just hold on to your money. But when we started, we decided that we are going to create a property market that the average worker can afford and to a large extent, we have been able to achieve some of our aims. Like I said MiddleChase is the arm that you will see outside, it’s the arm that is everywhere and mainly promoting the gospel of rental income and cash flow that is what MiddleChase is. What is this concept about Rental Home and Cash Flow? Our motto is everyday cash flow. We see no reason why you should own an asset and not make any money from it. Rental income, in a lay man’s language or in literary terms, is the money you get from rents. Our target with the rental income niche is for the average man. We have seen cases of luxury property in Ikoyi and the likes that are empty or left dormant for years. We don’t believe that an asset should be lying idle so this concept is innovatively designed to give clients access to cash flow. Looking at the demographics of some of our clients today, you would see we have clients in their 20’s, early 30’s, some in their mid 30’s, and most of them are first time home owners. This strategically aligns with the goals that we have set for ourselves. Since housing is one of the most basic needs, we want to ensure that everyone owns a house regardless of status or income. With these products, we have seen cases of young salary earners and others, key into these offerings and start recouping on their investments. Again, the goal is for everyone to own a house. Are your Property Affordable? Very affordable. Like I mentioned earlier, our goal is to ensure that the average man owns a home. We have property that you can key into with as little as N5 million and even below depending on the conversation. And one thing that we pride ourselves is being flexible. When a client comes to us and says I am interested in this or that, we are able work out flexible plans for the period, with a flexible payment arrangement for the client. We have 12 months, 24 months, 18 months plans, so, the client is able to pay according to his/her capacity and then move into his/her house. What are the challenges so far? One, which is most obvious at the moment is inflation rate. If I am going to use a practical example, I think two or three years ago, you will buy a ton of iron for about N200,000 – N230,000, but today same ton of iron sells for about N430,000, which is way over a 100%. And for us, one has already sold-out a particular product at a certain rate to clients and you then you are faced with such astronomical increase in prices occasioned by inflation. What do you do? This is a critical cost element that developers are grappling with and post COVID, it became really worse. I think we were able to cope with it for a while but post COVID everything just went up. Secondly is, contending with some government regulations, like you mentioned. Nigeria is a bit volatile but it is still a very good market. The government has actually struggled with regulating the real estate industry. They are trying to set up new agencies, set some control measures. However, it is not a perfect picture. We are hoping that in the coming years there will be more of collaborations and not the situation of trying to force developers to do what the government wants and because if you look at it, the government cannot develop the entire country. The government cannot develop the entire state. They still need the cooperation of developers like us. And if they don’t start to make life easy for us literarily, I think the country would remain at the least level of development. How would you rate your Customer Satisfaction and Project Delivery? If I am going to be biased, I will say 100 percent (laughs) but am going to be realistic. I would say that we are at 70-80 percent. Like I said we are a work-in-progress and we take feedback and move forward. By last year, we had allocated about 54 units of apartments and we are working very hard to surpass that this year. Remember I mentioned inflation and some other things. Despite the obvious hiccups, we have still ensured that our clients are happy hence we ask them: what more can we do to keep you happy? Even when we have issues, we always go back, make our reviews and constantly strive to make things better. We also want to improve our processes to deliver premium services to our clients. For us, communication, transparency and integrity are very key. So, for customer satisfaction and project delivery, I would say 75 to 80 percent. Any Complicity and Frauds in the industry? The government requires every operator in the real estate industry to be registered with the EFCC. Operators are expected to report every fund received and do their due diligence to ascertain clients’ sources of income. So, for funds that we receive we ensure that there is a KYC and that is mandatory. However, you can’t know 100 percent client’s sources of income. There’s a form which clients are to fill out and where questions like occupation, address and so on are asked. Those are just basic KYC but one may not know exactly their sources of income. So, if you say my ignorance is being complicit, I don’t think so. I am not speaking for those who deliberately do underhand dealings. I am speaking for people who are just ignorant. But like they say, ignorance is not an excuse. So it’s just for you to ensure that all your basic KYC and all the necessary rules set by the government are adhered to strictly. There are other checks and balances here and there. The government is not resting on its oars to sanitize the industry. The coming of some agencies and bodies like LASRRA, REDAN etc. are attempts at trying to regulate but to be honest with you, it is difficult to track clients’ sources of income from developers point of view despite the KYC we do. What are your milestones so far? We have achieved several milestones and successes, one of which is the delivery of the project called Fairfield Apartment. Within a space of two years, we were able to give at least 54 people keys to their apartments. That, for us, is a great feat because not everyone does that. It is a feat because despite the challenges and hiccups, we delivered on that project and people have already taken possession of their homes and are living there presently. That for us is a great achievement. Other area we have left a mark is the system structure and processes we have put in place in the organization. The system we have built can work efficiently even without the co-founders or directors being physically present. We can comfortably leave town and nothing will collapse. For the average one-man business, the Oga has to constantly be on seat but we have been able to train and build ourselves to a point where things work seamlessly regardless of who is around and who is not around. What are your present portfolios or Offerings? Currently we have property and apartments available for sale at Fairfield and plots of land for sale at Eastland Golf Estate, both of them are in Abijo. We also have some other projects but we stopped selling; so maybe we will continue when we get them backed up. What are you doing differently in terms of technological engagement? Currently we are preaching the gospel of rental income and everyday cash flow. But looking ahead in the coming years, we want to take things up some notch higher. The world is a global village and things are moving faster than people expect; so we are scaling up our activities using technology. We want to do things virtually. For instance, most of our clients are not in the country but we are able to transact business easier with them . We are able to carry out the buying process. They do their checks and everything and it’s pretty easy. You don’t really need a middleman. Those are some of the things we are putting in place and scaling up in the coming years.