LAGOS – The Challenge AIDS and Malaria in Africa (CHAMA) has continued it its humanitarian and medical outreaches with visits to a hospital in Lagos where patients were presented with provisions and toiletries to ease their stays at the facility. The Lagos Mainland Chapter of the faith-based humanitarian NGO, led by its patron, Elder Warrior Orji Nwosu, paid the visit to SUBOL Specialist Hospital in Lagos where he admonished the patients to see their stay at the hospital as a form of rest, assuring them that they would be discharged soon. “See your stay here as a form of rest because because sometimes our bodies need to stay one place, otherwise we may breakdown. “I know you all will go back to your homes better than you came here,” he admonished them.Elder Nwosu further admonished the patients not to be discouraged for finding themselves in the hospital, saying they should see their admission as a transition that will quickly come to pass. Meanwhile, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, Sr. Bello, while appreciating the visit in a chat with the media, thanked the organisation for their visit which ensured that all the patients received a token of provision and toiletries from the NGO. “You are highly appreciated and it is very kind and thoughtful of you. “I pray that God will continue to enlarge your coast so that you can do more. I pray that CHAMA will witness more increase in all areas for your commitment to reach out to others.” Meanwhile, in the south south, the Warri Chapter of CHAMA went on spending spree recently at the Catholic Relief Centre for Old Men and Women located at Effurum, Warri in Delta State.Warrior Theresa Oderhohwo, the chapter coordinator, said the train which was led by their matron, Dr. Evidence, was warmly received as they distributed wheat flour, tablet soups, many kinds of washing soaps, various kinds of provisions fir their nourishment, other toiletries like liquid soaps, toothpastes and a whole lot of other foods like noodles. POLL CHAMA, an NGO with global headquarters in Canada and regional offices in Nigeria, Uganda and Zimbabwe, was formed to rid Africa of Non-Tropical Diseases (NTDs) with emphasis on deploying education, advocacy and awareness, as well as medical outreaches as tools to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases in Africa.CHAMA has been into medical interventions in the past 17 years with outreaches in various countries, where more than 800 free surgeries have been carried out with millions treated from other diseases.