IBADAN – As the Peller Unity Cup (PUC) football tournament gradually coming to the end, Itesiwaju and Itesiwaju Rangers have qualified for the semi-final of this year’s edition. Itesiwaju defeated Irepo 4-2 via a penalty in the first quarter-final decided at Otu Township stadium on Friday while Itesiwaju Rangers beat Atisbo Royal 2-0 in the second last eight played at Ekunle High School, Iseyin on Saturday. The tournament feature 20 teams from the 10 local government areas of the Oke Ogun area of Oyo State. According to the initiator of the tournament, Hon Shina Peller, the tournament was organized to foster unity among the youths in the Oke-Ogun region and to empower them, said the region has many football talents. “Football, being a universal language that everyone understands, helps connect people together irrespective of tribal, political, or religious belief. It helps to unite people. This is what the PUC stands for; it is a unifying tool for the people of Oke Ogun,” Peller said. Speaking after the match in Iseyin, Itesiwaju Rangers handler, Okesola Bolaji said he’s happy with the outcome of the game saying gradually they are achieving their aims. He said their target is to win the tournament while appreciating the effort of his players. “We want to win the competition because we believe with hard work and dedication from my boys, God will crown our effort with success. We’ve been playing well since the beginning of this competition and this is the result of hard work. Semi-final will not be our last match but claiming the trophy on the final day will be our joy.” POLL Also, the Local Organising Committee (LOC), Iseyin Local Government, Mr. Mudasiru Isiaka lauded the initiator of the competition noting that indeed the competition has united Oke-Ogun youth together. However, Former Super Eagles player, Femi Opabunmi, who is an ambassador of the tournament promised the best player of the tournament a trophy. The winner of the tournament will be rewarded with N700,000 while the second runner-up will get N500,000. The third and fourth positions will get N250,000 and N100,000 respectively.