As consultations peak in the race for Abia Governorship, Chief Ncheta Omerekpe (Offor Ndi Igbo) stormed Umuahia on Wednesday, as he visited the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Secretariat. Chief Ncheta Omerepke, who took off from his country home in Umuakwu Nsulu in Isiala Ngwa North LGA of Abia State, Abia Central District, was accompanied by a mammoth crowd of supporters across LGAs in Abia State straight to the PDP Secretariat to formally inform the party of his intention to run for Abia Governorship. Chief Omerekpe who had last week picked his expression of interest and nomination forms at the PDP Secretariat, Abuja, addressed the mammoth crowd of supporters at the Umuahia Township Stadium, after his visit to PDP Office, along Saint Finbarrs Road. He stated that it was imperative for Abians to pick someone who will enhance their narratives and better their lots for the next four years, adding that the Abia governorship race concerns Abians in general. He used the opportunity to address earlier misconceptions in some quarters that he has been part of the PDP administration in the State, reiterating that he has not been part of any government in Abia but has surpassed the achievements of some Senators and Representatives in the State. Chief Omerepke, pledged to serve Abians with all his heart if given the mandate, reminding them that if they won’t change, he is poised to effect the needed change as Abia is in dire need of change and move away from the imposition of candidates, which has become a norm in the State just as he stressed that time has come to reject the imposition of candidate on Abians. He commended Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for steering the ship of Abia for seven years running, revealing that he has so much respect and love for the Governor while urging him to as the father of the party, do the right thing by avoiding the imposition of candidate on Abians as they have the ample right to elect who they want. “Governor Okezie Ikpeazu is a man I love so much because he has steered the ship of Abia for seven years running. But he should do the right thing, by allowing Abians to decide their fate. POLL “As the father of the party, he should be neutral, and let the generality of Abians speak through their PVCs who they want to be their Governor come 2023.” The business mogul cum philanthropist, advised delegates to avoid being used during party primaries, noting that their conscience should guide them in making their choices. Earlier, the PDP State Chairman, Hon. Allwell Asiforo, described Chief Omerekpe as a party man, adding that the PDP will give all the candidates a level playing ground. Meanwhile, the member representing Isiala Ngwa North in the Abia State House of Assembly, Hon. Ginger Onwusibe, who had also picked his nomination and expression of interest form to represent Isiala Ngwa North/South Federal Constituency, said Chief Omerekpe has impacted the lives of the people positively and will do well if he becomes the Governor of Abia state. Hon. Onwusibe said the philanthropist and business mogul has done so much, constructing roads, schools, skills Acquisition centres, hospitals, stating that Omerepke has all it takes to occupy the number one seat. The lawmaker charged delegates not to sell their conscience, reminding them to vote according to their conscience as key to electing a good man like Chief Omerekpe as the party’s flag bearer come 2023.