ETI Plans To Pay 0.16cents As Dividends, How Much Is that In Naira? For me as an investor or trader, what the dividend announced in US Dollars translates to in Naira does not matter as much as the fact that a company whose shareholders have experienced a drought for the past six years is now proposing a payment, from its earnings that have improved gradually over the years. Also, we know that factors that will improve the group’s cash flow is in the public space (the expected take-off of the African Free Trade Agreement, a pact to form the world’s largest free trade area by connecting almost 1.3 billion people across 54 African countries, 36 of which enjoys Ecobank presence). We expect that Ecobank Group will release its Q1 next month if it is in line with expectations. In summary, the proposed payment of dividends is a confirmation that Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) has bounced back fully. I said it before that another way to assess a company is the fact that when it was not doing well, its share price remained stagnant for a long time. Thereafter, investors started seeing signs and expected that the group will likely propose a dividend from the earnings that began to emanate therefrom, and they have been proven right by the directors. When the money is paid electronically into the bank account of shareholders, and is converted to Naira, you will then know whether it amounts to N6, or N2.30 per share, as some have said. I’m not interested in how much 16 cents will convert to in Naira than the fact that the bank has come of age such that the earnings are looking good already, and in fact better than those of other companies, particularly banks selling within its price range of N20, and even N25, or even N30 each. This is a sign of where the bank is headed. It is for good, and a reason investors should start buying into it at this time when we can see value propositions. Why is Access Bank keeping investors waiting? To be fair, over the past five years before now, the result of Access Banks does not daily as much as it has done so far, looking at the release dates, it always comes in the month of March. I discussed the situation with someone in Access Bank who assured that before the end of this week (Friday, March 11) the result will hit the market, so I don’t know what is causing this delay, but I expect that in the week ending March 18, the result would be submitted. But that said, we have seen the results of the bank for the first three quarters of 2021 and it suggests that investors and shareholders, indeed, have nothing to be afraid of. I am not defending the board, but let’s wait to see the result, even as we note that the price is oscillating because of the delay in releasing the numbers, because people are already nursing some fear. My advice is that you hold your position to see the numbers first, based on the quarterly filings so far, because the number will tell us where the bank is headed in the midst of all these acquisitions and expansions it is engaged in. We have seen the third quarter report that points to the fact that the bank is fast becoming a leader in its industry in terms of gross earnings. But that does not tell the entire story that investors and traders are looking out for. It is not enough, because we want to see, most importantly, what the bank’s bottom-line is, and what it is proposing as dividend for the 2021 financial year ended December 31. That is what is of interest to everyone at the moment. I learnt BUA Cement has submitted its management accounts, but it has not been released? The numbers from BUA Cement is good and the dividend payout policy is above 80 percent of earnings per share. With such basic understanding, the unaudited accounts submitted by management has given us an insight into what we should expect by way of payout. However, if you look at the share price of the company on the exchange, any investor will only buy BUA Cement because he/she wants to play defensive. But, if you seek real value, there are smaller stocks in that industry that you can extract more from, just that their payout is not too attractive. That is why the price of BUA Cement is not moving and comes far in between… The dividend yield is very low, notwithstanding. I will not advise that you jump into BUA Cement for dividends unless you want to play defensive. However, the sector has some factors going for it, especially given Nigeria’s huge infrastructural deficit, in such area as housing. You will notice also that there has been price hike in products by players in the sector, which is one factor that feeds on their numbers – BUA Cement, Lafarge Africa, and Dangote Cement, because of what they are enjoying in the industry- the high price that continues to impact on performance. But the dividend yield won’t be much, compared to their earnings. What you think of Presco regarding its results and the recent acquisition? POLL I will want to answer you using the daily chart. But before then, let us look at some fundamental news, or sentiments that are also supporting its price at this time. Note that before now the quarterly results look good, even as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), by a deliberate policy, has made the Nigerian agricultural sector attractive by offering operators some incentives in the wake of the Coronavirus pandemic outbreak (chief of this is the cut in interest rates paid on both new and existing CBN-bank loans, from nine to five percent, added to an initial one-year moratorium that was extended for another 12 months and will now end next year). Demand for oil palm products remains high, and according to a player in that sector, the operators are unable to meet the growing demand (whether by those using oil palm as raw materials, by-products or for manufacturing palm oil), which tells you that there is a ready market for the products. On the strength of that, this stock has performed excellently well. When its unaudited result for full-year ended December 31, 2021, was released, we saw an EPS of N18.07, and this same company is trying to expand its market share. When a company is working towards having a stronger market share, it builds capacity to guarantee its future, and such capacity will ultimately enhance its bottom-line. The decision to acquire SIAT Nigeria (a sister company), at the cost of N21 billion, is also a pointer to the dream the board is nursing. Not only that, Presco has issued bonds to raise additional capital for future expansion, which tells you that the company is headed somewhere. At the same time too, its directors have announced plans to give bonus shares to existing shareholders from its unissued shares in its authorized share capital. Immediately the decision was filed on the NGX platform last week, I called for a brainstorming session with my team on the implications of that decision. Our checks revealed that Presco’s shares in issue is 1.1 billion units, of which one billion shares have been issued, leaving 100 million shares. This comes to a likely scrip dividend ratio of one new share for every 10 held currently for all of the shares in issue to become fully capitalized. But even at that, the company’s share in issue remains relatively small. With all of these developments, and going by the forecast of SIAT, which has broken even and is now in profit, going into the future you would expect that the newly acquired palm estate in Port Harcourt will contribute meaningfully to the growth of Presco. The owners had successfully nursed the company through the teething period when it was loss-making to this point when it is now in profit, which means the new acquisition will be yet another catalyst to boost the future performance of Presco. That is why I see this as a company for long-term positioning. All things considered, this is a good sector to be. If you are there already. You may not receive as much dividend as Okomu, which is paying about N8 per share, but Presco’s plan for bonus more than compensates for the difference. If that becomes real and you see another N5 or even N3 per share dividend, it is going to support Presco’s share price, going forward, since we have seen factors that will sustain the price… If you are there, hold your position, because I see a future in Presco, and I say that as an investor and analyst. If you are there, you can take your profit slowly, but that does not mean you can’t come back to the stock at a later date, especially if there is a pullback. If you have sold half of your holding in Presco before now, you need not sell again. Just watch, if the bonus comes, take it and watch your position. But will this bonus not depress its share price? Not immediately. It is when the market price is marked down that there will be an impact, but the bonus offers investors an opportunity to jump in. I said it before that it is from the unissued but existing shares and even with that, the share in issue is still very small, and as such will not significantly dilute the price. As we said earlier, looking at the chart for Presco, it is not a stock that is very liquid and as