Lagos – The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has decided by a vote of six members against four to retain all monetary instruments around the Monetary Policy Rate at 11.5 percent. This is as CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, said the bank will engage Nigerian National Petroleum Company(NNPC) to find ways to end the lingering fuel scarcity in the country. The asymmetric corridor of +100/-700 basis points was also retained, same for the Cash Reserve Ratio at 27.5 percent, while Liquidity Ratio was also kept at 30 percent. In the meeting, which was held for one day instead of the statutory two days, members noted that the available data on key macroeconomic indicators suggest the likelihood of subdued output growth for most of 2022. The committee expects that monetary and fiscal stimulus will continue to support recovery until downside risks to growth and inflation dissipate substantially. The committee also noted that inflation is being confronted with upward pressure due to emerging risks within the domestic and external environment. There are growing concerns around the uptick in global prices of commodities which have been worsened by supply shortage of petroleum products. In the near term, the MPC urges NNPC to take urgent steps to ensure adequate supply of petroleum products to reduce the rate of arbitrary increase in the price of these petroleum products by oil marketers. POLL The committee noted the sustained improvement in the equities market within the review period. Although the liquidity ratio remained well above the prudential limit at 43.5% in February ‘22, capital adequacy ratio moderated slightly to 14.4% in February ’22 from 14.5% in December ‘21. In addition, the MPC noted the sustained resilience of the banking system evidenced by the further moderation of the NPL ratio to 4.84 percent in February ’22 from 4.85 percent in December ’21. The MPC noted that loosening could trigger excess liquidity and fuel inflationary pressure. On another note, given the fragile state of the current GDP growth rate and potential domestic and external headwinds from the Russia-Ukraine crisis, tightening could stifle expected investment expansion required to drive growth and absorb economic shocks. The hold stance indicates a precautionary and consistent policy choice, given the prevailing economic conditions particularly as further economic and financial shocks are exerted from the ongoing Russia- Ukraine crisis. Turning to other countries in Africa, recently the MPC/ Bank of Ghana hiked its policy rate by 250bps from 14.5% to 17.0%. Additionally, the Central Bank of Egypt hiked its key interest rate by 100bps to 9.75% on the back of global inflationary pressures from the pandemic and Russia-Ukraine crisis. Meanwhile, CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, while speaking with the media said the bank will engage with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited to find ways to end the lingering fuel scarcity, which it said was caused by shortage in supply of the product to local marketers. He said scarcity of the product was responsible for the arbitrary increase in the prices of diesel and premium motor spirit (petrol) across the country. He expressed concern that the increase in energy prices was a major cause of the rise in headline inflation that rose to 15.7 percent in February. “If these actions are taken, we are positive that inflation will come down,” Emefiele said.