It was a month last Thursday that Russia invaded Ukraine and the world is still reeling from the effects of that inva­sion. What many like us thought would be a routine exercise-the invasion- is becoming a protract­ed war, which I believe is an em­barrassment to Russia, as a super power, or don’t you think so. It’s only few that believed that Vladimir Putin, Russia President, invasion would end up becoming a miscalculated error. And that is what it is becoming now in that after a month, there seems to be no end to the war with the NATO and G7 leaders converging in Brussels on Thursday remind­ing Putin that they were not in Brussels to deter him, but to let him know that he would be made accountable for his misdemeanor in Ukraine. This column is not about the war in Ukraine but it is also about it in a way. Did you not note that the war has made nonsense of FIFA’s policy of no government inter­ference in football matters. This is a policy that FIFA has used to cow many African countries from interfering in the day-to-day ad­ministration of football, even at times, preventing governments from investigating alleged frauds. Today, Russia has been ruled out of the World Cup with its sus­pension by FIFA and UEFA from taking part in any their compe­titions. Also Ukraine request for the postponement of their quali­fier against Scotland was heeded and this will now hold in June. Chelsea’s present travails are the consequences of this inva­sion. The United Kingdom de­cided to sanction Russian Roman Abramovic for his close ties with Vladimir Putin, Russia president. Because his is the owner of the club, the club is now made to go through these travails. This sanc­tion was neither by the Football Association of England nor by UEFA or FIFA but UK govern­ment. Let’s leave politics to those adept at it and focus on the ac­tions on the field. The only thing happening in the world football is the qualification for the 2022 FIFA World Cup from Africa to Europe and Latin America and even Asia. While African five qualifiers will emerge on Tuesday, 10 out of Europe 13 slots have emerged. Asia and Latin America has each produced four qualifier. In all 19 teams, including the host, Qatar have qualified for the World Cup and they are, Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Croatia, Denmark, Ecua­dor, England, France, Germany IR Iran, Japan, Korea Republic, Netherlands, Qatar, Saudi Ara­bia, Serbia, Spain, Switzerland and Uruguay. POLL On Friday, the Playoffs first legs, which are the third and last stage of the qualifiers, held across five African cities. The second legs will hold on Tuesday with the five aggregate winners qualifying for the World Cup in Qatar. Also in Europe the qualifiers that will produce the last three representatives held on Thursday. Shockingly, Italy, the reigning Eu­ropean champions and four-time World Cup winner, failed to qual­ify, their second miss in a row, having missed the 2018 edition in Russia. The Italians lost 1-0 at home to North Macedonia, who will now play Portugal that beat Turkey 3-1, on Tuesday for a slot. Gareth Bale hope of playing at the World Cup for the first time is still alive following their 2-1 defeat of Austria on Thursday. Wales will play Sweden on Tuesday. But of all the five qualifying matches across Africa, attention of world football will be on Cairo and Dakar because of Senegalese Sadio Mane and Egyptian Mo Salah. Mane and Salah are the bea­cons of African football at the moment. They are the two biggest individual players on the conti­nent and the fact that one of them will miss the World Cup leaves a sour taste in the mouth. If it were possible to rejig the draws, the Confederation of Afri­can Football will not hesitate to do that, but it is not possible. These players have made the Senegal, Egypt pairing the star-match of the playoffs. The two teams played the final of the last Africa Cup of Nations in Cam­eroon with Senegal winning on penalties. But Senegal seems to be the more balanced of the two, with a solid defence, cohesive midfield and variety of attacking options, they should qualify. Man for man — with the exception of Salah — Senegal are superior to Egypt, but this is not writing off Egypt that silenced doubters on their way to reaching the final of the last AFCON. They know the importance of qualifying for the World Cup. For both, this is probably their last chance to make a real im­pact at that stage, as they will be 30 during the tournament, and neither will want to be watching it from their sofa, that’s for sure. To underline the importance of ensuring that they played the playoffs, Jurgen Klopp, Liverpool manager, refused to play Mane in their FA Cup match against Not­tingham Forest last week. In an interview with goal.com on why he did not play them, he said, ““Mo, I wouldn’t say he’s in­jured, but he felt his foot again, so it was clear we cannot use him. “So, at that moment, I decided that we then cannot use Sadio as well. “We all know there is a very important game coming up, and I didn’t want to be the one per­son who decides it, by bringing in Sadio and he gets any kind of knock. That was the reason.” You also breathe a sigh of relief as I did when I read this. On Tuesday, we will know who will miss out. Will it be Mane of Salah?