No fewer than 200 groups from the North Central part of the country have thrown their weight behind the aspiration of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The group under the North Central Agenda for Tinubu, (NCAT) in a communique issued in Abuja after their meeting on Monday stated that Tinubu is their preferred choice from the array of aspirants that have indicated an interest in leading Nigeria. The meeting was attended by representatives and leaders of the over 200 support groups from the north-central part of the country. The President of the NCAT, John Ali Oriri said at the meeting that participants have critically evaluated Tinubu’s aspiration and the implications of its success for the presidential bid. “Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu has declared his intention to contest the 2023 Presidential on the platform of the APC, other aspirants within the APC and other political parties have also indicated an interest in the same position. “Asiwaju Tinubu has embarked on a nationwide consultation with various stakeholders and interest groups during which he has continued to unveil his vision for placing Nigeria on the path to economic sustainability and assert the country’s pivotal place in the world affairs. “The former governor of Lagos state has proven that he is a great manager of resources, especially human resources, as he has mentored and groomed political leaders that have positively impacted Nigeria through the posts they have held or still holding. “He has proven to be economically sound to get solutions to the challenges facing Nigeria. POLL “Tinubu has the wealth of experience and network that the country needs in its next President. These great attributes should not be diminished by persons that are interested only in their own personal agenda to the detriment of the entire nation” he added. “Tinubu is fortunately from the south, although he is eminently qualified to be the next president even if zoning is not applied. “There have been some unwholesome activities by those that are afraid of the kind of reforms Tinubu would further implement in line with APC’s reform-oriented philosophy. These unwholesome activities include the deployment of fake news to tarnish Tinubu’s political standing like creating fake health scares and misrepresenting his age.