The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, has challenged Nigerian youths to use technology positively for the creation of jobs and projecting ideals that enhance human capacity. Onu said this during the Enugu Tech Community and Security Town Hall Meeting held in the state on Sunday. Represented by Dr Arit Etukudoh, acting Director-General Projects Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu, the minister noted that the use of internet-enabled computers had provided jobs for thousands of youths in remote areas beyond the state capitals and major cities. According to him, it has also helped in checking youths’ restiveness and rural-urban migration within the country. Speaking, Mr Elvis Obi-Nwankwo, Special Assistant to the Enugu State Governor on Innovation, Science and Technology, disclosed that the state government had created a database already with over 200 IT professionals registered in Enugu State. Obi-Nwankwo noted that the government believed that the move would earn IT professionals review of the state’s IT ecosystem; thus, showcasing Enugu State’s readiness for technology incubation. He said: “This event is the first attempt by any governmental body in Nigeria to intentionally safeguard remote tech workers against the incessant arrest by the security agencies. “It is also aimed at creating an exceptional opportunity for major technology stakeholders to interact, engage and support the local technology ecosystem in Enugu State, as well as a lay emphasis on the need for more partnership with the security agencies. “This meeting is especially expected to culminate to deployable solutions such as developing a standardized database that will capture all Information Technology professionals in Enugu State and attract indigenous Enugu State IT gurus to launch their product and services in Enugu. “Enugu is no doubt a unique technology and innovation destination and the Enugu State government will do everything within the ambit of the law to secure Enugu as a safe haven for technology companies and remote workers in Nigeria.” The governor’s aide noted that “technology is now at the forefront of driving Nigeria’s economy”, bringing up startups, providing a lifeline for the financial sector, supplying blood to e-commerce and giving impetus to the creative industry. He said that technology especially its vital IT component “is currently producing young techpreneur (technology entrepreneur) millionaires. Mr Idoko Etubi, Head, Cyber Crime Section, Economic And Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Enugu Zonal Command, said that securing security protocols for devices operating outside the office by working remotely was herculean. Etubi, who delivered a paper titled: “Cyber Security in a Remote World”, recommended the following security system protection for those operating remotely and far from their offices: “Encourage employees to lock their screens whenever their device is left unattended, especially if working remotely in a café or public area. “Establish a clear and concise policy for lost or stolen devices, so employees can report the missing item to the right person as soon as possible, so as to mitigate the risk of lost or stolen data. “Use mobile device management (MDM) software to remotely lock access to, erase data on, and retrieve backup data from a missing device.” Speaking, Country Director of UK/Nigeria Tech Hub, Adaeze Sokan, said that internet-enabled digital technology was gaining large ground, becoming the driver of the economy of many nations, adding Nigeria and Nigerians must get involved and tap from these enormous benefits. “With modern technology, African countries can solve their unemployment challenge and check rural-urban migration as youths can work in remote villages for big foreign tech-hubs or technological companies and earn big incomes that can revitalise their local economy. “However, while we are seeking the positive derivatives from technology; we also have to balance it and ensure that no one uses it for nefarious activities and stealing what belongs to others,” Sokan said.