LAGOS – Cornelius Ojelabi, the Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, has said that the party will henceforth give priority to justice and equity so that everyone’s goals and aspirations can be fulfilled in relative peace. Ojelabi, who stated this at the formal inauguration of the state executive members of the party, held at the party’s Secretariat on Acme Road in Lagos, assured that with the newly inaugurated executive on board, there will be no room for injustice. The State Chairman, who was sworn-in in Abuja last week by the national body of the APC, maintained that the state exco would elevate fairness and equity in running the affairs of the party. While pointing out that the Lagos APC was in dire need of all genuine compatriots to build a better party for all, Ojelabi said, “We are all involved in strengthening the party to an enviable position. “All of us have the responsibility to make APC a truly progressive party where oppression and partiality will no longer be the order of the day. “We shall henceforth give priority to justice and equity so that everyone’s goals and aspirations can be fulfilled in relative peace. There will be no room for injustice.” He, however, reassured that the newly inaugurated excos would put collective interest above personal interest and give every member his or her dues, adding that the executive would regard every member of the party as one, respect and care for them. “We must try as much as possible to bring back the glory. We must try as much as possible to reconcile and deepen our democracy. POLL “This team is saddled with the responsibility of rescuing the party back on track. It means everyone must work together to retake our lost glory. “As you are taking the oath of office today, I Good want to charge you to go to your various constituencies and commence a process of harmony and genuine reconciliation. “Whatever be the sort of caucus or caucuses we belong to, today as we taking the oath of office, we are taking the oath to serve the people of Lagos State, all members of APC irrespective of your caucuses,” he added. Alhaji Tajudeen Olusi, a member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), presented Certificates to all the 37 state officers, while a former National Legal Adviser of the party, Babatunde Ogala administered the oath of office to the new state officers.