In one of my appearances on a national Television station lately, the TV pro­gramme anchor humorous­ly asked me what my take on the current state of the econ­omy is. l responded by saying the economy is not smiling. He busted into laughter, but agreed with me after my expository on why the economy is not smiling. Without any doubt, the world today is witnessing a retrogres­sive economic growth crisis that is not palatable for the poor, especially, with the global inflation trends that analysts are attributing to the Russian – Ukraine war. For instance, there is a soaring energy and food prices, with inflation of over 7.5% in the US and above 5% in Europe and the UK. Significantly, if developed nations are already suffering from the stings of Inflation then the rest of the world should get ready for it full plaguing. This is because, once inflation is let loose, it affects mostly the poor who are most vulnerable. With hindsight, a simplistic defini­tion of inflation is the general rise in the prices of goods and services in a particular country, at a particular period, which results in a fall of the value of money. In this way, inflation sim­ply devalues and weakens a country’s currency, as well as erodes the purchasing power of income and wages available for workers to spend on desired needs. Recently, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) released the February 2022 Inflation report. The report detailed the Consumer Price Index (CPI) which measures inflation in the country. According to the NBS, the Consumer Price Index increased by 15.70 percent (year-on-year). Although, it is 1.63 percent points lower compared to the rate recorded in February 2021 (17.33) percent. The report asserts that the latest inflation figure of 15.70 can be linked to the scarcity of Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS), dollar scarcity, firms’ closure and Naira depre­ciation. Instructively, the infla­tion rate is far higher than the 13 percent inflation target for 2022 of the Federal Government of Nigeria, while the 2022 bud­get target of 13 percent rate is a vital projection and assumption from its 17 trillion estimates. Equally, the World Bank, which the Nigerian state aligned with as its ex- official economic counselor, predicted that Nigeria might have the seventh-highest inflation rate among sub-Saharan African countries globally in 2022. This Britton Wood Washington Con­sensus Institution cited the in­creasing prices and diminishing welfare of Nigerian households in the Nigeria Development Update report for 2022. Consequently, one may not be surprised at the report going by the many years of structural decay and succes­sive government poverty of economic governance both in fiscal and monetary policies deployment. To address the country’s economy woes, a very sad situation where we continue to struggle with double-digit inflation, and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) promising from its projection that the country’s inflation rate would drop to a single digit range of 6–9 per cent by end of the 2022, it is interesting that the apex bank, in recent time, have been deploying strategic policies that cut across multi-sectorial macroeconomics and microeco­nomic variables. Remarkably, the CBN has shown a sense of addressing the monster called inflation in Nigeria. However, as we all know, inflation is a disease that disproportionately afflicts the general health of a nation’s economy. Nonetheless, many econo­mists may want to remind us to look back into history on how inflation can be dealt with, especially as proposed by two famous groups. The first are the Volcker monetarists that believed in raising interest rates to choke expenditure as well as to discourage inflation­ary flames in the country. Paul Volcker, the US Federal Reserve chair who quelled the hyperin­flation of the 1970s with sky-high interest rates is famous for this. The second group, on the other hand, is Gradualist mon­etarists that believe so much that with little or no increase in interest rate, wages must be protected and managed without consequences on workers. Their stand is in protests to counter the proposal of the Volcker monetarist group’s scary sky high interest rate and anti-wage increase. POLL Nevertheless, the two groups are the two influential monetar­ists that dominate economic dis­course on taming inflation. Crit­ically, the inflationary situation in Nigeria can be understood beyond the two groups positions mentioned earlier. Regrettably, inflation in this part of the world arises as a result of, first, the expansionary target growth of businesses through hike in prices of goods and services. Second, the poor infrastruc­tural facilities to aid businesses in terms of electricity, better transport logistics, dependen­cy on foreign technology, and middlemen role in distribution networks. Third, is multiple taxation from government at the federal and sub-national levels. Fourth, is importation and dependen­cy on foreign products and services. Lastly, is persistent insecurity that is increasingly affecting business investment fortune in the country. One cannot but agree that the foregoing contributes im­mensely to inflation in Nigeria. However, we cannot rule out the interest rate threat to the supply of money and credit facilities. Arguably, the centrality of this piece is that the expansionary tendencies of businesses for growth and profit drive led to increase in prices of goods and services that is out of reach of people. And these are people whose wages remain stagnant. To this end, what is the alter­native to deal with inflation without deepening poverty in Nigeria? What can be done to salvage the situation? First, we must all accept the fact that to deal with inflation, the CBN must have a grip on the supply of money, and credit must not be let loose. In this way, CBN’s stance in creating new money must be justified through steady interest rate rise, while this must go with a target to boost investment and employment generation. Second, we need not to re­mind CBN that inflation tends to devastate the poor. Poignant­ly, it will be a great service if the CBN focuses on curing inflation that tends to foster economic inequality and divide our society. Third, the CBN’s support for the real sector has been tremendous, which no one can fault; but it is time to priori­tise, with billions given to the manufacturing sector. It is time to deliver massive in­vestment in the energy sector, transport, agriculture, ICT, social housing and health care. For us, instead of CBN throw­ing money at stakeholders in the above sector freely, we be­lieve it is appropriate that the CBN gets involved directly by owning significant percentage shares in them. Lastly, it is time for wage increases to balance the interest rate. This, for us, is overdue. Even though the CBN may not directly lead in this advocacy, it is a means to balance the equation against price inflation, unemployment, and naira free fall that worsens our economic situation. Succinctly, less we are re­minded that we have a national minimum wage, the poor and inadequate wages underpinned investment; promote low pro­ductivity, low skills, and low prospects. Ours is for a mone­tary policy that prioritises the prevention of inflation with decisive action to remove more Nigerians from poverty and hunger.