I love Nigeria, I no go lie is a lyric of a popular Nigerian song by the same title written by Wole Soyinka -Nobel laureate and Tunji Oyelana. And the song was sung in the good old days when the naira/dollar exchange rate was such that the naira command­ed a higher exchange rate than the United States of America (USA) dollar. The table below is how StatisSense — a financial intelligence advocacy out­fit presented the rapid devaluation of the naira in the past 20 years; reflect­ing the pulling of the economy into the doldrums and by implication how the misery of Nigerians has increased ex­ponentially as evidenced by the rapidly deteriorating standard of living. The graphic display by StatisSense which has been trending in social me­dia would make the jaws of even the most optimistic Nigerians drop in de­spondency. The Legitimacy Of Current ‘Amendments’ To The Constitution Electoral Amendment Act: Triumph Of Tenacity Here we go: “The Value of N1m over 40 years (1981 – 2021): 1981: N1m = $1,570,105 1991: N1m = $102,517 2001: N1m = $8,814 POLL 2011: N1m = $6,382 2021: N1m = $2,421” If the erosion of the value of our na­tional currency as highlighted above does not gull you, the fact that queu­ing for days and nights for petrol has been a recurring decimal in Nigeria’s social-economic calculus would literal­ly give you a kick in the groin. Since a fortnight ago when our country started experiencing the re­turn of the dreaded struggle by the masses just to purchase petrol from retail stations, Nigerians have also been reminded of the stressful expe­rience, via a video that has gone viral depicting Nigerians as far back as 1974 struggling to purchase the essential commodity-petrol for their vehicles that would enable them have the mo­bility to get on with their daily chores of plying their trade and earning their living as blue or white-collar workers. What the video exposes is that al­though there has been a lot of motions and actions (massive commitment of funds in turnaround maintenance of refineries by the authorities) no real progress has been made in relieving the masses of the terrible ordeal that they faced in the process of obtaining petrol. In light of the nostalgic and positive memory of the high quality of life in Nigeria in the days of yore which is be­fore the 1970s when things went awry following the 1966 coup, a counter-coup six months after, and the unfortunate civil war that lasted till 1970, it is not un­expected that, the song, ‘l love Nigeria, l no go lie. Na inside am l go live and die’ would be like a national anthem. Exit Talks Of Political Office Holders Understanding The Imo State Story (2) Little wonder, it became a sing-song issuing from the lips of many a Nigerian. Indeed, it was a sign of the times. Which is why any attempt to sing about Nigeria now, would be melancholic. And we need not search long or hard to find a song that reflects the state of affairs commencing from the time that crushing hard times started threatening to asphyxiate Nigerian masses in the early 1970s. A song by Idris Ab­dulkareem, a popular musician aptly describes the current state of af­fairs in Nigeria that is now in a Hobbesian state of nature -which can ba­sically be characterized as jungle life. The lyrics which are quite graphic goes thus: ‘Nigeria jaga, jaga. Everything scatter, scatter. Gun shots in mi street, gbosa, gbosa’. It is such an irony that when the young musician sang the song a cou­ple of decades ago, things were not this bad in our country as evidenced by the insecurity of lives and properties of multiple dimensions-religious insur­gencies, herdsmen/farmers conflicts, and banditry as well as kidnapping for ransom at an unprecedented scale, cur­rently ravaging our country But that did not deter then Presi­dent Olusegun Obasanjo, OBJ, from having an altercation with the young musician who he challenged when he categorically rebuked him by stating that Nigeria is not jaga, jaga. As some Nigerians would recall, that hap­pened after the song of lamentation was sung at a public event in which the then-president was in attendance. The song was a sort of affirmation of another song by a Nigerian artist that goes by the name, Ras Kimono, who is now late. It is titled: “Under pressure, Nigerians under pressure. No money for me pocket, no food, for me belly,” he wailed. The song of sorrow that predates all of the fore­going ones is: ‘suffering and smiling’ by the late Fela Kuti- the king of rebel mu­sic. I need not dwell further on Fela’s string of protest music which abounds and is popular or common enough for me to assume that the point has been made. Although some of our current youthful musicians have made music denouncing the cold treatment from the Nigerian police leading to #Ensars street protests in October 2020,(such as meet me in Ozumba Mbadiwe the site of Lekki toll gate where the alleged shooting of protesting youths by the army happened ) the songs have not been propagated as much as Fela Ku­ti’s scathing condemnation of military brutality in his hit songs titled: ”Zom­bie”, or “Sorrow, Tears and Blood” amongst others. Owing to the constrictions in our society as evidenced by the rampant vi­olation of civil liberties by authorities, as evidenced by the fact that #ENSARS Protesters waving Nigerian flags and singing the national anthem were allegedly shot at by law enforcement agencies in October 2020, I cannot help but wonder if the incumbent pres­ident, Muhammadu Buhari would like ex-president, Obasanjo who blast­ed an artist for singing Nigeria jaga, jaga, lambast any musician that sings protest songs reflecting the unprece­dented level of misery that is currently threatening to snuff life out of many a Nigerian. Now, dear readers, if at this junc­ture, you are wondering if this article is not about musicians, as such, the title may be deceptive, you are justi­fied in your bewilderment. Without further ado, let me hasten to explain why l embarked on the voyage into the land of music in the preamble. The reason is to soften the harsh effect of the picture of the current reality in our beloved country which l am about to share with you by first of all recalling the good times, while gradually introducing the current horrendous state of life in our na­tion and alarming criminality in our beloved country. That is simply because if you want to understand the artistic zeitgeist of a particular era, you only have to look at the pol­itics, movies, fashion, and music of that time. So the highlighted songs are reflections of the drudgery in our society. Believe it or not, the seeming pall of darkness which has simply engulfed our beloved country is a fallout of the fact that for too long, Nigeria has been in the vice grip of terrible and unpa­triotic leaders or those without a posi­tive vision of how to lead our country into prosperity. Hence our country has failed to rise above its initial challenges as reflected by the fact that in nearly 50 years, (a period of nearly half a cen­tury) the malaise of queuing up for days on end in petrol stations just to purchase the commodity has as an al­batross remained with us unchanged and unceasing. Expressed metaphorically, the re­turn of petrol queues in Nigeria which is a reminder of the experience that goes as far back as 1974, is like a child that was bedwetting at infancy that has continued to bed-wet at nearly age 50. Is that not a crying shameful mon­ument to our memory as a nation? As if taking absurdity to a new dimen­sion, the federal government has just made a massive provision of N3 trillion for the funding of petroleum subsidies in the 2023 budget. That is irrespective of the fact that about $2 billion could have been invested in building a sizable new refinery from scratch as the Chinese recently did in the Niger Republic in a reasonably short span of time. As proof that the assertion above is not mere fantasy as some apparatchiks of government are wont to make the masses believe, Aliko Dangote is in the process of completing in Lekki Free Trade Zone, near Lagos, the construc­tion of a multi-billion dollars complex (estimated at $19 billion) comprising of Petrol refining (650,000 bpd) and a chemical as well as fertilizer blending facilities in a period of not more than five years. It may be recalled that the richest man in Africa first broke the news in 2016 before activities to ac­tualize the vision commenced in the following year 2017. And that is within the watch of the current leadership in Aso Rock villa. To put things in context, let us keep in mind that Nigeria is believed in some quarters to have spent at least $30 bil­lion importing fuel in the last 15 years (approximately 18 trillion naira) which is much more than the $19 trillion that Dangote has invested in his massive facility that is poised to reverse the debilitating experience of practically fighting to obtain petrol in retail sta­tions in the past 50 years. Meanwhile, after a galaxy of experts have averred that about $2 billion can build a Refin­ery in Nigeria from the scratch, similar amounts have been applied, on mul­tiple occasions revamping existing refineries that are in reality, comatose. The woes that make Nigeria a massive crime scene do not end there. Unlike neighboring Niger Republic which boasts of a new state-of-the-art petrol refinery built by the Chinese in a record time, our leaders have been unable to build a new refinery and the existing ones have been largely barren, (infinitesimal production) even when an estimated whopping sum of N65 billion is reportedly being expended as staff emoluments annually for Ka­duna refinery alone. Worse still, although Nigeria is the world’s 6th largest oil/gas producer, with the country being a massive crime scene, it is unable to meet its OPEC allocated production quota of two (2) million barrels per day. This may in part be due to the crime of stealing crude oil from the pipelines in volumes reportedly as much as 450 barrels daily. Tony Elumelu, chairman of Heirs Holdings recently valued the quantity of crude stolen in the Niger Delta to be at as much as $4 billion an­nually. Cognizant of the narrative above, no matter the optics applied, be it with the opposition or ruling party lenses, our beloved country can’t escape be­ing classified as a massive crime scene. And the rot afflicting our country is not confined to the financial and economic spheres of life. The doom and gloom spread into even the health care and life expectancy realms. And my tragic and traumatic personal experience be­low is the justification for the above as­sertionFollowing the sudden passage of my 17-year-old daughter Kikaose Ebiye -Onyibe, a second-year law un­dergraduate from the University of Birmingham, after a badly handled surgery for appendicitis at Lagoon hos­pital in Bourdilon road, Ikoyi, Lagos on April 12, 2017; based on my morbid experience, I wrote an article titled: “Nigeria Now Looks Like An ICU”. The piece went beyond the sham­bolic health care system in our country to which l lost my precious daughter, as it was a reflection of the state of ano­mie that our country had descended at that time. That was evidenced by the harvest of deaths nationwide, but particularly in the Benue Trough in the middle belt of Nigeria where herdsmen now inter­changeable for bandits and terrorists were engaging in an orgy of death or a killing spree. The crime situation was so dire that hopeless and hapless fami­lies buried victims sometimes running into several dozen at a time and in a single day.