LAGOS  – GlobalData, a data and analytics company, has stated the US $74 deals were undertaken in the oil and gas industry last year. The company said the current figure is more 40 recorded in 2020. It said oil price recovery encouraged companies to undertake more high-value deals to push forward their growth plans, adding that largest deal in terms of value for 2021 was announced towards the end of the year, when prices were at multi-year highs. How We’re Boosting Nigeria’s Gas Sector – NCDMB Sahara Group Drives Global Expansion With Strategic Appointments… The report said it involved the proposed $13.9 billion acquisition of North Sea operator Lundin Energy by Aker BP. GlobalData’s latest report, ‘Global M&A Deals in 2021 – Top Themes by Sector’, reveals that global mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity in the oil and gas industry grew annually by 16% to reach $335 billion in 2021, considering M&As with known deal value. All regions, except China, the Middle East and Africa, reported an increase in deal value in 2021, compared to the previous year. However, in terms of deal volume, M&A activity was largely flat at around 1,800 oil and gas deals in 2021. The upstream sector contributed to the highest M&A transaction value of $120 billion in 2021. It also recorded the highest growth of 48% compared to 2020. “This growth in deal making was largely driven by the shale and subsea themes,” said Ravindra Puranik, Oil & Gas Analyst at GlobalData. “The U.S. shale plays, particularly the Permian Basin, remained the most attractive target for oil and gas M&As in 2021. The oil and gas assets in the North Sea also witnessed several deals in the last year, including the one involving Lundin Energy.” POLL Midstream assets also had a notable contribution to the share of the deals in 2021. This included several high-value deals involving oil and gas pipeline assets in North America, such as Brookfield Infrastructure’s $11.5 billion acquisition of Inter Pipeline or the acquisition of Enable Midstream by Energy Transfer for $7.2 billion. “As long as the oil and gas industry continues to meet the bulk of global energy needs, there will also be demand for transportation infrastructure, such as pipelines and liquefied natural gas (LNG),” Puranik said.