We started the series on the Four Components on Work two weeks ago. We have covered the first two components – output and standard. In today’s concluding article, I will look at the remaining two components. 3. Satisfaction When work meets the specified standard, what is the outcome? Customer satisfaction. If standard represents the rational and objective expectations of the work, satisfaction is the emotional feeling derived from receiving the work. We know today that people are not just rational beings; they are also emotional beings. And every work leaves an emotional deposit in the recipient, good or bad, whether you are aware of it or not. Your output either increases people’s happiness or takes away a part of it. For example, as I wrote this chapter, I took my wife to a five-star hotel to celebrate her birthday. The first time we ate there when they opened, she was elated, but I was satisfied. (Don’t mind me, my standards are quite high). However, two months after the first experience, I was disappointed this second time, but she was satisfied. She also complained about the quality of the food. My takeaways from this experience are: • There is always an emotional component to work. Cooking, writing a report, playing football, and so on are physical activities with rational measurement scores, but they always impact the recipient emotionally. Take a game of football, for example. The winning team fans leave excited, while the losing team fans leave sad, angry, mad, or even depressed. Rationally, it is just a score (1-0, 2-1, 2-0), but emotionally, it is more than just the score. • Because most people do not go out of their way to create wow experiences, their customers only deal with them rationally. And when customers do business with you purely from a rational perspective, there is no bond of loyalty between them and the organisation. It is more of a transaction. And transactional relationships do not last. POLL • Excitement yesterday can turn to satisfaction today and disappointment tomorrow. Past experiences create future expectations. Once a standard has been met, you need to maintain or improve that standard, or you will end up disappointing your customers, and they will leave in droves. Therefore, make it your goal to ensure that your present is at least better than your past. Remember the first mobile phones? Today, those phones would not pass the test, and companies that did not up the ante on their performance have gone bankrupt. • Never take customers’ emotional satisfaction experiences for granted. It can cost you your business. Many selling experts inform us that people buy emotionally and justify their decisions with logic. If you don’t connect emotionally, you will lose the business. Customer complaints, a reflection of their dissatisfaction, can be a rich source of information if we pay attention to them. But if we dismiss them, we might lose their business. For example, Robert, a key account manager in a consumer electronics business, recently got the shock of his life when his most important customer moved his account to another competitor. While disappointed, he noticed that the customer had complained about his organisation’s services that he did not take seriously. Now he has lost the customer and his business. One assignment I give my participants every time I teach the concept of work is this: arrange a meeting with your boss or your most important customer and ask them these two questions: • On a scale of 1-10, how satisfied are you with the quality of my work? • What would it take to make it a 10 out of 10? 4. Reward The final component of real work is reward. As defined much earlier, work is any activity that earns you a living. But if you look at our definition of real work, the reward component is the end result of customer satisfaction. The more satisfied people are with your output, the more they would be willing to pay you. Check throughout history, and you will discover that the most successful companies and individuals are those whose customers were not just satisfied but also delighted with their products and services. These individuals and companies sought not just to meet but also to exceed their customers’ expectations. So, if you do not like your current reward, what should you do? The answer is obvious: increase the quality of your output! Reward follows output. Ensure that your output meets and exceeds customer expectations. Create excited customers, and life will give back to you in “good measure, pressed down, shaken together and running over.” These four components—output, standard, satisfaction, reward—are the four components of real work. This is the concluding part of Chapter 1 of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at