ABUJA – Friday’s scheduled judg­ment on the suit filed by the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party against Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State and his deputy, Prof. Ivara Ejemot Esu over their defection to the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) has been shifted to April 6. By the suit, the PDP is seeking an order of court for the governor and his deputy to vacate office having defected to the APC. Though the matter was on Friday’s Cause List of the tri­al judge, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, the judgement did not hold and no reason was adduced for the shift in date for judgment. PDP predicated it’s suit on the fact that Senator Aya­de and his deputy, presently members of the APC, did not win the March 9, 2019 Gover­norship election in Cross River State. The Independent National Electoral Commission, APC and the deputy governor, Prof. Ivara Ejemot Esu were joined as defendants in the suit, which was filed in Octo­ber 2021. Ayade was elected under the platform of the PDP in 2015 and 2019, but decamped to the APC on May 20, 2021, along with his deputy, Prof. Esu. Specifically, the PDP had contended that the mandate given by the electorate in Cross River State was to it as a party, arguing that Ayade as its candidate at the election cannot transfer the mandate to the APC or any other polit­ical party. By the suit filed by five Senior Advocates of Nigeria led by Emmanuel Ukala, the plaintiff (PDP) wants “A judi­cial declaration giving the PDP an opportunity to nominate a replacement to the seat of the Governor and the deputy Gov­ernor in Cross River State. POLL “A declaration that in view of the provisions of section 221 of the Constitution of the Fed­eral Republic, 1999 (as amend­ed) and the democratic system of governance operated in Ni­geria, votes at the election and elections are won by political parties and not their candidate or the candidates sponsored at the election by the political parties. “The PDP is also seeking an order directing the1st defendant (INEC) “to im­mediately receive from the plaintiff (PDP), the name of its candidates to replace the 3rd and 4th defendants (Aya­de and Esu) for the purpose of utilizing the lawful votes cast in favour of the plaintiff or in the alternative directing the 1st defendant to hold a gu­bernatorial election for Cross River State in accordance with Section 177 of the Constitution (excluding the 3rd and 4th defendants who are disquali­fied from participating in the election by virtue of Section 192 (1) (b) of the Constitution) arising from abandonment of the majority lawful votes and the offices occasioned by the action of the 3rd and 4th defendants by reason of their becoming members of the 2nd defendant who did not win ma­jority of the lawful votes cast at the election. “An order directing the 1st defendant to immediately de­clare the persons nominated or to be nominated to it by the plaintiff as Governor and Dep­uty Governor of Cross River State. “An injunction restraining the 1st defendant, its agents, privies, servants and assigns or any person howsoever from recognising and or continuing to recognise the 3rd and 4th de­fendants as Governor and Dep­uty Governor respectively of Cross River State or granting to them any right, benefit or rec­ognition in relation thereto.”