LOKOJA – The Rector, Kogi State Polytechnic, Dr Salisu Usman Ogbo, has appealed to the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to reopen the Computer Based Test (CBT) Centre domiciled in the school as necessary measures have been put in place to correct the alleged infractions. This is as the polytechnic has matriculated a total number of 6,216 students, consisting of 5,229 for National Diploma and 987 for Higher National Diploma for the 2021/2022 academic session. The Rector made the appeal at the 29th Matriculation Ceremony of the Polytechnic, held on Thursday in Lokoja. He explained that following the action or inaction of staff of the institution the CBTE Centre was penalized, stressing that the matter is however being addressed administratively with the view to unravelling the circumstances leading to why the centre ran into the hitch. The Rector of the Polytechnic called on the Registrar of JAMB, Professor Ishaq Oloyede whom he said he has worked closely with to kindly look into the appeal for the approval of a CBTE Centre for the Polytechnic, described the Polytechnic as made up of people of high integrity. Dr Salisu assured that adequate attention has been made for students to be accommodated in the institution’s hostels, pointing out that his administration is committed to the security and welfare of students and staff and urged them to make use of the Hostels which he said is affordable and kitted with uninterrupted water and electricity supply. He added that the warning became imperative that students who are deficient in character and learning would not be awarded certificates. The Rector maintained that the Kogi State Polytechnic has zero tolerance for all forms of social vices such as gun running, examination malpractices, alcoholism, unhealthy social gatherings, cyber crimes, incitements to violence, gangsterism, misuse and destruction of school property, stealing and indecent dressing. POLL He assured that while effort is on to make the learning environment in the institution agreeable, said the institution expect nothing less in terms of responsible conduct and action from the matriculating students for their personal growth and development using the sound resources provided. Salisu, commended Governor Yahaya Bello for his commitment towards the realization of his aspirations for quality education under a conducive teaching and learning environment. The Rector observed that the institution has recorded several milestone achievements, said the Polytechnic has an Information and Technology Centre, a fully renovated hostel and a well-equipped library to provide learning comfort for the students. He disclosed that Gov. Bello has approved N300m for the fencing of the Itakpe Campus, and urged the students to see their matriculation into the Institution as the beginning of their journey to greatness.