ABUJA – The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) has called for sectoral reforms in critical and strategic sectors of the economy such as the manufacturing, services sector, trade, education, health, Information and Communication Technology to promote job creation. Mr. Laoye Jaiyeola, Chief Executive Officer of NESG, made the call in Abuja on Tuesday at the Research Project in In-country Dissemination Workshop with the theme: Sectoral Development: Assessing the Conditions that Drive Youth Employment in Key Sectors of the Nigerian Economy, which was organised by NESG in collaboration with the African Economic Research Consortium (AERC). Jaiyeola represented by Dr Olusegun Omisakin, Chief Economist and Head of Research,NESG, said for Nigeria to address nagging issue of youth unemployment, there was urgent need forcritical reforms that promote productivity, competitiveness and value creation in these sectors. Coronation Merchant Bank Holds Fourth Edition Of Interactive… NIES 2022: Partners Commend Huawei For Support To Nigerian Oil… He pointed out that these sectorspromote job creation, champion industrialisation, encourage value-added economy, strength intersectoral value chain, promote inclusive growth and development as well as become critical in readiness for the adoption of the digital economy. Quoting the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), he said, 63 percent of Nigerians aged between 15 to 34 years old,roughly half of the Nigerian labour force, are either unemployed or working below their education, skills, and capability level in 2020. He noted that this ugly phenomenon has resulted in various social vices plaguing the nation. According to him, “The youth unemployment situation is adjudged to have resulted in the high incidence of young people’s involvement in social vices such as militancy, kidnapping, political thuggery, armed robbery, prostitution and other forms of unproductive activities.” Jaiyeola however, pledged the irrevocable commitment of NESG in championing the advocacy on job creation and inclusive growth with a special focus on youth productivity. POLL “The NESG is a private sector- led think tank with the mandate to champion the reform of the Nigerian economy into a globally competitive, sustainable and inclusive economy. “Among other research and policy interventions, NESG has been involved in championing bottom-up advocacy on job creation and inclusive growth with a special focus on youth productivity,” he explained. On the essence of the workshop, the Chief Executive Officer of NESG, explained it was aimed at disseminating key research findings on drivers of youth employment in critical sectors of the Nigerian economy as well as providing a platform to deliberate, explore and share perspectives on relevant policy interventions and approaches towards improving the state of youth employment in Nigeria. Also speaking, Dr. Dianah Muchai, Programme Officer in African Economic Research Consortium (AERC), said over 54 million African youths are not employed. Muchai said one in three young people employed in Africa are often engaged in poor quality jobs, which often make them vulnerable. Bukka Hut Opens New Outlet In Lekki ExxonMobil-Seplat Transaction: Shares Deal And Asset Sale Not… She further pointed out that youth unemployment is a very significant problem in Africa. It would be recalled that the AERC has been conducting collaborative research on “Work and Income for Young Men and Women in Africa” with the support of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Knowledge Platform on Inclusive Development (INCLUDE). Nigeria is one of the nine countries in Africa selected for case study research on the youth employment.