Kingsle y Benneth ; Ahmed Musa ; Innocent Oweh Abuja – The National Assembly has resolved to appeal last week Friday’s judgment by a Federal High Court in Umuahia, nullifying the provision of section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022. The resolution at the Senate was reached during plenary on Wednesday, following the consideration of a motion entitled, ‘Urgent need to appeal the judgment of the Federal High Court, Umuahia, on suit no: FHC/UM/CS/26/2022 on section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022.’ The motion was sponsored by Senator George Thompson Sekibo and co-sponsored by 79 other senators. Sekibo, in his presentation, drew the attention of his colleagues to the judgment of the Federal High Court in Umuahia, Abia State, in a suit marked FHC/MU/SC/26/2022. The judgment faulted the provision of section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, and declared it unconstitutional, invalid, illegal, null void and of no effect. Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, states as follows: “No political appointee at any level shall be voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” The lawmaker observed that the Judge in his ruling said that section 81(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, was inconsistent with sections 66(1)(f), 107(1)(f), 137(1) (g) and 182(1)(c) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. POLL He noted further that section 4(1)(2) and (3) of the 1999 constitution as amended vested the power of lawmaking for the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the National Assembly. He argued that in furtherance to the powers vested in the National Assembly, the 1999 constitution under the roles of the executive in item D that deals with political parties in section 228(a)(b) and (c) confers more powers on the National Assembly, more particularly on political parties and effective management of the electoral process by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He noted that the Electoral Act, 2022, enacted by the National Assembly followed due process, adding that section 84(12) of the Act exclusively refers to nomination conventions and congresses called for candidate selection and not participation in the general election which sections 66(1)(f),137(1)(g) and 182(1)(g) referred to. According to him, the interpretation of the meaning of the words ‘civil service’ and ‘public service’ in section 318 was unambiguous, saying, “There’s a difference between the civil service or public service and political appointment.” He added that “the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria should show concern on the judgment especially when she was not given opportunity to represent herself in a matter such as this that emanates from her legitimate functions.” Sekibo warned further that “letting the judgment go without concern will become a precedence on which any person could go to court and obtain judgment to ridicule the good intentions of the National Assembly as an institution.” The Senate, accordingly, resolved to appeal the judgment, noting that same was reached without due consideration of the constitutional interpretation in section 318 of the 1999 constitution as amended. Reps To Appeal Judgment On Section 84(12) Similarly, the House of Representatives has resolved to file an appeal against the judgment of the Federal High Court in Umuahia. The House, which expressed dismay on the locus for the suit and why the National Assembly was not joined by the plaintiff, also vowed to petition the National Judicial Council (NJC), to investigate the judge who gave the ruling without establishing locus, as well as ask that the legislature that authored the law in question to be joined in the suit. This followed the adoption of a motion raised under matters of privilege brought by Hon. Sada Soli and supported by the Minority Leader of the House, Hon. Ndudi Godwin Elumelu. The lawmakers frowned at what they described as “ignoble attempt” by the court to usurp the constitutional roles of the parliament. Specifically, the lawmakers citing different legal authorities condemned in strong terms attempts to hurriedly delete the contentious section, even when the National Assembly was not joined in the matter. Contributing to the debate, Leader of the House, Hon. Ado Doguwa, and Chief Whip of the House, Muhammed Tahir Monguno, said the legislature is the only institution of government under democracy that has the right to make laws. The lawmakers wondered why an issue which originated from Abuja will have to be filed in Abia State. The House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, while ruling on the motion said he cannot allow anyone to rubbish the institution of the legislatures, even though he absolved President Muhammadu Buhari of any fault as someone relying on the legal advice from his aides on the matter. “President Muhammadu Buhari relies, like he should, on the legal advice that he was given. However, I cannot sit here as speaker and allow this institution that we represent to be ridiculed. “What the National Assembly did with regards to section 84(12) was deepen democracy. However the case was taken to court not minding that there was a mischief that the National Assembly wanted to cure. “And you realise that the National Assembly was not even joined in the matter. That’s very curious. And more curious is the fact that the judgment had to be given in faraway Umahia in Abia State. “The person who filed this suit, I don’t know him to be a political appointee affected by this law. And it’s trite in law to show injury even before you can have a locus,” Gbajabiamila argued. As the debate continued, the speaker called out the Attorney- General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, to tarry and not to usurp the role of the National Assembly, by foreclosing the right of appeal, just as he ruled that the House will vacate the judgment through appeal and also file a complaint against the said judge with the NJC. Gbajabiamila said by the power conferred on him, the appeals moved on the floor as regards the contentious issue are converted to motions. FG Undergoing Process To Delete Section From Electoral Act— Malami On the contrary, Malami has hinted that all necessary measures to delete the controversial section 84(12) of the Electoral Act 2022 is being worked on with the relevant agencies. State House correspondents on Wednesday asked Malami to give an update on the implementation of the ruling by a Federal High Court in Umuahia, to which he responded, saying, “The process is still on. “My clear response arising there from, is the fact that truly there exist a court judgment. By the judgment, the court directed the Office of the Attorney-General to take the necessary steps to delete the provision, which in essence implies that the provision should not form part of our laws. “Whether it has been deleted, or has not been deleted, is indeed a function of agencies of government and associated, relevant parastatals. But the true position of it in that respect, is the fact that government printers, and indeed Law Reform Commission, among others, that are responsible for the codification and gazetting of our laws, are working naturally, hand in hand with the Office of the Attorney General for the purpose of ensuring that what goes into our laws are indeed in line with the provision of the law. “So, what I am saying in essence, it is indeed a work in progress against the background of the fact that the Law Reform Commission is involved statutorily, which is a parastatal under the Office of the Attorney-General, is a party to the process of codification. “The government printers, which is saddled with there responsibility of gazetting our laws on the request of the Office of the Attorney-General is equally involved. And above all, as you rightly stated, the possibility of an appeal is equally there. So, what I am saying in effect is deletion of section 84, subsection 12 is a work in progress and is being considered as such.”