Following the request of Abba Kyari to be tried in the United States for his involvement with internet fraudster, Ramon Abbas aka Hushpuppi, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA)  has claimed that Abubakar Malami and some other political forces in the north are blocking his extradition. The Human Rights group who made this claim in a statement signed by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko disclosed that the AGF office allowed the extradition of Kyari to linger to nearly a year before it announced this week that the Nigerian government was willing to extradite him. Daily Independent had on Thursday reported that the US Federal Bureau of Investigation requested that Kyari be tried in the United States over alleged involvement with Hushpuppi. HURIWA To Malami: Your Office Undermining Abba Kyari’s… Kyari: Extradition Application, Right Step To Take, HURIWA Tells… Also, it was revealed that the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) had since February filed eight counts against Kyari before a Federal High Court and that Kyari would be arraigned on March 7. The DCP has been kept in NDLEA custody since February 14 when he was arrested for attempting to sell 25kg of cocaine. Reacting to the new development, HURIWA said, “The AGF and some northern political forces must be on a conspiratorial mission because as long as Kyari is facing charges in Nigeria, he cannot be extradited to the US based on the Extradition Treaty between Nigeria and the United States.” The group, however, added that it is either that the AGF is not even aware that NDLEA had filed charges or he knew but still authorised the filing of an extradition application even when aspects of the Extradition Treaty between Nigeria and the USA says no extradition will happen if the accused person is facing same or another charge or charges at the time of filing the extradition application. “Malami needs to explain why his office did not ask the NDLEA not to file charges so the extradition application goes first,” it said.