Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a Lagos State philanthropist, Dr Abdulazeez Adediran, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Ibrahim Abdullahi and the former spokesman of Atiku Abubakar presidential campaign office, Segun Showunmi, on Monday declared interest to join the governorship race in their respective states. While Adediran is running for the Lagos State governorship seat, Abdullahi is eyeing the Kebbi State seat and Sowunmi is going for Ogun State governorship seat. Addressing newsmen shortly after picking the expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the Kebbi governorship election, Abdullahi pledged to revive the Argungu fishing festival if elected as Governor in 2023. The PDP Deputy scribe said the annual event which used to attract global dignitaries has since gone moribund due to what he attributed to “poverty of ideas and bad leadership in Kebbi state.” “The fishing festival attracted 17 African countries and 34 globally recognized dignitaries in 2001 alone,” he said. He stressed that the glorious days of yore would return when he’s elected governor of the agrarian state in 2023. The aspirant who pledged to implement a robust governance blueprint centred on the three thematic areas of agriculture, youth empowerment and security, added that “I am not joining the race for the fun of it. I have satisfied my conscience. And I have justified my conviction that I am fit, capable and prepared to drive and steer the ship of Kebbi state as it pleases God Almighty. “My three fundamental areas of attention if God pleases himself to provide us this opportunity is first agriculture, then the youths and security. These are the critical areas that I have looked at and are suffering beyond human comprehension in my rural state of Kebbi. POLL “The youths constitute 35 per cent if not more, of the citizens of Kebbi state. And that is the productive class that we are looking at helping to bring them to steer the ship of the state through direct participation and involvement in an all inclusive government. The youths throughout the country, like you know, have been deprived the opportunity of taking the front burner on national discuss. “They have been sidelined, marginalized and reduced to soothsayers or opera singers. This is a disturbing scenario. And as someone who is just a little over the youth cycle, I can tell you that I will connect with them conveniently because I understand their language.” Also speaking after picking his forms to run for Lagos state governorship election, Adediran said that Lagos at this time needs the breath of fresh air. He said: “What Lagos needs right now is that breath of fresh air, and that is what I represent. A breath of fresh air in the sense that I haven’t been appointed before, I haven’t been elected before. “I’ve been on the sideline, watching and studying the situation and whatever you see us doing today, I want to tell you, it’s a result of a thorough research on how to play the game. “That is why we consider ourselves in a very vantaged position to winning the state of Lagos for PDP. And this is largely due to the amount of work that we have put into this.” Explaining that it is going to be tough to win Lagos, the aspirant added that they have the strategy to upturn event. “We know it’s not just going to be a tea party to win Lagos from those that have held onto power for the past two decades. This is why we devised our strategy of starting early, that strategy of long term planning. “What is obtainable everywhere is that people come out several months without decision to say they want to run for office. We know it’s going to take a whole lot from us delivering the gospel of the PDP because of what it is. We all know how important is Lagos to the country, to the economy of Nigeria. “We moved from APC to PDP on the 21st of January this year. I’m sure you have not witnessed such a movement. The very first time you’ll be having people moving from the ruling party to the opposing one, speaks a lot to what we stand for and what we represent. “If it’s about bread and butter, we will remain in it because we have that promise of a better tomorrow. We believe we’ve sacrificed everything that we’re probably enjoying in APC and joined the party, where we’ll be able to subject our aspiration to the wishes of negotiations, the people as against subjecting it to the mood of an individual where we’re coming from and I’ll tell you that you don’t need me to explain, you know how it is.” Also addressing newsmen in Abuja, after picking his forms, Sowunmi said, he has what it takes to govern the South-West state to the delight of all. He said: “My expectation is that we are going to use this contest to show younger people and to inspire them, that democracy is about bringing up ideas that can then be interrogated by firstly the collegiate who will become the delegates. “I have been going around with a bold idea, a brand new deal. Why? Because think about it, should we become a political party or a country that runs democracy, where people who are considered either extremely rich are the only ones who will have the courage to step forward? “If the people give me the opportunity, they will like precisely where I want to take them. But I always say, nothing is more difficult to achieve than a new order. Because even the people you want to create the order for, they are mostly very reluctant to participate in helping you create that new order. And the ones that are engaging and enjoying the status quo usually make themselves impediments on the journey. “It is a brand new day in Ogun state, and a brand new deal is on the way in 2023.” Ose Anineh, one of the son of late Chief Tony Anineh, who picked expression of intetest and nomination form under the platform of PDP to represent Esan North East, Esan South East Federal constituency at the National Assembly, said he will be focusing on water, security, which is the major challenge to his people. “My constituency has a problem with access to water, I know the Federal Government and State have done some work and we will be focusing on ensuring that work is sustainable and my constituency has access to free, clean healthy water. “We will also be focusing on general insecurity. Currently, you have trouble traveling between towns, so even though the towns are relatively safe, travelling between towns are very unsafe. If you can recall a couple of weeks ago, there was this deadly bank robbery that happened in Uromi, my town where robbers came and held the town for almost three hours, unmolested and I strongly believe that the way out of this current security troubles is state police, restructuring our security architecture and I will be pushing very hard to make sure that is done. “I actually came out to run in 2010 for the same seat so this is actually the second time I am expressing interest and intent to run. “Sergius Ogun is my friend and my brother. He was a brilliant House of Rep member who I think I’m one of the best in the current House of Rep cohorts, if I can even match him I will be more than happy to. He did a lot of work, he has almost forty bills in the house but there are still some work left undone. I think his focus was more on education and I will be tackling fundamental issues we are suffering in the constituency such as water, security, general insecurity and a more specific focus on education that is relevant to the 21st century,” he said. Asked if he riding on the back of his father, the aspirant said, “I am not trying to fit into anybody shoe, I think everybody has their shoe they need to fit and he never actually contested for elective office and his own politics is slightly different from mine.”