MAKURDI – About three persons are feared dead in an attack on Naka, the headquarters of Gwer-West Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue state, by Fulani herdsmen on Tuesday. Chairman, of the LGA, Grace Igbabon who disclosed this while speaking to newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday noted that personnel of Agro Rangers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) saved the day by repelling the attack. Among those that lost their lives were an octogenarian, a young man and a young lady, even as some persons were still missing. However, the spokesperson of the Benue State Command of the Nigeria Police, SPSequence Anene said she was not aware of the incident because she was yet to be briefed. On her part the Council Chairman, Grace Igbabon explained that the herdsmen who were dressed in military uniforms arrived in the town on Tuesday evening and started shooting sporadically into the crowd. According to her, “Some armed Fulani men came and attacked a suburb of Naka town; they came in the evening of Tuesday; they came in military camouflage and were on motorcycles and the whole thing is confusing. “There were heavy gunshots and people were running helter-skelter to save their lives. Three people were killed in the process including an elderly man and a young man. “I have reported the matter to the police and to the Security Adviser to the State Governor. I also sent pictures of the deceased persons to him. POLL “The attack on Naka which is close to the state capital goes a long way to show that Makurdi itself is not safe; because they (herdsmen) at a point in time, invaded Adaka which is a suburb of the state capital. “The Agro Rangers helped to repel the herdsmen. Even last week, they (the herdsmen) attacked another settlement where they burnt down some houses.” She further observed that “Last week, the Agro Rangers caught somebody who could not identify himself as he was only speaking the Hausa language. “He could not tell anybody what brought him to Naka, he was giving different excuses as why he was in Naka but was later arrested and handed over to security agencies.” Shading more light on the incident, the Ter Nagi, Chief Daniel Abomtse who is also the paramount ruler of Nagi said, “Yestersay, they (herders) came from Nasarawa axis knowing too well that there were men of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) in Agagbe. “They intruded Agagbe in their movement on the South West and another portion of Nagi settlement area and burst out at a surburb of Naka called Goh, then they maintained a bush path known as Anyim road and parked their motorcycles within 200 metres from the town and opened fire on the part of Naka known as Gbankeke where the LGA secretariat is located. “They blocked Adawa road which is linked to Mbabwaande district to Naka and stopped a young man conveying a lady on a motorcycle. They shot him through the umblical cord and the bullets pierced at the back and he died instantly. “The young girl, Martha Ukange and Tersoo Yasough were killed. Thereafter, they moved towards the road linking Naka to Agagbe where they stopped and slaughtered an octagenerian, Ahemba Apeale, and removed his tongue and other sensitive parts of the body. “After that, they fled the area back to Nasarawa State where the came from. So they killed three people, others are still missing and we are still searching”, he stated.