ABAKALIKI – A presidential Aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Pharmacist Sam Ohuabunwa, has called on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, come up with measures to address terrorism and other forms of insecurity in the land. Mr Ohuabunwa was reacting to the Monday Abuja-Kaduna train attack which he personally signed on Tuesday night, in which he condemned the attack and described it as barbaric. According to him, ugly occurrences of this nature, do not portray Nigeria well among the comity of nations. He commiserated with the families and friends of those, who died in the Monday Abuja-Kaduna train attack, and wished them a swift recovery. The Presidential hopeful said: “My heart failed when I heard that story because I was wondering what would be the status-both emotional and physical, of the people inside that train. “The train running between Abuja and Kaduna had become the only expectedly safe way to travel between these two cities. And now, this. “Of course, there have been attempts at some point previously; but this is a major one and it’s very disrupting. It’s very painful. “First, my sympathy and my condolences go to the families of those who have lost their loved ones in such a painful and wicked act. I mourn these great Nigerians, who just lost their precious lives to terrorism. These are people, who travelled and were almost home. POLL “It could have been anybody’s brother, sister, son or daughter. So, I’m very pained and wish such a dastardly act won’t repeat in our dear country. “I also pray for the quick recovery of those who were injured and are currently lying critically ill in the hospital, including the security personnel. “I don’t want to call this a wake-up call, because we have heard too many wake-up calls in this country. This is not a good story to be told about our country, Nigeria. Too many bad stories have been told about this country and they are unending, and this calls for urgent attention. “This sort of ugly incident keep happening in our Nigeria day in, day out; and week in, week out. Just a few days ago, there was an attempt to burn down an airport in this country. This doesn’t project us well before the comity of nations. “This is condemnable. This is barbaric. I, therefore, call on the current Government in power to rise up to the occasion to defend and protect the hapless Nigerian citizenry.