LAGOS – Bamidele Abiodun, First Lady of Ogun State and patron of JBS Elderly Health and Wellbeing Foundation (JBS EHWF Africa), will be leading professionals, women of substance and captains of industry at a walk for the underprivileged elderly people on Saturday, from Quest Petrol Station, Lekki at 7 a.m. The event tagged ‘Gran-D Walk’ for the elderly is put together by the founder, Dr. Olutoyin Ajala, to give special attention and support to this peculiar demography whose plight is yet to be met and attended to by the government and society at large. According to a press statement signed by Olubukola Latunji, former General Manager, Zenith Bank Plc, on behalf of the fundraising committee for the foundation, the major aim of the walk is to create an awareness for the ‘Adopt a Gran’ programme and be able to raise funds towards expanding the much needed work to roll out to more states across Nigeria with a target above 2,000 grandmas and grandpas. The statement added that the fund would be for preventative hygiene/medical supplies, clean water and distribution of one million meals in 2022. “Already, the foundation has distributed over 20,000 meals this year 2022 and seeks more support to reach more people because of the high numbers that still require the care, attention and support. “The elderly are a unique demographic in Sub-Saharan Africa. They require special attention and support. Sadly, they rarely get the support they need. “This is one of the key reasons for the dwindling health of the elderly population and the prevalence of preventable older years’ illnesses in Sub-Saharan Africa. We can work together to restore the dignity of aging and help prolong their lives with meaningful interventions,” the statements ended JBS Elderly Health and Wellbeing Foundation Africa is an outreach of JBS Medicare Services, the leading elderly healthcare service provider in Nigeria that provides all-inclusive specialist medical, specialist nursing, therapy and home healthcare service. POLL The Foundation bringing otherwise scarce relief to underprivileged elderly people in Africa. Since inception in 2020, the Foundation has adopted several Grans/Grandpas and distributed over 120,000 meals across Lagos, Ogun State and Abuja in Nigeria, West Africa.