LAGOS – Agramondis proudly celebrates two years of promoting sustainable agriculture across Africa and beyond. Despite being a young firm specialising in agribusiness, research and development, the company has established itself as a leading firm in the African agricultural space serving private clients, as well as non-profit organisations across North America, Europe, Asia and Africa. With roots in Nigeria, Europe and the United States, Agramondis is a global player with a localizedfocus on the vast agricultural opportunities in Nigeria, and Africa at large. The company is built on apremise to solve the world’s toughest agricultural challenges to fast-track the development ofhealthy food systems for the planet and its people. Since its establishment in 2020, Agramondis has successfully executed 14 projects across 21countries, including: Bangladesh, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, India,Indonesia, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, South Sudan, SriLanka, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe to promote sustainable agricultural practices and thedevelopment of the agricultural sector for farmers and agribusinesses. “We are ‘local yet global’, harness a large network of experts and partners and deliver customizedsolutions to maximize the value we bring to clients. I believe these three ingredients have contributedto Agramondis becoming a leading Agricultural Research and Consulting firm and will continue to bepivotal in solving the agricultural challenges of today.” – Johanna Joy Farrell, CEO. For Agramondis, celebrating the business milestone also means celebrating the achievement ofdelivering value-driven agricultural solutions in data collection, data analysis and research, technicalexpertise and business strategy. In addition, its credibility, reliability and professionalism haveattracted high-profile clients to the company. The agricultural consulting firm thrives on its wide network of specialist consultants, freelancers andpartners to meet the needs of its clientele, including: the International Financial Corporation (IFC) ofthe World Bank Group, the British Council, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), Alliance fora Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), The Europe-Africa-Caribbean-Pacific Liaison Committee(COLEACP), Cool Farm Alliance, Cultivating New Frontiers in Agriculture (CNFA), Natural EnvironmentResearch Council (NERC), Palladium, TechnoServe and UNIQUE. To push the envelope on intensive agricultural development, the company has engaged over 4000beneficiaries in primary research, and consulted on a variety of projects, especially across agri-finance, climate-smart agriculture, agricultural mechanisations, supply chain assessment, baselineand endline evaluation, food security, nutrition, marketing and communications, and ag tech. “We are incredibly grateful to our clients for their trust in our young company and for the greatcollaboration. Agramondis strives to be a socially and environmentally sustainable company and weare fortunate to work with partners that share our goals and values.” – Christof Walter, ConsultancyDirector.