Hon Francis Nwaze is the Special Assistant (SA) to Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, on Media and Publicity. In this interview with SAMSON NWAFOR, he speaks on the development strides of Umahi’s administration, why he is the right person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari and security issues in the state . Excerpts: Governor David Umahi has embarked on so many gigantic projects and we know that Ebonyi State is at the least of the Federal Allocation table. What is the secret? It is passion and commitment and love for his people without any form of segregation. Umahi believes in one united Nigeria. He believes in one united Ebonyi State. His love for humanity, his love for his people, his people for Ebonyians and his commitment to development are reasons why you see what you see today in Ebonyi State. Support Governor Sanwo-Olu’s Development Strides, Bayewu… Why Nigerians Need Saraki As Next President Needles to say that the performance of His Excellency has received accolades from several quarters. As a matter of fact, even before the Governor informed Mr President of his intention to run for the presidency, several persons, several organizations and several fora, including churches had come up to say, he is the right man for the job, “we want you to run for the plum job”. But despite the calls, he maintained he wouldn’t do that until he hears from God, because God is the author and finisher of our faith and even our lives lie on His palms. He told the people calling on him to run that he wouldn’t comment on that until he hears form God. As God may have it, he was on his way to Abuja and the message came, that it was time for him to inform the number one person in this country, Mr President, and he went and informed him. What his going to do is to replicate what he has done in Ebonyi across the country. You will also recall that indigenous people of different states across the country have been saying, “please, Eboyians, can you borrow us Umahi for some months, even if it’s one month.” Some others will say, “Ebonyians, can you borrow us Governor Umahi to come and build flyover for us at this place we normally have traffic gridlock”,  and some will say, ” can you borrow us Governor Umahi to come and transform my state, the way he has transformed Ebonyi. And Ebonyi people have come up to say, we are not just going to borrow you Governor Umahi alone, we are going to donate him to the entire country so that he will transform the entire country. How did he source money to do all those projects? Prudence is the key and the use of common sense; likewise knowing the job you are called to do. You will recall that His Excellency was a party chairman before he became a deputy Governor and transited to be Governor, which means, he has been close to the sit of power and by experience, he understood the workings of state government. POLL Again, there are a lot of sacrifices His Excellency, Governor Umahi, do which is rare in our clime. His Excellency goes on regular inspection, because he uses direct labour to do most of his jobs. So, he puts himself instead of hiring people, because this is what he knows, a profession he is a fellow and he understands the workings of engineering, especially in construction. Most people amazed by what he is doing, would say, “Umahi is not a sitting Governor but a working Governor.” Why? There is no day that passes by without the Governor visiting some ongoing project sites across the state. Instead of giving these jobs to companies and forget about it, he is directly involved and that way, a lot of money will be saved for the next project. So, that’s the magic. It’s that sacrifice, commitment and understanding that Ebonyi does not have too much money to throw around, that’s why he deployed prudence in managing the little available resources. Some states use up to N18bn and even more to construct a single flyover. But this direct labour that His Excellency uses in Ebonyi, he uses the best hands from this our Ebonyi State and do this job directly thereby cutting off a lot of channels through which a lot of money would have been wasted. If you talk about flyover, Governor Umahi uses less than 40% of the money they used in doing the flyover in other places. During his inauguration, he said he was going to put up not less than 6 flyovers in the capital but it’s more than that now. Across the state, we have 23 flyovers now and some are twin flyovers. And you know what it means to put up 23 flyovers? So, this is commitment and love for his people. Do you think Governor Umahi will be able to handle the Nigeria’s ethnic and religious diversities if he becomes the President? You see what he is doing in Ebonyi State. We have three senatorial zones and 13 council areas. This zones we are talking about can be likened to people speaking different languages, different States and different religion at the federal level. He will deploy same format he is using in the governance of Ebonyi State. How do I mean? If Governor Umahi is doing a project in Ebonyi North, he is doing either the same project or another important project in Ebonyi central and South. This, I’m sure you are aware of? Osun PDP Guber: Two Governorship Aspirants Withdrawn From… Group Lauds Senator Orji For Supporting Power Shift To Abia… So, once these things spread across the states and geopolitical zones, there will be total peace and oneness. Governor Umahi believes in one Nigeria and because of this, there shall be no any form of segregation under him as the President of the country. And that, he did in Ebonyi State, that he will replicate in the nation in general. Weathering the storm of governance of Nigeria requires that you carry every dick and harry along and that’s what Umahi’s presidency will do. A lot of APC heavyweights are eyeing the same ticket your boss is eyeing, how prepared is he to square up with them? This ticket is in the hands of God. God gives power to whoever He wishes. But believe you me, this is David and as David, he wrestles against himself and not against the political heavy weights. We know that a lot of money and contacts are involved in the presidential race, but what should be considered is the ability to deliver. So, if God has said Nigeria will smile, He is going to pick that man, David, to fulfill His plans for Nigeria. God has used him to put smiles on the faces of Ebonyi people and He will surely use him to put smiles on the faces of Nigerians. So, everything is in the hands of God, but God knows that there is David, because with David, Nigerians will smile. What do you have to say about the growing agitation and clamour for the disbandment of the Ebonyi State Command of Ebubeagu South East Security network over allegations that the State government is using the personnel to witch hunt members of opposition political parties? Ebubeagu is an establishment of the law. It’s not something anybody will just come up and say, disband. I want to tell you, most of the people saying that Ebubeagu should be disbanded, check that person very well and be sure that he is not a criminal because Ebubeagu is only out against criminality. So, you have to check that person to be sure he is not a criminal. Only a criminal can call for the disbanded of Ebubeagu. The call was politically motivated by people who were thinking that they can use criminality to subdue and takeover the State. Don’t forget it is the Igbo people that demanded for the creation of Ebubeagu, the same way the South West established Amotekun, to assist conventional security agencies in tackling insecurity in the Southeast region. That was why the Southeast Governors and leaders came together to form Ebubeagu. But people who think Ebubeagu no longer give them opportunity to perpetrate crimes are now calling for its disbandment. But let me say that so long as criminality still persist and not completely eradicated, Ebubeagu will continue to do their job. The security outfit is doing very well in the region. Of course, there may be one or two persons who are not following the rule of engagement but whenever such personnel is identified he will be made to face the full wrath of the law.