.He’s PDP’s Best Bet For The Ticket – IPAC   LAGOS – Thousands of stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) across the 20 local government areas of Ogun State, on Wednesday, converged in Abeokuta to appeal to Segun Showunmi to contest for the Governor of Ogun State in 2023. The party chieftains and members across all the wards were unanimous in their call for the Showunmi to contest, saying it was time to wrestle power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  According to them, Showunmi, who was the spokesperson for the Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organisation in the 2019 election, is their best bet if PDP will ever take back power from the APC.  About six parties, representing the Inter-party Advisory Council of Nigeria, were present at the rally. The chairmen of the party expressed their readiness to join hands with PDP to wrestle power from the ruling party, only if the party would field someone as strong and deep-rooted as Showunmi. Members of IPAC, led by the State Chairman, Samson Ogunsanya, National Publicity Secretary of Labour Party (LP), Abayomi Arabambi and the Chairman of Mega Party (MP), Moshood Adesina and other IPAC members all declared support for Sowunmi.   Ogunsanya described Sowunmi as a selfless politician with the capacity to deliver Ogun State from the misrule of APC. “As the umbrella body of the opposition parties in Ogun State, we are here to show our support for our brother, Segun Sowunmi. He is a politician with an enviable track record. We believe that he has the capacity to deliver Ogun State from backwardness to the ruling APC. “We believe that with Sowunmi in the helm of affairs, Ogun State will witness tremendous progress, therefore, we urge all of you here to support him,” Ogunsanya said. Arabambi advised the national leadership of PDP, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde and other stakeholders of the party to align with the Governorship ambition of Showunmi. He commended Sowunmi for rescuing the PDP from those who had hijacked the party structure and stifled the growth of the party in the State.  “The era of recycled political racketeers, who are strictly merchants without commitment and conscience for the Governed, must be collectively brought to a final stop through a positive change in the Ogun PDP. “Showunmi is set to become the vehicle to bring to an end the usual and unending politics of deceit and insincerity of the old status quo promulgated by the Iperu Political warlord and they all must now henceforth work together and defeat the fully dishonest political Merchants,” Arabambi said. Sowunmi in his response, declared his ambition to contest the 2023 governorship election in the State. He blamed the inability of the PDP to win the Governorship seat in the past elections to the infighting in the party and urged all members of the party to jettison their personal interests and work for the progress of the party.