ABUJA – Ahead of its March 26 National Convention, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been cautioned to be rigorous in verifying certificate claims by aspirants to elective positions to avoid future embarrassments. A group, South-South Emerging Leaders’ Forum (SELF) on Tuesday issued the caution following allegations of a fake West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificate tendered by one of the aspirants. Insisting that efforts to authenticate the academic document from Hon. Victor Giadom, who is contesting the National Vice Chairmanship (South-south) proved abortive, SELF asked the party’s National Convention Screening Committee to probe further and ensure that Giadom is made to defend the said certificate. In a statement to newsmen in Abuja, National Coordinator of the Forum, Barrister Preye Wilson, said: “it was like a joke when someone drawn our attention to the controversial West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificate on social media submitted by Hon. Giadom Victor Tombari, with certificate number NGSS 0373112, which he claimed to have sat for in 1992. The forum did not however take it as a social media talk but made frantic efforts to authenticate the said certificate number but to no avail. WAEC Scratch Cards were bought and when the said number was searched for on the WAEC Portal it only showed ‘result not available for this candidate in the specified year and Exams diet.” It also asked security agencies to take note of the development, adding that it was investigating the claimant’s First School Leaving Certificate Examination which though was purportedly earned in 1976, the examination leading to it was undertaken 14 years after in 1992. He attributed the alarm by the group to efforts “to avoid future embarrassment not only for the party but the entire South-south region.” SELF in the statement challenged individuals and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) “to also take up the challenge in the bid to dig out the truth behind the alleged certificate scandal of Hon Giadom.”