DAMATURU – The All Progressives Congress (APC) and Yobe State Governor and the acting Chairman of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), has debunked certain media reports about the Party members with just a few days to its much anticipated National Convention. In a press statement signed by Mamman Mohammed, the Director General Press and Media Affairs, said “The attention of His Excellency Yobe state Governor and Chairman APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Hon. Mai Mala Buni, has been drawn to some media reports specifically in The Observer Times and The Cable.ng, two online publications, in which the authors are trying to set party stakeholders against one another, to ignite an unsolicited crisis, just a few days to the party’s National Convention. “The two reports which seem to suggest a Victor and Vanquished positions from the recent happenings in the All Progressives Congress when His Excellency Governor Buni travelled out of the country for medical attention, are irresponsible and deliberately intended to instigate disaffection and acrimony among the critical stakeholders of the party. “Since the intervention of His Excellency President Muhammadu GCFR, via a Press Statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Malam Garba Shehu, calling on stakeholders to shun media war, backstabbing and name-calling, the Progressive Governors and all other stakeholders obliged to the presidential directive. “Therefore, it is irrational, absurd and irresponsible for anyone to at this moment initiate animosity and resentment among the stakeholders who are working assiduously for the success of the upcoming Convention”. “Similarly, upon his return and assumption of office as Chairman of the party, Governor Buni described the incident as a past event and there is no Victor, No Vanquished. “He commended his colleagues on the Caretaker Committee for the great job they have done under the acting chairmanship of Niger state Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello”. “The Governors and other Critical stakeholders are now heading various sub-committees of the Convention and have been meeting with the chairman to ensure a successful arrangement for a successful Convention. POLL “Therefore, it amounts to irresponsibility for anyone to write an injurious opinion in complete disregard to the directive from the President. “The party and all stakeholders would not condone such disrespect to the President to deliberately cause confusion and divert attention from the cause of having a fruitful Convention. “The authors for such baseless, flimsy, and unwarranted articles, should be cautious of the negative impact of such deliberate sabotage on the party and the good relationship between the Governors and their followers. The Chairman warned that the party would not tolerate such irresponsibility and advised the authors to either work for the unity of the party or just watch if they have nothing to contribute positively. “We remain a united family, with much respect to our President and one another, and loyal to our party. We are collectively committed to the success of the forthcoming National Convention, we will not be diverted from this noble cause of moving the APC forward.”