Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, widely meritoriously acclaimed as the country’s most reliable partner for infrastructural and building construction services, has again been described as “… still the best construction company in Nigeria”. This was the submission of the former minister for the country’s Federal Capital Territory where Julius Berger’s technical signature of excellence and brand integrity eloquently, empirically tells the historical story of the company’s matchless strength, performance and reliability as the prime contractor of choice. According to Governor Bala Mohammed, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc remains matchlessly in the lead in the engineering construction sector “…in terms of contractual fidelity, engineering competence and technical quality”. Malnutrition: Dangote Honours Late Brother By Commissioning… 5G Connections To Surpass 1 Billion In 2022 – GSMA Bala praised and congratulated the Rivers State Government for its wisdom and prudence in subscribing to the proven and lasting Julius Berger quality in its execution of infrastructural works in the State. The former FCT Minister, who is the current executive Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed, CON, made the remarks when, as special guest of honour of the Rivers State Government, he flagged off the construction works for a tenth flyover, the Rumuokwurusi-Elimgbu Flyover in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area in Rivers State. Earlier at the Rivers State Executive Council Chambers where the contract for the Rumuokwurusi-Elimgbu Flyover and adjoining links was signed between the Rivers State Government and Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, the Julius Berger Managing Director, Engr. Dr. Lars Richter thanked the Rivers State Government for entrusting the construction works for several key infrastructures to the company. Richter gratefully listed the Rebisi Flyover which was commission on November 7, 2020; the Rumuokoro Flyover commissioned on March1, 2021; the Artillery Flyover commissioned March 2, 2021; Rumuola Flyover commissioned December 9, 2021; and the New GRA Junction Flyover which was commissioned on December 11, 2021. Engr. Dr Richter recalled that the first three flyovers were constructed in a record time of 16 months, adding that all the earlier 5 flyovers were completed within schedule as contracted to the satisfaction of the client. POLL Richter further confidently promised and assured the Rivers State Government that flyovers nos 6, 7, 8, and 9, all of which are projects steadily currently in progress shall be delivered also as contractually scheduled. The 10th flyover for which its commencement contract was signed on Monday, February28, 2022 in Port Harcourt, is contracted for delivery in 10 months.