***Assures On Reconciliation, Open Door Administration***Says APC Has Surpassed Previous Administrations ABUJA – Senator Abdullahi Adamu, All Progressives Congress (APC) newly elected National Chairman has urged the party faithful to renew their faith in the APC and leadership at all levels to enjoy the much expected new dawn in the party Such commitment to the party Adamu declared in his Acceptance Speech, will help in the resolution of any misunderstandings within the confines of the party’s statutes rather than in the streets, urging that APC henceforth must do things differently. Addressing the massive crowd that graced Eagles Square venue of the party’s National convention, the former Nasarawa State governor urged all, including fellow aspirants, that “all hands must be on the steering wheel so that together we can steer the ship of state through the inclement weather of our divisive national politics to the promised land”. He promised to activate processes leading to the healing of wounds and reconciliation of all aggrieved persons and so unify the APC into a formidable force ahead of the 2023 general elections. “We need to renew our faith in our party and its leadership at all levels in order to herald a new dawn. We need to commit to the resolution of our crisis within the confines of our party constitution. “We must resist the temptation to blow every minor personal disagreement into a major party crisis. It is time for us to do things differently. When we quarrel, we open our flanks to our rival political parties that are only too eager to exploit them for their own benefit. “I promise you here and now that we shall heal any wounds in our party; we shall effect lasting reconciliation among our members, and we shall go into the next general elections as a strong and united party.” I offer my hands of friendship to all our members. I want to assure you that my colleagues and myself will run an open door policy to all members of the party”. POLL The Turakin Keffi lauded the APC administration for surpassing all previous administration in addressing massive Infrastructural deficit, assuring with the love and support of all Nigerians, the party will do more in the years ahead. “No Administration in the history of Nigeria has performed as much as we did in building key infrastructure and in uplifting the living conditions of the Nigerian people. Projects that once existed only in the dreams of Nigerians such as the Second Niger Bridge, complete rehabilitation of the Lagos-Ibadan dual carriageway, the Lagos-Ibadan express rail, the Abuja-Kaduna express light rail, the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano pipeline and many others, have either been started and completed during our Administration or have been inherited in abandoned conditions and have made rapid progress in the last seven years. “No government can satisfy everybody, however hard it works. Some work will always be left undone and every work done will continue to need maintenance, expansion and improvement. We are however satisfied that APC has fulfilled its covenant with the Nigerian people. “Of the three main pillars of its promises to the Nigerian people in 2015, that is, security, economy and anti-corruption, much progress has been recorded in all three areas and many more. “APC is set to do much, much more when Nigerians continue to bestow on us their love, support and confidence in next year’s general elections.” The party he warned cannot afford to mistep if it will continue to enjoy the trust pointing out the way forward is to enhance the party’s Internal Democracy. He also appealed to members of the media on the.need to emulate the patriotic fervor of forerunners like Nnamdi Azikiwe,Obafemi AwolowoMalam Abubakar Imam, Alhaji Alade Odunewu and other media pioneers, noting that “those great pioneers of Nigerian journalism always put the interests of Nigeria and its people above all other considerations and they always worked for the peace, progress and prosperity of Nigeria”.