Oghara: The Rector of the Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe – Oghara, Engr. Prof Emmanuel Apoyi  Ogujor, has stated that the objective of the institution is to produce graduates who can be self employed and job creators for their own benefits and that of the larger society. The  rector also said, that the Polytechnic has zero tolerance for any form of vices and other anti – social behaviours, remarking that,  any student caught wanting in this regard, would be shown the exit door from the Polytechnic. To this end, he said, the institution has expanded the operational scope of the “Directorate of Entrepreneurship Centre and development” to include skills acquisition training such as fashion design, barbing, make-up artists, computer programming, laundry, braiding of hair, tilling, soap making, paint making, etc, that will market the talent of the students after graduation. He  admonished the students to be focus on their studies by participating in classes’ assignment, attend lectures regularly, involved in practical workshops and conduct themselves in a manner befitting students of tertiary institution. The Rector who was speaking on the occasion of the institution’s 20th matriculation ceremony held this week at the Chief James Onanefe Ibori Auditorium, Otefe – Oghara, further maintained that when he resumed as the Rector of the polytechnic, he unveiled his  “Human and Infrastructural Development” vision for the polytechnic which among others is to transform the polytechnic to be the best where students are trained at the highest level in line with global best practices for sustainable economic growth and industrialization of the state and country. He listed the achievement recorded as a result of this vision as : high standard of teaching and learning, which has led to the school high rating by NBTE as the best polytechnic in Delta State, and 7th best among state owned polytechnic in Nigeria. The Rector  also listed the rating by a leading Spain-based organization, WEBOMETRIC, that the institution is the  number one polytechnic in Delta State and 27th among top 50 polytechnics in Nigeria, excellent performance of the products of the polytechnic in internal and external competitions, the NUJ award of excellence and the construction and completion of some state of the art structures and facility as some of the modest achievements of his vision-driven policy when he resumed office. He thanked the governor of Delta State, His Excellency Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi  Arthur Okowa, former governor Chief James Onanefe Ibori, the Otefe Community and other stakeholders for their tireless support to the institution.