No fewer than 60 persons may have been down with measles at some of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps in Benue State, which are mostly children that are above the age of 5 years old. Daily Independent gathered that while over 30 of the affected persons are from the Ortese IDP camp in the Guma Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, the rest cut across the other IDPs camps in the state. Efforts to get the State Commissioner for Health and Human Service, Joseph Ngbea did not yield any fruitful results as of the time of filing this report. All efforts made by our correspondent to reach him throughout Saturday yielded no result but on Sunday he said he was attending a Church function, with a promise to call back. Although we learned that the Ministry may have set up some Emergency Operation Centers (EOCs) at the affected camps, the Commissioner did not reach us up to the moment of compiling this report. However, the Executive Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Emmanuel Shior who spoke with us said, “Government, through the Ministry of Health is on top of the situation” He further explained that “Usually during hot seasons like this, we experience issues of measles, so the Ministry is collaborating with SEMA, Doctors Without Borders (MSF), UNICEF and the ICRC (International Committee for the Red Cross), who are supporting us in the area of WASH. “So, we are addressing the concern”, he stated. POLL On the other hand, Mitch Rhyner, Benue Project Coordinator, Medicines Sans Frontieres (MSF) who also confirmed the incident, said he does not readily have the figures of the affected persons at hand. He said, “I don’t have the most recent figures. I can’t say the number of positive cases, as far as we know, the numbers have been relatively stable over the past week, but it’s so important that preventive measures are taken. “I can say that the Emergency Operation Center (EOC) has been activated by the Ministry of health and they are now proposing to do a vaccination campaign from March to April “Both Daudu 3 and Ortese have had mass vaccination campaigns in the past year and that is being led by the ministry of health; MSF has provided support, mostly, logistical supports in those vaccination campaigns, but it seems as though some of those vaccines were intended for children younger than five and those being infected by measles are older than five. “So that’s one of the reasons for shifting forward the date of vaccinations because that’s one of the most effective ways to prevent further spread. “We’ve referred several suspected measle cases to BSUTH and from these samples have been collected and sent to Abuja for testing. “The last time I checked and can give you recent data, of the sample of approximately 60 patients, at least 80 per cent were positive and that’s from the last couple of months because it took a while for the results to come back. “But we are taking it seriously, especially in IDP camps where people are very close together”, he stressed.