The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has appealed to the Federal Government to enforce compulsory insurance saying that enforcement was still at its low ebb, and that the government’s intervention was urgently needed. Mr. Rotimi Edu, the body’s president who spoke at this month’s NCRIB Members’ Evening hosted by African Alliance Insurance Plc in Lagos said some of the fake sellers of motor insurance had their offices in some local government secretariats. Aside from loss of revenue, he said the criminals had created a bad image for the industry, he noted that most of the unattended claims in motor insurance were victims of fake certificates. Guinea Insurance Launches ePortal For Motor Insurance Purchase Leadway Assurance Leverages Data For Improved Customer Service He said: “It was recently reported that the Nigerian insurance industry loses over N160 billion yearly to fake motor insurance racketeer. It is, however, disheartening to note that an industry which had been contributing less than one per cent to the gross domestic product, in spite of its huge potentials, loses such whopping amount of money to fake vendors who contribute nothing to the growth of the nation. “Some of the insurance policies flying around local government are just putting money into people’s pocket. I am certainly aware that the Nigerian Insurers Association deployed technology in curbing proliferation of fake certificates. But I am of the opinion that enforcement is still at its low ebb. “We appeal to the government to wade into the situation and curb the perpetrators. Also, my plea goes to Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) to see this as a clarion call. Your organisation can as well increase your enforcement strategies to include Insurance Certificate in such a way that any motorist without genuine Motor Insurance Certificate should be made to face sanctions as stipulated in the law. Our economy continues to drag because we are not paying attention to the issue of insurance.” Also, Joyce Ojemudia, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, African Alliance Insurance Plc, said brokers crucial are to driving insurance penetration. She emphasised that NCRIB is a partner worthy of doing business with. “Ours is a mutually rewarding relationship and as a business, our goal is to improve on this with all our stakeholders whilst delivering best-in-class insurance services to all our policyholders,” she added. POLL Meanwhile, the Council has lent its voice to condemn the incessant building collapse in Nigeria saying that the situation has become a huge embarrassment to insurance industry and the nation as a whole. The NCRIB President who made his views known in a lecture, titled, “Insurance for Architect and Professionals”, during the February Business Meeting of the Nigerian Institute of Architects held in Lagos, urged all professionals in built industry to pay more attention to all specifications of building construction to avoid incessant building collapse that had claimed several lives. As a way out, Mr. Edu who was the guest speaker at the well-attended Business Meeting of the Institute, said that the issue of enforcement of relevant laws that would ensure that contractors were not negligent in discharging their responsibilities, including all required insurance policies, should not be held with kid-gloves. According to him, there were many buildings across the country that were not proper and fit for human habitation, he appealed to all relevant agencies which include both the Federal and State Fire Services to act in accordance with the law and clamp down on such buildings. Mr. Edu however, urged members of the Nigerian Institute of Architects to embrace insurance policies that are relevant to their profession. PTAD Renews Narratives For Pension Administration Insurance Rated Fastest Growing Activities Sector In 2021 He noted that members of Nigerian Institute of Architects were mandated by law to have Professional indemnity among many other types of policies that are available. Also speaking at the event, the Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Architects, Arc David Majekodunmi blamed the incessant building collapse on relevant government agencies that were not seen doing what they ought to do. Mr. Majekodunmi lamented that government has not been seen implementing several recommendations of panel of enquiries raised to address the menace of building collapse. He also noted that most of the building collapses were basically negligence by professionals, clients and workers, who would have been brought to book and serve as deterrent to others if government implanted the recommendation submitted by the panel. 