Manchester United have already discussed finances and a potential announcement with both Erik ten Hag and Ajax, reports have claimed. Old Trafford chiefs are now beginning to finalise their final decision over their next manager after completing the interview process. It’s understood United have spoken to three managers – including Ten Hag and Mauricio Pochettino. The Ajax and Paris Saint-Germain coaches are now thought to be in a straight shootout for the job with Ralf Rangnick set to move upstairs into a consultancy role this summer. While United are adamant there is no frontrunner, Ten Hag is believed to be in pole position to replace Rangnick. Sky Sports are reporting that sources close to Ten Hag and Ajax suggest talks have already taken place over finances and a potential announcement. Ten Hag wants to keep his relationship with the Dutch giants intact as he looks to finish the season strongly. His Ajax side are currently locked in a nail-biting Eredivisie title race with PSV Eindhoven, who they also face in the KNVB Cup final next month. Ajax are understood to have given United the original green light to speak with their manager about the position. POLL Gerry Hamstra, Ajax’s new director following the departure of Marc Overmars, appears to have already conceded Ten Hag will be off. “It would be fantastic if Ten Hag is still our coach next season,” he told Voetbal International. “He still has a contract but we all know how the world works. For now, he is focused on this season, these important months. Time will tell what will happen after.” United are not the only club interested in the 52-year-old tactician though. Two other unnamed teams – one from England and one from Germany – are also in the hunt for his services ahead of next season. That’s why United will have to move quickly if they are set on appointing Ten Hag as their new manager. The Red Devils are expected to make an announcement confirming their decision in the coming weeks. Julen Lopetegui – another potential contender – has already reaffirmed his commitment to Sevilla for next season. Luis Enrique has also confirmed he will be in charge of Spain for the Qatar World Cup in December.