AWKA – The Anambra state governorship election of November 6, 2021 which former Central Bank Governor, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo won  has given him ample time to articulate his programme of action. In addition, the 80 wise men and women, otherwise known as Transition Committee headed by former Minister of Education, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili constituted to advise the incoming administration on the way to go has outlined the way forward. So, what is expected of Soludo is to hit the ground running and work the talk. Already, he has spoken ‘too much’ that these days he is either misquoted or have words put in his mouth. Before he emerged the candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) over 24 support groups had mounted pressure on him to run for the office of governor of Anambra State. Also, Anambra State Governor Chief Willie Obiano also insisted that he threw his weight behind Soludo because of his pedigree. Why Ogonis Should Produce  e Next Rivers State Governor – Kabari PDP Victory: Party Leaders In Ngor Okpala Commend Ikenga For His… In his maiden press conference before he made up his mind to run, Soludo promised to replicate his performance at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) where he turned things around within a short time. He had promised to create a safe home state where nobody will leave to look for employment elsewhere; a prosperous and livable home land. He had promised that “when the time comes no youth born in  Anambra State will seek opportunity elsewhere”. In fact, his media team credited him to have promised to create 520,000 jobs and 4000 young millionaires. This is in tandem with his promise to energise the youths and create millionaires yearly, and as well as massively empower youths and women. So, expectation is very high on Soludo. What the restless youths of Anambra State look forward to getting from Soludo is the jobs and empowerment he promised. But to achieve this, Soludo will have to create a conductive and secure environment. He will have to tackle the challenge of Mondays Sit-At-Home which is fast crippling the economy of not only Anambra but the entire South East, making the region lose billions of Naira weekly. He will have to tackle the challenge of unknown gunmen who virtually have field day, killing and maiming at will. These, perhaps are some of the problems he needs to tackle as he assumes office. His first challenge actually is to put Anambra economy back to the hands of the people. A lot of people, among them Convener and Coordinator of Recover Nigeria Project, Comrade Osita Obi want Soludo to fight without fear what he described as revenue scavengers who siphoned resources of the State. Soludo is also expected to fight nepotism entrenched in the system in the last eight years; mindless sharing of official positions to friends and relatives some of who did not even live in the state and paid with public fund. POLL In the same manner, Soludo is expected to fight corruption associated with revenue windows in the state. He has already made it clear that the revenue windows shared by the outgoing administration will be withdrawn the day he assumes office. With these measures, Soludo is expected to run a lean government. Evidence that he will actually trim the paraphernalia of office and ensure that only those who work hard are rewarded can be seen from his recent lecture in Abuja where he frowned at a situation where highly placed individuals live on government in the name of politics. He said at the occasion: “Politics has become big business. Appointment or election into public office is seen largely as an opportunity to “eat” rather than a call to selfless service. There is an army of rich (big men) who have never worked or done any productive work in their life and believe that it is their right to expect something for nothing. The tiny less than one percent elite have a stranglehold on the public purse, sprinkling occasional crumbs to the citizens as ‘dividends of democracy’. The citizens themselves either out of helplessness or acquiescence join the party, expecting the politicians to dole out pittance out of public treasury as charity. The citizens actually clap for such phantom “charity”. Politicians who refuse to do so are deemed as “stingy” or “wicked”, and the circus goes on. With a rentier system, a culture of freebies emerged, and most people don’t expect to pay for anything, including taxes, electricity, water, petrol, etc”. A lot of confidence is reposed in Soludo and nobody expects excuses because He has been around long enough to understand where the shoe pinches. He once said that “As the chairman of Anambra State Vision 2070, I have thought through our challenges and disruptive changes needed to secure the future”.He did not mince words in some of his speeches that his “tenure at Central Bank between 2003 and 2009 witnessed Nigeria’s golden Era of economic prosperity” adding: “if I helped Nigeria and other countries in the world to solve their economic problems, Anambra’s case can’t be different”. As at last year before the election, Soludo also said that poverty level in Anambra State has continued to shrink and that as at then the state’s poverty level was the lowest. Quoting national bureau of statistics, Soludo said that in 2010 the state’s poverty level was 50 per cent but that at last year when he made the statement it had shrunk to 14.78 percent the lowest as next to it was 30 percent. So, Anambra people will look forward to having a burbling economy. Adebakin Excited Over PDP’s Good Showing In Plateau, Cross… APC Group Warns Progressive Governors Against Subverting 2022… On infrastructure, Anambra citizens are anxious that passable roads have reduced in number. Several petitions to the outgoing government to restore good roads which the state used to pride itself for before now fell on deaf ears. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and leader of Awka North Local council area Chief Shedrak Anakwue said he expected Soludo “to turn things around and remember Awka North which was forgotten for the past eight years. If he can complete roads in Awka North especially the Amansea- Awba-Ofemili Road which Governor Peter Obi started, we will hail him. If he also moves to Okpoko in Ogbaru local council as he promised, that will be wonderful”, Anakwue who is better known as ‘Oronukwu’ said. Fortunately, Soludo will likely have tremendous support from the people, including the opposition.  For instance, a public analyst and aspirant to the post of Publicity Secretary of the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Christian Chima said his party will keep Soludo on his toes, positively. “He can’t be allowed  to fail”, Chima said in a statement he issued to the media. He added: “As a man given to brilliance and eloquence, Soludo has, especially through his utterances since his declaration as Anambra’s governor-elect, raised a lot of hope. “By striking the right chords, he is beginning to convince even ardent sceptics to give democracy one more shot. Some are doing this with bated breath hoping that Soludo will perhaps be that light at the end of southeast’s political tunnel. “One could then imagine how tragic it will become if Soludo disappoints. That possible endpoint is frightening. If it happens, the southeast will, no doubt, slide into further rudderlessness and possible anarchy. This is why Soludo, insofar as he remains the governor of Anambra state, cannot be allowed to fail”, he said. But Anambra people may be disappointed with the way Soludo will carry out his reforms. Dr. Nelson Omenugha, member of Transition Committee and leader of Youths Ernestly Seek Soludo (YESS), one of Soludo support groups said Anambra people should be prepared for “disruption from the already established ways. They should expect reforms in terms of how our forefathers used to do things. There will be dramatic and drastic transformation in terms of how people used to see the art of governance. There will be different approaches showing accountability”. Omenugha said Soludo is passionate,  resilient and very focused and has every document at his disposal,  and he is supposed to run on Anambra State 50-year Development Programme. Besides, Transition documents will bring out the short, medium and long term development agenda of the state. Beyond Anambra State, Omenugha recalled Soludo’s South East regional integration. The Governor-elect had promised to ensure that the South East develops an integrated regional economy. The people will expect to toe Soludo’s new ideas of looking inwards. For example,  he promised to patronise local industries. He now patronises local fabrics known as Akwete which he said is the oldest surviving textile industry in the South East located in Abia State. He has also said that his official vehicle will be produced by INNOSON Motor manufacturing company.