LAGOS – ENGIE Energy Access, a provider of solar homes systems and mini-grid solutions in Nigeria has connected 50,000 households to solar power and in turn impacting 250,000 lives across the country since coming onboard. The company also said that it has extended its partnership with the Rural Electrification Agency of Nigeria (REA) via an addendum to the existing output-based fund (OBF) agreement, which provides grant subsidies to make electricity products more affordable for those who need it the most. A statement by the media consultant to the company said that the grant is provided under REA’s Nigeria Electrification Project (NEP), a Federal Government initiative driven by private sector. The programme also seeks to provide electricity access to households, micro, small and medium enterprises in off-grid communities, tertiary institutions and healthcare facilities across the country through renewable energy sources. Mr. Bankole Cardoso, the Managing Director, ENGIE Energy Access Nigeria, described the success as a milestone and an incredible accomplishment for his team. He Cardoso said the milestone was attained not just through hard work, but because of its commitment to bringing clean, affordable energy to those without electricity access across Nigeria. He added: “I am especially proud that despite the harsh economic conditions in the country today, we are still able to impact over 250,000 lives by providing an on-grid experience with lights, televisions, radios, fans and even the opportunity for our business customers to earn additional income. “We are also grateful to the REA for the opportunity to extend our partnership, which will contribute to impacting many more lives as we work to bridge the energy gap in Nigeria.” POLL Cardoso was optimistic about the company’s future accomplishments, stressing that its mission was to deliver life-changing services to its customers. He insisted that the current milestone was just the beginning, promising that the company was determined to work harder to impact many more lives across Nigeria. Also, Anita Otubu, the Head of the Project Management Unit of the Nigeria Electrification Project, expressed delight for the extension of the partnership with the company. He said this would enable them to continue to support the government towards providing unserved Nigerians with electricity access. “Since the inception of this project, ENGIE Energy Access has been the biggest beneficiary of the grant under the OBF subcomponent of the Solar Home Systems Component, which shows the level of impact the company is making on the lives of Nigerians by bridging the electrification gap. We are always happy to support them towards Nigeria’s collective universal electrification objective”, she added. ENGIE Energy Access is a division of ENGIE, a global reference in low-carbon energy and services. Sub-Saharan Africa has the world’s lowest energy access rate – with over half of its people unconnected.