Former Director, National Orientation Agency in Ekiti State, Honourable Tale Oguntoyinbo, has said that it was shameful and callous for President Muhammadu Buhari and leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to hold the party’s National Convention with pomp without recourse to the ongoing industrial action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Oguntoyinbo, one-time chairman of Oye Local Government, said it was the height of insensitivity for Politicians to be running up and down for elections when all the state and Federal Universities are closed down indefinitely! He said that the present leadership in the country from top to bottom be removed by all means for this country to have a future. “The institution where the future leaders of the country are being trained! Hon. Bamitale Oguntoyinbo a community leader in Oye Ekiti said it’s sad, pathetic, shameful. “It is rather unfortunate for our current leadership particularly the All Progressive Congress as the ruling party and government in power converging in Abuja for National convention, dining and winning, exchanging money, and behaving as if Nigeria has no problem. “It is sad that the National Assembly members, the Senate and members of House of Representatives, ministers of the country, governors and state Assembly members, and none of the above bodies can think deeply on how to resolve the problem of ASUU to see that students return to schools. Oguntoyinbo, who said that parents and guidance, and the students in general who participate in voting should begin to think of the type of leadership to vote for during an election. To worsen the situation for the poor masses the economy of the country has collapsed beyond repairable. POLL The Council Boss explain further that many of the leaders have their sons and daughters schooling outside the country without considering the children of the poor people and without considering the future of the country at large. He went further that unless the country is re-structured, the type of leadership in the country will never allow the country to move forward. Oguntoyinbo, however, called on all meaning Nigerians to intervene in the current ASUU strick to see that students return to school.