... Pledges To Transform Enugu Into Model State ENUGU – The Former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu has declared his intention to run for the gubernatorial race in 2023. Our correspondent reports that the declaration on his gubernatorial race has put to rest the speculation and controversy surrounding zoning arrangements in Enugu state Ekweremadu Joins Enugu Guber Race, Pledges To Build New Enugu Enugu Guber: Group Kicks Against Zoning He denied being a product of zoning arrangement in Enugu state saying “what we need in Enugu is not zoning but the capability to deliver good governance to the people of Enugu state. Ekweremadu who is currently representing Enugu West Senatorial District at the National Assembly stated this at a media chat at the Best Western Hotel, in Enugu on Friday. It was reported that some top political leaders have insisted that the zoning of the gubernatorial candidate to Enugu East senatorial zone in 2023 for justice and fairness. Ekweremadu who promised to provide good governance to Enugu people, if elected Governor said “What we need in Enugu is not zoning but good governance and capability to deliver the dividend of democracy to the people Ekweremadu who describes zoning as a selfish interest of some politicians said “there was never a time the leaders deliberated on zoning in Enugu state even Governor Chimaroke Nnamani was not a product of zoning. POLL “If there is zoning, I will not be in Senate for 5 years, so for me to represent my people in the senate for 5 years means that there is no zoning in Enugu state. “Those people talking about zoning have a candidate in mind as they believe this is a means to achieve their plans,” he said Ekweremadu who named his campaign coordinator for the 2023 guber race in Enugu as Ogboo Asogwa assured him not to interfere with Local Government funds if elected as Governor in 2023. He assured to reconstruct all roads leading in and out of the state into a well multiple carriage road and super high ways He said “We understand the challenge posed by resource scarcity but we have the social capital to attract local and foreign funding as well as the integrity to keep our worlds Ekweremadu Express Optimism On Electronic Transmission Of… Insecurity: Ekweremadu Calls For Decentralization Of Police “If elected Governor, I will utilize all the experience, friendship, partnership and global contact squired over the years to transform Enugu State to a model state. “As a senator, I worked hard to put forward necessary bills and motions on constitutional amendments, security education, economy etc and I’m ready to do more by restoring the people’s faith in the government through open door government “We will fight corruption with a creative and effective mindset. We will enthrone Justice, equity and liberty to all citizens and government services will be available 24/7 through a well-designed government and our revenue collection will be fair, reliable and devoid of leaks and waste,” he pledged.