This business kingpin has done it successfully with sugar refining, flour milling, salt processing, cement manufacturing, etc., and now it is fertilizer. And he is almost home and dry with oil and gas. You need a long breath to keep pace with this distinguished African business colossus. Why? Reason is that this is one entrepreneur who keeps up scaling his pedigree. This richest man in Africa thinks big speedily; an unstoppable risk-taker. And he knows his business inside-out. One is writing from the point of view of a writer who, over the years, has gone on facility tours of his plants with him. Aliko Dangote, President of fast-growing African conglomerate, Dangote Group or Dangote Industries, started business as a trader at 21 with a loan of N500,000 from his uncle Sanusi Abdulkadir Dantata. He commenced with trading in agricultural commodities and went on to build his Dangote Group into a conglomerate with interests in sugar, flour milling, salt processing, cement manufacturing, textiles, real estate, haulage, oil and gas, steel, etc. Dangote Cement He has made a mark with Dangote Cement Plc by making it Sub-Saharan Africa’s leading cement company, with a production capacity of 48.6 million tonnes per year across ten countries! Nigeria’s cement production is trailing behind cements producing giant such as China which produces the most cement globally by a large margin, at an estimated 2.2 billion metric tons in 2020. China’s cement production share equates to over half of the world’s cement. And India was the world’s second-largest cement producer with production amounting to a distant 340 million metric tons in 2020, according to Statista records. Dangote Sugar Aliko Dangote, in its characteristic style, swung in with Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc which commenced in March 2000 as the sugar division of Dangote Industries Limited. The sugar refining factory at Apapa port was commissioned in 2001 with an initial installed capacity to process 600,000 MT of raw sugar per annum. In December 2007, DSR Plc successfully exported its first consignment of 1,500MT of sugar to Ghana. POLL Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc is listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Plant Expansion Last year, Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc, planned to spend $1 billion on expansion after Nigeria’s central bank made his firm one of the three sole importers of the sweetener into Africa’s largest economy. The company has put more than 100,000 hectares of land under cultivation to grow sugarcane for local sourcing of inputs, Chief Executive Officer Ravindra Singhvi said at an investor conference which held in Lagos. The plantations in Nigeria’s northern states of Adamawa and Nasarawa will be ready by 2023 while work to almost double the capacity of a sugar factory in Adamawa to 6,000 tons cane-crushing-per-day is ongoing, Singhvi said. The firm plans to raise capacity to 1.5 million to 2 million tons of refined sugar annually by 2024, from 403,846 tons as of June. The sugarcane plantations will enable Dangote Sugar to source inputs locally, boost production and increase sales as it aims to end importation of the sweetener to conserve foreign exchange. The Nigerian government requires Dangote Sugar to produce 550,000 tons of refined sugar per annum from locally grown sugarcane by 2024, Singhvi said. For him, “Dangote remains confident of the huge benefits backward integration would deliver.” Dangote Fertilizer Few days back, Aliko Dangote stormed the local and global business space with the opening of Africa’s largest fertilizer plant this week. The $2.5 billion urea and ammonia fertilizer plant was commissioned by Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari in Lagos, where Dangote is also due to open a 650,000 barrels per day oil refinery, later this year. The opening of the fertilizer plant is coming at a time that global food security is threatened, a spin-off of the Russian-Ukraine conflict which has shot up global urea prices. Russia and Ukraine are major suppliers of urea, potash and phosphate, key components of fertilizers. The fertilizer factory sits on 500 hectares (1,235 acres) of land in Ibeju-Lekki on the outskirts of Lagos and has a capacity to produce 3 million metric tons of urea yearly, making it the second largest plant in the world, Dangote said. Nigeria has been trying to diversify its economy away from oil for some time and Dangote believes that the plant could earn the country $5 billion in export revenue each year. Central Bank Governor Godwin Emefiele said reducing fertilizer imports was a key pillar in Buhari’s diversification agenda, taking the country from being a net importer of the commodity to self-sufficiency. “Today, Nigeria is self-sufficient in the production of urea, and we are also the leading producer of urea in the African continent,” Emefiele said. The Dangote Group is second largest employer in Nigeria after the federal government.