Kylian Mbappe is a big doubt for Paris Saint-Germain’s Champions League showdown with Real Madrid on Wednesday after an injury in training on Monday. The French club feared the World Cup winner had broken a bone in his right foot following a heavy tackle from a team-mate. X-rays showed there is no break but he is now in a race against time to get fit for the second leg of their Champions League tie at the Bernabeu Stadium. The France star scored the stunning late winner in the first leg at the Parc des Princes last month. And his value to Mauricio Pochettino’s side was shown when the French league leaders lost at Nice at the weekend without their suspended top scorer. Liverpool Join Barcelona, Real Madrid In Jules Kounde Pursuit Real Madrid Report: Erling Haaland Agrees To Join Los Blancos In… Real Madrid made three offers to sign Mbappe last summer – and he is still set to move to the Spanish capital when he is out of contract at the end of the season despite ongoing talks with PSG. Mbappe’s 24 goals this season are more than Lionel Messi, Neymar, Angel Di Maria and Mauro Icardi all together. And Nice coach Christophe Galtier claimed: “They have (Marco) Verratti, Neymar, Di Maria, Messi… they go well with other players but there’s a PSG with Kylian and one without.” French media reports have claimed that PSG have offered Mbappe a two-year deal worth €100m plus a €100m signing-on fee to stop him leaving the Qatari-owned club before this year’s World Cup. Sporting director Leonardo told L’Equipe last week: “That is not true. We have not given an exact offer. There is an important element: I think that the last thing we will put on the contract will be the amount. POLL “We want to put in place the best conditions for him to become the best player possible. We have practically never spoken of money. There is still a chance he stays. As long as there is not a signature, we are going to try everything, we are going to do everything to keep him.” PSG have lost two of their last three domestic games in the build-up to their biggest game of the season. Manchester United target Pochettino is under contract until June 2023 but is expected to leave this summer if he does not win the Champions League – with Real Madrid also interested in him if Carlo Ancelotti leaves.