Disturbed by the frequent cases of collapses and liabilities associated with buildings in the state, the Lagos State government on Monday said it would collaborate with insurance companies to ensure safety and in the event of liabilities, pay compensations to the persons concerned. To achieve this, a mandatory insurance digital solution platform will be introduced for all property owners in line with the Federal Government Insurance Act. Speaking during a press briefing held on Monday in Alausa, Ikeja, the Director General, Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC), Lanre Mojola and the Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Insurance Association (NIA), Yetunde Ilori, stressed the need to imbibe insurance culture on the populace. “Safety is everybody’s responsibility, yet Lagos State government under the leadership of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, will continue to step up its responsibility at ensuring that there is safety across the State,” Mojola said. “No amount of efforts is made to prevent accident, it will still occur. That is why insurance comes in; that is why we are engaging and educating the public to ensure that it is sustainable. “Our role is to ensure that there is enforcement, but we are starting with engagement. We are partnering all the insurance companies in provision of digital solution platform for insurance cover,” Mojola said. According to Ilori: “We appreciate the work being done by the state government to ensure that all is well. The state has always been at the forefront and others follow.” “We will ensure that all arms of insurance companies key into it. We have four committees to ensure that the process is successful, he added. POLL Ilori, who stated that the purpose of the insurance was not for revenue generation, explained that no amount of premium would be too much to be paid as insurance cover. She explained that the essence of the digital solution platform is to have a hitch-free exercise that will be transparent, devoid of touts and other shoddy activities. According to her, the first stage is to create awareness because many do not imbibe the culture of insurance, adding that after engagement and education, the next stage will be to enforce the law.