LAGOS – All roads will to­day lead to the prestigious Eko Hotel and Suites in the heart of Victoria Island, Lagos, as Indepen­dent Newspapers Limited (INL), publishers of Dai­ly Independent, Saturday Independent and Sunday Independent titles, bestow honours on eminent Nige­rian individual and corpo­rate citizens who have dis­tinguished themselves as leaders and true servants of the people in their var­ious domains and fields of endeavours. The ceremony, themed ‘Celebrating Trailblazers,’ is billed to kick off at 6pm with a red carpet event at the Convention Centre of the hotel. Running for years now, Independent Awards rec­ognise individuals and cor­porate organisations who have shown true commit­ment to the welfare of Ni­gerians and matched same with action and thoughts that have impacted posi­tively on the lives of many. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tear… Obasanjo Remains Quintessential Leader At 85, Says Sanwo-Olu Consequently, the Award Committee for the 2021 edi­tion painstakingly, careful­ly and rigorously selected 31 eminent Nigerians who distinguished themselves in their service to humanity. The epoch-making event, which will be live on Chan­nels Television, will see Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu CON, the Chairman of BUA Group, being recognised as the 2021 Personality of the Year, not only for his efforts in job creation and econom­ic development within the period but for his various interventions through his Abdul Samad Rabiu (ASR) initiative through which he is intervening in the na­tion’s critically defective social infrastructure, par­ticularly health and educa­tion across the country. He is being honoured in that category with Dr. (Mrs.) Seinye O. B. Lulu-Briggs, the Chairman, Chief Exec­utive Officer of Moni Pulo (Petroleum Development) Limited. Meanwhile, the trio of El­der Statesman, Chief E.K. Clark; Dr. Ernest Ndukwe (OFR), Chairman of MTN Nigeria Plc, and Prince Ar­thur Eze, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Atlas Oranto Petroleum, will be bestowed with the 2021 Life­time Achievements Award for what they have done for humanity over the years. Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amae­chi, the Minister of Trans­port, will be bestowed with the 2021 Minister of the Year Award, along with Senator Godswill Akpabio, the Minister of Niger-Delta; while Hon. Ndudi Elume­lu, Minority Leader at the House of Representatives, will be recognised as the 2021 Lawmaker of the Year (House of Representatives); and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence, Sen­ator Aliyu Wamako, will receive the 2021 Lawmaker of the Year (Senate). In the same vein, Hon. Mojisola Meranda, the Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, will be rec­ognised as the 2021 Law­maker of the Year (Lagos). For his sustained devel­opment of infrastructure in Lagos State, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will bag the award as the 2021 Governor of the Year (In­frastructure and Urban Renewal), just as his Yobe counterpart, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni, will take a bow as the 2021 Governor of the Year (Rural Development). POLL For his sterling achieve­ments, especially in educa­tion and road network in his domain, Governor If­eanyi Okowa of Delta State  will be recognised as the 2021 Governor of the Year (Education and Road Infra­structure), while outgoing Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State finishes strong as he is to be present­ed with the 2021 Governor of the Year Award on Infra­structure and Community Development. Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State will be hon­oured as the 2021 Governor of the Year for Digital Econ­omy; while his Oyo State counterpart, Engineer Seyi Makinde, takes the 2021 Governor of the Year Award for his efforts in de­veloping the Agriculture and Healthcare sectors of the state, even as Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adama­wa State will be honoured as the 2021 Governor of the Year for how he has en­sured Fiscal Discipline in his state. Also on the honours roll are Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State, who is be­ing recognised as the 2021 Governor of the Year for Good Governance and Re­sponsive Leadership, while Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, who has shown unrelenting efforts in the fight against insecu­rity in his state, will be rec­ognised as the 2021 Gover­nor of the Year on Security. Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, the Kaduna State Chief Ex­ecutive, will be awarded the 2021 Governor of the Year for Manpower Development in the capital of Nigeria’s old northern region. Other great Nigerians who have been considered deserving of this coveted honour include Mr. Joseph Chiedu Ugbo, the Managing Director and Chief Execu­tive Officer of Niger Delta Power Holding Company, who is the 2021 Government Agency Administrator of the Year; Chief Daniel Omoyibo, the Chairman of Damotech Group, who is be­ing honoured as the Philan­thropist of the Year; High Chief (Dr.) Ifeanyi Chuk­wuma Odii, the Chairman of Orient Global Manufac­turing Limited; as well as retired General T. Y. Danju­ma (retd), Chairman, South Atlantic Petroleum Limited. Russia-Ukraine Crisis: Buhari Pledges To Defend Nigerians… 2023: Call For Oshiomhole To Contest Senatorial Seat Beyond Us,… For his unflinching acu­men and contribution to the Nigerian aviation sec­tor, Barrister Allen Onye­ma, the chairman of Air Peace Limited, will bag the Award as the 2021 Indepen­dent Businessman of the Year. In the same vein, Mr. Alex Okoh of the Bureau of Public Enterprises will be honoured as the 2021 Public Sector CEO of the Year; and Chairman of Arkbridge, Coach Chudi Onyemeri Kalu, the 2021 Real Estate Personality of the Year Award. Independent Newspa­pers Limited is equally honouring Middlechase Property Limited as the 2021 Real Estate Company of the Year; and for the 2021 Most Outstanding Real Es­tate CEO of the Year, Mr. Richard Nyong, the Chief Executive Officer of Lekki Gardens Estate Limited, will stand up to be count­ed. Ibom Airlines is also on the honours roll as the 2021 Aviation Company of the Year, for sustaining the tempo in the midst of rocky economic environment, while veteran actor, Rich­ard Mofe-Damijo, will bag the Award of 2021 Enter­tainment Icon of the Year.