ABUJA – As part of activities to mark this year’s International Women’s Day, the Smallholder Women Farmers Organisation of Nigeria (SWOFON) in collaboration with Actionaid Nigeria, have stormed the Secretariat of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and Federal Ministry of Agriculture, with placards in a peaceful protest march to press home their demand for gender equality and improved technology in agricultural sector among other things. Speaking during the exercise, Comfort Sunday, the Coordinator, SWOFON FCT Chapter, said the International Women’s Day provided an opportunity for the organization to make demands of government the things they feel can improve peace, justice, equity and fairness. Sunday said among the issues they are pressuring the government to implement is gender equality and deliberate efforts towards improvement in agriculture. Ex-Zambian President, Banda Dies Of Cancer At 85 Gowon Flags Off Construction Of British-American Junction… “Today is our day. If you want the soup that you want to cook tomorrow to be better, you start the preparation today. So if we want a better life for our children, we have to start it now hence we ask the government to give more women seats in the decision-making process, and make gender equality a reality” she said. Also speaking, Nnanna Mercy Chukwuma, the Secretary, SWOFON FCT Chapter, who spoke to our Correspondent during the exercise, noted that as the population increases the demand for food increases and workload on farmers also increases, hence the women demand improved technology in the agricultural sector, grants or soft loans to help improve their productivity among other things. Chukwuma, who is also the coordinator, Kuje Area Council, also stated that women need to be given a space in decision making, especially when it has to do with policies that affect or determine our growth. “As you know today is International Women’s Day. We are asking for gender equality today for sustainable tomorrow. You can see that today the world is shaking, the economies are shaking, and for the world to be sustained women need to be empowered. “The women need to be given a space in decision making, especially when it has to do with policies that affect or determine our growth. This is because if you are not there, they may not actually do it to your favour. Before now, it has been the man thing and it is not favourable to the women. POLL “The women carry the load of family. The load of children, so we need a space where we can also contribute to the growth and sustainability of the nation. “So we are also looking at gender-friendly equipment for agriculture. Basically, our job is producing food for the nation and for the family but the workload is too much and the demand is much, the population is increasing for us to meet the demand we must go with improved seedlings, improved equipment, no longer manual, we have retired our hoes to the museum so we want to make use of tractors, we want to make use of harvesters, we want to make use of little implements that will improve our productivity,” she said.