LAGOS – With the race to elect the next Olowu of Owu Kingdom in Abeokuta, Ogun State on, one of the early candidates to sig­nify his interest and throw his hat in the ring is Dr. Kazeem Olanrewaju Bakinson, from the Otileta ruling family. In a recent statement made available to Saturday IN­DEPENDENT, he disclosed why he wants to succeed the late Olowu, Oba Adegboyega Dosunmu who transited on December 15, 2021. Dr. Bakinson said he would like to build on the enduring legacies of the immediate past Olowu who was a rallying point to all the indigenes of the kingdom, both home and abroad and mobilise support for economic development for all the sons and daughters of the ancient kingdom. APC Crisis Deepens As Buhari’s Imposition Of Adamu, Others Tear… Obasanjo Remains Quintessential Leader At 85, Says Sanwo-Olu A doctorate degree holder in Public Policy and Admin­istration with specialisation in Geographic Information Systems and also the young­est Fellow of the Nigeria Institute of Town Planners (NITP), Bakinson said he would bring his wealth of experience in urban devel­opment, town planning and infrastructural initiatives to bear in the Owu Kingdom, based on his years of experi­ence in the Lagos State Min­istry of Physical Planning and Urban Development and Lands Bureau, where he rose to the position of a Chief Land Officer. “I will liaise with the dif­ferent hierarchy of govern­ment in Ogun State for the development of our great kingdom, especially in the area of road construction, healthcare, to conserve and preserve historical and cul­tural heritage and work more on the conflict resolutions, such that we are able to nip misunderstandings in the bud before it escalates and get to the point of litigations,” Bakinson emphasised. He also disclosed that part of his core area of concern will be how indigenes that are well off and are willing to be approached to assist the downtrodden in the king­dom, especially in the area of providing scholarships. Bakinson is from the Oto­po compound of the Otileta ruling family, which pro­duced the very first Olowu, Oba Pawu.