Microsoft has urged Nigeria’s business to incorporate the hybrid-enabling changes, which they describe as a game-changer for shaping successful work environment. These hybrid-enabling changes, they explained, include reimagining office space and investing in supporting technology. Nicole Herskowitz, Microsoft Teams General Manager, while advising that this needs to be done well, highlighted that following the ‘ABC’ practice on Teams-based meetings, is the key. Afreximbank Releases €700m Eurobond For Devt Of Oil & Gas… Coronation Merchant Bank Holds Fourth Edition Of Interactive… Dissecting the ABC practice, he noted as follow: “The ‘A’ is for Audio, because having the right tech to give everyone an equal opportunity to be heard clearly is a cornerstone of inclusive collaboration. “The ‘B’ is for Bring Your Own Device (turning on your camera but muting your mic). This allows in-person staff to participate with online team members through chats and live reactions in Teams meetings, while remaining more visible to remote colleagues, to keep everyone engaged. “The ‘C’ is about Collaboration; specifically, about assigning a facilitator to streamline interactions between virtual and in-office meeting attendees.” While analysing the result of the Microsoft Work Trend Index (WTI), Herskowitz, noted once again, that enabling successful hybrid working will mean reimagining office space and investing in supporting technology; with the latter helping to shape the former. Microsoft, he maintained, has innovated on the technology front with new Teams Rooms features to better manage the messy middle. POLL The messy middle, as cited by him, is the middle ground between remote-based and in-person work experiences. “Happy, productive employees are a key predictor of business success, which is why employers should take seriously, the idea of integrating the prevailing workers desire into remote work. “Remote work has opened new career opportunities for employees – not to mention that employers, too, benefit from a wider, geographically varied talent pool for hires.” Furthermore, he disclosed that to succeed in the global digital economy and prevent further job losses in an increasingly digitalized society, Nigeria’s businesses must digitally transform to support remote work alongside in-office work within the modern hybrid environment. Local companies that are unable to offer this balance, he remarked, will lose valuable staff, who now have the opportunity to work from home for businesses based outside of Nigeria. 2021: Dangote Increases Sugar Production By 9.2% To 811,962… Huawei Develops Technology To Tackle Oil Theft In Nigeria The Microsoft Teams General Manager reiterated that just like the rest of the business world that they are learning as they roll out these hybrid-enabling changes. “Microsoft has collated its experiences into a best-practice guide to hybrid meeting success, which will help business owners across Africa unlock future-proofed ways of working. While it’s messy, that meeting middle ground between remote-based and in-person staff can be managed, with technology as the linchpin.”