ASABA – Over 800 young women have been empowered by the Delta State Government through the Girls’ Entrepreneurship and Skills Training (GEST) Programme. Speaking during the graduation of beneficiaries of the 2021/2022 GEST Programme in Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa said that empowerment of the Girl-child was essentially to uplift the economic and social status of traditionally under-privileged girls in society, noting that empowerment of the girl-child from ages 18 to 30 had become a major public policy issue. The graduands from the second cycle were trained in 10 skills areas namely Photography, Videography, ICT (Website Development & Graphics Design), Baking/ Confectioneries, Leatherworks, Professional Cleaning Services, Disc Jockey, Fashion Design, Hairdressing and Make-up. Anirah Lauds Okowa, Oborevwori Over Support For Mom’s Burial Okowa, Uduaghan, Siakpere, Others For Warri NUJ Press Week According to him, “Six months ago, the second cycle of trainees under the Girls’ Entrepreneurship and Skills Training Programme (GEST) commenced. It gives me great pleasure today to witness their inauguration into the world of business and entrepreneurship. It is instructive that this event is taking place 48 hours after the 2022 International Women’s Day, with the theme `Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow” he asserted. Okowa urged the beneficiaries to break free from the mindset of mediocrity, advising that to excel in the marketplace, they must make quality products and excellent service delivery their unique selling points. “The focus is on how to “Break the Bias” that women face every day in the global marketplace and thereby accelerate gender parity, equality, inclusion, and diversity. This is in tandem with the philosophy of GEST, which is to tackle the issues of gender discrimination, poverty, early/forced marriage, identity crisis, social and parental pressure, poor life skills (communication, decision making, goal setting) and low self-esteem, among young women”. POLL He stressed that self-belief and self-confidence were essential prerequisites for success in business and that no prospective client would deal with a businessperson that was unsure of herself or her product. The wife of the governor, Dame Edith Okowa said the beneficiaries were successful because of the grace of God upon their lives and urged them to remain resilient and ensure absolute integrity in carrying out their enterprise. Special Guest of Honour and Chief Executive Officer, House-of-Tara, Mrs Tara Fela-Durotoye, said the beneficiaries were true champions for enduring through tough times the training to emerge victorious in their chosen careers. She urged the beneficiaries to build their businesses to last by leaving a lasting impression in the minds of their customers. Earlier In her welcome address, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Girl-Child Empowerment, Mrs Marilyn Okowa-Daramola, had said that the second cycle known as the “Magnificent 900” scaled through the process maintained focus and crossed the finish line. Be Wary Of Mischief Makers, Okowa Cautions Deltans Empowerment Scheme: Okowa Splashes N55m On Trainees She stated that the Project GEST had continued to change the story of so many young girls in Delta by making them well-trained entrepreneurs with the necessary tools to confront current economic challenges. However, hundreds of retirees from the Concerned Delta State Local Government/ Primary School Teachers Contributory Retirees stormed the venue of the empowerment to protest the non-payment of gratuities and pension. The protesters who were led by Chairman, Primary School Retirees, Mrs Ejieh Helen and her counterpart from Local Government Retirees, Mr Augustine Mode stated that the owed pensioners has accrued over N54 billion as at October 2021. They decried the scheme ok place 300 million being released monthly to offset the money owed pensioners would take 15 years to offset ” Our presence here is to once again call your attention to the untold hardship is our over 6, 683 yet to be paid retirees in Delta State”. Hence, they requested for an increase in the monthly allocation to the Bureau of Local Government to N2 billion to ensure the backlogs are cleared.