One of the governorship hopefuls for the Akwa Ibom State gubernatorial election and member representing Etinan, Nsit Ibom and Nsit Ubium State Constituency, Barr Onofiok Luke has promised to tackle education from the foundation if voted Governor in 2023. Luke has also promised to make the study of education attractive to prospective teachers through subsidized education and adequate equipment in faculties of education in institutions of higher learning across the state. Luke who made the disclosure while consulting the Akwa Ibom State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) also promised to improve the primary healthcare centres and services in the state. The former Speaker of the State House of Assembly and Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary who is aspiring on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) decried that investment in education in Akwa Ibom cannot be measured due to the absence of data. He, therefore, promised to establish a state Data Commission, which he believes would assist his administration bridge the social inequality gap, enhancing social justice and helping stratify the state for easy and even distribution of wealth. Luke said, as a product of the public school, he is not satisfied with the crop of students currently churned out of schools, as such he would support the review of the education curriculum to reflect current job demands,  redirect focus to Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) education as well as create a State Teaching Commission to look after the welfare of teachers and ensure professionalism in the teaching profession. He also promised to leverage Governor Udom Emmanuel‘s 10-year education roadmap to inject new energy into the education sector as well as change the mentality of Akwa Ibom youths from being job seekers to creators of jobs. “I am a product of public school. I am not very comfortable with the products churned out now by our public schools, we will support missions that own public schools so that they can help us impart to our children values and sound education that schools like Lutheran High School, Etinan Institute, Boys High School Oron, Cornelia Connelly College, Adiaha Obong Secondary School, were known for. POLL “The elementary level education is the foundation, so we must get it right. As part of our social contract with the Akwa Ibom people, we will establish a State Statistics Commission so that our investments and policies on education will be data-driven. “We would like to know the number of teachers per subject in our schools and their spread across the State. This will guide our decision to strategically invest in faculties in state-owned tertiary institutions training manpower in subject areas where there are personnel deficits, for our primary and secondary schools”. “To promote interest in subject areas where there are personnel deficits, we will subsidise tuition fees and give scholarships were necessary to our students studying such courses in our College of Education, Polytechnics and Universities. We will give incentives to those who are studying education so that our people will choose education as their first choice and not as a last resort. We will ensure prompt payment of emolument and due to retirees.” He promised to give more incentive to personnel, create opportunities for exchange programmes between schools in the state and abroad, build a faculty whose membership in the teaching profession will be borne out of passion and not a last resort, and create a State Teaching Commission to look after the welfare of teachers and ensure professionalism in the teaching profession. Luke also made some donations towards the completion of the NUJ auditorium; stressing that having been part of the union by association and through studies at the International Institute of Journalism (IIJ) at the Press Centre, he would ensure that the welfare of the members is given topmost priority. He used the occasion to appeal to his supporters to eschew combative language and character assassination on the course of consulting/campaigning. “Please do not insult anybody. We will not build this state on attack and hatred. We do not only speak peace but must learn to live in peace with one another”. he said Responding, the Akwa Ibom State Chairman of NUJ, Amos Etuk congratulated  Luke on his vision for the state and thanked him for always being a friend of the Union. Etuk promised that as a professional body, the union will give equal opportunities to all the aspirants.