A civil society organisation, Equity and Justice in Politics and Governance Movement, has urged the National Assembly to apply Section 84(12) of the Amended Electoral Act 2022, to both elected and appointed public officers. The Convener of the group, Comrade Momodu Tarka, who commended the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami SAN, for standing firmly to ensure that justice is done to all Nigerians, insisted that both elected and appointed public officers should be treated equally. ”We want to be emphatic about this and we dare say that both elected and appointed public officers should be treated equally, if the law is to have universal applicability. ”As we have pointed out earlier, the law is selfish and discriminatory, if it applies only to appointed public officers. “We therefore state that the Section should be expunged or in the spirit of fairness and equity, both should be asked to resign. ”If there is sincerity of purpose, the makers of the law should have thought it wise to say that a public officer, both elected (President, Governors, members of National and State Houses of Assembly) and appointed should resign from office before standing for another elective office, the group submitted. As it stands now, the group said the law favoured one set of public officers while some others are disadvantaged. If we may ask, where is justice and equity in the law? ”The law, we dare say, is self-serving and discriminatory and we are of the view that the National Assembly should make laws with universal appeal and in the interest of the nation, not discriminatory and self-serving laws that end of creating confusion. POLL ”The National Assembly should urgently address this issue in their legislations” Tarka said.He commended Malami for the swift action taken to give effect to the judgement and also for coming out categorically to say that his office will not be appealing the judgement. ”The makers of the law obviously have an agenda for inserting the section into the amended Electoral Act and it is to shot out political appointees from contesting the next general election. ”According to the 1999 Constitution, both elective and appointed persons in public office are all public officers. ”If the law gives political appointee 30 clear days to resign from office before contesting for an elective position, why amend that section to be one year. If indeed the lawmakers are sincere and fair, they should also amend the law and cut short their stay in office before standing for another election. ”Like we said earlier, there is an agenda and thank God for our courts that stood up to the injustice and truncated it” Tarka stated.