The Premier League has had the pleasure of playing host to many wonderfully gifted Spanish footballers. But the SPORTbible audience have voted Manchester City legend David Silva as the greatest ahead of former Chelsea star Cesc Fabregas. Silva, who won four Premier League titles after moving to England in 2010, took a whopping 43 per cent of the votes thanks to his dazzling displays down the years. A £24 million signing from Valencia, the Real Sociedad playmaker took a while to really get going in the Premier League but Silva won two FA Cups and five League Cups during his time with City. In fact, he is talked about as one of the very best to grace the division. The 36-year-old called it time on his Premier League career after a remarkable ten years at the Etihad Stadium. He started and was named captain against Norwich City in his final City match, as Pep Guardiola’s side romped to a 5-0 victory in July 2020. In his farewell interview with City, ‘El Mago’ paid tribute to the club and said he would be “forever grateful” to have played at the Etihad. “It [Man City] felt like home from the very beginning. Everyone treated me and my family so well. I will be forever grateful. I am going to be a Cityzen until I die and my family as well,” Silva said (as per Bitter and Blue). POLL “Nowadays it is so difficult to play 10 consecutive years for the same team. But I have to admit I felt very comfortable here from the beginning, I always said this to everyone. The truth is I was surprised at how friendly it was… “At Carrington everything was smaller and we were like a small family. Now everything has changed. The facilities where we train are massive and the club has more staff but this is all normal – the club has reached another level. “One of our best games was against United when we won 1-6. Winning a game like that against your main rival, to say things were about to change. Maybe it’s one of the best. “I really appreciate what he [Pep Guardiola] has done for me. For me it [2018] was a very special year because after all this, Mateo ended up strong and healthy and then we also won the league. For me it was a very special season. “It was hard for me. I remember visiting him in hospital, I was surprised how I managed the situation playing football at that level, and I could score that nice free-kick for him on his first day at the Etihad. That was a very special time. “It was a very special day. I remember when I visited him at the hospital, many thoughts came to my head, but one of them was the wish of being able to bring him to the stadium so I could play for him. It was a perfect day. “He (Roberto Mancini) was the one who brought me here. He used to call me quite often when I was in Valencia trying to convince me. I am really grateful because he trusted me and because of him I made one of the best choices I’ve ever made in my life. “One of our best games was against United when we won 1-6. Winning a game like that against your main rival, it was a way to say that things were about to change. “I am only there to help him and create the chances; I am happy because I think I helped him. I gave him lots of assists – he makes it very easy because he knows how to find the spaces and he’s clinical. “I am going to be Man City until I die, and my family as well.”