Vladimir Putin claimed on Saturday that western sanctions were akin to a declaration of war as Russia was blamed for the collapse of a ceasefire designed to allow tens of thousands of Ukrainian civilians to escape the besieged cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha. Moscow and Kyiv traded blame over the failure to provide safe passage to tens of thousands of civilians fleeing the two bombarded cities, on the tenth day of conflict that has fuelled one of Europe’s gravest humanitarian disasters and forced at least 1.3 million people to flee Ukraine. As the agreement appeared to be in tatters, Mr Putin accused Ukraine of sabotaging the evacuation effort, claimed that the country’s statehood was in jeopardy, and lashed out at the west for sanctions imposed on Russia. US Top Diplomat Visits Poland Amid Refugee Crisis Aeroflot Suspends International Flights “These sanctions that are being imposed are akin to a declaration of war but thank God it has not come to that,” the Russian president said in a rambling speech to a group of flight attendants at an Aeroflot training centre near Moscow on Saturday. Ukraine and Western nations have dismissed this as a baseless pretext for the invasion he launched on 24 February. In the wake of the sanctions, Aeroflot, Russia’s state-owned airline, said it would halt all international flights, except to Belarus. Mr Putin also warned that any attempt to impose a no-fly zone in Ukraine would be tantamount to entering the conflict. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has demanded that Nato impose a no-fly zone over his country – a request that the military alliance rejected on the grounds it could provoke widespread war in Europe. POLL Meanwhile, the struggle to enforce the temporary ceasefire in the southeastern port of Mariupol and eastern city of Volnovakha highlighted the fragility of efforts to stop the fighting across Ukraine – with reports of explosions in Kyiv and a Russian plane shot down in Chernihiv. Despite the ceasefire announcement, Russia’s defence ministry had said that a broad offensive would continue. Just hours after the temporary truce was declared, Ukrainian officials said Russian artillery fire and airstrikes had prevented 200,000 people from Mariupol and 15,000 from Volnovakha leaving before the agreed-to evacuations got underway. Earlier, the Russian defence ministry said it units had opened humanitarian corridors near the two cities in agreement with Ukraine. But Mariupol’s city council said Russia was not observing the ceasefire and it asked residents to return to shelters and await further information on evacuation. “We value the life of every inhabitant of Mariupol and we cannot risk it, so we stopped the evacuation,” the city’s mayor, Vadym Boychenko, said in comments broadcast on Ukrainian television. Putin Says Sanctions Over Ukraine Are Like A Declaration Of War Member Of Ukrainian Negotiating Delegation Was Killed For… The southeastern port has endured heavy bombardment, a sign of its strategic value to Moscow due to its position between Russian-backed separatist-held eastern Ukraine and Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014. Russia’s defence ministry accused Ukrainian “nationalists” of preventing civilians from leaving. Later on Saturday, the UK’s defence ministry said that Russia’s proposed ceasefire in Mariupol was likely a bid to deflect global condemnation while it reset its forces. Despite the failed evacuation, Ukrainian negotiators said a third round of talks with Russia on a ceasefire would happen on Monday.