Rev. Dr James Bayo Owoyemi is the President, United Church Of Christ (UACC). In this interview with ANDREW UTULU, he speaks on the growth and development of UACC in the past years. He also speaks on the need to check crimes in the society, the role of parents, the government as well as tasking INEC and politicians on the need for credible elections in 2023, among others. Excerpts: Last year, you and your team visited all United Apostolic Church of Christ Assemblies in Nigeria and Benin Republic, what are your observations and experience during the visits? My visitation experience to all UACC parishes was awesome. The warm receptions accorded me clearly revealed people’s readiness to work with my administration to move the church forward. I observed that ministers of God and congregants are working hard to sustain the gospel in the various assemblies visited. In all, we glorify God who granted us success in the course of our tours. Nigeria Youths Should Take Up Leadership Roles – Cleric Adeboye, A Great Blessing To Humanity – CAN, PFN UACC will be organising the World Interactive Session during the Pastors’ Conference in Ibadan. What should be expected? Aims and objectives of the interactive session among other things is evangelism. It is also an avenue to familiarise ourselves with our people at home and in the diaspora. The session will also enable people to ask questions on issues they want clarifications. It is also an avenue for people to offer advice that will move the church forward. You have had reason to interact with the media, both in Lagos and Akure. What are the effects of these interactions on the Church? It has always been our desire to speak the mind of God to the populace and government. The interactions with the media through press conferences have aided this objective immensely. We commend the media team who is the brain behind the project. We hope to keep doing this to deepen evangelism. The youths seem to have taken to ritual killings and cyber crimes while kidnappings and other crimes have taken over the society. What do you think went wrong and how can the situation be salvaged? POLL The society that celebrates immoralities rather than opposing such will invariably promote bad attitudes. Ugly behaviour doesn’t prevail where there’s justice and good governance. What part should the government and parents play to make sure youths do not involve themselves in vices? Homes and religious institutions have great roles to play in order to curtail these ugly menaces. We urge homes and religious institutions to inculcate fear of God into our youth. This will go a long way in ameliorating the decadence in moral behaviors of our youths. UACC now has students’ fellowship in some Universities in the South-West, what plan do you have to make sure it goes around all the universities in Nigeria? Since students fellowships provide an avenue to reach out to the youths, emergence of students’ fellowships is part of our agenda. We are ready to fund the project and ensure we have UACC students’ fellowships in all tertiary institutions in Nigeria. We have children in most higher institutions in the country and we will encourage them to start fellowships in their various institutions. We will appoint a directorate for the students’ fellowships who will be operating under the Blessed Youth Organisation-the Youth Wing of our Church. CAC Cleric Advises Nigerians On Selflessness The Ark Of The Covenant From March 14 to 20, 2022, you will be presiding over the Church’s Pastors’ Conference in Ibadan, what are some of the expectations of the congregation at the annual conference? Pastors’ Conference is an avenue to refresh and reignite fire in the ministerial lives of ministers of God. We plan to expand the scope of the pastors’ conference by inviting guest ministers for ministry. Among notable men of God that will be invited is Archbishop (Professor) John Faola, an erudite bible scholar. There will be an open air crusade during the conference scheduled to hold at the amphitheater of the famous Lekan Salami Stadium, Ibadan. What advice do you have for the government and leaders on how to improve on the economy and security of this country? Our leaders should lead with the fear of God. God Has blessed Nigeria with abundant human and natural resources. If the government can deal decisively with corruption and embrace justice. No doubt, there will be remarkable improvement in the nation’s economy and security. What is your message to the politicians as the 2023 general elections approaches? People aspiring for political offices in the coming election should approach this with open minds. Politics shouldn’t be a do-or-die affair. If truly we love our country, we should accept election results in good faith. What advice do you have for the Independent Electoral Commission? Credible conduct of elections, where people’s votes count will motivate the electorates. We enjoined INEC to ensure elections are free, faire and safe. More so, there should be stiff penalties for vote buying and selling. INEC should adhere to the amendment in the electoral laws.