Olayemi Shonubi is the president of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS). In this interview, he analysed the roles of the Quantity Surveyors vis-à-vis the economic implications of not engaging them in all construction projects. Excerpts:Who exactly is a quantity surveyor? A quantity surveyor (QS) is that construction professional that has been trained to undertake the cost and procurement management, financial consultancy and advisory services on all manner of construction projects – buildings, roads, heavy engineering, aviation, you might even be surprised to know that a quantity surveyor is involved in ship building. Anywhere cost and value are of essence on any developmental project then the services of a quantity surveyor is required. So, at what point of the project does the quantity surveyor come in, at the beginning, midway or towards the end? In view of the present global recession caused by so many factors, chief of which is this COVID 19 pandemic which led to the shutdown of the global economy due to the various restrictions imposed by governments all over the world, there are fewer resources available for development, as a result, for anyone seeking to undertake any developmental project, in my candid opinion, is the first professional you should be talking to is the quantity surveyor. Succinctly put, if you have N30million for your building project, you need a quantity surveyor to advise you on what can be achieved with this N30 million so that you do not get started and discover later, to your chagrin, that the money cannot complete the project. So, where have the quantity surveyors been all these while where the country is fraught with cases of over-inflated contract costs? Most unfortunately, the quantity surveyors have been pretty much neglected in the scheme of things on most projects in this country as they are rarely engaged on those projects and yet people ask, where have we been? It may interest you to know that the very first set of Nigerian quantity surveyors qualified in the UK in the late 50s and started returning to the country in the early 60s. The NIQS itself was founded by these pioneers in 1969, while the Government recognition didn’t come until 1986, when the Government of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, through a Decree enacted the Quantity Surveyors (Registration, etc.) Decree No.31 of 1986 (now CAP Q1 LFN 2004). So, when you consider the position of the quantity surveyors relative to the other professionals in the industry who have been on ground much earlier and are better known, it is quite understandable. As nature abhors a vacuum, prior to the relocation of the QS pioneers, our roles were being performed by some other professionals in the industry who have refused to yield these roles to the QSs, basically costing and contract administration, particularly in civil and heavy engineering projects, who are better trained to handle same. Unfortunately, we also have this campaign of calumny being mounted against us even on housing and building construction where we are more known, in order to prevent a client from engaging a quantity surveyor. The impression is often given that if you engage a quantity surveyor, he will collude with the contractor to inflate the cost of the project, which is really blatant falsehood. But how do you exonerate the quantity surveyor from that allegation of colluding with contractors to inflate contract sums? Most of them are spurious allegations and attempts at keeping the quantity surveyors away from performing their roles. Each business promoter, in this case, employer, want to execute his project at a minimal cost. Thus, if he is misadvised that he doesn’t need the quantity surveyor, as adding him will jerk up the cost of his project, particularly by another professional in the industry, the chances are he will believe until he runs into problems on the same project. Interestingly, most often times when the project gets underway, you will discover that the costs will balloon, things will fall apart between the employer and his contractors and then an independent valuation to be done by the same maligned QS will be sought by both parties to determine the value of work done and the financial liabilities of both parties on the project. I can’t recount how many projects I have been invited to mediate between employers and their contractors because of situations like this. So, the allegation of collusion is untrue and more like giving a dog a bad name to hang it.  Incidentally, we also have a statutory regulatory body, the Quantity Surveyors Registration Board of Nigeria (QSRBN), which monitors as well as regulate the QS practice in Nigeria. Anybody that has a proven allegation should be free to write to the Board or the NIQS. Any registered quantity surveyor who has a practice licence from the QSRBN caught committing any infraction, faces severe penalty including but not limited to suspension or outright withdrawal of his practice license. POLL How do you think the issue of people usurping the responsibilities of their fellow professionals can be resolved in the built environment? I think it’s the government that has to take a lead here. Asides being the major employer of all the professionals, they also have the power of enforcement. I believe government needs to define appropriately the role of each professional on each project by taking a cue from other countries, particularly the commonwealth countries who share practically the same system with us. As a former colony of Britain, most of our policies are tailored along the British style and if you go to any Commonwealth country, you will find out that a quantity surveyor is always involved in the costing and contract administration of all construction projects – building, civil and heavy engineering. It is only here in Nigeria that they are excluded. But the engineers are saying that quantity surveyors do not understand the nature of their jobs and hence, not in a position to cost it for them? That obviously is not true. If you look at the academic curriculum of quantity surveying, as approved by NBTE and NUC, you will discover that they have to undergo trainings across the professions in the built environment – architecture, structures, highway engineering, building services, etc. The whole idea is to prepare him with the requisite understanding and knowledge of the entire construction process as well as the work of other professions so as to develop the capacity for their costing. While in the university, we took design courses in architecture, design of steel and concrete structures in civil engineering, highway engineering, building services, building technology as well as economics and law of contract and that’s aside for the quantity surveying courses. Somehow, it appears the engineers are winning. Is it that the quantity surveyors are not doing enough or what? It’s not that they are winning, but like I stated earlier to you, the quantity surveyors are late entrants to the construction processes in Nigeria and before their arrival, the engineers have been the ones performing their roles particularly on engineering project, albeit, rather ineffectually. But for the engineers to now yield to the professionals that have the requisite training, has been the problem. And unfortunately, because they have been the ones at the helm of affairs within the government bureaucracy in the country, given the fact that in Ministries of Works all over the country, the engineers head most, if not all the departments, they have tried to block and frustrate all attempts by the quantity surveyors to put BoQ (Bill of Quantities) forward rather than their own BEME, as the main procurement document for construction contract awards. So, it is not that we have not been doing enough. I believe that we have fantastic engineers with relevant training and experience who can come up with innovative designs and solutions to our myriad of problems, but because there is a seemingly loss of focus on their roles, which is mainly to provide design solutions to solve problems, to focus on costing and contract administration. This invariably has led to their jobs being taken over by expatriates with attendant drain on our forex. For instance, in the Dangote refinery project, most of the design and supervision there were undertaken by Indians and Chinese, all because Nigerian engineers have not been proactive in developing the needed capacity. It should be noted that some eminent Nigerian engineers of note, were involved in construction of the Port Harcourt (new), Kaduna and Warri refineries, it is thus surprising that many years after, the Dangote Industries Limited had to bring expatriates for their refinery project. You have an unrenewable tenure of two years, what legacies would you want to leave behind? The intention is to reposition the NIQS as a professional body in Nigeria while ensuring that the average Nigerian knows and understands what we do, as well as the value we bring whenever we are engaged on any project. We want to do more trainings on the ethics and code of conduct for quantity surveyors. The reason for this is not unconnected to the realization of the fact that, no matter how one looks at it, the Ikoyi building collapse incidence of November, 2021, was more of failure of ethics because if everyone that was involved on that project had acted ethically, I doubt whether that incident would have occurred. What is your advice on the collapse incidence of November 1, 2021? Everyone should endeavour to always look at issues from the perspective of common good rather than focus on self. If all the parties involved in the project, the developer, the officials of various government agencies involved with granting of approvals, as well as monitoring, and the private professionals engaged by developers, had given thoughts to the common good rather seeking self-interest in terms of making more profit, making extra cash by overlooking some deficiencies, maybe the story would have been different.