LAGOS – The Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA), an agency of the State Government has commenced the awareness campaign on the new Lagos Resident Identity Card (ID Card) in different divisions of the state. Speaking at the first two divisions visited; Epe and Ikorodu during her welcome address, Engineer Ibilola Kasunmu, the General Manager, LASRRA said that the sensitisation was aimed at educating and sensitising residents of these divisions what the LAG ID is about, why it is important and how they could key into the initiative and be a part of the plan. Kasunmi described the initiative as a smart card with multiple security features and applications and appealed to residents in these divisions to kick off their registration process by visiting the LASRRA website www.lagosresidents.gov.ng then proceed to any LASRRA registration centre nearest to them for biometrics capturing to complete the free registration. Stanbic IBTC Bank Emerges Best Sub-Custodian Bank In Nigeria NCC To Strengthen AOL Administration, Deploy Revenue Assurance… Kasunmu, who spoke in Yoruba language said: “The ID Card comes with a lot of benefits for residents. It will serve as a means of personal security and identity verification at points of accessing various government services and make access to healthcare services a lot easier for residents. “Among other benefits, having the card will also grant you access to loan applications, enable seamless payment for transportation on all Lagos State transport services like BRT and LagFerry and can also be used for cash withdrawals from the ATMs.” She was quick to mention that those who registered before 2018 would need to update their information to get the new ID Card. Oba Omofolarin Ogunsanwo, the Alara of Ilara Epe, represented by Surveyor Adeyemi, in his goodwill message,  appreciated the State Government for reaching out to people at the grassroots level on the benefits of the new ID card. He said the Oba, being a representative of the government at this level, was in full support of the initiative and would keep informing citizens in the area to register for the card. POLL Also speaking, Hon. Isiaka Yusuf Olatunji, representing the Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Chairman said information on the new ID card would be well-delivered to stakeholders in the Local Council Development Areas. In the same vein, Hon. Adeola Adebisi Banjo, the Chairman of Ikorodu North Local Government, who was represented by Mr. Ameen Olawale Apanisile, the Vice Chairman, stated that the stakeholder engagements is very important because it would go a long way to create awareness amongst residents in different divisions. Alhaji Lukman Shonibare, the Chairman, Community Development Committee, Ikorodu Division, in his message, stated that the benefits accrued to Lagos residents through this project was immense and added that the Community Development Associations (CDAs) were ready to support the State Government in this milestone achievement. The stakeholder meetings had the traditional rulers, traditional Chiefs, Community Development leads, heads of market associations, heads of other associations and residents from the divisions in attendance. The new Lagos Resident Card is aimed at driving the smart City initiative, which enables efficient planning and distribution of infrastructure, and other social amenities.