“And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him from Baale of Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwells between the cherubim,” (2Samuel 6:2). What is the ark of God? The ark of God is a sacred gold-covered wooden box, described in the book of Exodus as containing the two stone tablets of the Ten Commandments. A holy property of God. A symbol of his covenant with his people. It is the Holy heritage of God that dwells in his sanctuary performing mysterious signs and wonders. The mysteries that resulted from the ark of covenant both in the scriptures and in the church are all too incomprehensible, and that is because our God does not walk or dwell in the ways of men. It dwelled with the Israelites for many years before it was taken to heaven, to be guarded by the cherubim (angels). However, because of the special love and favour bestowed upon the saints by God, the ark of covenant still visits us to perform signs and wonders, and there are catalogue of testimonies in that regard. Lenten Season: Clarion Call To Repentance, Mercy, Charity St. Paul’s Church, Ebute-Metta, Battles Land Grabbers It is a product of grace and mercy; it does not require endless prayers and prolonged fasting on mountain tops. It is a unique property of God that manifests to the ones he truly cherishes. It works in ways that defies logic, to reiterate the fact that the ways of God is not of man. It requires no help from any mortal as can be seen in 2nd Samuel 6:6-7. Uzzah attempted to prevent the ark of covenant from slipping to the ground during one of its journeys, but the Lord smote him on the spot. David seeing this was very aggrieved and scared, he commanded that it should be taken to Obededom’s house. Why? Because he is a lowly man with no reputation. Three months the ark of covenant dwelt in the house of Obededom, and he witnessed divine transformation that resulted in tremendous blessings in all his dealings. These two different events tell us that, God uses the ark of covenant to deal with each man separately regardless of status or personality. It is extremely imperative to know that God uses the ark of covenant as a weapon of judgment on those who despise him. Michal, king Saul’s daughter despised David her husband for dancing uncontrollably to the Lord, while accompanying the ark of covenant in 2nd Samuel 6:16. She felt embarrassed, and by so doing, she mocked God. The devastating consequence is that she became the only barren woman in the Bible. We can therefore see that this unique heritage of God is an all-encompassing one, used by the creator both in favour and against people depending on the relationship they have with him. POLL What then must we do to have the ark of covenant in our favour? The answer is quite simple. We must be on the Lord’s side at all times, we must eschew our old sinful ways (Isaiah 43:18) We rid ourselves of filthiness. We must rededicate our lives to God, perfecting all areas of our lives that are short of his expectations, keep our ways Holy and imbibe the fear of the Lord. (2nd Corinthians 7:1) May the grace of the Almighty abide with you.