Corps members have been urged to sustain and keep observing the COVID-19 prevention measures in order to block the virus from spreading its wings. Director-General National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim made the appeal during the terminal parade/closing ceremony of the 2022 batch’A’ orientation course in Dazigau permanent orientation camp, Nangere Local Government Area of Yobe State. “Let me also use this opportunity to remind you of the need to continue to observe the COVID-19 protocols wherever you find yourselves. For your information, the Federal Government’s directive on the presentation of evidence of COVID-19 vaccination as a pre-requisite for gaining entry to public offices subsists. “You are, therefore, advised to take the vaccine if not done already. In addition, I charge you to help in sensitizing members of the host communities about preventive measures, including the need to accept the vaccines”. The NYSC DG was represented by the State Coordinator NYSC Mrs Hafsat Yerima added that “I consider it most appropriate to use this opportunity to once again express our profound gratitude to the Federal Government for providing the enablement for the take-off of Corps members’ enrolment in the National Health Insurance Scheme under a comprehensive initiative known as NYSC Group Individual Family Social Health Insurance Programme (GIFSHIP). “I enjoin all Corps members to take full advantage of this arrangement by registering under Health Care Providers in their service locations, and always report promptly for medical attention in the event of ill health. Corps members can also visit any NHIS accredited hospital during official leave period outside their service locations”. He used the forum to appeal to Corps Employers to accept Corps Members that will be posted to them. “You are expected to accord priority to their welfare and provide the enabling environment for them to develop their potentials. “I also call on State and Local Government authorities, traditional rulers and other stakeholders to give them the necessary encouragement, especially through support for their Community Development Service initiatives”. POLL “Once again, I convey our profound gratitude to the Federal Government for its unwavering support for the Scheme. “In the same vein, we appreciate the support of State Governments, Local Government Councils, Security Agencies, the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, traditional rulers, Corps Employers and other stakeholders”. “Finally, it is now my pleasure to declare the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Course closed. I wish you a very impactful and rewarding service year”.