LAGOS  – The Minister of State Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva has said that lack of fresh investment is impeding gas sector growth in Nigeria. Sylva, who disclosed this when European Union ambassadors to Nigeria led by the Ambassador Samuela Isopi visited him in Abuja, advocated the need for a change of attitude if the request by the EU to increase supplies to Europe is to be realised. “One of the biggest problems we have in the sector has been investments. In the last 10 years over $70 billion worth of investments came to Africa but sadly less than $4 billion came to Nigeria and surprisingly we are the biggest in Africa. If we cannot attract investments in Nigeria, you know where we are heading. “You have been our longtime friend. As at today, our gas reserve is one of the biggest in the world. We have a proven gas reserve of 206 tcf and if we really focus on gas exploitation we can get up to 600 tcf. Nigeria is arguably the best territory to invest. He said Nigeria is already building gas infrastructure such as the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) pipeline project which is expected to take gas to Algeria and the West Africa Gas Pipeline project designed to take gas to Morocco. He added: “As you can see we are already building infrastructure that will take gas to Europe. All we need is investments. We acknowledge that there are challenges in the sector but we should partner to help solve the problem”. He told his visitors that Nigeria was ready to step in as alternative gas supplier to the European Union following sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. He added: “One of the things we warned against earlier was the speed with which EU was taking away investments in fossil fuels. We warned that the speed was faster than they were developing renewable energy. You can see now that what we were warning against is what is happening now”. POLL Speaking, Ambassador Isopi, advised Nigeria to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the present crisis in Europe to shore up gas supplies to Europe. She also implored Nigeria to step into that gap supply chain as an alternative to Russia. Speaking on the security situation in the Niger Delta that drastically impacted on gas supply in recent years, Isopi emphasized the need for Nigerian government to step up security in the region to guarantee gas supply to EU member states. She expressed disgust over the level of attacks on Shell, Eno and Total Energies’s gas infrastructure that led to the declaration of force majure by the companies and noted that the development was of great concern to Europe. She added: “The recent developments in the Niger Delta is of great concern to us,” she said adding that the EU was however reassured by the recent visit by Sylva and other top government officials to the site of the vandalised infrastructure in the region”