ABUJA – The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company Plc. (AEDC) on Friday offered an explanation to its teeming Customers in Kogi State, Niger State, Nasarawa State and Abuja FCT, saying the current low and unstable supply of electricity to homes and businesses is a result of low power generated to the National Grid. Mr Donald Etim, AEDC’s Chief Marketing Officer, said low generation in the past few weeks caused the drop in supply, and apologized to customers within the company’s franchise area. “In recent weeks, the level of power generated and served to the national grid for onward delivery to customers has been abysmally low. However, we do our utmost, at all times, to ensure that we equitably distribute even that modest supply in such a way that a fair cross-section of customers is served. AEDC Gets New Board As Interim Management Begins Work FG Explains Takeover AEDC By UBA “At AEDC, knowing full well the place and role of electric power in life, living, economy, and security, we are deeply committed to ensuring that we work collaboratively with other stakeholders within the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) to identify and resolve the challenges within the sector. The root causes of this latest low generation have been identified and are being addressed. There is perhaps no better way to assure our esteemed customers today than in the words of the Honourable Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu. Speaking in Abuja, the Minister said specifically on the recent power delivery challenges: “I would like to discuss the increased load shedding you may have observed in Abuja and other areas in the country. “With the reduction in Hydro capacity during the dry season, additional load needs to be taken up by our Gas plants. We are having maintenance work in the Eastern Axis around Odukpani leading to reduced power supply from the usually reliable NDPHC Calabar Power Plant and we are having challenges at Okoloma Gas Station linked to Afam VI power plant. We are working with NNPC and other Gas suppliers also to improve the pressure on the Western Axis that is precluding units from reaching optimum supply. These challenges are surmountable, and we have a 3-pronged approach we are executing… we have short term solutions as well as long term solutions. We are working assiduously to resolve short term load-shedding challenges”. As a company fully committed to enriching our customers’ experience, we regret that this challenge of low generation is beyond AEDC’s direct control. We are aware of the plight of our customers. And as our CMO Mr. Donald Etim recently expressed to the media: “We understand the pains of our customers who have suffered untold hardship as a result of this situation. Indeed, we empathize with them. But we also use this opportunity to appeal to them to bear with us as all industry stakeholders are working tirelessly to achieve system stability and ensure availability and a steady supply of electricity across AEDC franchise areas”.