FELIX UKA Even as diverse opinions, debates arise as it concerns the judgement of March 8th 2022, wherein Justice Inyang Ekwo pronounced the sack of Governor David Nweze Umahi of Ebonyi State and his Deputy, Dr. Eric Kelechi Igwe, the most worrisome issue is the threat it poses to the security of lives in Ebonyi State. No doubt the novel case can reform the political attitudes in the nation’s polity, but a number of observers of the scenarios are worried about the concomitant consequences. Already, the erstwhile Abuja Group versus Ebonyi Home Based Group of politicians are up again against each other, a situation that led to the death of many youths in the State during the political crisis between, then Governor of the State, Senator Sam Ominyi Egwu and then Senate President, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim. Recall that on the 8th day of March 2022, Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court Abuja, delivered two judgements concerning Ebonyi State. One is suit No FHC/ABJ/CS/920/2021: The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) v. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and 3 others. The other is suit No FHC/ABJ/CS/1041/2021: The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) v. INEC and 20 others. The suits are hinged on defection from the PDP to the All Progressives Party (APC). Umahi has appealed the judgement at the Appeal Court and said he is still the State Governor. Conversely, Idu Enwo Igariweh, nominated as Umahi’s replacement by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was reported to have made a broadcast stating that: While we acknowledge that INEC is in receipt of the communication from the National Chairman of the PDP, we call on INEC as a critical pillar of our constitutional democracy, to comply expeditiously with all the consequential orders of the court, particularly, by declaring the names submitted by the PDP as Governor and Deputy Governor. This, the INEC is expected to do, by issuing Certificates of Return. He even claimed that, “In the eye of the law, therefore, I, Rt Hon. Iduma Enwo Igariwey and Chief Fred Udogu, are the recognised Governor and Deputy Governor of Ebonyi State”. How peaceful can the State be in such state of affairs, a number of people have asked. In the circumstance, Umahi lost his cool and expressed disgust over the judgment, a development that got him verbal attacks especially on the social media. He made a uturn and sought peace with the NBA and others of which observers expected the Court to still be the umpire, not one on vengeance mission. POLL Whereas some key players in the State insist on having their ways as concerns the matter, Some eminent Elders of the State including the immediate past Governor of the State, Chief Martin Nwancho Elechi, former Deputy Governor of old Imo State Chief Francis Orji, among others have visited Umahi, sued for peace and amicable resolution of the matter at hand. The perceived moves to oust Umahi according to Citizens Democratic Movement may be a grand ploy to destabilise APC, the Nigeria nation. The group, an NGO said that the Umahi saga could be a test ground to claim many States where APC has stronghold. Chairman of the group, Chief Emmanuel Igwe told Daily Independent that they were not unaware of certain nocturnal Dubai meetings where the unfolding plots might have been hatched. They urged Nigerians not to see as Umahi matter, the said intrigue, and noted that three other Governors of APC were lined up for similar smear. They said that truncating the incumbent administration in Ebonyi State in the manner that is being constructed can inflict dangerous security threat to Ebonyi State, and extend to others. “We lost lives of four sons of the Ebonyi State in the last political fight. We cannot afford same scenarios again” , their document stated. “We have in the recent past suffered deaths and crises caused by political crises between Abuja Group and the home based political key players in Ebonyi State. We acknowledge that the law is for the people and not the other way round. For the reason that Umahi has appealed the judgement against him and his Deputy, Dr. Eric Igwe, we should allow the law to peacefully go through the Appeal Court to the Supreme Court. Though we are not a team of lawyers, we know that anyone who can be Governor of a State should have fully gone through the process of elections. We can’t have a “Mock Governor”. We appeal to our Elders to continue their peaceful moves. No matter how you look at it, our best alternative is for Umahi to finish the many projects he is concluding and conclude his ending administration. Anything short of this is against the genuine interest of our people, the APC and of course the tenets of true democracy meant to protect the interests of the people and the people”, they stated. As to how much chance or otherwise Umahi has in retaining his position as the executive Governor alongside his Deputy, many people are of different opinions. Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN ), a legal luminary, gave elaborate insight and stated thus: I have just read social media publications regarding the judgment delivered by the respected Honourable Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja. I am of the firm belief that the judgment, shredded of all legal and factual details, cannot stand the acid test of constitutionalism, nor pass the furnace of appellate courts scrutiny. This is because the tenure of office of a Governor and his Deputy are constitutional matters. The judgment is said to have sacked Governor David Umahi and his Deputy, Eric Kelechi Igwe from their offices. He cited section 221 of the Constitution, which merely prohibits political activities by certain associations which are not political parties from canvassing for votes or contributing to elections expenses of any candidate at any election. The Judge ordered the PDP to immediately send names of replacements to INEC so that fresh elections can be conducted. He also ordered INEC to cease recognising Umahi and Igwe as Governor and Deputy Governor, respectively, of Ebonyi State. The learned trial Judge further held that the 393, 042 votes polled by Umahi in the March 9, 2019 governorship election belonged to the PDP and cannot be legally transferred to the APC upon defection, and that there is no constitutional provision that made the ballot transferable from one party to another. He therefore ordered INEC to conduct fresh election in accordance with section 177(c) of the Constitution. Not so fast, the enforcement of this judgment. The Governor and his Deputy have 90 days to appeal this decision under section 25(2), (a) of the Court of Appeal Act, it is their right under sections 240 and 241, of the Constitution, the judgment being a final one. He may also not have availed of the clear provisions of sections 180 and 188 of the 1999 Constitution. It is not only the registered voters of a political party that cast their votes for a President, Vice President, Governor or Deputy Governor. Many non-politically partisan persons also vote; just like opposition party members who may prefer a particular candidate even though not in their party. It is therefore not correct to hold that votes scored by a candidate belong to a political party and therefore not transferable. The courts have since gone over the era of Amaechi V. INEC, where the Supreme Court had held that votes cast in an election belong to a political party. Section 141 of the Electoral Act, 2010, as altered that section, by providing that for a candidate to become Governor, he must have participated at all stages of the election. This includes primaries and the general governorship election. The appellate courts have since held again and again that votes cast in an election belong to a live candidate, and not the political party which merely serves as a vehicle that enthrones candidates. Aside from the pure legal considerations of the matter, the choice of Idu Igariweh for the replacement of Umahi is politically out of order. The three political blocs of the State, Ebonyi North, Central and South would at the expiration of Umah’s second tenure respectively produced Governor of the State. Umahi is from the Southern bloc with the Igariweh. Opinion poll indicated that the choice of Igariweh for the replacement is seen by the Ebonyi Northern bloc (Umuekumenyi) as hoodwinking. Many of them, even among the PDP fold believe that should Igariweh be supported to run out the remaining months Umahi has, he, Igariweh would very likely go for a fresh term, by that truncating the rotation arrangement of having the governorship rotate to the Umuekumenyi in the Abakaliki bloc in 2023. Even the Ebonyi State Executive Council in a press release stated that, “The Council is aware that the present avoidable and absurd assault on the intelligence of Ebonyi people and the politics of Ebonyi State by some entrenched self serving elements with unbridled ambitions is part of a grand design to truncate the peaceful and logical disposition of the Governor to the well established culture of rotation of elective political offices in Ebonyi State” . With the stage so stacked, the PDP had in 2015 played into the hands of Umahi. Should even another election be conducted as ordered by the court, the Ebonyi electorates would like to have Umahi conclude his two tenures and support power rotation to the Umuekumenyi as he has promised than plunge into the risk of raising a fresh power bank in Igariwey of the same Southern bloc.