INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Kwara, Malam Garba Attahiru-Madami, has warned that anybody engaged in double registration in the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR), may face jail terms. Attahiru-Madami gave the warning on Thursday at a stakeholders’ meeting at the INEC office in Ilorin. The stakeholders’ meeting was attended by the Commissioner of Police, represented by ACP Wison Akpan, representatives of registered political parties in Kwara, Representatives of Civil Society organisations (CSO), representatives of NURTW, RTEAN, NLC chairman, representatives of NYSC state coordinator, and the Electoral Officers in the 16 local government areas. The REC said double registration amount to an offence under the Electoral Act and was punishable by a fine or imprisonment. Attahiru-Madami told the gathering that the purpose of the meeting was the new polling units in the state. He said INEC was worried that during the Edo governorship election, the new polling units have no voters, adding that the commission did not want this to repeat itself during the 2023 general elections. According to him, before the conversion of voting points to polling units, Kwara has 1, 872 polling units, adding that additional 1, 015 polling units were created bringing the total to 2, 887. He added that the reason for the expansion of polling units was to move them closer to the people. POLL According to him, polling units were created last in 1991, adding that many of such communities and settlements that have sprung up since 1991 have no polling units. The REC said that electoral officers in each of the local governments and officials from the state headquarters would soon meet with leaders in the local governments to ensure that the new polling units have voters allotted to them. He also appealed to leaders of political parties in Kwara to mobilise their followers to register and obtain their voter card. Attahiru-Madami added that Kwara was in 7th position in the country in terms of the registration of voters. He said INEC has registered a total of 118, 580 voters since the commencement of the CVR in July 2021. The REC said Osun was on top followed by Delta, with Bayelsa coming third, while Rivers, Kano, and Anambra were in fourth, fifth, and sixth positions respectively. Attahiru-Madami added that his target was to register 2.5 million voters by the end of the last quarter of the CVR in July. He promised that INEC would continue to do its best in Kwara to ensure free, fair, and credible elections. ACP Akpan, representing the Commissioner of Police assured political parties that police would always provide adequate security during elections.