Weststar Associates Limited, the approved distributor of Mercedes-Benz products in Nigeria has unveiled the all-new Mercedes-Benz S-Class to the country’s automotive industry market. Mr. Mirko Plath, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Weststar Associates Limited, in a statement, said that Mercedes-Benz had elevated the game with regards to technology and luxury in the automotive industry with the introduction of the all-new S-Class. The all-new Mercedes-Benz S-Class, he said is automotive luxury experienced in a completely new way and built on the legendary and traditional engineering expertise that has defined the luxury segment in the automobile industry for decades. Lanre Shittu Motors Trains 450 Dropouts, Young Graduates Coscharis Offers Land Rover Discovery For Hole-In-One At Ikoyi… He explained that the S-Class is the top tier model for Mercedes-Benz saloon cars and with a handful of world’s first and innovations, which can be indulged with all the senses – seeing, feeling, hearing and smelling. This, he said heightens the pleasure of driving with innovations that focus on people and respond to the needs of its driver and passengers. He added: “Not compromising on the philosophy of this historic Mercedes-Benz brand they have managed to yet again create an envy for all. The interior with the new MBUX is a particular highlight our clients will enjoy, as well as the introduction of the electric powered EQ Boost, we hope to serve as many who wish to acquire the new S-Class which is now available at our authorized showrooms nationwide.” Plath stated that the all-new Mercedes-Benz S-Class is available in Nigeria, courtesy of Weststar and its dealerships nationwide – Barbedos Cars Limited, MB Automobile Services Limited, Skymit Motors Limited, Sunny Motors Limited and Tetralog Nigeria Limited. The all-new S-Class premieres the second generation of the MBUX (Mercedes-Benz User Experience). Since its introduction, MBUX has continued to revolutionize the cockpit in Mercedes-Benz cars. With MBUX, the S-Class is even more digital and intelligent, as both the hardware and software make great strides with brilliant displays on up to five large screens, in part with OLED technology. POLL This makes the control of the vehicle and comfort functions even easier in comparism to its predecessor. The voice assistant “Hey Mercedes” has increased its capabilities in intuitive learning and with dialogue. “Hey Mercedes” now also explains vehicle functions and answers general knowledge questions. In the S-Class the voice assistant can also be controlled from the rear. The MBUX Interior Assist is another new addition to the all-new S-Class, you can now enjoy contactless ease of operation, as this innovative system detects and interprets your hand and arm movements. “As such you can activate selected functions in a matter of seconds. As part of this the system is able to differentiate between driver and front passenger. The all-new S-Class highlights a digital-analogue revolution in the interior, which has fully evolved into a “third place”, a refuge between home and workplace. The sculptured look of the dashboard, center console and armrests appear to float above an expansive interior landscape. Hyundai, Kia Take Lead Market Share As Europe Goes Electric BMW Expects About $9.1bn Boost After Taking Stake In China JV The systematic reduction in the number of controls underscores the minimalist appearance of the interior.