LAGOS  – The International Women’s Day was held last Tuesday, March 8, with the theme ‘Break The Bias’ as call to remove hindrances to the progress of the female gender. The hindrances included and not limited to inequality, women prevented from mounting pulpits as preachers, domestic violence and rape. Women tend to be main victims of abuse whether in marriage or the workplace, however, this piece focuses on spousal abuse and whether victims should continue to endure and hope for better unions as the church as a body plays prominent role in returning sanity to homes and the society at large. Cleric Charges Leaders Not To Rely On Personal Knowledge 2023: Cleric Urges Politicians To Shun Do-Or-Die Politics A lady identified as Jumoke once shared how she left an abusive marriage. Her words: “The first time, Pastors talk me back, second time same thing. When I was about losing my life, I ran without listening to anyone anymore and my kids were happy. “It was not easy living because my ex- was a bit buoyant. When I was riding nice cars, people thought I was enjoying, not knowing I was looking for a way to run. I may not be driving big cars, but I’m eternally grateful to God that I did not die. ” Men have been recorded to also suffer spousal violence though unpronounced as the women. There are men including clerics whose wives maltreat them on the ground that the men cannot chase them or retaliate the wicked acts as they will have sanctions from the church to face. The women in this category also believe no one would believe their husbands even if they choose to speak up. At the same time there are women who suffer silently and bear the violation from their spouses because of financial incapacitation, persuasion from spiritual leaders, family members, cultural prejudice, the fear of what society may say, the fear of being tagged a failure and so on. The United Nations (UN) since 2000, has made efforts to stop violence against women by creating public awareness of ongoing sufferings experienced by women. November 25 of every year is carved out as International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. POLL In as much as it is celebrated as an occasion for governments, international organisations and non-governmental organisations to raise public awareness of violence against women, religious leaders in Nigeria have been asked to use their various platforms to condemn the spate of domestic violence, thereby promoting peaceful co-existence, especially among couples. In the 2019 Church Report released by Alder Consulting, Nigeria’s leading creative intelligence firm, Leke Alder, Principal of Alder Consulting, said the report highlighted the social relevance of the Church and in particular, captured the reaction of the youth demographic on burning topics, such as sexuality and mental health. Millennials, according to the report, would like the church to be more responsive to issues of domestic violence, drug abuse, unemployment, depression, rape and sexuality. The survey for the Alder Church Report which was done both online and offline spanned six geo-political zones in Nigeria, with 4,634 respondents; 68% of whom were below 35-year-old. The gender ratio for the survey was 58 % male to 42 % female, while 50% were single and 50% married. The report measures the perception of the Church in Nigeria, and its impact on society and national development. It provides feedback from church members and the general public, as well as information about socio-cultural shifts that affect the Church. Adeboye, A Great Blessing To Humanity – CAN, PFN Lagos Catholic Faithful To Honour First Indigenous Bishop Meanwhile human and women’s rights activist in Nigeria, Dr. Joe Odumakin, once told Sunday INDEPENDENT that the rate of domestic violence leading to spousal killing was alarming, as some religious leaders do not help matters. “Violence is on the rise and you will see that despite all the awareness carried out, it is skyrocketing. I want couples to know that marriage is to complement one another and not for competition. “Secondly, nobody has the right to speak down on their partners once this is realised it will be of much benefit. A lot of women would say they can’t leave their children but in the process they get killed. From our records about 13 women have been killed and four men have been killed.It is even under reported because there are some cases that do not get reported. “I think the media, labour organisations and market women should join hands in carrying out massive awareness because prevention is better than cure. I think that our religious organisations must ensure that they use their platforms to preach peace. “They must not force any one to remain in a relationship because someone who is alive is better than who is dead. There are instances where people were forced to return to relationship because their religious organisation will either mock such people or not permit such,” Odumakin stated. Should couples facing abuses be prayed for, reconciled, persuaded to stay in the marriage or be allowed to go their separate ways, Odumakin, President of the Women Arise for Change Initiative and the Campaign for Democracy, pointed that some cultural beliefs hamper peace resolution. She called on religious to know that no society will prefer to bury someone over permitting separation for a period of time. We see that cultural beliefs, family beliefs are not helping matters. So,we must all ensure that if alternative dispute resolution does not work, let the couples stay apart; by the time they stay apart and later agree to genuinely settle, then we in the alternative dispute resolution organisations, can advise them as well the mother-in-law and father-in-law on the maintenance of peace. Again, violence is gender blind; whether you are a man or woman and we must do all we can to curb this threat that is ravaging our communities and the society at large, she said. Timothy and Shola Oladipo, both Christian leaders and marriage counsellors, who had been married for 30 years, based in Europe, had traveled through three continents to teach singles and married people on godly principles to prepare them for marriage and to keep them stable in marriage. Recently in an interview during their visit to Lagos spoke on issues relating to marriage and relationships. The initiators of Before and After I Do (BAID) reacting on the rate of divorce, separated home and creation of homeless children and how their ministry had been influencing homes to address and even reduce the figure, said before God called them, they were aware of the way the home front had been breaking down. They stated: “We know that if the home front is fixed, the church would be fixed. So, if everybody can fix their home, the church would be fixed. Rather than throwing condemnation and sermons at people from the altar all the time, why not use the word and help people by fixing the standard, godly standard to fix what has been broken down? “So, over the years, we have so many testimonies that we have received from people and as a matter of fact we have found a lot of singles who have cut off their engagements by just sitting under the teachings of BAID because they have suddenly realised certain things, whether because they are not ready or the other person they are engaged to is not ready. “It doesn’t mean they didn’t get it right or that they didn’t get married. It was just a matter of going back to God to get themselves prepared before getting back to get married.” For the Oladipos, marriage is not smoothie and it is not salad as there is need to understand God’s expectation of marriage. Timothy stated: “My fear is that divorce is not necessarily a cure for a bad marriage and so the statistics for divorce like we would always say is that 50 to 52 percent of first marriages end in divorce, about 63 to 67 percent of second marriages end in divorce and third marriages have 70 percent plus and that tells us that what you didn’t fix in the first marriage will not be fixed by divorce in the second marriage and divorce in the third marriage. So, divorce is not the issue, it is about understanding God’s motivation for marriage, and I think personally we have missed it. “I think our culture in Nigeria has overlaid God’s real plan for marriage so we treat marriage like a life cycle; you go to kindergarten, then to secondary school, then to the university, then you get married. And if somebody has done something wrong, divorce is the next thing because we don’t understand marriage, people don’t have tenable answers to divorce. I don’t see divorce as an escape route because God is saying I hate divorce. I think we have mixed things up. There are other solutions and things God would want us to address.” Proffering counsel on the biblical injunction that God hates divorce, which is making people endure and die in abusive marriages, he shared that it is abnormal to have anyone subjected to abuse. Lady Marcella Aize Yosabo Cole of the Confraternity of Christian Mothers (CCM), Nigeria, on her part asked victims to always speak up and ask for help instead of defending their spouses. “Those involved in domestic violence should speak out. There is no need to protect those abusing you. Learn to speak out at the right time. It is not a good thing to be violated; it is what we are against,” she said.