Manchester United have been urged to bring Roy Keane back to the club in the wake of their humiliating defeat to Manchester City. The Red Devils were completely overwhelmed by City, with two goals apiece from Kevin De Bruyne and Riyad Mahrez condemning them to a thumping 4-1 loss. Following the game, ex-United skipper Keane tore into the current crop of underperforming stars, labelling their performance as “unacceptable”. Erik ten Hag Learning English In Attempt To Land Man Utd Job De Gea Made Some Questionable Comments After Man Utd And… He told Sky Sports: “We saw all of United’s shortcomings today, the way United lost the game today they stopped running. “No running back, it’s really unacceptable when you play for Man United and I think they threw in the towel. “They’re up against a top side but you have to tackle, you’ve got to run back, it was just a reflection of where the club is, they’re so far behind the other teams. “We hear about problems with the new manager coming in but your own pride has to kick in at some stage. I was getting really frustrated, I can forgive mistakes but you have to put your body on the line.” During the analysis fellow pundit Micah Richards joked that Keane would do a better job than current interim boss Ralf Rangnick. POLL And former Tottenham midfielder Jamie O’Hara believes Keane could come in and pick the dressing room up by the bootstraps and reverse their current malaise. “Why don’t they get Roy Keane?” O’Hara said on talkSPORT. “Not as the manager, but why is Roy Keane not involved at Manchester United? Tell me why he’s not involved.” “He’s not just an ex-player is he? He was the captain of the most successful team in the Premier League. Surely, if I was Man United, and I was hearing him [Keane] every week on Sky, I’d want someone like that at my football club.” O’Hara continued: “When you’re playing football, you need to have that leadership. You need to have those people that can dig something out and roll your sleeves up and fight for each other. “I just look at this Manchester United side and it’s full of talent, but I just don’t know if they’ve got any sort of heart, any sort of desire. Man Utd Threaten Arsenal’s Three-Year Transfer Mission… Man Utd ‘Plot Move For Ajax Star Antony’ “I don’t know whether that’s going out of the game, maybe they’re worried about a Roy Keane coming in and upsetting people. I think you need that in football.” Keane’s former teammate Gary Neville also accused United of putting in a “spiritless” display, with their top four hopes taking a major hit. “I’ve been critical of them in terms of their spirit, the leaks, the lack of togetherness and it comes hurtling towards you in a game like this,” he explained on his Sky Sports podcast. “You find out if you’ve got a spirit or not as it’s OK coming back in games against Brighton, Southampton or Villa. “They’ve got a £350m budget and have spent £1.2bn on this squad so you expect them to stay in games. But when you play against the top teams, you’ll get pulled apart. “What we saw at the end of this match was a spiritless Manchester United.”