TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI With the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) now over, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party led by the national chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni has completed its assignment and will hand over to the new national executives led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, former Nasarawa state governor. As caretaker chairman, Buni who was appointed in June 2020 after the ouster of Adams Oshiomhole was given six months to manage the affairs of the party. However, he got another six months extension in December 2020 till June 2021 in order to complete some of the tasks In June 2021, he got another extension till December 2021. Concerned stakeholders in the party then began to raise eyebrows over what they called Buni’s ‘sit tight’ approach. This became manifested after he refused to take concrete steps towards conducting the party’s national convention earlier scheduled for February 26 2022, especially selling of forms to intending aspirants. Even after the convention was postponed till March 26, there were no signs on ground to show Buni is ready to carry out the exercise. Buni’s alleged sit-tight posture led to discontent and division among the APC governors under the aegis of the Progressives Governors Forum. A faction of the APC governors was alleged to have complained bitterly to President Buhari that Buni was not inclined to holding the convention as rescheduled, because there were no preparations on the ground to indicate so. On this note, the president was said to have immediately directed that Buni be removed and replaced. Backed by 19 APC governors,Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, stormed the APC national secretariat and took over affairs of the party in what Senator John Akpanudoedehe, the national secretary of the caretaker committee described as a ‘coup against Buni’. After Sani-Bello’s rejection by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), President Buhari waded in and appealed to the governors to maintain the status quo by allowing Buni and his executives to preside over the national convention. Giving an account of what the Caretaker Committee has achieved since June 2020, Akpanudoedehe in an interview with Daily Independent said “ Let me use this opportunity to enlighten Nigerians on the activities of the CECPC since we came on board in June 2020. We met a party that was at the lowest ebb. This made us lost lots of grounds. The Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee brought in about three governors. We have been able to attract former Senate President, former Speakers of the House of Representatives, former Ministers and former governors who had earlier left the party. In less than one year, we bought the party secretariat and we were no longer tenants. The house was priced by the administration of Chief John Odigie-Oyegun but we bought it in less than one year. In our administration, even after the COVID-19 pandemic and EndSARS, we won almost 99 percent of bye-elections in the country”. POLL “Also, under our watch, we have registered 41 million people, which is unprecedented. During the registration exercise, the party activities went on almost in every wards. By so doing, we have been able to establish our party in every ward of the country. There is no ward in in the whole of Nigeria today that APC doesn’t have a presence”. “Also, within two years, we have been able to amend the party’s constitution. We went all over Nigeria to seek public opinions. We also published the constitution so that anyone can make contributions. As we are heading towards this national convention scheduled for March 26, we will then pass the amendment to the constitution to become a law”. “In terms of staff welfare, before we came on board, the party secretariat was deserted. People were not coming to the secretariat anymore because activities of the party were taken to personal houses. Staff also stopped reporting for duties. However, that has changed since the caretaker committee came on board. If you go to the party secretariat now, it is bubbling with activities”. Also speaking during his valedictory speech at the APC convention, Buni appealed to members of the party to bury their differences and collectively work for the interest and success of the party by supporting the newly elected National and Zonal officials. He said unflinching support for the new leadership will promote internal democracy as well as ensure the emergence of popular, credible, and generally acceptable candidates to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 general elections. He also explained that the CECPC constituted by the National Executive Committee, NEC, to restructure and reposition the APC made tremendous impact in revamping and improving the party. Buni said one of the achievements of the CECPC include the reconciliation of aggrieved members which led to the return of defected members. He also identified the registration and revalidation exercise of all party members last year with over 41 million members fully registered with Permanent Voter Cards, PVCs and passport sized photographs. Speaking further, he said the achievement have increased the party membership from 11 million to over 41 million registered members which gives added advantage of winning elections in Nigeria with landslide victories. According to him, the initial six months given to the CECPC was grossly inadequate, unrealistic, and not practicable to resolve the problems it met on the ground bedeviling the party. Buni said under his watch, three serving Governors of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, Cross River State, Ben Ayade, and Zamfara State, Bello Mutawalle, defected along with millions of their supporters from PDP into the APc as well as former Speakers of the House of Representatives, former PDP National Chairman, member of PDP Board of Trustees, several senators, members of the House of Representatives and state assemblies. The Yobe Governor also said under his leadership, the party procured the property serving as APC National Headquarters in Abuja which is now named after President Muhammadu Buhari as Buhari House. Giving its verdict on the performance of the caretaker committee, A group in the ruling APC, United Progressives Forum has commended Buni for successful piloting the affairs of the party in the last two years. In a statement signed by its convener, Hon. Ismail Yakub, the forum specifically singled out the National Secretary of the Caretaker committee, Senator John Akpanudoedehe for the high level of professionalism and loyalty he demonstrated during his tenure. According to them, the story of the success of the Buni-led Caretaker Committee cannot be complete without mentioning the role played by Akpanudoedehe whom they described as a ” loyal, dependable and true progressive, who placed the interest of the party far above his personal gains or comfort”. ” We commend the leadership of the Buni-led Caretaker Committee for helping to stabilise the party after the raging storm that led to the removal of the Adams Oshiomhole led National Working Committee (NWC). It is indeed a huge sacrifice for the governor of a state currently battling insurgency challenge to accept that role and combined it effectively well, most times shuttling between Yobe, Abuja and other states”. “Most importantly, mention must be made of the role played by the National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, a silent achiever and the engine room of the Caretaker committee. We sincerely thank him for his outstanding patriotic roles towards the unity, stability and growth of our great party”. ” For those who may not know, as the National Secretary, Senator Akpanudoedehe is the engine room of the CECPC.He is not a noisy type. He prefers to work diligently and quietly and he doesn’t want to take any glory for himself. What matters to him is that the commitee justifies the confidence reposed in it by President Muhammadu Buhari and other stakeholders of the party by ensuring stability in the APC and putting it in proper shape for the 2023 elections”. ” Akpanudoedehe also demonstrated what a loyal man he is when he resisted attempts to illegally remove Governor Buni who was recuperating in a foreign hospital as APC chairman. That act of bravery, loyalty and steadfastness is something that is rare in today’s politics and we also appreciate him for that”. The forum also congratulated the newly elected National Executive of the APC led by Senator Adamu Abdullahi, urging them to consolidate on the achievements already recorded by the Buni-led Caretaker Committee.