The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Saturday said that the country is not moving forward due to bigotry, tribalism and ethnoreligious biases in the practice of politics. Governor Fayemi who stated this while speaking at a symposium in Abuja said that the country will not develop until Nigerians shun these vices in their practice of politics and political conversations, adding Nigeria needs to experience growth and development. Fayemi who is also the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) expressed dismay with the way politics is practised in the country, saying there is a need to build a consensus around major issues of concern and develop a national template for some irreducible behaviour in leadership positions. 2023: We’ve Perfected Yahaya Bello Presidency Masterplan,… 2023: Governors Reach Consensus To Produce Presidential… He, however, advised Nigerians to love the nation and work towards resolving the issues affecting the country ahead of the 2023 general elections. Fayemi said: “I call on all of you to love this country and imagine it as a major world power in no distant time. “Nation-building is an unfinished business but for every generation, there is always a pressing business that must be done urgently. These challenges that ail our country today provide us with the opportunity to take a position and take a stand and work for the resolution of such challenges. “Nigeria will belong to those who are prepared to stand up, stand firm and take control of their destinies. Like Hamzat has elected to do, we can all do our part in our little ways to cause a beautiful change that will lead us to make our country and indeed the world a better place. “We all just need to build a consensus around major issues of concern and develop a national template for some irreducible behaviour in leadership positions. POLL “I am personally uncomfortable with the practice of our politics and our political conversations. We should have outgrown bigotry, tribalism and ethnoreligious biases. It is time to rekindle the candle of a new Nigeria and the coming transition provides another opportunity for us to take a new dive as to making a new Nigeria of our dreams.”