The Medicines Sans Frontieres (MSF), also known as Doctors Without Borders has called on humanitarian actors to break the principle of neutrality in the face of injustices and violence. The MSF Project Coordinator, Benue Project, Mitch Rhyner disclosed this in a chat with newsmen at the sidelines of its 50 years anniversary celebration, titled “50 years of humanity” in Makurdi on Sunday. He explained that one of the reasons why MSF was celebrating its anniversary in Nigeria, was because MSF was birthed in Nigeria 50 years ago. The event which was a two-day photo exhibition was held on Saturday and Sunday to educate the people of Benue on the activities of MSF and on how it carries out its works. Rhyner said, that even as humanitarian actors, sometimes it was very important to speak out in the face of injustices so that the world would know what is happening and act on the issues. According to him, “I think, part of the reason Nigeria was chosen, is because in a way MSF was birthed here and during the crisis in Biafra, several doctors became frustrated that humanitarian actors were not speaking out about what they saw because as humanitarians you often see things that others don’t, as they work in places that are challenging, where there is conflict and violence. “So, several felt that the principle of neutrality, sometimes should be broken; sometimes it’s more important to speak out about what is happening, about injustices occurring, so that the world can know and act on it. “So, those individuals (that formed MSF) broke away from the ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross), with other journalists, founding MSF in 1971.” POLL On its 50 years anniversary celebration, Rhyner said, “The title of this event is 50 years of humanity and it is the event to the mark the birth of MSF; Doctors Without Borders, which took place in 1971 and this is the seventh stop of this exhibition. It’s been through six other locations in Nigeria and part of the goal is to educate communities where we work, about what we do and who we are. “It’s also an opportunity to step back and reflect on the importance of the principle of humanity and our role in fulfilling that principle, so we kind of see as a fundamental part of our work this principle that people who are victims of violence, who suffer from conflicts and cannot receive services that there is a duty for us to help them to do what we can to reduce their suffering and to provide medical care, provide water, shelter and protection, in some cases. “So, this event is an opportunity for us to highlight what humanity is and MSF’s role in promoting humanity and this photo exhibition takes the viewer or participant through the 50 years with some notable pictures from both Nigeria and other countries and it’s an opportunity for others to see visually, the work we’ve done; some of the patients we have treated and the people we’ve helped. “It’s one thing to hear about our projects and programmes in Nigeria and other countries and it’s quite different to see it and to be able to learn from our team what MSF does and how we do it. That’s the idea of this exhibition.” Earlier, while declaring the event open, Rhyner noted that since MSF came to Benue in 2018, the organisation has offered interventions in five Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state, where it has been providing primary health care to thousands of patients, particularly, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). He said, “We’ve drilled boreholes, conducted cholera responses, established shelters and delivered food and non-food items” to victims in the state.