AKURE – In preparation for the forthcoming Peoples Democratic Party’s primaries for the elective positions in 2023 general elections, Senator Bukola Saraki’s Campaign Council was in Akure on Thursday to canvass for the support of party delegates for the former President of the Senate who is aspiring for the presidency in 2023. The team led by former National Chairman of PDP, Abubakar Kau Baraje, Gabe reasons for the need to elect the former President of Senate as the party’s Presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections. Addressing 35 delegates from Ondo State, who was present at the meeting at the party’s Secretariat at Alagbaka, Akure, the Ondo State capital, Baraje explained that the country needed a cerebral person like Saraki who could fix its various challenges. He alluded to the performance of the two-term former governor of Kwara State as the President of Senate, saying he ensured the constitution prevailed in all government dealings during his time. Baraje recalled that Saraki came up with a memo as President of the Senate that oil subsidy was a ruse, charging the delegates to vote for him so that he could fix the economy. Prince Adenekan Olagbegi, a member of the campaign council, described the country as a failed state. The financial consultant said: “I am supporting him because of the challenges in the country. It’s more of a failed state. “We have challenges in all sectors. People need to have the courage to make right decision. This country will move and become one of the four great nations in the world. POLL “The only missing link in the Nigerian is the leadership. Like a soccer game, if you have the best team, you will win. “America is totally different from Nigeria because they have a system in place. “We need to have the courage to choose the best person that will turn the nation round. We need a competent, truthful, dedicated person to lead us. “The lackadaisical attitude of people in the petrol sector is currently pulling down a lot of companies in the country “We can’t break even because the efficiency is not there. The world is advancing through knowledge capital.” In his response, the state Chairman of PDP, Hon. Fatai Adams, disclosed that 35 delegates present at the interaction. He said Ondo has no reason not to support Saraki’s ambition. He described Saraki as the best President of the Senate Nigeria has ever produced. According to him,  “He(Senator Saraki) proved there’s separation of power. He’s cerebral. He succeeded because he’s a bridge-builder and that’s why the tyrants found it difficult to remove him. “Nigeria is bleeding and needs someone who can build the nation. By the grace of God, we will choose the best at the convention in Abuja.”