Fans Golden Club International (FGCI), a socio-cultural group has expressed grave concern over the decision of the Edo State government to convert the Ambrose Alli University Ekpoma into a multi-campus institution, saying that apart from the policy being ill-advised, it was not cost-effective. Recall that the Obaseki led administration in the state had in its Education Policy, announced that it plans to operate a tripartite campus for Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma with campuses in Oredo local government and Owan Federal Constituency. The group, in a statement in Benin signed by Sir T.U. Okoudoh (President) and A.O.Orukpe (Secretary), respectively, said that the current fund disbursement to the institution monthly was grossly inadequate to meet the personal emolument and running cost of the university as it operates now. The group said, “the establishment of the two additional campuses will require huge financial outlay to put both the administrative and personal structure on the ground for their takeoff. This we know and believe the state government will be unable to foot easily. ” The decision came to us as a surprise and leaves much to be desired. The policy to say the least is not cost-effective in the sense that what the state government is currently disbursing to the university on a monthly basis is grossly inadequate.. “The lean allocation to the main campus and the two additional campuses to be created will affect the quality of research, teaching and learning that will go on in the university. ” In view of the general economic downturn in the country, new infrastructure will be required, administrative personnel and other related administrative costs will follow. “This will invariably lead to astronomical overhead increase cost of running the university. POLL ” Ambrose Alli University has been saddled with insufficient funding in recent years which has affected the academic calendar and also the performance of the institution. We are aware that the current subvention to the institution is grossly inadequate to meet its needs”. The group, therefore, urged the state government to rescind the policy and commit more funds to the running of the university for the overall wellbeing of the staff, students and the school in general.