ISEGHE AJAYI Surviving in these dire hard times requires proper financial planning and prudent way of life. Failure to develop these habits especially if your income is nothing to write home about will be catastrophic! More so, the present state of the economy does not guarantee wasteful lifestyles regardless of your earnings. Even the affluence are cautious in the way and manner they spend their money because they desire to remain relevant financially. Having a grip on your finances is not based on your educational qualification but your mindset towards it that matters. Besides, many people regardless of what their earnings find it hard not to incur debts at the end of the month because of their inability to manage their finances due to financial recklessness or improper planning on their part. This has always led to financial regrets as some of them are being scared of pestering they might get from their debt collectors. That is why it is crucial to try as much as possible to live within your income to avoid financial anxiety and this can only be feasible if you have a proper hold on your finances irrespective of what you earn. Instead of worrying and thinking of how you can clear up that debts you have trapped yourself in, why not focus your mind on how to manage and enhance your finances. Do you know that the best way to get a hold on your finances is to set a financial goal for yourself ? It could be short or long-term for a certain period of time and will enable you track and prune your expenses to reach your set target. There is no doubt that managing your finances in an unfavourable economy can be very challenging but it is feasible with the appropriate financial planning. POLL The following tips can help you to see the need to manage your money especially in a downturn economy: Ensures Financial Peace/Security Managing your earnings appropriately guarantees financial security for you and your family. Do you know that proper management of your finances certainly gives you financial freedom and peace of mind? With the right investment, insurance plan and proper savings, there is no way you will not experience peace of mind. Financial Plan Having a financial plan helps you to have a grip on your finances. With a budget, you will be able to know the money that comes in and goes for proper accountability. To some people, creating a budget seem so demoralising or time consuming, but it is not impossible as it has helped a lot of people to control their spending habits, thereby having a grip on their money. Budgeting helps you to reach your financial set goals for the year and as such it is germane! Track Your Expenses It is very important to be honest with yourself when it comes to managing money as you need to have a full and exact picture of your spending habits. Besides, it is crucial to track your weekly expenses and the best way to go about it is to write down everything you spend in a week or month for proper tracking. Re-Evaluate Your Spending Habits There is need to re-assess your spending habits to avoid frivolous purchases that may interfere with your monthly or weekly budget. And that is why it is important not to incur more debt, once you know how much you owe your creditors. If you really desire to live a debt-free life, you need to evade worthless spending and also try as much as possible to make some cuts or adjustments where necessary. Cut Bad Habits There is need to cut all bad money habits if you desire to have a grip on your finances to experience financial independence. For example, that visit to your preferred eatery or online shopping you do with your friends has to stop. Sure, these things might seem not important but looking properly, they are actually killing or interfering with your budget. It will do you great good if you try to cut bad money habits and if that means replacing with a good one, so be it. The most important thing is to have a grasp on your finances to enable you live a debt-free life. Avoid going to the mall in the same token if it is the reason of your constant spending. Investing It is important to invest your money and that can only be realistic if you have a proper control of your money. Although several individuals have argued about the subject, believing that it may not be that easy particularly if you have a debt to pay. Regardless of whether you have a debt to pay or not, it is appropriate to create a room or space for investment no matter how small the money is. Get Organised If you have obtained bills bloated in every drawer and have never opened your bank statement, then it is high time you brought in a bit of management into your finances. Besides, you can set aside a box to all your money-related papers so you can get your hands on them easily. It is also worth buying a diary and noting down when your utilities transactions come to an end, when your phone contract is up. That way you can start searching for a new contract in good time and avoid rolling on to an overpriced rate. When it comes to getting your finances organised, if your bills are not all on direct debit, set reminders on your phone to ensure you are not charged for late payments. Clear Your Debts There is need not to take a cursory look at your finances especially if you have debts to settle. It is imperative to see how much non-refundable income that you have so as to assign a certain amount of that income to pay off your debts every month. This can be done by taking your monthly income and subtracting the necessary expenses; the remaining income that is left is what you will use to settle your debt.