Prophets, Pastors and other men of God in the churches preach the word of God for people to hear and use them to change their lives for better. Therefore, it is imperative for all that preach the words of God to examine, appraise their sermons or teachings if they are making impact on people that hear the words. It is the joy of a Prophet or Pastor to see that all his teachings are having impact on the people i.e. seeing people changing from their ungodly or negative ways to positive. I was full of joy when three female members of my ministry told me they had changed their ways toward their husband when they heard the teaching on the role of a good woman. Also a young man had changed his ungodly behaviour and evidently seen in him. These people were honoured by Jesus Christ because they heard the words and used them. These evidently show that my teachings are not in vain and having positive impact on people’s life. Many people had listened, heard the teachings and ministration of Prophets of God but failed to change but preferred to remain the same which could lead to their destruction. They had imbibed strange things into their life. The strange woman does not only refer to female but idiomatically mean the undesirable strange things in a person’s life tormenting him or her. These strange things make people to commit sins which the person’s soul rejects but the body (flesh) does not reject. I fervently pray that all strange things in your life should go away in the name of Jesus. The Bible mentioned strange woman in the book of Proverbs 5:20 “And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger? It is very dangerous for a person to pretend not to hear when he or she actually heard the warning not to do certain thing. People need to thoroughly examine the words of God and see the benefit in embracing the words of God. If the body and mind are not ready to hear, then pray that the spirit of hearing come over to you so that you heed all the warnings. Imagine Samson, he married a strange woman. And when a strange woman comes into a man’s life it is always difficult to discard her. Samson failed to heed to God’s and his parent’s warning. He heard but pretended not to hear. He eventually destroyed his life through his adulterous way of life. Judges 13:5 “For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head: for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.” Samson did not heed the warning. He revealed the source of his power to woman who razor on his head. Judges 16:17-20 “That he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a rasor upon mine head; for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother’s womb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man. And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand. And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him. And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself. And he wist not that the LORD was departed from him”. Samson was instrumental to his destruction. Recently, a male member of my church testified that the strange thing in his life was that he always beat his wife. He thought that his non-elevation in the church several years back was due to the strange thing. He decided to desist from the act about a year. Thereafter he was elevated in the house of God. Brethren, what is it that will make you change from your adulterous act, drunkenness and other act that will bring destruction to your life. A person that does not like himself or herself refuses to refrain from what he or she was told not to do in spite of hearing the teachings of man of God. It is unrealistic to think that some people blocked their ears with a piece of wood when they fail to heed the teachings of men of God. People should not be hearing sermons and words of God in vain. If you hear sermons without practicing it idolaters will get the grace before you. The book of Matthew 11:20-24 “Then began He to upbraid the cities wherein most of His mighty works were done, because they repented not: Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment, than for you. POLL And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee”. A lot of people did not believe Jesus and His teachings despite the miraculous things He did to make them believe Him. Similarly a former leader in my ministry saw powerful signs and wonders performed by God through me but he never believed in them. He saw them, heard them but his mind did not change. It is a pity the same person now sought for help from a member of the ministry. Some people are adamant and refuse to use the teachings and sermons they hear in the radio, TV and read in the newspapers positively. Disobedience prevents people’s glory to be seen. Brethren, let the strange things in our lives go away so that our glory will be manisfested.