BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI In a move that has reshaped the banking sector in the country, Guaranty Trust Bank with the aim of strengthening its long-term competitiveness and growth prospects, transformed into a holding company structure in the middle of 2021. Under the terms of the re-organisation, a new operating company was established and amendments made to the articles of incorporation for a corporate name change. The corporate name of Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc) was adopted by the newly established operating company. Since the reorganisation which included a Board of Directors comprising, Mr. Sola Oyinlola as Chairman, Mr Segun Agbaje as the Group Chief Executive Officer, Mr Adebanji Adeniyi as Executive Director, Mrs Cathy Echeozo as Non-Executive Director, Mr. Suleiman Barau and Mrs. Helen Bouygues as Independent Non-Executive Directors, the new company has continued to wax stronger. Segun Agbaje, the Group Chief Executive Officer of Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc, while commenting on the new status, said: “We believe that a Holding Company Structure will allow us to take advantage of new business opportunities in the emerging competitive landscape and strengthen our earnings base. “We are very excited to get started on the next phase of our incredible journey to driving Africa’s growth by making end-to-end financial services easily accessible to every African and African Businesses by leveraging Technology and Strategic Partnerships. “As a bank, we were always looking to meet every customer need; with our corporate reorganization, we will be able to do more to help our customers thrive in this new world of digital technologies and unprecedented possibilities”. He further stated that: “Whilst we are evolving as an organization, we remain committed to our founding values which have endeared our brand to millions of people across Africa and beyond, and which continues to drive our financial success. As a Proudly African and Truly International band, we will continue to live by these values—of excellence, hard work, and integrity, even as we create faster, cheaper, safer, and more diverse products for people and businesses of varied types and sizes.” POLL Prior to its corporate reorganization to Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc has been at the forefront of delivering innovative banking products and services to customers and best-in-class Return-on-Equity to shareholders. It is widely regarded as the best managed financial institution in Nigeria and has, over the past decade, embarked on a period of unparalleled growth, growing its customer base from less than 3 million customers in 2011 to over 24 million customers in 2020, and profit before tax from N45.5 billion at the end of the 2010 financial year to N238.1billion at the end of 2020 financial year. First Bold Move Just immediately, the brand new holding company took a bold step by appointing its first female Managing Director, Mrs Miriam Olusanya for Guaranty Trust Bank Limited. Significantly, the banking subsidiary, Guaranty Trust Bank Limited is being governed by a board of directors comprising, Mr Ibrahim Hassan as Chairman of the board, Mrs Miriam Olusanya as managing director, Mr Jide Okuntola as deputy managing director, Mr Haruna Musa as executive director, Mr Olabode Agusto as independent non-executive director, Ms Imoni Akpofure and Mrs Victoria Adefala as independent non-executive directors. Fresh Investment Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc took a bold step recently when it completed the acquisition of 100 per cent equity stakes in Investment One Pensions Managers Limited and Investment One Funds Management Limited from Investment One Financial Services Limited. Investment One was previously known as GTB Asset Management Limited, and was founded by former GTBank director, Nicholas Nyamali, and GTCO has now taken full possession of the fund vehicle. Mr Segun Agbaje,the Group Chief Executive Officer, GTCO, said: “This acquisition is in line with the evolution of the Guaranty Trust brand in becoming a fully-fledged financial services company, with the capabilities and drive to deliver end-to-end financial services to every African and African business. “With over 30 years of being a trusted banker to millions of Nigerians and expertise in capital allocation to generate the highest yields for our customers and shareholders; the pension fund business is a natural fit for the Guaranty Trust brand. “Also, our bias for the highest standards in corporate governance will ensure transparency in how we manage the funds under our management, which will ultimately make us the preferred pension fund administrator, not only in the Nigeria market, but also in Africa.” According to Agbaje, the company’s foray into the wealth management space provides it with the opportunity of becoming a one-stop shop for financial services and products that will empower its customers through the course of their lives. He said: “We will focus on replicating our digital-first customer-centric retail strategy to create distribution channels for wealth solutions that we will offer, to both institutional and retail clients. “As a dominant leader in financial services, we are positioned to add significant value to the asset management business in Nigeria and compete favorably with the largest global wealth managers in the areas of disclosure, corporate governance and regulatory compliance.” The statement said all regulatory approvals had been obtained for the acquisition and commencement of operations of the pension manager company. Unveiling First Annual Financials While unveiling its first annual report as a holding company, GTCO tactically announced that it was ready for the future. Agbaje said that the performance of the group reflects the strength of its franchise and underscores its ability to deliver long-term value for the bank’s stakeholders in spite of the challenges in the business environment and shifting economic conditions. “As a Group, we have continued to explore newer ways to connect with our customers and better our communities by offering greater and more rewarding experiences,” he said. He further added: “2021 presented a crucial opportunity as we took strategic steps to re-organise our business and advance our position as a leading financial services company. With the recent addition of Pension Fund and Wealth Management businesses to the Group, we are well on our way to rapidly scale our operations and strengthen our foothold in these key industry segments. Our goal is to consolidate our place at the top of Africa’s financial services value chain by leveraging technology to provide end-to-end financial solutions to more people and businesses across Africa.” Its gross earnings declined by 1.6 per cent from N455.23 billion in 2020 to N447.8 billion in 2021, primarily from an 8.8 per cent reduction in interest income from N292.74 billion in 2020 to N266.9 billion recorded in 2021. Also, the bank’s loan impairment charge decreased by 56 per cent from N19.57 billion in 2020 to N8.5 billion in 2021, following an improved outlook for the macro-economic variables used in the ECL model in 2021 compared with the gloomy outlook fuelled by the pandemic in 2020. However, the group’s balance sheet remained well structured and resilient with total assets rising by 9.9 per cent to N5.44 trillion from N4.94 trillion recorded in the same period of 2020. Also, the bank was able to attract high deposits by customers as deposits grew to N4.01 trillion from N3.51 trillion in 2020, representing a 14.3 per cent increase. The group’s Non-Interest Income (which is the bank and creditor income derived primarily from fees including deposit and transaction fees, insufficient funds (NSF) fees, annual fees, monthly account service charges, inactivity fees, check and deposit slip fees), rose by 13.4 per cent from N151.44 billion in 2020 to N171.68 billion in 2021. GTCO’s loan book grew to N1.80 trillion in 2021 as against N1.66 trillion in 2020, representing a 8.4 per cent increase while shareholders’ funds or total equity grew by 8.5 per cent to N888.23 billion from N814.40 billion, thus reflecting a strong capacity for internal capital generation and growth. In terms of significant performance metrics, the Group maintained a decent showing with post-tax Return on Equity (ROAE) of 20.6 per cent, post-tax Return on Assets (ROAA) of 3.4 per cent, Full Impact Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of 23.8 per cent, and Cost to Income Ratio (CIR) of 42.3 per cent. These impressive indices led to the Board recommending a final dividend per share of N2.70 per share, which would be subject to withholding tax. The company had earlier paid an interim dividend of 0.30 kobo in May 2021, hence bringing the total dividend for the financial year to N3, same as what was paid in 2020 but a 7 per cent increase from the total dividend paid in 2019. According to the bank’s audited statement, it remains committed to the fight against all forms of financial crime, which includes, money laundering, terrorism financing, bribery and corruption. To show this commitment, the Group continually implemented a framework for Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) and the prevention of the financing and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.