The Governor of Taraba State, Darius Ishaku on Monday throw his weight behind the plan to have a consensus presidential candidate for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 general election. Daily Independent had earlier reported that former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State and Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State met to fine-tune strategies for the emergence of a Northern consensus presidential aspirant ahead of the party’s primary. Ishaku who embraced the move during a meeting with some PDP Presidential aspirants expressed hope that some governors will also support the move before the Presidential primary election slated for May 28th and 29th, 2022. Ishaku who met with the three presidential aspirants stressed the need to salvage the country and reduce the pains in Nigeria while urging all party stakeholders to work together to rescue and rebuild Nigeria. The Governor, who described the move as a wonderful initiative said the PDP is known for being a family. He said, “We have shown Nigerians how to rule and manage their affairs and I think we should still be the leaders. I am very happy with this visit. You have my 100% support. “I am sure my colleagues too will give you the same support and any right-thinking person should be able to support this mission. “We only have to produce one person. Let’s work together, hold our hands together and agree that this person should be our leader and then will all fall in line”. POLL In his remarks, Saraki who spoke on behalf of the aspirants championing the consensus presidential candidate move also stressed the need for all aspirants to close ranks. He said, “what is important now is to provide leadership and unity, let’s close ranks because if we all go to the primary, you know the problems it will create and we agreed to work together and come up with a candidate. “The main thing now is for the PDP to come back and provide leadership for this country and provide direction for the millions of Nigerians who are going through a lot. We will rescue them, take over the country and rebuild it and we have made ourselves committed to this project and with God’s guidance, we will come up with one person, Saraki said. The immediate past president of the Senate also disclosed that they will meet with other aspirants, the Chairman of the PDP 2023 zoning committee, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, Southern PDP Governor and other party stakeholders.