CHIOMA UMEHA Stakeholders are worried about growing unmet needs and low CPR amid poor budgets for contraceptives as Nigeria recently launched the Family Planning  (FP2030) commitment and dissemination of other Reproductive Health Policy documents. Though family planning is recognised as an important tool in the prevention of unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortions, child and maternal deaths, its budgets are either not released or released untimely, therefore meeting set targets remain unrealistic. Recall that the Federal Government had a target in 2012, to increase Modern Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (mCPR) to 36 percent by 2018.  However, on July 11, 2017, at the family planning summit in London, this target was rebased to 27 percent by 2020. Meanwhile, two years later, the modern contraceptive rate in the country remains at 12 percent. With the steady decline of funding from donors, coupled with the unmet need for modern methods of contraception in 2021, put at 12 percent of all women, there is an increasing call for government at all levels to increase domestic funding for improved access to family planning services. With 10.6 million Nigerian women lacking access to contraceptives due to growing demand, stakeholders have urged the Federal Government to increase funding for family planning. The 2018 Nigeria Demographic Health Survey (NDHS) confirmed that 10.6 million women in the country do not have access to contraceptives, despite the growing demand for family planning. POLL The 2018 report further showed that Nigeria has a low modern contraceptive prevalence rate of 12 percent. This is below the sub-Saharan average of 24 percent. The Federal Government had in 2011 rolled out a policy meant to enable women to access contraceptives free of charge, however, only 12 percent of Nigeria’s estimated 42 million women use modern contraceptives. The issue was the focus recently at a three-day capacity building workshop three-day Orientation Meeting for Media Editors, On-Air Personalities (OAPs), and Producers on Advanced Family Planning (AFP) Media Advocacy organised by Pathfinder International, Nigeria, in Abuja.  At the meeting, stakeholders charged the Federal Government to increase funding for family planning. The stakeholders who noted that this would enable Nigeria to meet the increasing demand for contraceptives further called on media practitioners to intensify advocacy campaigns on the timely release of funds. Indeed, they bemoaned the unmet need for contraceptives among Nigerian women, existing gaps between women’s reproductive intentions, contraceptive behaviour, unmet contraceptive needs, and funding. The 2018 NDHS estimates that currently, of the 42 million Nigerian women of reproductive age, only 12 percent use a modern contraceptive. Unfortunately, about 10.6 million women who have a need for family planning do not have access to modern contraceptives. Sadly too, the 2018 NDHS puts South-South as the highest for unmet need for family planning in Nigeria with 28 percent and lowest in the North West with 14 percent. Pathfinder International Nigeria has continued to raise concern over the development, saying available statistics show that more still needs to be done for women to effectively and efficiently access family planning services. Similarly, stakeholders decry inadequate and untimely allocation and release of funds for the provision of family planning services for women who need them. According to them, this is a big setback to the effective provision of such services in the country. For instance, the Nigerian government, through the Federal Ministry of Health, committed N1.2 billion in 2017, but, constant delay and inconsistency in funds discharged created a gap of N2.1 billion. Meanwhile, the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) in Nigeria has remained 17 percent for several decades, which is the lowest around the world. Worst still, the country’s modern contraceptive prevalence rate (mCPR) put at 12 percent, remains below the sub-Saharan average of 24 percent. During the last five years, the use of modern methods has increased from 10 percent to 12 percent, while total demand for contraception has increased from 31 percent to 36 percent. The disparity in the gap widens depending on the region. Indeed, in Lagos, almost half of the married women use a method of contraception, as compared with only two percent of currently married women in Sokoto and Yobe. Similarly, almost 30 percent of women in Lagos State are using traditional methods of family planning. The World Health Organisation (WHO) reports that family planning allows people to attain their desired number of children and determine the spacing of their pregnancies. Indeed, family planning is the ability of individuals and couples to anticipate and attain their desired number of children and the spacing, and timing of their births through the use of various contraceptive methods. If all unmet needs for modern contraception in the country were satisfied, unintended pregnancies would drop by 77 percent, from 2.5 million to 555,000 per year. Further, the annual number of unplanned births would decrease from 885,000 to 200,000 and the number of abortions would drop from 1.3 million to 287,000. Meeting the need for modern contraception among all women in Nigeria who want to prevent pregnancy would cost $546 million annually, according to findings. Fully meeting women’s needs for both contraceptive services and maternal and newborn health care in Nigeria would cost a total of $5.0 billion each year – $26.09 per capital – a total that is roughly the same cost as meeting the need for maternal and newborn care alone. It is time for Nigeria to act if it must meet the FP2030 commitment.