Governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Ekiti State Chapter, Engineer Segun Oni  has assured that the party would offer a level playing ground for members seeking elective positions ahead of the 2023 general elections. The  SDP standard-bearer disclosed this when a  United Kingdom-based lawyer, Yemi Ayodele Ayeni (YAA) called at his residence in Ifaki-Ekiti to intimate the former governor of his political aspiration. Barrister Ayeni has expressed interest in the House of Representatives seat for Ekiti North federal constituency One  (comprising Ikole and Oye local government areas.). Oni who extolled the virtues of the aspirant also described the international Lawyer as an accomplished legal personality who would be pivotal and instrumental to the development of youths and women when elected into the green chamber. ” Yemi Ayodele Ayeni is my good brother and friend of Segun Oni’s family.  Let me assure you guys that there would be a level playing grand for all aspirants. Our own in SDP will be different from those who became House of Representatives candidates through text messages. “Without mincing words, SDP will form the next government of Ekiti State. I urge all residents of Ekiti State who are yet to register or collect their PVCs to go and do so because this is another opportunity for us to choose who should rule the state for the next four years.” Oni said The aspirant who hails from Oye-Ekiti also paid homage to the  Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju where he received his royal blessings. Oba Ademolaju who commended the aspirant for his untiring philanthropist gestures over the years for the people said his ambition to represent the constituency would be supported by all and sundry. POLL The former chairman of the state council of traditional rulers maintained that with his achievements and contributions to the society and the less privileged as a lawyer, he would not disappoint his constituents when elected in 2023. In his remarks, Ayeni who commended the people for the show of love and commitment for his aspiration promised not to fail them when elected in 2023. ” Appreciation to my people that came out to welcome me. It was a surprise welcome devoid of my knowledge. When the news filtered to me, I decided to pay an uninformed courtesy visit to HE Asiwaju Segun Oni before proceeding to the palace of His Royal Majesty, Oba Ademolaju Adugbole, the Oloye of Oye Ekiti for royal blessings. ” Surprisingly, arrangement for well-wishers and fans throughout the constituency was made by people. I thank you all for honouring me this way,” he said.