The 36th Edition of the National Qur’anic Recitation Competition ended in Bauchi state on Saturday, with Baba Goni Mukhtar from Borno State and Haulatu Amina Ishaq from Zamfara State emerging overall winners in the male and female categories, carting away with 3 million naira each. Daily Independent reports that no fewer than 328 participants across states of the Federation contested in the competition, making Bauchi state play host to the competition at the national level for the third time. Out of the number,168 were males and 160 were females. Speaking at the closing ceremony, the State Governor, Bala Mohammed commended all the role played faith-based organizations who promote the learning and recitation of the Qur’an, traditional leaders and the Center for Islamic Studies of the Usman Danfodio University Sokoto and Organizers of the competition for successfully hosting the event in the state. He said that since the inception of the National Qur’anic Recitation Competition in 1985, Bauchi state is hosting the event for the third time, which he noted was one of the achievements of his administration. The Governor said that the annual National Qur’anic Recitation Competition should not only be seen as an opportunity to win prizes by the contestants, stressing that in addition to memorizing and reciting the Qur’an but it is also necessary to put into practice all the verses written in the Qur’an as instructed by Allah. “You will agree with me that the world today is faced with numerous challenges ranging from material and moral corruption, intellectual bankruptcy, insecurity and other social abnormalities.This state of affairs is threatening the socio-economic and the various parts of the world as a planet that is worth living in” “I want to call on all God-fearing Muslims, especially our respected Ulamas to intensify prayers at all times and places, especially at gatherings such as this. The banditry, insecurity is happening within our midst, we need to ask ourselves why, can we change it? Have we offended Allah? if so we should have some introspection so that we will be able to go for the expiation of our sins, for Allah to forgive us so that we will not be in this kind of mess we have found ourselves” he said POLL Governor Mohammed charged leaders at all levels to live by the fear of God and by example even as he called on parents and guardians to ensure proper upbringing of their children, stressing that the society requires serious moral orientation as most of the challenges bedevilling the nation is associated with the attitude of people. Also Speaking, the Sultan of Sokoto, his eminence, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar called on Muslims in the state, particularly leaders to fear Allah and live peacefully, saying that they will account of their deeds on the last day. He commended the Bauchi State government and Organizers of the competition for successfully hosting the event in the state, saying that the competition did not only produce winners but fostered unity among Muslims and other religions in the state.