The National Secretariat of the National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) has expressed concern over the exploitative actions of some Oil Marketers in Ekiti State. The NANS President, Comrade Sunday Asefon who paid unscheduled visits to some filling stations in Ado-Ekiti over the weekend detested the attitudes of many Oil dealers who took advantage of the recent fuel crisis to exploits Nigerians by selling above the official pump prices of N162-N165 per litre. The student’s leader who moved round some fuel stations enforced the sales of petrol at approved pump price. While some fuel stations quickly reverted to the official pump prices on sighting the NANS Team, Others literarily shut down operations and deserted their stations. The report had it that many fuel stations across the State capital are still selling at between 220 to 230 naira per litre while only a few still sell at government approved pump price. Though motorists are avoiding those selling above the official pump price, the queue at those selling at government-approved prices has reduced considerably. The NANS boss however warned petroleum marketers and fuel station owners in Ekiti State to desist from selling above government approved pump price and stop hoarding the products. Asefon alleged that there was an attempt to compromise the NANS Team when the union made efforts to seek interface with the leadership of petroleum marketers in the State but were rebuffed. POLL “Speaking to journalists Asefon said ” I flew to Abuja on Thursday, I discovered that the queue has reduced drastically, virtually all fuel stations in Abuja were selling at normal price, I left Abuja yesterday afternoon, I got to Lokoja, nearly all the fuel stations that I have made enquiries were also selling at normal price, but when I got to Ado-Ekiti reverse is the case. “We know, it has become a usual thing in Ekiti state, people in Ekiti are always looking for means of putting a price on their goods to extort the general public, which I think it’s abnormal”. According to him, “the issue we are dealing with now, is not the issue of Buhari or the NNPC, It’s the issue of our people, the petroleum marketers have made their money in the last two or three weeks now, by extorting the people, Ok! the one they have made, we would let it go, they should come down to normal price, and for those who failed to sell at normal price, it’s our duty as Nigerian, as a pressure group and as a leader of the Nigerian Students, the largest constituency that is affected by the exorbitant rate at which marketers are selling in Ekiti state, we will make sure marketers comply with government approved pump price of fuel”. He said ” we are going round the fuel stations around the State based on the High increase of the product by the marketers which is against the regulations of the Federal Government and NNPC, Last month we all aware in this country that due to the negligence of the NNPC adulterated fuel came to Nigeria, that has caused lots of damages to the vehicles and machineries across the country and since then, government has vowed to bring the perpetrators to book and they also promised that they would clean the adulterated fuel and bring in new fuel. “Yes, we all know for like two, three weeks now, several fuel stations witnessed queues by motorists, people are sleeping at the fuel stations before they can get fuel, particularly in Abuja and Lagos State, as I speak today, on Tuesday I was in Lagos, I drove from Ado here, I bought fuel at the rate of 240 naira per litter in Ado, when I got to Ibadan to refill my tank, I bought normal price, I got to Lagos, every fuel stations were selling fuel at normal price, no queue. “Since three weeks ago that the news of adulterated fuel has come to the full glare of public domain, Ekiti fuel stations have been selling between 250 to 300 naira per litter, as you can see they are selling 220 naira per litter here, there’s another fuel station I have visited that was selling the fuel at 210 naira per litter. This is too bad for our people, they should sell at the normal price”. “The hardship our people are passing through is too bad, if you stop a bike man now ask for fare, the place they were carrying for 100 naira has increased to 200 naira, and if you asked the bike man why the exorbitant fare, he will tell you that the price of fuel has increased whereas, government has not increased the price of fuel”. Motorists and petroleum users at the fuel stations visited by the NANS President expressed their delights at the proactive measure taken by the Students’ leader while commending his efforts at nipping the nefarious activities of the marketers in the bud. A commercial motorcyclist operator who simply identified himself as Iginla Ojo Adebayo at a fuel station where the task force Enforcement of the NANS President extended his tentacles to, lauded the efforts of the team at making life more bearable for them.