*Insists Unity Of Nigeria Is Paramount MAKURDI – Former Senate President Bukola Saraki in conjunction with the Governors of Sokoto and Bauchi state, Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed respectively have embarked on the mission of consulting with all the Presidential aspirants on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) The intention of the trio is to arrive at a concensus presidential candidate for the PDP, who is capable of winning the 2023 elections and also uniting the party. Speaking at the official residence of the Benue state governor, Samuel Ortom in Makurdi on Monday, Saraki noted that the three of them have taken upon themselves to see all the presidential aspirants and other critical stakeholders of the party, including Governor Ortom. The former Senate President who said they will be meeting with the former Vice-President (Atiku Abubakar) over the issue on Monday evening, noted that, in arriving at a consensus it would get rid of the rancour that may be associated with the process. He further explained that, “I’m here today with two brothers; the governor of Sokoto State, Tambuwal and of course, the governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed. “We here today as part of our ongoing consultations by three of us who have indicated interest to aspire for the presidency under our great party and who also on our own, about a couple of weeks ago felt that in the interest of our nation as well as the interest of our great party that we should be able to come together and find a consensus among us. “Our interest is very little to compare to our country at this time which is at a very defining moment. I believe only our party can rescue this country from where it is today and those of us who are aspiring are committed to ensure that we find somebody who will unite us, whom we will all support. That’s a better way to unite the party and reduce the rancour in the process. POLL “To do that we must also carry along key stakeholders of the party, leaders in the party like yourself (Governor Ortom) and that’s why we are here today. Our plan is to see the other colleagues across the country. We are hoping today to see yourself (Ortom) and two other governor’s as well as some other governors tomorrow. “Three of us alone cannot win and deliver. It’s a task for all of us and that’s why we feel that at this very stage of our deliberations, leaders like yourself must be part of it that’s why we held a private discussion for you to know that we are very serious about this. “The seriousness comes from our total belief that it’s the unity of our party. All of us are eminently qualified to lead this country; it’s about us ensuring that we put the country first and that is why we are here. We thank you for the fruitful discussions. “We are confident and encouraged by your comments that what we are doing is in the best interest of our party and for our country.” While, answering questions as to what would happen in the event that the process fails, Asked what would happen in the event that that the process failed and if it would not bring about division within the ranks of the PDP, Saraki said it would not divide the party. He said, “When we get to that bridge, we will cross it. The fact is that no one forced us to start talking about unity and concensus. We initiated it on our own and I think that spirit will see us through. “Those issues of what will divide us; the country is too divided; the suffering that people are going through is pure personal ambition, that’s not the purpose of this concensus. “When we met first time in Bauchi we did not need to tell the people we were meeting; we would have met and no one would have known what we discussed. We are men of honour and integrity, for us to come out to the public and tell you this is our view, it shows that we are committed to it. “What are we committed about? We are committed about PDP winning; any of the aspirants is eminently competent to rule this country and lead this country. “But whoever that person is, he needs all of us. That is what is priority, not whether Aminu is President or Bala or Wike or Anyim or Waziri; no! It is what will make Nigeria better and we believe it’s the PDP platform “Forget that issue, that anybody will scatter the party; that’s not what’s before us. Many of us have seen what Nigerians have gone through in the last number of years, both in the number of people that have died, those that have gone through a lot of hardship, banditry attacks and the cost of living. This is bigger than our ambition. “This is not forced concensus, like the one you saw on the other weekend, this is real concensus”, he noted. Responding, Governor Samuel Ortom who said that he was humbled by the visit, stated that all the three were eminently qualified to be President of Nigeria. He said, “They are going to Adamawa and to other parts of the country in the south; it is commendable. When the issue of presidency; zoning or no zoning came, I said: I support southern presidency for equity, fairness and justice. “But I’m not the party. The party is supreme. Whatever the party decides is what I will accept. And as far as I’m concerned, they are visiting our southern aspirants and I believe that at the end of the day, it will be decided who should fly the flag and all of us will team up and work to ensure that we rescue this country because their personal ambition or my personal ambition does not matter. “I want to appreciate them for finding me worthy to be the first person after their Bauchi meeting to visit. I want to encourage them, they have done the right thing, they have taken the right step as an opposition party aspiring to rescue Nigeria and rebuild Nigeria. They have done the right thing; divided we fall, united we stand. And this is what they have started. “And I want to encourage them to continue this advocacy and understanding and not just within them but with other people. They have said they are visiting other people including our southern brothers who have indicated interest to be president of this country. “The ambition of Nigerians is what is important to all of us. And by the grace of God and with your support we are going to rescue this country and build it again. “Let us work together. As PDP, even as opposition, we have set a standard for the ruling party. You can see what happened during their convention. It was because we arrived at a consensus during our convention that they struggled to arrive at a consensus too. But you see, initially, they fought and had to bring security men to coarse the people to accept what they did. Ours was not like that. “Look at these young men and compare them to the ancestors in APC that are seeking to be president of this country. The young shall grow. Let’s allow these youths to grow. Truly, like I quote from my brother, the Governor of Oyo State who said that anybody who is after 70 years and is looking for president is an evil person who wants to ruin this country.” Ortom insisted that “Any person beyond 70 years should not be looking for presidency.”