BAUCHI – An All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial aspirant in Bauchi State, Al’ameen Sani Muhd has congratulated the newly elected leadership of the party led by former Governor of Nasarawa state, Senator Abdullahi Adamu for their emergence, urging the new National Chairman of the party to ensure credible, free and fair Primary elections across the country. Alameen stated this in a congratulatory message he personally signed and sent to the newly elected chairman, copy which was made available to Daily Independent. The Gubernatorial Aspirant also felicitated with the entire members of APC cross the country over a successful convention which he noted is charting a new chapter for the party and the nation as a whole. “Sir, as the former State Secretary of the NPN in the Second Republic, a two time Governor of Nasarawa State, a member and chairman PDP BoT and a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, there could have been no other person better qualified than you.” “I congratulate our great party, the APC for having you at the Nick of time. It is such a critical time for our party especially now that we are facing a different Nigeria and Nigerians in the 2023 general election.” “Today in APC, we are faced with unprecedented challenges of insecurity, in all the nook and crannies of the country as well as the biting economic hardship pervaded by vagabonds in power. The faith of Nigerians in APC is at its lowest ebb, Nigeria needs you more than ever”, he said The aspirant urged the new National Chairman of the party to bring his wealth of experience to bear in a manner that the party will conduct a free and fair primaries across the nation. “At your age and with the intimidating CV you have, nobody dares to test your will. I know that you cannot be waylaid and nobody can try to play a prank at you. You cannot afford to be an errand boy, you cannot be a naïve hagiographer, this is the opportunity for you to write your name in gold in the earth.” POLL “Posterity awaits you to make history and I am confident that you will make history because you have all it takes to make it. There are fairytales and grand narratives of the works of fiction created and dished out mainly to disgrace you! The figures of 41 million membership is one example is mere gimmick and a figment of imaginations of these self deceptive.” “These fairytales will only misguide you into believing that all is well with the party.Thank God almighty, that you led the national reconciliation of the warring and aggrieved members of the party”. “There are very tussling and disturbing inner wranglings and rumblings in our party. There are animosities, contempt and suspicion among members. Use your ability and competency to bring peace and harmony to the party. Reach out to the aggrieved and be magnanimous, fair and just in your new responsibility” “Give people listening ears. Raise the hope of those who are dashed to live again. Give everyone a sense of belonging and a feeling of security so that justice can once again reign in the party, this is what you are known for” He said