LAGOS – Chief Daniel Eke, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who recently joined the Abia State governorship race for the 2023 election, has pledged to restore the lost glory of Aba, the state’s commercial city. Eke, a chartered accountant, businessman and former World Bank staff, lamented that Aba, known for its shoes and clothing businesses, had become the world’s dirtiest city, following neglect by past administrations under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He lamented that the people of Aba had remained poor and neglected despite being the state’s cash cows, even as there had been a dearth of infrastructure in the Enyimba city. Gubernatorial Aspirant, Chief Sunday Akun Hails PDP Outing In… Daniel Eke, Ex-World Bank Expert, Joins Abia Governorship Race… He said he would right the wrongs being meted to the people of the state by bringing them into the national political grid of growth and development under the APC, maintaining that the time had come for the people to change their political allegiance if they would remain relevant in the scheme of things. The aspirant, who spoke through a statement signed by his spokesperson, Mr. Ochuko Edekunu, made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT, said he was touched by the endemic poverty in Abia State over the years under the PDP. Eke stressed that his decision to run for the Abia State governorship followed his concern over the decadence in the state, stressing that the people of the state had beckoned on him to come and deliver them from poverty occasioned by several years of misrule and maladministration. He said he had consulted extensively with the major stakeholders and people of Abia State as well as the party, while lamenting the long-suffering and backwardness being experienced by the people of Abia State under the PDP. He promised to bring more dividends of democracy, pledging that if elected governor, his administration would right the wrongs of the past misrule of the PDP regime and bring the government closer to the people, especially the grassroots. POLL Eke, who hailed from Igbere, a sub-urban community in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State, in the South-Eastern geopolitical region of Nigeria, pledged to provide people-oriented governance that would benefit the people. He maintained that under his administration, the Bende Local Government in the Abia North geo-political zone would witness a massive turn-around that would put the people on the path of greatness. The aspirant said under his watch, there would be massive development in infrastructure in such a way that Aba and Umuahia, the two major cities in the, would get a face-lift, to end the ignominious image of the cities. He said he would also focus on the empowerment of the people, especially the youths, while the education and health sectors would get special attention. Eke, who was born to Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Igbokwe Eke of Igbere in 1960, started his educational career at Dan Fodio Road School, Aba, in Abia State. APC Calls Out Governor Ikpeazu To Tell Abians About… Guber Aspirant Backs Buhari On Reversal Of NWC Tenure Extension He then proceeded to Sacred Heart Secondary School (Sahaco), also in Aba, and eventually completed his secondary education at Eziama Secondary School, Aba, Abia State. From there, he proceeded to the United States, where he bagged a Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in Accounting and Law. Tried and tested in public and private organisations, Eke worked for the World Bank and was an auditor in a New Orleans Accounting Firm, United States. He is a member of different professional associations, which moulded and broadened his worldview and prepared him for the task ahead. He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Association of Government Accountants, Maryland Society of Public Accountants, among others.