–-APC may lose next general election ABUJA – As the March 26 convention date of All Progressives draws near, leaders of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) have regrouped in Abuja, insisting that the next chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) must come from its bloc as one of the legacy parties that formed the ruling party. According to the group at the March only Senator Umaru Tanko Almakura can pull the party from the precipice and address the problems confronting the APC whose fortunes have greatly depleted by “the infighting that is currently plaguing the party”. APC Chairmanship: Al-Makura Visits, Solicits Akeredolu’s… Nasarawa APC Endorse Sen. Al-Makura For National Chairmanship… Chief Okoi Ofem Obono-Obla, leader of the group and Secretary of the defunct CPC leaders, who addressed journalists along with the group’s National Coordinator Malam Salihu Yusuf Thursday, in Abuja claim that chieftains of defunct CPC collectively endorse the aspirations of Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura as the next chairman of APC. Obono-Obla cautioned that if the party fail to do the right thing ahead of the Convention, it could as well give up on the 2023 presidential election. The former presidential aide, while reeling out what he called “some of the party’s self-inflicted misfortunes” such as the loss of Bauchi, Zamfara, Rivers states, among others, in 2019 elections, stated that if something was not done, the party might lose the next general election. “We believe if something is not done, the party may lose the next general election. The party has floundered to the extent that there is an almost total breakdown of law, order, discipline and cohesion, all ingredients that are fundamental for the success of every political party that wants to win the election. “There is chaos in the party that has manifested glaringly in its inability to conduct a national convention for two years or more. POLL “The lack of leadership of these past years has seen the fortunes of the party nosedive to the extent that three months to the primaries for nomination of candidates for the 2023 general elections, there is no national working committee that will issue guidelines for the conduct of primaries. “We, therefore, advocate for the election of a leadership that will return the party to its core values.” “The next national chairman must come from one of the legacy parties that coalesced to form APC. “We categorically demand that a member of one of the legacy parties that came together to form APC, be the next national chairman of APC. The group further stated it endorsed Almakura’s aspiration “not out of emotion or sentiment or primordial grounds but holds fervently that in this period, he is the most qualified of all those who have shown interest to lead the party because of who he is”. Al-Makura Donates Office Complex, Tow Truck To FRSC Eighth NASS Lacking Committed Senators, Reps Members – Gov… The former presidential aide described Al-Makura as “an embodiment of the finest values and leadership capabilities. “He is an administrator par excellence, accomplished businessman, legislator, party manager, mediator, conciliator and a progressive and patriotic Nigerian.” He assured that Al-Makura would return the party to her original focus of championing genuine progressive change in Nigeria. On the division within the defunct CPC bloc given that two of its chieftains Mustapha Salihu and Senator Al-Makura have conflicting interests on the APC chairmanship slot, Obono-Obla said “anybody can have the interest to contest but we have settled for Al-Makura.”