***As Concerned Citizens of Burutu Federal Constituency Enthusiastic ***As Former Delta Speaker Says, He Will Give Constituents Effective And Efficient Representation ASABA – Former Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, And Director-General, Direct Labour Agency, Rt. Hon. (Engr) Franc’ P. Enekorogha (MNSE) has picked up expression of interest and nomination forms of People’s Democracy Party, (PDP) to contest for the position of Federal House of Representatives Seat for Burutu Federal Constituency. The media learnt this, today being on Monday, 28th March, 2022 in a press statement made available to newsmen in Asaba by the Director-General, Rt. Hon. Franc’ Enekorogha Campaign Organization, Hon. Chief James Nieketien who commended constituents of Burutu Federal Constituency for their support to the seasoned lawmaker. He noted that Rt. Hon. Engr. Enekorogha is most sort after, people oriented and a seasoned lawmaker that Burutu Federal Constituency needs at this crucial time of the nation’s polity to deliver on effective, efficient and quality representation and provide the needed dividends of Democracy to all citizens as always. The D.G also commended the efforts of the concerned citizens of Burutu Federal Constituency for their support, total confidence, and turning up enmass to make the aspirations of Rt. Hon. Engr. Franc’ P. Enekorogha a success, which he said by God’s grace will later amount to a celebrated victory. He commended Rt. Engr. Enekorogha for his aspirations, desire, courage and humility to serve his people to have picked up the form at the Wadata Plaza, Abuja, Headquarters of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP of which a copy of it was made available to our reporter. Chief Nieketien quoted the statements of the former Delta Speaker as he spoke to the media after picking his Expression of interest and nomination forms in Abuja as Rt. Hon. Engr. Enekorogha said: POLL “I have great confidence and enthusiasm that the party delegates will give me the needed support, vote for me come the day of the Party’s, PDP primary”. “I thank God for yet another opportunity to be in the race to represent my people, the good and hospitable people of Burutu Federal Constituency”. “Today I picked up my expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the forthcoming People’s Democratic Party, PDP primaries as part of the whole electioneering process”. “I am confident and optimistic more than ever before that the delegates will vote me in. Remember, it’s the mandate of Burutu people in general, I am only a vessel for quality representation. Victory for me is victory for all Burutu people”. Recall that Rt. Hon. (Engr) Franc .P. Enekorogha (MNSE) is a former speaker of the Delta House of Assembly who represented Burutu Constituency 1 from 1999-2011 and member House of Representatives 2011-2015, Director General, Direct Labour Agency, Asaba 2015-2019.