BENIN – A Polytechnic lecturer, Mr Percy Ojeh, has bemoaned the total neglect of rotation of elective positions in Akoko-Edo Local Government Area of Edo. Ojeh who is the Head of Department, Estate Management in Auchi Polytechnic, Auchi, stated this when he spoke with newsmen in Benin on Tuesday. He said the neglect have resulted into Akoko-Edo North axis to be shot out for over 12-years and could be more if Peter Akpatason is allowed 4th term in the House of Representatives. DG Advises Corps Members On Security OAU Postpones Matriculation Till Further Notice He regretted that the rotational arrangement which the North axis of the council area have followed religiously, have been jettisoned by some greedy persons. He lamented that the people of Akoko-Edo North axis have been made to look as if they do not belong to the area with recent events. He appealed that urgent steps be taken by the political actors and leaders in the council area in order to foster unity among the people of the local government area. According to him, “The marginalisation is so obvious to the extent that the people of North axis have been made to look like strangers in their own land and yet, the area constitute over 60 percent of Akoko-Edo population.” “How best do you explain that a particular segment of the local government have held on to every elective positions in the council without recourse to the previous arrangement on ground.” POLL “The usual arrangement is that when North axis is given the House of Representatives, the council chairman will go to the South axis and vice versa. “Now, while Akpatason, from South, has held on for 12 – years, the House of Representatives seat, the last chairmanship position was also from the same axis, now Akpatason is being favoured to come back for a 4th term. “Worst still is the two Civil Commissioner slots that have been given the people of the South axis of Akoko-Edo and incidently, they are both from the same community of Ososo with the member of the State House of Assembly representing the area.” “Like I said earlier, Okpameri is by far the largest in terms of population and yet, they have not been accorded the respect with their size. “We remain united as a people in spite of this total disregards but, we are however calling on the political actors and leaders to correct this seeming abnormally as we again approach another electioneering year.”