LAGOS – Spartak Moscow of Russia winger, Vic­tor Moses would have been included in the list of invited play­ers for the forthcoming FIFA World Cup Playoffs between the Super Eagles of Nigeria and the Black Stars of Ghana. Daily Independent gathered that Super Eagles interim manager, Augustine Eguavoen would have invited the former Super Eagles winger but for the ongoing war between Rus­sia and Ukraine. “I would have invited him for the World Cup Playoffs lat­er this month but for the war between Russia and Ukraine,” Eguavoen was quoted. Grassroots Sports Development: John Obuh Lauds Idimogu Comoros, Libya, Guinea Get New Coaches However, according to our source, Eguavoen is not losing hope of having the for­mer Chelsea player to be in his team for the FIFA World Cup Finals should Nigeria scale through Ghana in the Playoffs. A strong hint has emerged that; Victor Moses could be on his way back to the Super Eagles ahead of this year’s World Cup in Qatar as he is already being urged to step out of retirement. Eguavoen went on to af­firm how strong he believes in pulling off the feat, consider­ing that he has already spoken one-on-one with the former Chelsea of England star and will break the news of his re­turn to the Super Eagles. “I will break the news. We want the best for the country, Victor Moses is somebody I also adore and I’m looking at ways of trying to get him in, we’ve spoken. He’s not part of these games but hopefully as time goes on because we want the best. “Victor Moses will still bring some value but right now he’s also playing in that region so that one is settled,” Eguavoen declared. POLL The gaffer is of a view that Moses, who previously played on loan from Chelsea at Fernebahce of Turkey and Inter Milan of Italy, would eventually to reverse his de­cision to quit the Nigerian national team. This is despite the fact that Moses called time on his in­ternational career after star­ring for Nigeria at the 2018 World Cup in Russia, where he started all of the Super Eagles’ group matches and was involved in two of their three goals. The gaffer ended with a bolt of enthusiasm in his voice, as he eulogised the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winner.