LAGOS – The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has taken a swipe at the members of the National Assembly for voting against gender bills in the constitutional amendment process. The anti-graft group, which said the lawmakers in their decision, had taken the nation several steps backwards, urged the legislature to reconsider its stand Mr. Debo Adeniran, CACOL Chairman, in a statement signed by Tola Oresanwo, the group’s Director of Administration and Programmes on Wednesday, said that CACOL received with rude shock and embarrassment, the news that members of the National Assembly voted against gender bills in the constitutional amendment process. He said: “We found it funny that the National Assembly voted against bills seeking to give women more opportunities in leadership and governance at this age of our national life. “Their action has sparked a protest by some women at the National Assembly, who accused the lawmakers of bias.” Adeniran noted that Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs, had said that the male lawmakers, who voted against the gender bills, have no respect for women. He stressed: “We are aware that when it comes to voting, more women vote than men and we believe that the quality of leadership in the country will not change if the scope of selection is not widened to accommodate more youths and women. “We believed that setting aside 35 percent of the elective positions for women would have made a lot of sense because right now, the level of underrepresentation of women in key positions and decision making is alarming. Even at the political party level, women should not be given only the position of women leader while all other positions are occupied by men.” POLL Adeniran, however, maintained that CACOL believed that the bill would have been differently couched so that it would not give unintended meaning to the user, either today or in future. He stressed that instead of ‘gender parity or ‘gender equality, gender equity would have been more appropriate as it might be very difficult to achieve gender parity or gender equality, “but, if we use ‘gender equity, it will make a lot of sense to several people. Also, instead of ‘Gender balancing’, ‘Gender justice’ ought to have been used.”