LAGOS  – The Federal Government has said that it is presently reviewing the Nigerian Automotive Industrial Development Plan (NAIDP) in order to make it an enduring document that would incorporate the input of all industry stakeholders. The government said it was reviewing the tariff and non-tariff measures in the bill as feedbacks received from the players in the industry indicated that it was necessary to assess these areas in a bid to have a sound and an Act that could stand the test of time. The government said this at the inauguration of a world-class Toyota certified service centre in Lagos by the Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. President Muhammadu Buhari had in 2019 declined his required assent to NAIDP, which was launched in 2014 and approved by the eighth and ninth National Assembly. The bill, which many auto stakeholders said would attract the interest of leading international carmakers, develop the nation’s auto sector, economy and provide jobs for technical personnel in the country was first passed in 2017 by the eighth assembly. Also, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment at the Toyota’s facility launch in the Isolo area of Lagos, said that through his various engagements with investors and operators in the sector, it was necessary to consider a pragmatic approach in reviving the sector. Specifically, the minister said the ongoing review would focus on stimulating demand for locally assembled vehicles through establishing a vehicle finance scheme, and a guaranteed off-take mechanism, by fully implementing the stipulations of Executive Order 003 on the procurement of vehicles. He said: “The ministry is currently reviewing the extant Nigerian Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) and taking into consideration feedback from existing and potential investors around tariff measures and non-tariff measures. POLL “Achieving component manufacturing for vehicle assembly and after-market by setting targets for local content utilisation in the assembly of vehicles in line with the terms agreed in the ratified African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement. “Establishing a governance framework that stipulates sanctions and remedial mechanisms for investors and other beneficiaries of incentives in the automotive sector; incorporating capacity building and knowledge transfer process into investor agreements.” According to him, the results of the review would form the basis for drafting the Automotive Industry Bill that will promote sustainability and stimulate investors’ confidence in the sector. The minister lauded President Muhammadu Buhari’s unwavering commitment to the country’s industrialisation agenda as giving birth to the Toyota project, adding, “Today’s event is a brilliant manifestation of created by this administration and their unparalleled leadership.” the enabling business environment He further expressed the commitment of the Federal Government to developing the automotive sector and supporting relevant private companies. Vice-President Osinbajo commended the Toyota Nigeria team for the service centre, a part of which would serve as training and capacity building for technicians. He said with the facility, the TNL would be part of the recently unveiled government’s post-NYSC annual job/empowerment scheme for 20,000 Nigerians. According to him, the duty of government was to provide fertile ground and enabling environment for businesses to thrive. Chief Michael Ade.Ojo, Chairman of the TNL, described the event as memorable, which gave him fulfillment. Earlier, Mr. Kunle Ade-Ojo, Managing Director of the TNL had said apart from providing quality maintenance service, genuine spare parts and standard showroom for Toyota vehicle, the centre would serve as a teaching, research and resource place for its dealers. 