IBADAN – Founder of One Love Family, Satguru Maharaj Ji has con­demned Asabe Tv and one face­less prophet/musician Amos Modayibi Ojo (a.k.a Elewuog­bo) over defamatory statement attributed to him, hence, chal­lenging Elewuogbo to come on national television and other media outfits to substantiate his claims over his purported discovery in Maharaj Ji Vil­lage, Ibadan. Maharaj Ji also implores the Department of State Ser­vices (DSS), Nigeria Police, the Nigeria Civil Defence Corps and the Amotekun to look into other serious allegations made against him in a viral video alleging him (Maharaj Ji) of various nefarious activities in the village. It would be recalled that one Asabe Tv.com sometimes granted an online interview to one prophet/musician by the name Amos Modayibi Ojo (aka Baba Elewuogbo), accus­ing Maharaj Ji of having a relationship with the owner of Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife, Dr. Rah­mon Adedoyin. Excerpts Of Inaugural Lecture 359, OAU, Ile Ife Delivered By… Buhari Commiserates With ACF Over Spokesperson’s Passing This was contained in a press statement through the One Love Family, Divine Minister for Information, Ojo Mogbadewa, and made avail­able to newsmen in Ibadan on Tuesday. In the very ambiguous in­terview, the photograph of Satguru Maharaj Ji with the owner of Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife, Dr Rahmon Adedoyin, during the latter’s 60th birthday in 2019, was mischievously used to de­ceive the unsuspecting viewers and Nigerians at large. According to Maharaj Ji, this has been creating a di­chotomy and further distract­ing millions from coming to Satguru Maharaj Ji, to come and receive divine knowledge of life and the light of libera­tion from colonial, political, socio-economic slavery and spiritual bondage of the men and women of principalities. According to the statement, “The fact still remains that Dr. Adedoyin, like every Nigerian citizen, nay Yoruba personality, invited Satguru Maharaj Ji to his 60th birthday programme which took place not in a hid­den place but an open hall at the Oduduwa University, Ile-Ife.