Super Eagles front liner and old warhorse, Odion Ighalo, should stop being contro­versial with himself, rather should think if he’s still fit to have a place in the Eagles instead of going into unnecessary discourse with the feelings of Nigerians over his deci­sion to return to the team for the last legs of the Qatar 2022 FIFA playoff against Ghana. This is the same team Odion jet­tisoned during the AFCON tourna­ment in Cameroon. Nobody heard from Odion before, during, and af­ter the continental championship in Cameroon. His position in the team was left fallow and remained irre­placeable, given to CAF rules over the issue when it became necessary to do so as the Al Hilal FC of Saudi Arabia player was nowhere to be seen. So, the Eagles carried on with­out Ighalo until the team crashed out of the tournament at the pre­liminary stage! During the football fiesta in Cameroon, Odion could have been replaced since he was absent but the rules of the game made it im­possible to do so. Now that the play­offs are around the corner, the Edo State-born striker has made his in­tention known again, signaling in­terest to be part of the team against the Black Stars of Ghana. He is not only making his interest known but also coming into it with con­troversy against some Nigerians criticising his abilities to fit in properly with the team; given the level of the club, he’s playing for now compared to younger players in Europe who are more mobile and are banging in goals for their various clubs abroad. It Doesn’t Rain On Chelsea, But Pours Importance Of Gender Equality In National Development Little wonder an old adage says: “A witch cried at night and the baby died in the morning”. With this wise saying, it gives me a rethink on Coach Austin Eguavoen’s lamenta­tions over some of his players, whom he said are already down with inju­ries and most of his defenders who are not on regular shirts for their various clubs in Europe as they are not being featured by their coaches. In this case, it is a leeway to see that Ighalo returns to make up for one of the presumed “injured” strikers! Nobody is indispensable in any profession, since creation and bla­tant arrogance has never taken any good soul to the peak, rather it will see to such soul’s diminishing return in earnest and destroy the achieve­ments of yesteryears. People should always apply humility to whatever they are doing, football not in the ex­emption. Ighalo should know when the ovation was loud and when it’s going low and lower; therefore, by coming hard on Nigerians over their reactions, given his decision to serve his fatherland as a footballer was a rage taken too far from a profession­al of his type. Ighalo who was recently named in the provisional squad list of the Eagles against Ghana is angry over his numerous critics; this is a 32-year-old Odion who’s already on his retirement line in Saudi Arabia is, however, discontented with the disposition of some Nigerians who argued that there are other younger and fit professionals abroad to be in that list that had Odion Ighalo. While boasting about his Al Halil Club in Saudi, he said that this is the eleventh team he has just signed for after recording over seventeen years in his professional career that he does not budge over any criticism from any quarters; but hear Ighalo: “What they are saying about me is their cup of tea as I don’t pay atten­tion to everything they say. As long as I come out of every game satisfied with my performance – whether it is a win, loss, or draw – then, that is it”. This was Ighalo’s reply to his critics! It could be recalled that Ighalo has always been in the centre of storms each time former Coach Gernot Rhor had extended an invitation to him to be part of the Eagles after the two last nations’ tourneys. It’s very clear and glaring that Odion’s perfor­mance had dwindled significantly and we all know that age is no longer on his side to such former optimal level at this given time. So, if there is criticism trailing his invitation, and from the technical adviser’s per­spective, he sees him as fit as fiddle to represent well in the team, I don’t think it calls for any brouhaha. All the coaching crew wants from the Eagles is victory, no more or less, however, it does not also stop stake­holders from judging and criticising objectively where it is necessary to do so! POLL Ighalo has been skipper of the team, an ace striker, and having won the golden boot from one of the AFCON tourneys when the Eagles picked a bronze medal four years ago under Coach Rohr. At a point in his heydays with the Eagles, he de­clined to play for Nigeria, saying his life was under a threat in the country for missing a potential goal-scoring opportunity in the past. While every­one was persuading him to return to the team, Ighalo was neither here nor there. If by today, Ighalo does not know when it is dawn for him as a professional and he is quarreling over nothing; then, there must be more to it than meets the ordinary eye. At his peak, he was a delight to behold in the Eagles and nobody has ever raised an eyebrow over his in­vitation. If these negative feelers are coming from the sidelines over his inclusion to play for Nigeria, what he needs to do is to reevaluate him­self and see if he can still meet with the taste of time, not even the coach speaking for him! Ighalo is Ighalo as a player in the team and not the coach. The coach is to give instructions and it’s Ieft for Ighalo to comply and func­tion as instructed on the pitch. And if that optimal performance is not forth­coming from Ighalo on the pitch and he’s not in tune with his teammates on the pitch, who gets burnt? The coach or Ighalo? Ighalo should also not forget that he was not in the recent AFCON. So, what kind of magic is he coming to exhibit with Ghana from Saudi Ara­bia? This is the critical poser for both Eguavoen and Ighalo. It is beyond be­ing satisfied with a particular match performance, getting a win, lose or draw. You have to be well articulated with the entire team for one purpose! And that one objectivity is to win! In this world cup playoffs with Gha­na, what Nigeria is expecting from Coach Eguavoen is a total victory, the berth ticket for Qatar 2022! It is not a coupon stake of “perm three from five, equals two @ N1000 staked”; just like what the ball pen gamblers do with the fixed odds! No! This playoff is a big deal, there­fore every hand must be on deck to redeem Nigeria’s battered image of global football. It will be much justifi­able why German-born Gernot Rhor was sacked if Ghana is defeated to qualify for the forthcoming Mun­dial. It is also very vital that Coach Eguavoen should deliver the world cup ticket to justify his plum job position as the technical adviser of the Eagles. Ighalo should not gamble with his commitment to serve his fa­therland after playing professionally for almost eighteen years of his ca­reer! This is the time for every mem­ber of the Eagles to hide away from sentiment, selfishness, hate, anger, pride and unnecessary ego or wit to make the nation proud. This is the moment Nigerians and all the critics are waiting for to be proved wrong or right in all aspects of the game. And what we are saying is give us goals, give us more goals and qualify Nigeria for Qatar 2022! This time, with the Black Stars of Ghana, the Eagles of Nigeria must show class. It is not a time to go ” back to the drawing board “. We must de­feat Ghana as a matter of fact as no flimsy excuse will suffice for failure. And it is not about one particular player (s) so Nigeria must get it right! If we must go again to the drawing board, it should be after the Qatar experience! Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria!