The Chairman, Local Government Service Commission (LGSC), Hon. Kamal Bayewu, has urged local government workers in Lagos state to work hard towards supporting Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s development strides at the grassroots level.He made the remarks when he kicked off his working visit to the 20 Local Governments and 37 Local Council Development Areas of Lagos State. Speaking during his visits to Ojo LG, Oto-Awori and Iba LCDAs, Bayewu commended the achievements of the Chairmen as well as their cordial relationships with all stakeholders in their communities. He encouraged all their staff to be diligent, resourceful and continue to maintain harmonious relationships with the stakeholders, while also supporting the executives to achieve optimal results and success.  Bayewu who spoke extensively on service delivery and the need for improved Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) for the development of the Councils, also  reiterated that revenue generation is vital for the development and growth of the Local Councils across the State. Why Nigerians Need Saraki As Next President Those Calling For Disbandment Of Ebube Agu Are Criminals – Nwaze Admonishing the staff on abscondment, leave matters, falsification of service dates and documents, Bayewu implored them to exhibit good character on their jobs for optimum performance, informing that Local Council workers will soon be called for verification at the Service Commission. He also disclosed that officers on Grade Levels 07-12 should expect to be moved within their division while Grade Levels 13-17 are expected to work anywhere within the State so as to learn, unlearn and relearn in a bid to occupy positions of higher responsibilities.The Permanent Secretary, Local Government Service Commission, Mr. Abiodun Bamgboye, enjoined all staff to be guided by the Public Service Rules, Financial Regulations and other extant guidelines in the course of discharging their duties effectively and efficiently.On the issue of tax clearance, Bamgboye encouraged the staff to update their records with the Lagos Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) and directed the Council Treasurers to ensure that all outstanding tax records are updated.He averred that diplomas and certificates acquired at University are for proficiency not for career advancement while encouraging the staff to join their various professional institutions for more exposure in their various field or discipline.On her part, Mrs. Kikelomo Bolarinwa, Permanent Secretary Local Government Establishments, Training & Pensions, urged the staff to always present themselves for training and timelines for information should be strictly observed.While reminding the staff about their Oath of Secrecy, she charged them to ensure that information is passed through the appropriate quarters rather than the social media.The Chairmen of Ojo LG, Oto-Awori LCDA and Iba LCDA appreciated the LGSC delegation led by the Chairman for the official visit and assured the team of improved service delivery to the residents of the communities.The visiting entourage also included the Commission Members: Mr. Kamal Bayewu, Chairman: Engr. Biodun Orekoya, Commissioner (Ikorodu Division); Mr. Akeem Bamgbola, Commissioner (Lagos Division); Mr. Ahmed Seriki, Commissioner (Epe Division); Mr. Taofeek Adaranijo, Commissioner (Ikeja Division) and the Management team of both Government Agencies.