ABUJA – The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has intensified efforts in raising awareness for protecting the cyber space to promote a secure digital economy. Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, Director General of NITDA, stated this at a virtual event to commemorate this year’s Cyber Security Awareness Week. Abdullahi, underscored theimportance of investing largely on security of the cyber space with the application of technologies and processes to protect systems, networks, programmes and data from attacks. The event was aimed at sharing insights on the numerous careers which Cybersecurity offers and the influence of NITDA on its effective propagation. The Director General expressed his excitement at the event which he described as timely and appreciated all participants in the nationwide awareness. Abdullahi, who was represented by the Agency’s Assistant Director, Cybersecurity Department, Mr. Michael Arowosegbe stated that this year’s event which was tagged ‘#BeCyberSmart’ was geared towards analyzing the issues surrounding the detection of cyber crimes and raising awareness on how individuals, private organisations and government agencies can protect themselves in the cyber space with focus on career in Cybersecurity. “Cyber criminals have been taking advantage of the digital transformation to exploit human credibility and other technical vulnerabilities in hardware and software ranging from seizing control of infrastructure to stealing sensitive data”, he stated. He pointed out that African nations during the pandemic were the target for cyber criminals who use technologies in manipulating video and audio recordings in transmitting false information for their attacks. POLL He further stated that combating cybercrime which is a huge threat to national security is one of NITDA’s topmost priority. The Director General asserted that “since the digital economy leverages the cyber space which is characterised with evolving cyber threat, the need to enable a continuous growth and progress of the digital economy, cyber security is key”. While stressing the importance of cybersecurity to the development of digital economy, the NITDA boss mentioned that the nation’s digital economy which has raised the bar on security, privacy and trust of stakeholders is the fundamental enabler of a sustainable digital economy through a threat-free cyber space. “Measures must be put in place by all means necessary to gain the confidence of stakeholders who are the enablers of digital economy and improve the cybersecurity to mitigate all these cyber attacks via measures such as engaging in massive cybersecurity capacity building”, he said. A panelist session was held afterwards with various Cyber Security experts within the ecosystem who exchanged ideas on how parameters such as tools, techniques, talents, trainings and triangulations can be exploited in creating formidable cyber security experts in the country.