Please, be warned; you could easily get carried away (en­thralled, entranced – the opposite of being totally rec­ollected) while reading Prof. Tony Afejuku, who maintains a column in the Guardian. His turn of phrase could turn your eyes off the proverbi­al sparrow (his subject). It happened when I read the very first sentence in the final offering of his series, “ASSU: Varsity Lecturers’ Contaminated and Adulterated Remunerations – Part 5”, published 25 March 2022: “This subject is terminating today, but its termination is not its conclusion”. Does termination not mean “end”, finish, close, expiry and yes, conclu­sion? And does conclusion not mean the end or finish of an event, process or written text? So, I reached for the dictionary and yes, there is a second strand of meaning; “judgement or decision reached by reasoning”. I nodded in agreement. You could also be easily carried away by the style of Mr. Emeka Oba­si. I cherish the way he sweetens his literary dishes with large doses of names and dates and events (not in the public domain) and authoritative­ness. While going through his column of April 2, 2022 in the Vanguard news­paper, “Chinelo, Another Kaduna Ca­sualty”, and thoroughly enjoying it, I was actually carried away for a few minutes. This paragraph, from that article, should bear quoting in full: “The Buhari I know is not afraid of war. He was in the battle field between 1967 and 1970. In the Second Republic, the President led Nigerian troops to Chad. His buddy, Col. Chris Ugokwe and supported in the air by squadron Leader Ben Ekele and other dare dev­il Nigerian Air Force pilots”. Yes, my mind left the devilish inse­curity in Nigeria to consider Buhari’s exploits as a Brigade Commander when Alhaji Shehu Shagari was President. That Squadron Leader Ben Ekpele of the Air Force fought alongside agitated my mind. No el­ements of the Air Force could have been under Buhari fascinated me. So, how did the Air Force get to collab­orate with Buhari’s Brigade? I was leaving the main issue. Yet, why am I “calling” on the writers today? Prof Afejuku dwelt tremendously and decidedly well on the terrible state of the Nigerian universities and the parlous (as in dangerous and unsafe) wages with which lecturers are being mistreated, even punished unfairly and unduly in Nigerian universities. He reached into history and conflict resolution, peace negotiations, logic, equity, de­cency, wholesomeness, what could enhance learning and research in our universities and the dictates of good conscience. etc, in his five-part series to prove that the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASSU) is totally right in its stand that the Federal Government must meet the agreements it entered into with ASSU more than a decade ago or the members would strike and strike and strike. That is all well and good as they say except that to the administrations that have misruled Nigeria in recent memory, logic and decency and pro­ductivity and wholesomeness have never mattered. The result is that Nigeria has been bushwhacked like no other country. It has been subju­gated without rhyme or reason as the saying goes. Her many rulers were deceitful from the start to the finish even as their ineptitude were writ large on every scale and canvass. So, I have no quarrel with Prof Afejuku’s stand and stance. I just want to direct his sights to some oth­er heights, or even backwards to a lost era. It was in 1986. Your columnist was just a rookie reporter at News­watch newsmagazine. The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), fighting one of its wars against the Ibrahim Babangida dictatorship, had declared a massive protest. That was the era when the NLC was against Nigeria’s taking IMF loan, the devaluation of the Naira, increases in the petrol pump price, devalauation of the na­tional currency, and so many other things the Buhari administration has taken for granted. Anyone would be right to wonder now if Nigeria still has the Nigerian Labour Congress. Mr. Nosa Igiebor, a Newswatch ed­itor was to anchor the potential over POLL story, and he sent me to NLC headquarters for foundational re­ports. Nosa was angry when the NLC cancelled that street protest. He said, “Tony, the story is now yours, get us what you can about the actual reasons behind that cancelation. If you are creative, you may earn a page of the magazine”. So, the following day, I returned to the NLC headquar­ters, Yaba, Lagos, and met the then Vanguard reporter, Mr. Owei Lakem­fa there; he knew his way about the building and was on first name basis with the NLC leadership. Just when I was about to leave the NLC building, I saw the smiling face of the then ASSU Chairman, Dr. Festus Iyayi as he and Chiro­ma were walking towards the door where Lakemfa and I were talking. You could see he exuded absolute confidence and that his mind was at peace even as Nigeria was boiling. As Lakemfa began discussing with the NLC officials who were seeing Dr. Iyayi off, I followed the ASSU Chairman and told him I last saw him in 1982 at the first meeting of the Association of Nigerian Authors, at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, which Chinua Achebe convened in 1981. That was where I first saw Chinweizu, Naiwu Osahon, Kola Omotoso, Femi Osofisan and many other writers at close range because Mr. Emeka Atamah and I manned the secretariate where the participants were registered and their books and journals were sold. Iyayi shocked me; he said NLC cancelled the street protests because the administration was prepared to cut down some protesters to send an unmissable message to Labour. When later I arrived Dodan Barracks (I was Newswatch Correspondent at the then sit of power) and snooped around for news about NLC’s strike, I was shocked. I had asked a close aide of the Main Man of that era how joy­ous the master felt when he heard that the street protest was called off? He said the man was so angry that he pushed his dinner aside. Why? The source, who should know what he was talking about said, eh, emm, ahh, perhaps the best way to put it is that the source confirmed what the late Dr. Iyayi had said – that death would have struck down some of the workers if they had embarked on that street march. Orders had gone out to soldiers to ensure that such happened. Back to Iyayi; what brought him there? He said he had been trying to build a relationship between NLC and ASSU; “NLC has the brawn, ASSU has the brain. If the two are united we can change Nigeria”. He said that the government’s divide and rule tactics must be stopped, that both NLC and ASSU had the same pur­pose – a better Nigeria. He said until we build a better Nigeria no Nigerian will be happy because “you can’t be happy in an unhappy society”. Dear, Prof Afejuku, the last sen­tence explains the punishment being inflicted on ASSU members. Even if ASSU is granted all its requests today, the members will still remain unhap­py in an “unhappy” Nigerian society. There is runaway inflation, there is national insecurity, there is every evil you can think of – from the number of road accident casualties to killings by cultists, occultists, ritualists Boko Haramists, bandits and killer herd­ers. ASSU must team up with NLC once again and the NGOs and fight for a better Nigeria or ASSU’s victory, whenever it comes, will be pyrrhic. Bad administration is Nigeria’s woe. Also, poor citizen advocacy contrib­utes to that woe. The Bala Usmans are no longer there. The Festus Iyayis, Ayo Awo­jobis, Parick Wilmots, Jkenna Nzi­miros, are no longer in our univer­sities. The Chinua Achebes and Soy­inkas and Eskor Tuyors and the Edwin Madunagus were university lecturer-activists for goodness sake. The Nigeria they fought for has not materialized – yet. Iyayi’s end was illustrative of what he stood against. He died in an avoid­able car accident! Who will tell Obasi that under Bu­hari, insurgency took over the North West? Under Buhari, the killer herd­ers took over the entire South and the Middlebelt. Surprisingly, the herders have never fought against the bandits. Under Buhari, the bandits are clos­ing in on Abuja on their march to the South. Obasi advised that “Kaduna should be garrisoned”. Kaduna has all sorts of military bases and schools. The entire Kaduna looks like a huge barrack. So, if bandits have brought Kaduna to its knees, then Nigeria is already in hell. Kaduna hosts the First Infantry Division of the Nigeri­an Army. Dear me, such hopelessness would never have gripped Kaduna when the no-nonsense Gen Peter Ademokhai was General Officer Commanding there. Obasi, the garrison has been taken over by the barbarians within. The Kaduna state Gov, Nasir el-Rufai said that security reports have been pin-pointing the terrorists’ bases but nothing is being done. He said that those doing the blood-letting in Kadu­na are terrorists. He actually named the terror organisation they belong to; Boko Haram. So? So, it is time for state Police. The Federal Government has failed to defend Nigerians. Let the states try for a change. Why does Obasi not know that the Buhari that taught Chad a lesson was a much younger one? And if the Air Force was involved, perhaps he didn’t act alone. Also, Nigeria was different then. Today, ethnicity reigns supreme in Nigeria. Today, people of a certain ethnic grouping control the govern­ment. Today, Nigeria has extended railway lines to Maradi. Even Nigeria is totally different from what it was under Shagari. Unfortunately, we do not have the likes of late Prof Claude Ake and late Dr. Stanely Macebuh (he was actually an Associate Prof at Co­lumbia and City College of New York when he returned to Nigeria. He told me that he sacrificed his dream – to retire as Harvard University Prof Emeritus) to explain the new Nigeria to us. So, we grope in darkness while according to el-Rufai, some people have refused to take the fight to the insurgents! That is the new Nigerian reality. And it is sad and saddening. Why should Emeka Obasi be ask­ing Buhari to battle against terror­ists in Kaduna ALONE? Kaduna is a small part of Nigeria. The terror­ists have for months been marching steadily down South. We should look forward to an effective post -Buhari and post-APC administration. Am I over-reacting? Well, last Wednesday, Buhari spoke at the APC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting: “I will like us to re­flect on what the situation was before we came in. How many Local Govern­ment Areas were under the control of terrorists in the North-East? In the South-South, we all know what the situation was; now we have relative peace. With the resources at our dis­posal, we have done very well. We are going to be very tough.’’ Finish. Insecurity results from economic disaster which results from leader­ship disaster which is a product of political incompetence. Or have Ni­gerians been mobilized to build the required Great Society? Ethnicity has taken centre -stage while a po­litical leadership failure has show­cased unemployment, eroded Naira value, non-functional universities, over-abundance of unregulated pri­vate primary and secondary schools, epileptic electricity supply, and the dead government water supply sys­tem symptoms. When Buhari spoke April 20, did he remember electric­ity or water supply or the Naira ex­change rate or the health sector? No, perhaps never in history has leader­ship failure been this pervasive.