AWKA – The Anambra State House of Assembly on Thursday confirmed all the 20 commissioner nominees presented by Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo. The confirmation followed the adoption of the report of the House screening committee at the plenary. The Chairman of the screening and election committee matters, Hon. Pascal Agbodike (APGA-Ihiala 1) said that the 20 nominees met the requirements needed to be members of the state executive council of the state. Agbodike, who is also the Deputy Speaker of the House, said they had all attained the mandatory ages required for appointment as commissioners in the state and showed the ability to serve. Supporting him, Hon. Emeka Aforka, (APGA-Orumba North) urged his colleagues to support the motion to allow the governor to implement his developmental projects in the state. The lawmakers, thereafter, confirmed the nominees through a voice vote. In his remarks, the Speaker of the Assembly, Rt Honourable Uchenna Victor Okafor, urged the nominees to see themselves as agents of positive change in the state. He also urged them to support Governor Soludo in implementing his policies and programmes to uplift the living condition of the Anambra people. POLL Okafor said the Governor also sent another letter requesting the screening of a new Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr. Silvester Ezeokenwa, for subsequent confirmation. The confirmed nominees are Mr Ifeatu Chinedu (Finance), Prof. Ofonze Amucheazi (Lands) Mr Ifeanyi Okoma (Works), Ms Chiamaka Nnake (Budget) Dr Afam Obidike (Health), Mr Patrick Agha-mba (Youth Development), Mrs Ifeyinwa Obinabo (Women/Children Affairs), Dr Obinna Ngonnadi, Mr Julius Chukwuemeka (Power/Water Resources), and Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh (Education). Others are Mr Paul Nwosu (Information),  Dr Foster Ihejiofor (Agriculture), Mrs Patricia Igwebuike (Transport), Mr Felix Odimegwu (Environment), Mr. Chikodi Anara (Home Land Affairs), Prof. Chika Ifemeje (Attorney General/Commissioner for Justice), Mr Collins Nwabunwanne (Local Government Affairs), Mr Donatus Onyenji (Culture/Entertainment), Mr. Anthony Ifeanya (Petroleum) and Mr Paulinus Onyeka (Housing). In their reactions, the Commissioners pledged to work for the collective development of the state