The immediate past Chief of Staff to the Governor of Delta State, Olorogun David Edevbie on Monday promised to clear the N75 billion the state government owes pensioners when elected in 2023. Speaking in Asaba while declaring his intention to be the party executive of the State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP), Olorogun David Edevbie further promised to give women, 35 per cent of appointment slots under his cabinet. He noted that the youths and women who take a large per cent of the Nigeria and Delta State population have much to offer. According to him, “25 per cent of political appointments under my administration would be for the youth because we cannot continue to say the youths are the leaders of tomorrow without involving them in process of decision making.” While addressing the issues of Pensioners; he noted that the current administration has done in alleviating the pains of people, saying the problem with pensioners was not created by the Okowa administration but he has done more than the previous Government combined. Hence, he promised to align resources to end the pains of Pensioners in the state. Emphasizing that his administration would be centred on modernization, he lauded Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for his giant strides in infrastructural development. He said, “Industrialization, is the means to reduce insecurity. Practically, companies that existed years ago have gone, that is why there are graduates roaming the streets. POLL ” Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa has done a fantastic job in creating employment for our people. I want to improve on what he has done. Okowa has done a fantastic job when it comes to roads. I want to improve intermodal transportation system; such as bridges, trains”. He also promised to embark to improve the security architecture of the state, stating that the present Government which I was part has done a lot but there is still room to do more. He then charged the PDP working committee to ensure that all aspirants in the Gubernatorial primaries are given a level playing field. In his response, Chairman of the Delta State, PDP, Barr. Kingsley Esiso lauded the aspirant for a well thought out manifesto. ” I enjoyed the plan of your modernization plan for the state because as students of development there is a need to improve” he stated. He urged the aspirants to go about with his campaign without malice as the party does to intend on maligning any aspirant. ” As a party, our role is simple. We will continue to ensure that we provide a level playing field for all aspirants. The business of primaries is between delegates and aspirants. The party is not going to talk go delegates on your behalf” he purported. He further noted that there would be no Imposition of the candidate, he said, ” that there is no man that would tell 3, 000 delegates who to vote for. Leave rumours and do your job which is to ensure you have the majority of votes cast on congress day. You have to go to wards and LGAs to sell your aspiration. I do not like aspirants who talk about others in the process of selling themselves”. Earlier during his address, Director General of Edevbie Campaign Council, Chief Clement Ofuani described Olorogun David Edevbie as a most qualified aspirant to consolidate on the achievement of the incumbent, Governor Okowa. He noted that Edevbie has been groomed to succeed Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, he said, ” to move from a simple majority party to predominant took a lot of labour. In the beginning, Chief James Ibori assembled a galaxy of stars to work in the executive council. “That galaxy of stars included; Uduaghan, Okowa and James Manager, Nwaboshi. Amongst them was Olorogun David Edevbie, a youth whom Chief James Ibori appointed as Commissioner of Finance. He maintained that the aspirants were amongst those who laid the foundation for the development of the State. He recalled that the intellectual capacity of the aspirant led to his two-time appointment as Commissioner of Finance under two Governors in the state. Hence, he charged Deltans not to make mistakes made by Nigerians in 2023, saying we must elect those who can steer and navigate the state through any storm.