ABUJA – A Coalition of Civil Society Organizations have called on Independent National Electoral Commission  ( INEC) to ensure that political parties obey the relevant provisions on the party register and election financing or get sanctioned for violations. The group urged the commission to immediately in line with Section 87 of the Act, issue election campaign financing guidelines for political parties. The CSO’s disclosed this in a statement jointly signed by Adopt-a-Goal Initiative, Electoral College Nigeria Campaign-Finance Integrity Network and Raising New Voices Initiative on Tuesday in Abuja. The Coalition said it would approach the commission under section 89 (8) to request for relevant information to advocate for internal party reform and the need for the political parties to comply with the laws. The Coalition said the essence of their intervention was aimed at making the political parties to embark on internal reforms and embrace internal democracy through the instrumentality of the Electoral Act 2022 and the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended). According to the statement ” As partners and concerned organisations that worked and campaigned vigorously for the passage of the Electoral Act 2022, we are committed to the total operationalisation of the new law. ” We shall support INEC to demand that political parties either obey the relevant provisions on party register and election financing or get sanctioned for violations. (1) Party Register – Section 77 of the Electoral Act 2022: POLL ” Every registered political party shall maintain a register of its members in both hard and soft copy. ” Each political party shall make such register available to the Commission not later than 30 days before the date fixed for the party primaries, congresses or convention. ” Election Financing Guidelines – Sections 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90 of the Electoral Act 2022 and Sections 225, 226 of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended)” The statement noted that the time has come for the country to harvest the fruits of the reforms embedded in the Electoral Act 2022 by demanding that corporate bodies and institutions covered under the act fulfil their obligations. The CSO’s called on the electoral body to enforce relevant provisions of law to engender and drive internal party democracy and reform within the political parties. ” While INEC is under no obligation to counsel the political parties to read and comply with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022, we, however, urge the commission to bring to the parties’ attention either by way of writing or through the convening of an extraordinary meeting, the implications of disobeying these laws. ” We seek to visit the commission to further explain our plans to you and also explore in concrete terms, how we can partner with the commission to successfully pursue this advocacy. We also intend to drive a campaign that will create a stench around vote trading and special enlightenment to educate the people on the cost of their votes ” The statement added.