The future of Bayern Munich superstar Robert Lewandowski has been under tremendous speculation. For quite some time, the Polish striker has been linked with a move away from the Allianz Arena, with the latest rumors suggesting he is now ready to hand in a transfer request. According to Bild (as per Marca), Pini Zahavi, who is the agent of the former Dortmund sensation, scheduled a meeting with the German champions on Wednesday to discuss the player’s future. Here, the representative could officially communicate Lewandowski’s willingness to leave Bavaria amid his contract saga. Despite being the deadliest striker in world football, the 33-year-old is nearing the final year of his current deal, with little to suggest a renewal is on the horizon. As a result, the Poland forward wants clarification regarding his future and could opt for an Allianz Arena exit this summer should both parties fail to reach an agreement. Zahavi will allegedly bring an official offer from another club to his sit-down with the Bayern Munich higher-ups, and while that team was not named, one can assume it is Barcelona due to their heavy interest in Lewandowski. However, Bayern Munich’s stance should be noted as the European giants publicly stated that they aren’t open to the idea of selling their top scorer. Sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic stressed that the German heavyweights will not entertain any offer for the player this summer and will instead focus on keeping him at the club. Nonetheless, the Blaugrana are on the hunt for a striker and after being priced out of the Erling Haaland chase, the Catalan outfit have shifted their focus towards Lewandowski. The Polish striker recently got his hands on the Bundesliga title, scoring in his team’s 3-1 win over Dortmund in Der Klassiker, a result which secured the club their 10th successive title and the player’s 10th overall crown in his career. However, with Robert reportedly being keen on a new experience, that might have been his last German top-flight success.