ENUGU – The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has called for the registration of herders in the South-East to reduce farmers/herders’ clashes in the area. The South-East Zonal Chairman of MACBAN, Alhaji Gidado Siddiki made the call on Saturday in an interview with Journalists in Enugu. Siddiki said that such a move would ensure that every herder operating in the zone was registered under one statutory body to ensure seamless monitoring of their activities in the South-East. The MACBAN zonal chairman said that it was worrisome that some herders who ply their trade in the zone do not belong to any cattle-breeder association. He said that such herders often constituted clogs in the association’s negotiations with government authorities aimed at ensuring minimal frictions between herders and their host communities. Siddiki, therefore, requested governments of South-East states to statutorily empower MACBAN to regulate cattle business in the zone by ensuring that every herder was registered. “We appeal to state governments in the zone to statutorily empower MACBAN which is, unarguably, the largest and most organised cattle breeder organisation in Nigeria, as the regulator for herders in the zones,” he said. Siddiki said that the mutual suspicion between herders and members of their host communities could easily be addressed with the right mindset. POLL “We sincerely recommend that the uniqueness of Nigeria which is in its diversity of tribes, languages, cultures, religions and trades be strategically harnessed. “Let every Nigerian be encouraged to freely engage themselves anywhere in the country, provided that such engagements are legitimate and without let to the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of Nigeria,” he said. Siddiki said that MACBAN was fundamentally a trade group made up of cattle herders across the country. He said that the clarification had become necessary following misconceptions in parts of the country that the group was in pursuit of ethnocentric political interests. “This misconception is probably the cause of the unhealthy suspicion on MACBAN and our herders afield. He commended state governments, security agencies as well as traditional leaders for their sustained interest in maintaining law and order in the zone. “We wish to thank His Eminence, Alhaji Sa’adu Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto and the Chairman Board of Trustees of MACBAN, for his fatherly counsel. “We heartily appreciate the support of members of the Board of Trustees of MACBAN. “We implore our political, religious, traditional and opinion leaders to always work for social peace and economic growth of Nigeria,” he said. Siddiki said that the leadership of MACBAN in the zone would continue to advise herders on the need to maintain peace in their localities as a precondition for their business to thrive.