ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday screened its presidential aspirants in preparation for the primary scheduled for the 28th of April, 2022. The aspirants, who spoke with newsmen after screening described the exercise as good, noting that the committee did a very good job. The 17 aspirants screened are; former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, the former Speaker House of Representatives, Chairman of PDP Governors Forum and Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, two-term governor of Kwara State and immediate past president of the Senate, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki, former President of the Senate and former Secretary to the government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim. Other aspirants are; former Minister Federal Capital Territory and Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, former Minister of State for Education and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, 2019 PDP Vice Presidential candidate, former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, a United States-based medical doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze; media mogul, Dele Momodu. Others are Investment banker and economist, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; a pharmacist, Sam Ohuabunwa, Former Speaker of Abia House of Assembly, Cosmos Ndukwe, Charles Ugwu, Rt Hon Chikwendu Kalu as well as the only female aspirant in the race, Tareila Diana. Speaking newsmen shortly after screening, Governor Emmanuel said that the party is supreme on the issue of zoning, adding that whatever the decision the party take, he will abide. He said that the delegate will decide on the candidate that will represent the party in the 2023 election. He said: “I think the delegates will determine who will rescue and restore this country but trust me, whoever they will bring up as the candidate of the party will be one of the best that this country has ever produced. Because look at the people that we are parading, who are aspirants. I think this is just one of the best that we’re waiting for.” POLL On zoning, Emmanuel said: “Party is supreme, if the party has spoken we will all abide by what the party has said.” Also speaking on zone shortly after the screening, Peter Obi said, “the party has the final say. I can’t have a thought, I’m a member of a party. If the party says this is where they want the party to go, if you’re a member of an organization, you respect that organization. And that is why I said, whatever we do, the most critical thing is, what we do to pull Nigerians out of poverty and create a future for teeming unemployed youths of Nigeria.” Speaking shortly after the screening, Ayodele Fayose insisted that the party must zone its presidency to the South. Cautioning the party to note that posterity is watching, Fayose said, “well, I say it again, very expressly, that I am for zoning and I believe the best thing this party can do for posterity, for tomorrow, so as not to cause confusion is for this party to zone this presidential campaign or presidential election. “You know why, If we fail to do it, even if we say anybody can contest, you must officially zone it to the South. “In 1999 it was zoned to the South which brought Obasanjo and Olu Falaye. Rimi still congested within the ambit of the Constitution. But the party must remember, whatever we do today, will stand against us tomorrow.” Other aspirants, who spokes talked about their qualities and how they are the best to represent PDP. Meanwhile, the party has issued a zero-tolerance for the imposition of candidates. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba advised all Party leaders, stakeholders and officials to conduct themselves in line with the party’s regulations in the 3-Man Ad-Hoc and National Delegate Congresses and Primaries slated for Saturday, April 30, 2022. “This directive is part of the resolutions of the NWC at its 552nd meeting on Wednesday, April 27, 2022 in keeping with its resolve to ensure credible, transparent, free and fair processes in the build-up to the 2023 general elections,” the party said. The National Working Committee (NWC) advised party leaders, stakeholders and members at all levels to refrain from any form of imposition, infringement and meddlesomeness in the exercise, adding that any evidence of infringement and non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act and the Party’s Electoral Guidelines will attract serious consequences including the cancellation of the outcome of such Ad-Hoc Delegate Congresses. “The NWC, therefore, directs all members and officials of the Party to respect and fully comply with the Party’s Constitution and the Electoral Guidelines in the conduct of the 3-man Ad-Hoc and National Delegates Congresses and Primaries. It also directed that the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022 with regard to consensus candidates in the coming Ad-Hoc and National Delegate Elections must be observed in the conduct of the exercise. “All Party leaders, critical stakeholders and Party members should be guided accordingly,” the party said.