Omolabake Ogundero, the Founder/CEO of Labby Media, a Public Relations/digital marketing and social media management company, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, speaks about her company, the challenges in the media industry and how to reduce the incidence of fake news. Excerpts: What services does the company provide? We run a public relations agency; we are into media tours, media buying and publications. We are also into digital marketing and social media management. We do both online and offline. What motivated you to go into this line of business? I studied mass communication in school and it is an area I have passion for; I am an ex-beauty queen and I worked with NTA during my youth service. I believe there are problems I can solve in the industry because I am a problem solver. How long have you been in the business? POLL The business was registered five years ago. How has it been for you? It is a competitive market and you need to bring your A game and experience to succeed. You need to do more than one thing to make it in the industry. People come into the industry with new ideas every day and you need to be innovative and proactive to stay ahead of competition. How would you describe the Nigerian media space? There is a need to for accountability among reporters and practitioners; news should be verified before it is published. There is a need to reduce the incidence of fake news; people should not sit in their houses and offices and publish false stories that harm the mental state of others. I see some news online and I know that that was not the way it happened. People should not deliberately harm the mental health of others because they want to drive traffic to their site. There is need to make sure that only factual and credible news is allowed to go out. There is practically no organization to flag fake news and there is no penalty despite the fact that the news content was false and harmed the mental health of other people. We need an association that will stop the publication of fake news. People should be made to account for their actions in the industry. People should not be allowed to damage the mental health of others in the guise of growing the numbers and profit. There is a need to educate reporters and practitioners on the dangers that fake and false news can do to society and the mental health of individuals. Everybody should endeavour to carry news that is factual and verified. They should realize that their actions have an impact on others. How have you used social media to grow your business? I am a social media influencer and I have over 50,000 followers on instagram and over 50,000 followers on twitter and a huge number of likes on facebook. I advertise myself and use social media to grow my business. I get advertisements from big brands like Coca-Cola and others. You need to find your niche and what works for you on social media. One needs to be careful and wise on social media because it can make or mar one’s business or person. I have grown my social media organically and my followers know my story and they can relate to it. They know where I am coming from and where I am headed. What qualities should one possess to succeed in the industry? You need to have passion to succeed in the industry; everyday there are new challenges and one should be prepared to overcome and you have to be passionate about what you do to stay in the business. You need to be a problem solver to be in the business and should learn to be Jack-of-all-trades and you need to be consistent and persistent. What is you projection for the company in the next five years? We want to be a big company operating in different countries; Labby Media will have a floor for online business, another for online, another for public relations, another one into production. Actors and actresses will come to our studios to record and the same for musical acts. We want to become a complete media production house. What is your advice to young people? My advice to them is that they should learn to be problem solvers; so many people want to work and they do not have any skill. They should learn a skill and become problem solvers and they will be relevant to society.