Governor of Oyo State, ‘Seyi Makinde, has declared that his administration will continue to patronise and support individuals and organisations that can add value to the state. The governor said this at the Ist anniversary ofAgidigbo FM, Ibadan, held at the International Conference Centre, the University of Ibadan, stated that anyone who is qualified and can add value to the state would be supported by his government. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the governor, who congratulated the management and staff of the radio station, hailed its chairman, Mr. Oriyomi Hamzat, for his commitment to the emancipation of the masses, a quality, which he noted, brought him [Makinde] and Hamzat together. He said: “A year ago, when I commissioned this station, I observed that most of the staffers are youths. You know, people do think youths don’t have experience but I can tell you they have the energy and the product is what we are seeing here today. “I want to congratulate everybody working with Agidigbo FM and also promise that the Oyo State government, under my watch, will continue to give you the necessary support. “Few people may not know that Oriyomi Hamzat is committed to the emancipation of the masses and that is what brought us together. As a matter of fact, we got to know ourselves before I got into government.“He has experienced a lot because of his commitment to the freedom of the masses. “We do have misunderstandings too, particularly when people go to him on issues that concern the government and he reacts negatively to such matters. Several times, he has tried to blame the government on some issues but I told him there is Due Process in government, which could, sometimes, slow the response time to issues that need attention. But I gave him the assurance that we will do whatever we are supposed to do for the people. “So, I am happy that the broadcast station is doing well and has clocked a year. By the grace of God, you will celebrate many more years. You have laid a foundation that will outlive all of us, and a legacy that will stay for a very long time.” POLL Governor Makinde also expressed his dissatisfaction with the publication of false news by some online media outfits which alleged that the chairman of Agidigbo FM, Mr. Oriyomi Hamzat, inflated a contract to supply exercise books to the state for distribution to students. The governor charged the media to be wary of being used to play politics of bitterness, stating that though he and not Oriyomi was the target of the smear campaign, the claim was untrue and unfounded.“Let me also say this. Yesterday, I read of an allegation on the internet that Oriyomi Hamzat inflated a contract amounting to N998m to supply exercise books. I am very sure they were trying to smear me, not Oriyomi but they are afraid of confronting me directly. “Well, let me tell you the truth of the matter; such never happened. Anything you hear from me is nothing but the truth. If they don’t know where we are coming from, they know where we are going. What will happen is, I will encourage Oriyomi to sue them and settle the case in court. And, as a state government, we will sue SaharaReporters for the false publication. By the time we are done with them, they will stop publishing false reports about the government of Oyo State. “It is unfortunate they are engaging in  politics of bitterness. Nobody will stop them from doing politics but they should do politics based on truth and fact. If they are embittered that the government gave contract to Oriyomi Hamzat, is he not from Oyo State? If anyone around me is qualified and can do what will add value to the people of Oyo State we will patronise such people. “The governor added: “So, if they come to lie to you, reject them?”