Stakeholders in the real estate business claim that absence of integrity and infrastructure are some of the challenges facing the sector in Nigeria, OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Property investments have heightened in Nigeria in recent years with the increase in economic development around the country. But despite this boost, with the increasing population, there are still property gaps yet to be filled. ‘There’s no place like home,’ or ‘Home is where the heart is.’ These popular sayings affirm the truth that a home is a place that is always desirable. It exists in the mind’s eye as much as in a particular physical location. Home, in essence, is shelter, providing an escape from the intrusions of the busy world. Interestingly, in Nigeria, most cities are fast becoming homes to a huge number of individuals due to the rural-urban influx of people, as well the rapid-growing population, especially, the working class; and of course rapid urbanization, among other factors. However, much thought about, in seeking for homes, regardless of economic conditions of the nation and the citizens, researches have shown that there are many who are not just complacent with ‘any kind of home.’ This category of patrons or home-seekers wants more than just four walls and a parking lot. Simply put, they desire to live in the premium or what many call luxury homes, rather than ‘normal’ homes. For these home buyers, specifically, the affluent, the desire for luxury homes that provide all the modern comforts cannot be over-emphasised. The homes, especially in the urban areas, afford the owner to provide his/her family quality habitat with security, health, and privacy, all guaranteed. POLL Notably, however, affording a luxury home does not come cheap. With the poor state of the economy, galloping inflation and falling values of the naira and associated effects on fortune of the nation, prices of luxury properties have climbed steadily in the luxury markets over the years. While many believe that affording a luxury home cannot be achieved in their lifetime, in battling the housing deficit in the country, a real estate development firm, the Address Homes is one of the real estate firms that have resolved to tackle Nigeria’s housing deficit by providing affordable homes that meet the benchmark of modern real estate development. Recently, the firm, which has stamped its authority in the luxury property market within the shortest time of coming into the real estate industry through the successful completion of about 54 units of mid-luxury detached and semi-detached properties in Osapa London, 31 units of luxury homes at Ilasan, opposite Ikate, in Lekki, Lagos, took some journalists on a media tour of some of its completed projects as well as the two newly launched 2022 housing schemes christened Luxuria and Dan and Dan by Address Homes in Ikoyi and Banana Island. Speaking with our correspondent, recently, the Chairman and founder of The Address Homes, Dr. Bisi Onasanya, stated that the company was determined to provide inspiring, regal, and well-built maisonette housing schemes in the country. He insisted that the company was dedicated to the attainment, development, and management of bespoke deluxe contemporary homes, stressing that it recently added two new maisonette housing schemes into the market in fulfilling that vision. According to him, the maisonette homes are definitely like no other, and could only have been delivered by the real estate company, which he said prides itself as an “address of distinction”, where standards, innovation, newness and fresh perspectives thrive. He emphasised that the fundamental goal of the firm was to provide smart homes, which could boast of the basic amenities that were reflective of global best property development practices. The chairman noted that The Address Homes characteristically offered flexible payment plans to enable home buyers spread payments at their own convenience. “We are very competitive in terms of pricing, but more importantly, we are very flexible in our payment structure. We allow people to dictate to us within a particular time frame, how they want to structure their payments during construction.” “In doing that also, we have also succeeded in contributing to the housing deficit. Right now, we play in the medium market sector essentially, and today we have a total of, both ongoing and completed, over units of houses and still counting. “I have mentioned why we are different. We don’t make noise and we don’t tell you must break the bank to access our services. “For every single estate that we have built, we make sure that we do not just hand over the keys to you, we follow you and make sure we provide facilities management to make living in those estates very convenient and comfortable for you. “We also provided some guarantees of a minimum of five to 10 years on the structure so that if anything happens to the windows and doors, we take responsibility. We provide you with 24 hours electricity, CCTV, security, water and others.” Named ‘Luxuria’ and ‘Dan & Dan’ by The Address Homes, the two brands, on completion, are expected to deliver cosy homes that combine exquisite design with high-level finishes within Ikoyi, Lagos. The Luxuria which sits on a land area measuring approximately 4890SQM and made up of Two Towers, is a development made up of 58 units in total, out of which close to 50 are typical maisonettes. He pointed out that the construction of the two deluxe contemporary homes, which commenced in 2021, is expected to be completed in 2023, maintaining that on completion, the project will comprise 18 luxury houses, ranging from five-bedroom fully detached houses to five-bedroom semi-detached houses and four-bedroom terrace houses for the sole purpose of satisfying its client. Shedding more light on the Luxuria features, the Address Homes boss noted: “When I say maisonettes, there is a reason we do things differently. “First, we found out that people live in flats. Developers built flats, but we also found out that when you live in flats, some elements of privacy are denied – you come out of your bedroom, enter your sitting room. People who lived abroad are used to multi-level structures.” For Dan & Dan Apartments, located on Banana Island road, it comprises 27 units of fully-serviced apartments; three penthouses, 12 maisonettes and 12 terrace houses. Also, Lukman Shobowale, the Co-founder and Head of Business Development, Dukiya Investments, in a recent interview with journalists, attributed the lack of well-developed infrastructure as one of the many challenges facing the sector in Nigeria. Shobowale said that the real estate space is a viable one, with many Nigerians looking forward to having their own homes. According to him, owning a property in Nigeria is an achievement and with the current urbanisation trend, housing demands will continue to be on the increase. Shobowale said that from the United Nations (UN) growth projections which states that Nigeria will be the third most populous country in the world by 2050, no one real estate company can fulfill her housing needs. He said that this had made real estate a lucrative industry and one that youths should plan to explore. “Our objective is to provide unmatched real estate service to everyone from all walks of life and we do this by reinventing the idea of comfort,” he said. Shobowale added that the challenges being faced in the sector would be eliminated if the government can provide enabling environments through infrastructure development. “Good road network, electricity and automated processes of documentation, all have a role to play in how far the real estate sector will go. “After providing housing opportunities, we must not be saddled with the responsibility of solving infrastructure issues. This amounts to double taxation,” he said. Shobowale also urged youths intending to explore the possibilities in real estate not to limit themselves to what they had achieved within their local domain. He said that with continuous trainings, Nigerian youths would pass the test of international relevance in their respective industries. According to him, the challenge of some youths is the entitlement mentality in them which continues to limit their scopes. Also, Mr. Chris Edward, real estate analyst, said that many youths interested in the real estate sector were finding it difficult to blend because of its many challenges. He described it as a tedious space that requires tenacious youths driven by knowledge. “The housing and management sector requires innovation, competence and negotiating expertise. “Success in such area can only be achieved when the people involved are vast in the field,” he said. Edward urged the government to create more forums that will give birth to committees where fresh ideas and solutions to housing problems can be discussed.