Insists Igbos Must Participate in Continuous PVC Registration ABUJA – As the clamour for the South-East geopolitical zone to produce Nigeria’s next President in 2023 gathers momentum, the founding National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chekwas Okorie, on Friday urged Ndi-Igbo to use their numerical strength to their political advantage. He also urged Igbos of voting age to participate in the ongoing continuous voter registration by INEC and obtain their voter’s cards like other bonafide Nigerians. The founding APGA National Chairman made the call at the public presentation and launch of his book, “APGA And The Igbo Question,” in Abuja. Okorie who insisted that “the PVC is a veritable weapon for political self-determination within the context of one united Nigeria without firing a shot,” explained that “In 46 years, I have had the privilege of making round trips to many Nigerian cities and urban communities several times over. I am conversant with Igbo settlements and domiciliation in these places. It is unarguable that in the majority of the states of Nigeria Ndigbo constitute the second-largest population. In a democracy such as a type we practice in Nigeria, population and spread are critical factors in political relevance. The beginning of wisdom is for Ndigbo to wake up from their political slumber, utilize their God-given numerical strength and National spread for political engagements and relevance in Nigeria.” He emphasized that “Ndigbo have what it takes to become a very critical factor in the Nigerian power equation going forward. The time to take control of our political destiny in Nigeria is now.” He also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to release him from custody, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), and other prisoners of conscience; adding that the move to end the insecurity situation in some parts of the country. POLL The APGA founding Chairman traced the formation of the party to the need for a political figure who will like Dr Nnami Azikiwe, rally the region’s political interest with other parts of the country. “The series of events leading to the formation of APGA and the vexed issue of Igbo question in Nigeria are intertwined. It has always been my long-held view that the Igbo question especially after the end of the Biafra – Nigeria war in 1970 which is multifaceted is essentially political and can only be resolved through political means. “By this, I mean constructive political engagement with other political blocs in Nigeria; effective lobbying in an environment of level playing ground, equity, justice and fairness. “By the turn of the year 1996, I became deeply concerned that Ndigbo lacked a rallying political figure like Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe who out of sheer political savvy and sagacity mobilized our people and the people of the former Eastern Region through the political platform of the National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC) to form a coalition government with the Northern Peoples Congress (NPC) in the First Republic. “It was the same Dr Nnamdi Azikwe that bounced back from his voluntary retirement from partisan politics to lead the Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP) as Presidential Candidate to enter into an accord with the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) to form the central government in the Second Republic. “These landmark alliances contributed immensely to the formation and stabilization of the Federal Governments of the First and Second Republics of Nigeria. I became convinced that in the absence of a person of such political stature as Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe what Ndigbo needed most was a registered national political party based on Igbo initiative to serve as a rallying platform to resume the engagement of Igbo People and like-minded ethnic nationalities of Nigeria with the rest of the country. “The formation of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in 2002 was a culmination of attempts to register such political body with the Electoral Commission in 1996, 1998 and finally 2002. “This year 2022 marks 20 years of the registration of APGA with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). So much has happened in Nigeria in our nascent democracy since 1999. Nigeria has experienced unprecedented political party mortality. “In 2020 alone, 74 political parties were deregistered by INEC in one fell swoop. Of the six political parties that existed by the month of June 2002 namely, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Alliance for Democracy (AD), All Peoples Party (APP), National Democratic Party (NDP), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and United Nigerian Peoples Party (UNPP) and 24 other political parties registered by INEC later in the year 2002 that participated in the disputed 2003 general election, only APGA and PDP have survived till this day in their original names of registration. “This is of special significance to Ndigbo in particular and several other ethnic nationalities in Nigeria in general as Nigeria prepares for the 2023 general election. It is by divine providence that APGA has remained subsisting and operational for a time like this. “This book, APGA and the Igbo Question is not only historical in its content but points the way forward for Ndigbo in Nigeria. “I agree that it hurts and assaults the sensibilities of the Igbo to be alienated from the commanding heights of Nigeria’s bureaucracy and political power. But, throwing up our hands in surrender and not participating in the democratic process is the worst form of political self-marginalization which we have inflicted on ourselves.”