Hours after Vice President Yemi Osinbajo declared his intention to run for Presidency in the 2023 general election, a group christened Osinbajo Grassroots Organisation (OGO) staged a walk-in in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State. The members of the group massed at the popular Fajuyi Park and walked through the heart of the town to the Ajilosun office of the All Progressives Congress (APC) where they met party leaders. The leader of the group and former member of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Femi Adeleye said they were happy with the courageous step taken by the Vice President towards realising his 2023 Presidential ambition. Adeleye said, “ We have brought a very marketable and sellable aspirant for the APC and the party must not lose the 2023 presidential election. “ The race is not about big names but a person with capability. Tinubu is the leader of the party, no doubt but what we are saying is we have seen Osinbajo’s performance, loyalty and acceptability across the country. If we are going with consensus, Tinubu will support Osinbajo, I can tell you that. Hon. Adeleye hinted that the members of the group with the support of other citizens of the state would commence aggressive mobilization of supporters ahead of all important-election. The ex-lawmaker, therefore, called on the leadership of the party under the chairmanship of Abdullahi Adamu to consider picking the vice president as the presidential candidate of the APC by all options available to the party. ‘ We have been pressurizing him in the last few years for him to contest. We even decided if he doesn’t declare this week, we will have gone to court to compel him. It is on record that no other Vice President in the history of modern Nigeria has had such a crisis-free, corruption-free, robust working relationship with his principal as Professor Osinbajo. POLL “ Today in Nigeria, Professor Osinbajo’s name is synonymous with loyalty, trust, competence, capacity and faithfulness. He is the one with the most capable credentials and disposition of taking Nigeria to the promised land, he has long been nurtured for the leadership role of president.” In his remarks the chairman of the APC in the state, Paul Omotosho described the vice president as a worthy member and leader of the party, advising the people to go about their mobilization for him in a peaceful atmosphere. The chairman who was represented by the state secretary, Garba Arogundade said whoever wins the primary election among the numerous aspirants would be readily supported by the party members towards delivering a victory for the ruling APC.