Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered security agencies to rescue all persons abducted during the Kaduna- Abuja train attack and other persons still in captivity across the country. National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, said President Buhari is usually sad each time he hears that terrorists have killed innocent Nigerians. According to the NSA, such feeling of sadness from the president was a way of expressing his displeasure over the incessant attacks from terrorists and the need for security agencies to do more to check the situation. He disclosed these on Thursday after a meeting of the National Security Council at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Monguno, who briefed State House correspondents alongside the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, and the Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, said the Abuja-Kaduna train attack was the last straw, leading to the death of some passengers and scores kidnapped. The NSA noted that the president feels that enough was not being done by the security agencies despite what has been provided for them. Monguno stated that the president alone cannot completely receive the blame for the insecurity in the country as his part is to make strategic decisions which the NSA said he has been doing. He added that the surrendering of Boko Haram elements has not engendered the desired result in stemming insurgency in the country. POLL The NSA also said President Buhari has also ordered the tightening of the borders to curb insecurity, noting that without the intelligence and support of the local communities it will be difficult to tame the rising insecurity in the country. He said, “Mr. President commenced the meeting, in his opening remarks he spoke about his sadness in respect of the recent developments in the country, the recent security challenges we’ve had, in particular, the incident in which several Nigerians lost their lives and many more have been taken into captivity by criminals and bandits. “Mr. President has directed all the operational and intelligence elements to rescue these innocent people immediately and unhurt. “This is the basis on which other issues were discussed. Obviously, the Chief of Defence Staff and the service chiefs, as well as the Inspector- General of Police, all briefed the president on the occurrences in their respective organisations. “I submitted a memo to Council and my recommendations are being looked into by the president. My recommendations are wide-ranging and they touch on all aspects of security, starting with the level of security of our land borders, as well as within the country itself. “In terms of securing the nation, we’ve recorded a lot of successes in the maritime domain and obviously, the problem now has shifted to our borders from outside. As a result of that, there’s a need for us to configure how we’re going to make our borders more secure because of the threats coming from outside the borders.” Explaining further he said, “Now, the issue in the North- East, there’s been a lot of improvement and that has been attested to by the governor of Borno State during our last National Council of State meeting. But nevertheless, the fact that the North-East is becoming much more stable, more and more people from the terrorists have started surrendering to government. That has not really brought to an end the situation in the country because the threat is now shifted from the North- East to the North-West, and the North-Central and this threat has to be contained. “It has to be contained collectively by both the armed forces as well as the constabulary forces; the Nigerian Police Force, Civil Defence, but the intelligence agencies also have been directed to enhance the acquisition of intelligence. “The present situation in the country calls for a collective effort by all, not just those that have been charged with the responsibility of physically securing the country, the most important thing, for now, is the acquisition of intelligence and the type of intelligence that is needed is human intelligence. “And I need to make it very clear, I have to be very honest, unless the wider society, right down to the local governments, are willing to give the type of information that is needed to block the activities of these criminals, this situation will continue to linger beyond whatever timeframe we’re looking at, towards ending this great problem. “A lot of lives are being lost, the president is not happy about this situation, he’s made it very clear. The first assignment he’s given to the security agencies, especially the armed forces and the police is to rescue those that are in captivity, not just those that were captured during the last train incident, but those that have been in captivity in other parts of the country. That is the first thing that has to be done.” On why it is difficult to deploy technology, especially in some areas where the military has been having problems, he said, “One, technology is expensive. Technology takes time to acquire…. since inherently we do not produce this very, very delicate equipment. “It’s not as if the government is not making any effort to acquire but we need to know who to acquire this technology from, where, when and there are certain processes. “For now, I know we have but the plight is that they are inadequate, so to the government, it’s a continuous process. That’s what I can say about the issue of deploying technology,” he added. The NSA also spoke on the threats coming from the country’s vast land borders and the need to replicate in them what has been achieved in the maritime borders. He also stressed the imperative of intelligence from ordinary citizens as he noted that unless the wider society is willing to provide the necessary intelligence, the problem of insecurity will linger beyond the timeframe intended to end menace. Meanwhile, Monguno has criticised the Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, for being a loud mouth, that may indirectly help terrorists restrategise as well as endanger those in captivity. He was responding to question on El-Rufai’s claim that intelligence was made available to the military early enough on hideout of bandits and planned attacks but they failed to act. According to the NSA, El-Rufai’s comments could compromise the security situation as the bandits can relocate to other destinations, if they know that their current hideout is known. He said: “Governor Nasir el-Rufai spoke about the security agencies, saying, ‘we know who they are, where they are’. Again, that is the danger. When you start talking too much, you give away a lot, I agree. Now, even if they say we know where they are, that in itself is already a problem. Because once you say it, whether it is true or false, the person who has your people in captivity will move to another location. It’s just as simple as that. “So sometimes it is best to just keep silent, mum is the word.” He also spoke on the recent arms deal with the United States government. He said Nigeria and the US came to an agreement to sell some military equipment to Nigeria, after the Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, and himself travelled to the US, where they made a presentation to members of the Congress. Monarchs Should Play Roles In Intelligence Gathering, Says Buhari Meanwhile, as the government shops for lasting solutions to the problems posed by insecurity, President Buhari has said no responsive government can ignore the role of religious and traditional rulers in tackling insecurity in the country. He spoke at an Iftar dinner with religious and traditional rulers, on Thursday night, at the Presidential Villa Abuja, where he noted that his administration would continue to count on the invaluable advice and guidance of members of the revered institutions towards improving the current security challenges in the country. The president noted that moving Nigeria forward remains a collective responsibility, urging leaders at all levels to contribute meaningfully in making the country a better place. “Today, insecurity is one of the greatest challenges facing Nigeria’s existence. This administration has invested more resources than any other to tackle insecurity. “We have acquired advanced equipment for our armed forces and the police to strengthen their capacity to confront terrorism and banditry. We have made adequate budgetary allocations for security. “Whatever the security agencies request I make it available to them immediately. ‘’But insecurity is a worldwide phenomenon. The cure and the answer is for all sections of society to do their bit and confront the criminals head-on. “The success of our armed and other security forces also depends on intelligence about the activities of bandits and terrorists. “Those aiding and abetting terrorists are helping to destroy their own communities. “Our traditional and religious leaders have a key role to play in terms of improving intelligence gathering about the movement of and activities of criminals in their domain,” he said. Noting that the challenges confronting the country are surmountable, the president recounted that when this administration came on board in 2015, the local government areas occupied and controlled by insurgent terrorists were recovered through the determined efforts of government and cooperation of local leadership. “A similar effort is required now for all localities to work in full cooperation with security agents and Insha Allah we shall see the back of this problem soon,” he said. Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ooni of Ife, commended the Buhari administration’s timely response in curtailing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, noting that it is symbolic that when the country looks inward it can surmount many of its challenges. “Mr. President, thank you for inviting us for Iftar. I remember vividly that last year we couldn’t meet to break the Ramadan fast because of the COVID-19 pandemic and we pray that such will never come our way again”. The Ooni of Ife urged Nigerians to use the holy month of Ramadan to always strive for unity, and celebrate the strength in Nigeria’s diversity. “We have so many positives to celebrate in our country. Yes there are challenges but let us look more on our strengths than our weaknesses,” he said. Mr. Joseph Daramola, the General Secretary, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), said he believes that ‘’God is at work in Nigeria,’’ noting that there were spiritual lessons to learn on nation building from the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the Christian Lenten period that just ended with the Easter celebration. “The power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead is able to bring our nation back to life, making every situation that looks impossible, possible,” the CAN scribe said. We’re Assessing Security Situation To Ensure INEC Conduct Polls Meanwhile, amid fears expressed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the possibility of conducting a hitch free polls in 2023, the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, has said security agencies are currently assessing the situation. He said of greater concerns is the off season elections coming up in Ekiti and Osun states. The IGP stated these Thursday while fielding questions from State House correspondents after the first meeting of the National Security Council in 2022 presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa in Abuja. While making further clarifications, he said the security agencies were working to ensure that timetable on election duties were protected and that a conducive atmosphere was guaranteed for Nigerians to exercise their franchise. His response was in reaction to a question on whether 2023 elections would hold following the fear expressed by INEC. “The issue of general election, we are very conscious of the fact that even before the general election, we have staggered election that is coming up in the next maybe eight weeks. The issue of Osun and Ekiti. “The service chiefs and the heads of security agencies are members of the Interagency Consultative Forum on the elections. “We are assessing the security situation and we are hopeful and we believe the narrative will change for the better in terms of securing the country, to enable us conduct the general election and even the staggered elections. Efforts are being made. “I am aware INEC has expressed its fears and so forth. But we are also working towards changing the narrative within the quickest possible means to ensure that the national timetable on election duties are adhered to by our combined efforts to bring sanity to clear and make a level playing ground for all members of the public to exercise their franchise.” On why areas with serious threats don’t have enough policing while areas without much threat like they South- East have enough policing, Baba said deployment is determined by yardsticks and threats assessment. “Deployment should not be based on either size or number of persons or threat assessment in a place. “It is all about how you police a particular place based on the number of people you have, based on your ability to also gather that manpower.”