China’s Xi Jinping appears to have dashed the European Union’s hopes that his country will play a meaningful role in stopping Russia’s war against Ukraine, after one senior EU official described a recent summit with the Chinese president as a “dialogue of the deaf.” During a plenary session of the European Parliament on Tuesday, the EU’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, painted a bleak picture of a recent high-level summit between leaders in Brussels and Beijing. His summary depicted lengthy talks that ultimately led nowhere, as the two sides failed to see eye to eye on Ukraine and wished to discuss different subjects. “Given China’s increasing assertiveness both at home and abroad, it’s clear that we don’t share the same political values,” Borrell told European lawmakers in Strasbourg, France. “China has an ambiguous position on this war, which requires us to put plain facts on the table, and to press China to do all within its power to be part of the solution to end the war. That was our primary goal, in a dialogue which was anything but a dialogue. “In any case, it was a deaf dialogue.” Six weeks into Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, China’s position remains that it’s not a party to the conflict and that it’s playing a constructive role by focusing on humanitarian matters while ostensibly leaving politics at the door. Many, including Ukraine, had openly expressed a desire for Beijing to use its relationship with Moscow to stop Vladimir Putin’s military campaign, instead of providing the Kremlin with political cover. “It has to be China,” the EU’s Borrell told the Spanish newspaper El Mundo in early March. “Who else?” Only the Chinese leadership could help broker peace between Russia and Ukraine, he said at the time. Analysts note that Borrell’s pressure had value in demonstrating both his efforts to lobby Beijing and also China’s apparent inaction despite international calls to do something. Borrell’s assessment belied the Chinese government’s representation of the April 1 talks as having helped both sides “[increase] mutual understanding and [reach] common understandings in many areas.” The Chinese Foreign Ministry released a partial readout of the EU-China Summit while the meeting was still ongoing, in what observers said was an attempt to give the impression that Beijing was leading the dialogue. POLL In China’s summary of the talks with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, Xi told the leaders the EU needed to “form its own perception of China” and “adopt an independent China policy,” presumably separate from the United States.