Anambra State Governor Charles Soludo has stated that the incarcerated leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, is a factor no one can deny in trying to bring peace back to the south-east. The Governor disclosed this while speaking on Channels Television’s Sunday Politics, stating that it is the undeniable truth as the IPOB leader is a factor to be considered. Soludo said, “Let me be clear: you can like it or not like it, you may want to hear it or not. I’m not a regular politician who speaks from both sides of the mouth, I say it as it is. My understanding of the situation in the South-East is that every major organised group needs to be part of the conversation. “Why did we start the sit-at-home that the children of the South-East have to go to school four days in a week instead of five? How did we start sit-at-home that the woman selling pepper out there; those who depend on daily toil and sweat to earn a living can no longer do that on Monday? Business are closing and so on and so forth. “It is because of Nnamdi Kanu. No matter how you want to wish it away, it is essentially because of Nnamdi Kanu. So, he is a factor; no one can deny that. He is a factor, for anyone who wants to be realistic. Therefore, in a conversation about peace and stability in the South-East, if you discountenance that factor and wish it away, then the person must be living in the moon. It has become a factor. And, therefore, as part of that process of getting down to the fundamental long-term discussion on this matter, we need to get that matter over with. “What started the sit-at-home was because Nnamdi Kanu was arrested. And what were his supporters saying? They were saying that they would keep this Monday sit-at-home until he is released. We are only arguing and having a counter narrative to say it does not make sense to now (say because) someone annoys you somewhere else and you then go and lock up your entire family and say they should not eat, they should starve to death, children shouldn’t go to school. I think they have bought that argument.”