The poor state of the abattoir in Potiskum town of Yobe State is raising concerns among butchers and residents about the attendant health risk. Butchers are expressing worry about the unhealthy environment despite huge revenue being collected by the local government tax collectors daily. A visit to the Potiskum abattoir revealed the poor state of the facility and dilapidated structures, one of the butchers who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity revealed that “Instead of tab water, every day we patronise water vendors for water to clean slaughtered animals and the meat, we don’t have a slaughter slap, the roofing as you can see have been blown up by wind long time ago, we don’t have a single functional toilet, no good access road into the abattoir, no gate, poor fencing”. “The dilapidated abattoir, located behind the Higher Islamic College, lacks basic amenities including waste channels, water supply and electricity”. They appealed to Potiskum Local Government Council to come to their aid by embarking on the renovation of the place “because we daily pay the revenue, here is one of their strong revenue bases but it is not reflecting here, there’s total neglect. There is an urgent need for the repair of the place to enable proper hygiene and good sanitation. We’re law-abiding citizens contributing our quota in the economy of the place. Abattoir is a very important place that the local government officials need to visit and work on it”. POLL The stench from the abattoir is also causes serious discomfort for the residents due to the huge animal wastes dumped behind the abattoir in the outskirts of Potiskum. Residents spoken to said they found it difficult to breathe and have to cover their noses while passing by the abattoir because of the odour. Abdullahi Umar, who resides at the back of the abattoir, said the bad smell from the slaughterhouse posed a health hazard to him and his family. He said he finds it difficult to spend time outside his house due to the bad smell of cow waste while his frequent complaints to the head of butchers in the area did nothing to ease the situation because of the poor state of the facility. “Most of my neighbours barely stay outside for about 15 minutes because of the bad smell which increases”. Efforts to get the Chairman of Potiskum Local Government Council to speak on the matter proves abortive up to the time of going to press. Calls placed on his mobile phone was not answered.