As part of its drive to provide extraordinary value to its stakeholders and foster development in the Nigerian financial markets at large, FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited continues to avail its credible and efficient platform as well as its tailored registration, listing and quotation services to suit the needs of its varied market stakeholders. The Exchange, following the due approval of its Board Listings and Markets Committee has welcomed the quotation of the Prima Corporation Limited N7.02 billion Series 2 Commercial Paper (CP) under its N30 billion CP Programme on its platform. Prima Corporation Limited is a leading manufacturer of preforms and caps in West Africa, supplying a host of international and local brands. Similarly, FMDQ has also approved the registration of the SKLD Integrated Services Limited N2 billion Commercial Paper Programme on its platform. SKLD Integrated Services Limited is an integrated corporate entity providing educational and office supplies, branded product distribution, technology, garment manufacturing and humanitarian aid procurement services through contracts, wholesale, retail and online channels. The timely admission of these CPs, and in general, all securities on FMDQ Exchange, are reflective of the potential of the Nigerian debt capital market and the commendable level of confidence demonstrated by both issuers and investors in the market. The Prima Corporation CP, which is sponsored by United Capital PLC , a Registration Member of FMDQ Exchange, shall be availed the benefits of the value-driven quotation service on the Exchange, including global visibility through its website and systems, transparency through its inclusion in the FMDQ Daily Quotations List, credible price formation and continuous information disclosure through FMDQ’s Quoted Commercial Paper Status Report, to protect investor interest. The Exchange will continue to work closely with its stakeholders to provide access to capital for issuers seeking to raise debt finance by providing an enabling platform that promotes requisite secondary market liquidity, among other benefits. POLL The SKLD CP Programme, which is sponsored by Coronation Merchant Bank Limited – a Registration Member (Quotations) of the Exchange, positions the Issuer to raise short-term finance from the Nigerian DCM easily, through CP issues within its CP Programme limit. Mr. Tayo Osiyemi, the Deputy Managing Director, SKLD Integrated Services Limited, while speaking on the successful CP Programme registration, stated: “the successful establishment of our N2.00 billion CP Programme confirms SKLD Integrated Services Limited’s ambition to harness the Nigerian capital market, in funding its operations and strategy.