The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Enugu State Command has urged parents to monitor the activities of their children to help control the illicit drug abuse in the South-East. The charge was given by the Assistant State Commander, Drug Demand Reduction Department,  NDLEA, Adjai Eyiuche on Sunday during the Mothering Sunday celebration of St. Mulumba Catholic Church, Enugu. Eyiuche, who addressed the worshippers during the advocacy visit said that the appeal followed the high incidence of drug abuse and production among young people in the state. He said that the most abused illicit drug in the state was crystal meth, popularly called ‘mkpuru mmiri’ in the Igbo language. The assistant state commander said that Enugu State ranked second in illicit drug production and had major clandestine laboratories where crystal meth was produced in the South-East. He said that three of such laboratories in Udi, Nkanu West and Trans-Ekulu were recently burst and destroyed by operatives of the command. “We are here to address you because of the ravaging effect of crystal meth which is destroying our youths and families,” he said. Eyiuche said that the church had a special role to play in the war against drug abuse, adding that the vision of the agency was to have a drug-free society. Also, the NDLEA State Commander, Mr Anietie Bassey, said that the enormity of illegal drug and substance abuse in the state had made it necessary to expand their scope of sensitisation. Bassey said that the command had before now concentrated its sensitisation and advocacy in urban areas of the state. “It is now very important to take the sensitisation to rural areas and the suburbs because the manufacturing and abuse of illicit drugs are endemic here. “These illicit drugs and substances are produced in clandestine laboratories and we are getting intelligence,” he said. According to him, the command had been destroying such laboratories immediately after they were discovered. He called on residents of the state to volunteer useful information that would enable the command to track such clandestine laboratories to destroy them and arrest the operators.