ABAKALIKI – Ahead of the 2023 general elections in Nigeria, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Ebonyi state, Comrade Uzor Okorie, has warned against divisive opposition within the party. He said that the major opposition political party in Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has no other offensive than to instigate rancour within the ranks of the APC as a measure of gaining sympathy and votes. He called on Nigerians who are of voting age to get their PVCs ready in order to elect credible leaders that will restore the dignity and glory of the country Comrade Uzor, who disclosed this to newsmen in Abakaliki on Wednesday stated that one of the ways that will give Nigerians the opportunity to elect credible leaders in the next general elections is to get their PVCs in order not to be disenfranchised when the time comes. He backed Umahi’s Presidential ambition stating that for justice, equity and fairness to prevail, it is the turn of the South-East to produce the next president of Nigeria and Umahi is ready to bring the needed transformation. He said that “it is our right and obligation to vote and be voted for during the election as that is one of the key ways that will help us make a positive change in the society”. He further stated that other geopolitical zones in Nigeria such as the North, South-West and South-South have taken their own shares stating that it is only South-East that is yet to take a shot at the Presidency and therefore urged all the political gladiators to zone the position to South-East because it is the right thing to do for the sake of peace, justice, equity and fairness. The APC chieftain who doubles as the Coordinator of the Anuagata Development Centre also explained that Nigeria at this particular point in time needs a leader who has distinguished himself in every aspect of human endeavour to pilot the affairs of this country in order to meet up with the developed world saying that the outstanding performance of Governor David Umahi in Ebonyi state in infrastructure, education, agriculture, among others has placed him ahead of other candidates who are vying for the presidency. POLL He noted that Ebonyi is one of the safest states in Nigeria which all pointed out that Umahi is the most qualified candidate to fit into the position knowing full well the challenges of this country and how to profer solution to it. On the issue of the governorship election in Ebonyi state come 2023, Comrade Uzor appealed to Ebonyians to support the endorsement of the speaker of Ebonyi state House of Assembly, Hon. Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru to take the state to the next level adding that Ebonyi wants a leader that will consolidate on the achievements of governor David Umahi who has transformed the state beyond our imagination. “I have been following Umahi even before he became the governor of Ebonyi state. When we were campaigning for him to be the governor, people didn’t actually know what we were talking about because they don’t know his capacity as a person. Today, I am glad that the unimaginable transformations in Ebonyi state have distinguished him among others. “I want to use this opportunity to urge Nigerians who are of voting age to get their PVCs ready in order to elect a leader who has the interest of his people at heart like Umahi knowing fully well that Nigeria deserves nothing but the best. We need a committed and dedicated leader that will stabilize and make this country great again. “If you have been to Ohaozara and other parts of Ebonyi state before now, you will observe that all our roads are death traps, which made it very difficult to even use the motorcycle to access some places. Today, by the grace of God, we can drive on a road well constructed with the concrete pavement that linked so many villages and communities without any obstruction on the way. “Beyond road and other magnificent infrastructural facilities stationed in different parts of the state, Umahi has performed well in other sectors such as Education, Agriculture, Human Capital Development, Power Supply, security of lives and properties amongst others. “In fact, he has touched all facets of the society and has performed beyond his campaign promises which have placed him ahead of other Presidential candidates in the forthcoming general elections in Nigeria and should be given massive support. “In Ebonyi State, I want to enjoin all Ebonyians to support whoever the governor has endorsed to succeed him in order to consolidate on his achievements across the state. The endorsement of the speaker of Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon. Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru as the next governor of the state is a welcome development and should be given massive support to take Ebonyi to the next level.”