Erik ten Hag has reportedly been given the green light to secure his first signing when his arrival at Manchester United becomes official. The Ajax boss is set to put pen to paper on a four-year deal at Old Trafford as the Red Devils are on the verge of appointing their next permanent manager. The Dutchman has a major rebuild on his hands with wholesale changes expected in the upcoming transfer window. Ten Hag will finish out the current campaign with Ajax which means he won’t officially take charge until the summer. Meanwhile, United are working tirelessly behind the scenes on the recruitment front as they look to get their business done as early as possible. United have been linked with a host of high-profile players but they are also targeting lesser-known players who have the potential to be an integral part of Ten Hag’s long-term project. One player that fits this bill is Enzo Fernandez, who has caught the Old Trafford recruitment team’s eye following his impressive performances for River Plate, contributing to six goals across 10 games in 2022. It was reported that United sent a scout to Buenos Aires on Wednesday evening for River’s Copa Libertadores clash with Brazilian outfit Fortaleza to take a closer look at the midfielder, with Ole in Argentina reporting that they were impressed with Fernandez and will have recommended him to Ten Hag, who now has the chance to clinch the deal. United will have liked what they saw as Fernandez scored the opening goal helping his side secure a 2-0 win. The 21-year-old can comfortably operate anywhere in central midfield, an area that United are desperate to address over the summer months. Fernandez, who has also been linked with Manchester City and Real Madrid, has a contract with the Argentine giants until 2025 but has a release clause worth £16million. It’s been reported that the youngster’s representatives have held discussions with both United and Madrid, but no offer has been tabled yet. Read more on how to set career goals here: