The African British Fellowship said finding is key to the development of any business just as it said it is planning to invest and promote some Nigeria Small Scale business operators up to international standard Mohammed Nura Bashir, General Manager, African British Fellowship revealed this during an award ceremony, held recently at the Lagos Chamber and Commerce Industry (LCCI), Lagos. The awards, which had four categories, Corporate, Graduates, Organisation and Senior fellowship, honoured 45 exemplary serving and outstanding awardees at its maiden awards ceremony. in his words: “We do not only give awards, we help the awardees grow and excel in their fields. Currently, there are plans to take them to the UK for our next summit by July to introduce them to the right stakeholders that would push them higher. This is another way to create an enabling environment for them to thrive. “So, it’s all about making positive impacts to humanity and rural development for a better corporate society. We have our headquarters at Rwanda, we are also here in Nigeria and we plan to establish another office in North Africa and South Africa to enable us to reach the unreached,” Bashir disclosed. He further noted that the purpose of the maiden award was a deliberate initiative to motivate and recognise outstanding performances by a group of companies to societal growth, adding that human development is key to achieving a sustainable nation. Meanwhile, Chairman, African British Fellowship, Otunba Jafar Braimoh, said, “We are presenting the awards to four categories which is in synergy with the Rotary Club where we outsource and resource in managing human and material to achieve human capacity and development. “These awardees were consciously selected and strictly screened by the directorate of the African British Awards who have zero tolerance for anyone who doesn’t qualify to be awardee. We took out time to examine and cross check that the information they declared on their CV matches with their personality and references are also taken. This means that all awardees have met the standard of the directorate.” POLL He said: “African British Fellowship Awards are aimed at rewarding positive impacts, contributions and patriotism towards humanity. We are awarding 45 individuals from various categories and companies. These individuals have notable track records when it comes to outstanding performance geared towards growth. This is also an opportunity to connect them to the right organisations that would support their