IBADAN – As preparation for the 2023 general election gathers momentum, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo state, Dr Olusola Ayandele, has indicated his interest to emerge the Oyo South Senatorial candidate of his party as he Inaugurated volunteers into a Support Group with a mandate to consult and mobilize stakeholders to secure the party ticket at the forthcoming party primary. The Ibarapa-born businessman made it to the final lap as a gubernatorial aspirant of the Oyo APC in 2019 before he fell victim to intraparty intrigues and had to step down for Chief Adebayo Adelabu who later emerged the candidate of the party in the election which was eventually won by the PDP candidate, Engr. Seyi Makinde. Addressing scores of party faithful who besieged the head office of Dr Olusola Ayandele Foundation at Molete, Ibadan to witness the brief ceremony on Wednesday, Dr Ayandele disclosed that the inauguration of his ERUOBODO 2023 SUPPORT GROUP was to Kickstart the necessary consultation and mobilization efforts aimed at securing the nod of all the stakeholders and emerge as the standard-bearer of the APC for the Oyo South Senatorial District in 2023. “Now that INEC has instructed all registered political parties to conclude their respective primaries on or before June 3, 2022, it is imperative for us to swing into action and reach out to all relevant stakeholders within Oyo APC and Oyo South Senatorial District in particular with a view to securing their support as the best aspirant who should be thrown up as the Oyo South Senatorial candidate of our great Party in the next general election. As an experienced, passionate and patriotic son of the soil, I would deliver the good as I am well equipped to turn things round as desired. “You would all recall that I contested the APC governorship ticket in 2019 and despite the fact that I am from a minority zone of Ibarapa, I was able to mobilize enough support across the whole 33 local government areas in the state before I was made to sacrifice my ambition in the interest of the party. “This time, we have weighed all options before us and the best is to aspire to be in the Senate to serve Nigeria and the good people of Oyo South Senatorial district who deserve far better than what they get at present. Oyo South is the nucleus of Oyo state and there is a lot which a competent person representing the District at the Red Chamber could do to improve its fortune,” Ayandele said. Earlier in his welcome address, a former Chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (Oyo State Chapter), Chief Ademola Ojo, said that the committee inaugurated was to consult and galvanise delegates for Ayandele ahead of party primaries as he reiterated that it was not yet time for electioneering or campaigns. He stated that members of the committees were drawn from across the nine local governments and tendencies in the party. Dignitaries who graced the occasion include; Alhaji Sina Alabi, Chief Àdemola Babarinde, Chief Alex Osula, Alhaja Ramota Okemakinde, Hon. Fatai Salau, Alh. Taju Salaudeen, Hon. Kehinde Olaosebikan, Chief Ismaila Baale, Hon. Lanre Olaoseegba, Hon. Kolade Amoo, Hon. Kabiru Kareem, Mr Akeem Adeniran, Mrs Taiwo Moteleola and Hon. Josiah Olayiwola.