LAGOS  – Organiser of the Eko Chocolate Show has said that it is organised to help drive awareness in developing Nigeria’s cocoa culture while building the bridges between production and consumption to change the country’s cocoa narrative from an extractive position to an integrated one with extensive value-add for shared purposes. Queen Angelique-Monet Gureje Thompson, President Eti-Oni Development Group (EDG), stated this while addressing newsmen on the activities lined up for the ‘Eko Chocolate Show’ and Royal Cocoa International Film Festivals – Lagos Edition with the theme ‘Our Cocoa, Our Chocolate, Our Climate’. The programme according to her is set to hold from April 7th through 11th. “It is about the cocoa renaissance in the country, to create awareness of the real value of cocoa and the immense opportunities that can open up through moving up the value chain. “This also led the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) about four years ago to list Cocoa as a priority non-oil export product and several intervention initiatives were created for people to have access to affordable and long-term finance for cocoa development projects from production to value addition. She also stated that the show in the past has improved the cocoa culture being created leading to many entrepreneurs going into chocolate making in Nigeria and across Africa, now adding value to cocoa and creating local wealth from it rather than depend on it being exported only as a raw material with the least possible value derived from it. She said that two days were set aside due to increased enquiry and demand for the Festival of Chocolate and this will be held on Saturday 9th and Sunday 10th April this year. She said that the Festival of Chocolate is a Chocolate Fair that offers a market place to buy and sell chocolates and cocoa related products including ingredients and spices for chocolate making and learning the impossibilities of cocoa as well as the benefits and opportunities. POLL She added that there will be over 30 exhibitors from different parts of the world and that about 3,000 visitors are expected for the two days. Dr Dammie Osoba, Director Eko Chocolate Show while speaking, said Eti-Oni Development Group is the community trust organisation of Eti-Oni in Osun State credited to having the oldest cocoa plantation in the country, producing cocoa since 1896. Osoba, who was represented by Silas Ezurike, Executive Assistant, Royal Cocoa International Film Festival, said over the last nine years, EDG has been working to create the much needed renaissance within the cocoa industry to fully exploit the potentials of the entire value chain to achieve a robust and sustainable cocoa economy in Nigeria and Africa. He added that all events of EDG are designed to create opportunities for networking, cultural exchanges and improving bilateral relations for mutual benefits. “The main objective of Eko Chocolate Show is to become the biggest show dedicated to chocolate and confectionery in Africa while we continue to create the awareness to develop the cocoa culture that will build bridges between production and consumption to appreciate the value in the Nigerian cocoa narrative and change it from an extractive to an integrated one with extensive value-add for shared value purposes.