Farooq Adamu Kperogi is, undoubtedly, a Nigerian-born university don based in the United States of America. He is a Nigerian-American professor, author, emerging media scholar, newspaper columnist, blogger and activist. The former reporter and news editor, who writes a syndicated column, is celebrated for his investigative pieces, mastery of language and grace of style. I must confess that those of us in the literary world appreciate this scholar for his approach to journalism practice. While this may be true, many also doubt the authenticity or verity of some of his claims. Prof. Kperogi is a notable social critic who is not afraid of stepping on toes or marching briskly on where ordinary mortals dread to tread. But some of his pieces are flawed with journalistic guffaws, fabrications and misinformation. In his recent outing on the succession politics of the Buhari presidency titled: ‘2023: Buhari wants Sylva, not Tinubu or Osinbajo as Successor’, the erudite teacher says: “It has turned out that it was actually Buhari himself, not the Aso Rock cabal, who wanted Goodluck Jonathan to succeed him in 2023! Apparently, even members of the cabal were disquieted by this. The cabal played along for a while ( knowing Buhari’s well-known cognitive impairments and imperviousness to reason) and, at the right time, reminded him that in June 2018 he had signed into law a “Constitution Alteration Bill Number 16″ that makes it unconstitutional for vice presidents and deputy governors who completed the first terms of deceased or impeached and removed presidents and governors to run for election twice.” Prof. Kperogi continues: “After realizing that Jonathan can’t legally run for another presidential election, Buhari told the Aso Rock cabal that he wants former Bayelsa State governor and current minister of state for petroleum Timipre Sylva to succeed him. That is still his preference. It doesn’t seem to me that the cabal is enthused by this. But we will see. Sylva has credible allegations of multi-billion-Naira corruption hanging around his neck. In 2013, the EFCC seized 48 houses he corruptly acquired, which it returned to him in 2016, months after he defected to the APC. The position of minister of state for petroleum is probably the most consequential position in this regime after the office of the president. Buhari’s family members work with Sylva. One Nuhu Dauda (who is Buhari’s nephew since the father is Buhari’s half-brother) works as an assistant to Sylva. Even if Buhari doesn’t have his way to get Sylva succeed him, he is clear that he wants neither Tinubu nor Osinbajo as his successors. … But you have to wonder why Buhari who likes to tout his “integrity” is always drawn to corrupt and shady people.” That is the kernel of Kperogi’s postulation or argument. As an assumption, his predication is laced with half-truths, prevarications and incitements. For instance, he insinuated somewhere in his fabricated half-truths thus: “I don’t know what bond binds Buhari and Sylva. I will leave that for journalistic sleuth hounds to unravel. Recall that he was the chairman of Buhari’s inauguration committee in 2015.” It is truly demeaning for a professor of Kperogi’s standing to degenerate so low as to talk about where Sylva’s aides come from. In point of fact, many ministers and even state governors have their assistants coming from outside their states of origin. The story is there for all to see. Kperogi also fabricated that Sylva has a baggage of EFCC cases around his neck without bothering any hoot to take the narrative to its logical conclusion, just to paint an innocent man black. It is a dubious and sinister claim. It would be recalled that in 2012, as governor of Bayelsa State, Sylva had a running battle with then President Goodluck Jonathan in what was generally seen as an obvious case of political witch-hunt. Several allegations including misappropriation of funds and ownership of about 48 imaginary houses, which did not exist, were leveled against him. This was just because he had a feud with the former president. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) cooked all the lies against him just to make spurious and fallacious allegations appear true. Sylva denied owning 48 houses. He was soon to be cleared and vindicated in 2016 by a Federal Capital Territory High Court headed by Hon. Justice Ibrahim Auta, who is now a traditional ruler somewhere in the North East. Five years after, nobody, including the EFCC, has appealed the ruling. Yet, Kperogi has in his report tried to make a mountain out of a molehill. Again, Sylva did not defect to the APC as alleged by Kperogi. His tenure ended as a PDP governor in 2012 and was a foundation member of the APC in 2013 when it was registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In fact, there was no APC in 2012. Kperogi’s insinuation that President Muhammadu Buhari wants Sylva, not Tinubu or Osinbajo as his successor, might be true. But it would amount to a miscalculation or political hara-kiri for the president to hand over power to any politician from another geopolitical zone other than the South South. One, it is the only region which has done only one term under Jonathan instead of the traditional two terms in a tenure. Chief Olusegun Obasanjo did two terms of four years each (1999 – 2007) and Buhahi, two terms of four years each (2015 – 2023). But Jonathan did just one term of four years (2011 – 2015) and handed over political power to Buhari. The South South, the goose that lays the golden egg, must be allowed to complete its second term. Two, handing over power to the South West which produced Obasanjo as president (1999-2007) and Osinbajo as Vice President (2015-2023), would look as if Southern Nigeria is made up of only the South West. It is also unacceptable and contestable for Buhari, a Fulani Muslim to hand over power to another Muslim in the South in a secular state like Nigeria with predominantly a Christian South. It was also under Sylva as a sitting governor of Bayelsa State that the Amnesty policy of the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua government succeeded in calming down the restive Niger Delta youth. What happened could not have been the effort of the president alone. So, whether we like it or not, the choice of Sylva as successor to Buhari is in order. POLL Consequently, Kperogi and his co-travelers must be warned never to reject an unborn child because they never can tell when a saviour is conceived. The fact that you hate someone does not mean that he won’t prosper. God is bigger than your grudges. There is no country on the face of the earth that the president does not have the right to suggest his successor. Buhari does not romance with ‘corrupt or shady’ men as alleged by Kperogi. If you have anything against any politician, prove it beyond all reasonable doubts. To say that someone is corrupt when the allegation was meant to assassinate one’s character to score cheap political point is very wrong. At 58, Sylva is young, energetic, brilliant and dynamic. God is fighting his battles, arranging things in his favour and making a way even when it seems there is none for him. Government should therefore be wary of its traitors who feed Kperogi and his cahoots with half-truths in the corridors of power. To paraphrase Marcus Tullius Cicero, the great Roman statesman and orator: “A nation can survive its fools, and even the ambitious. But it cannot survive treason from within. An enemy at the gate is less formidable, for he is known and carries his banner openly. But the traitor moves amongst those within the gate freely, his sly whispers rustling through all the alleys, heard in the very halls of government itself.” Someone should tell Kperogi that half-truths will not save Nigeria, especially under a democratic dispensation.