Canada based marine transport expert, Azuka Osiegbu has rallied support for one of Delta State’s governorship hopefuls, David Edebvie, stating that raw economic data from the state supports the need to have a man like him at the helms after 2023. Osiegbu heads a strategic Delta In Diaspora Group, DIDG, with a mandate to support a worthy candidate to succeed Governor Dr Ifeanyi Okowa. Edevbie is a former Finance Commissioner under former governor James Ibori and was a former principal private secretary to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. According to Osiegbu, Delta State with a debt profile of N207 billion as of December 2021, unemployment at 24.1 per cent as in 2020, and diminishing revenues, the challenges before any governor beyond 2023 are not a walk-in-the-park. “Though Delta State seems to be doing better than most states in Nigeria, many of which receive far less in national income allocation, a cursory visit to the state tells you that there’s much to be done by whoever becomes the next governor for the state to grow and attain a pride of place. ” It is therefore not a period to settle for a same-of-the-same kind of leadership that only thinks of sharing money. “To use the much-acclaimed words of Peter Obi, there’s nothing more to share,” he said. Osiegbu stated that a man like David Edevbie stands out from other aspirants because of his expertise in the public-private governance model. POLL “Edevbie is light years ahead of the pack. ” I like to call him a public-private technocrat given his broad experience across both sectors. “His attention to detail, a knack for parsimonious planning and focus on achieving set goals combined with a detribalised nature to present a model governor for a modern state,” he said. the marine transport expert argued that governors of the state from James Ibori, Emmanuel Iduaghan and up to Okowa have concentrated heavily on the infrastructure stock of the state. “The emphasis on opening up the hinterland through roads and bridges has been well received by the people. ” There is still some more to do and we must begin to talk about wealth creation through economic empowerment plans, industrial estates and making our cities more liveable. “The next governor must therefore have the requisite skills to meet the expectations of the people for jobs and wealth creation, in addition to an efficient administration. “The state needs fresh thinking where job creation goes beyond the regular appointment of politicians to offices but in expanding opportunities for the people to create businesses and jobs. “This is where the list of the contenders for the top job then withers and we can begin to sift the wheat from the chaff. “Edevbie will certainly take Delta State to new heights,” Osiegbu said.