Liver cirrhosis is not a specific disease but the result of several persistent conditions, causing liver injury and extensive scar (fibrosis) throughout the liver resulting in widespread distortion of normal liver architecture and function. As more scar replaces the normal liver cells, the liver can no longer function properly, and eventually, it fails. In other words, all insult to the liver that is persistent over time may lead to the death of liver cells. In an attempt by the liver to heal, fibrous tissues are formed and deposited throughout the liver. The fibrous tissues do not only directly compromise the function of the liver but also the blood supply, which further worsens the damage. In Nigeria, liver cirrhosis and primary liver cancer account for two-thirds of liver disease in hospitalized patients in a Nigerian tertiary hospital. Alcohol consumption, hepatitis B virus infection, use of unprescribed medications, herbs or roots, and smoking are the major putative risk factors. CAUSE Various types of chronic liver injury can cause fibrosis, self-limited, acute liver injury (e.g., acute viral hepatitis A), even when fulminant, does not necessarily distort the scaffolding architecture and hence does not cause fibrosis, despite the loss of liver cells (hepatocytes). Liver fibrosis can regress in its initial stages if the cause is reversible (e.g., with viral clearance). After months or years of chronic or repeated injury, fibrosis becomes permanent, resulting in cirrhosis. Alcohol is now the most common cause in the West, but viral infection hepatitis B, C, B+D is the most common worldwide. Other causes include: Chronic biliary disease: bile is a greenish fluid excreted by the liver. If the biliary tract is obstructed, bile builds up in the liver and may cause severe damage to the liver. POLL Autoimmune disease: a condition in which the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks the liver tissues. (Autoimmune hepatitis). Metabolic/genetic errors: inborn defects in handling chemicals produced by the body may cause accumulation in the liver, causing direct and indirect injury. Cardiovascular diseases: several diseases of the heart and circulation, including heart failure, pericarditis, and Budd-Chiari syndrome, may cause severe liver injury. Drugs and chemicals: several chemicals and common drugs have a toxic effect on the liver. Cryptogenic: Cirrhosis of unknown origin (cryptogenic cirrhosis) is becoming less common as many specific causes (e.g., chronic hepatitis C, steatohepatitis) are identified. SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS Cirrhosis may be asymptomatic for years. One-third of patients never develop symptoms. Often, the first symptoms are nonspecific; they include generalized fatigue, anorexia, malaise, and weight loss. The most common symptoms are jaundice-yellowness of the eyes, dark-colored urine, swelling in arms and legs or abdomen, easy bruising, etc. Clinical signs that suggest a chronic liver disorder or alcohol use but are not specific to cirrhosis include muscle wasting, palmar erythema, ascites, parotid gland enlargement, white nails, clubbing Dupuytren contracture, spider angiomas, gynecomastia, axillary hair loss, testicular atrophy, and peripheral neuropathy. COMPLICATION If left untreated, liver cirrhosis has lots of complications, and by far the most dangerous among them is liver cancer which has a very poor prognosis. Other complications may include portal hypertension, bleeding disorders, and liver failure. Once any complication of cirrhosis develops, another decompensation is much more likely. PREVENTION Many liver diseases that may lead to liver cirrhosis are preventable (especially those with known risk factors) by lifestyle and diet modifications. Some steps that can help reduce the risk of chronic liver disease include the following: Avoid or limit alcohol intake. Avoid self-medications. Limit red meat consumption. Perform regular exercise. Practice safe sex and avoid sharing sharps or needles. Get vaccinated against the hepatitis B virus. DIAGNOSIS When liver disease or cirrhosis is suspected, the health care provider may recommend one or more of the following tests. It is essential to identify the cause based on clinical evaluation, routine testing for common causes, and selective testing for less common causes. TREATMENT In general, treatment is supportive as there is no cure for cirrhosis now and includes stopping injurious drugs, providing nutrition (including supplemental vitamins), and treating the underlying disorders and complications. Dosages of drugs metabolized in the liver should be reduced. All alcohol and hepatotoxic substances must be avoided. Withdrawal symptoms during hospitalization should be anticipated in patients who have cirrhosis and have continued to abuse alcohol. Patients should be vaccinated against viral hepatitis A and B unless they are already immune. Patients with varices need therapy to prevent bleeding. Medium and large esophageal varices should be treated prophylactically with nonselective beta-blockers or endoscopic banding (ligation). If gastric varices are not amenable to endoscopic banding and do not respond to nonselective beta-blockers, balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration or endoscopic cyanoacrylate injection may be used. TRANSJUGULAR INTRAHEPATIC PORTOSYSTEMIC SHUNTING (TIPS) should be considered if patients have complications of portal hypertension that are refractory to standard treatments, including ascites and recurrent variceal bleeding. LIVER TRANSPLANTATION is indicated for patients with end-stage liver disease or hepatocellular carcinoma. The risk of death without liver transplantation begins to exceed the risks of transplantation when the MELD score is more than about 15. Thus, if the score is ≥ 15 or if cirrhosis has decompensated clinically, patients will be referred to a transplantation center. PROGNOSIS Prognosis is often unpredictable. It depends on factors such as etiology, severity, presence of complications, comorbid conditions, host factors, and effectiveness of therapy. However, with early treatment and lifestyle modifications, many liver diseases can be effectively managed to prevent the formation of cirrhosis. Patients who continue to drink alcohol, even in small amounts, have a very poor prognosis. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital, Dallas Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com