ABUJA – Senator Abdullahi, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has hinted on a pending house cleaning in the party’s National Secretariat, that would require the cooperation of staff especially the party’s Director of Administration. Senator Adamu dropped the hint when he and other members of the APC National Working Committee (NWC ) received their certificate of return from the APC Convention Election Committee headed by Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, at the party’s Secretariat. The former Nasarawa State governor said the NWC which meets Wednesday next week is looking forward to receiving the report of the Transition Committee and expressed that those concerned are above board in terms of the finances of the party. He maintained that loyalty to the NWC he chairs also translates to loyalty to APC as a party, adding that it is imperative for the NWC to know the current situation of the party before rolling out its own program. “We had agreed by Wednesday we are having our next meeting because we wanted the committee to give us a report; we want to know where the party is where exactly, so that we don’t get taken by the exuberance of winning the election and just plunge into the pond or pool, not knowing how deep is the temperature of the water. “As for you the director of admin, you have no hiding place. We will count on your loyalty to the party. It is in God’s pleasure that we are here at the helm of affairs of this party. We’ve come with a very very open mind but you have to reciprocate in the same spirit. “We will definitely, by the will of God Almighty, be looking at the Secretariat, we need to look at you, but am not saying anything today until the transition committee submit its report. “It is my hope that by the time the report is submitted, you have what they call a clean bill of ledger that’s my prayer”. POLL Commending the Convention Election Committee, Sen Adamu said the work of the committee headed by Governor Badaru was instrumental to the emergence of the NWC. He told the Jigawa State Governor that the NWC would need the unfettered support of the APC Governors Forum to tackle some difficult problems of the party.