Carrington Youth Fellowship Initiative (CYFI) has organised a 3-week training for 30 teachers in Lagos State to equip them with digital skills that will improve their learning strategies. The project which was tagged TeachBeta was held for three weekends. The initiative is aimed at equipping teachers with innovative learning strategies and digital education solutions to promote teaching, learning outcomes and emotional intelligence. Birthed by the 2021 CYFI Education team, Obasanjo Fajemirokun, Blossom Egbude, Dahunsi Praise and Samuel Jackson, TeachBeta aims to bridge the technology gap in the education sector by exposing the teachers to teaching methodologies and strategies with the optimization of various technological skills. As part of the programme, participants were taught how to use visual aids and digital teaching tools like Google learning tools, Microsoft Office package applications on personal computers and mobile devices. During the closing ceremony which was held on Friday, March 18, Obasanjo Fajemirokun explained that the goals of the project was achieved through the generous donation of the US consulate Lagos, Lagos education district 4, US consulate mentor – Kendra Miller, CYFAN education mentors and CYFI executives and partners. Obasanjo stated that: “We are also providing online tech support post-projects. We’ve provided free online courses for these teachers. Also, over the last 3 weekends, we took statistics and we found out in our data that 60% of the teachers now have good knowledge about IT and cybersecurity. Moreover, 90% of the participants can adopt the strategies taught.” One of the CYFAN education mentors, Niyi Oladokun said: “TeachBeta project is just the starting point, we won’t stop here. We should see what is possible and better equip ourselves in the way and manner that we would be the right tools in the hands of these children. Let’s help them find the right thing. We keep learning. We need to continue to learn and that’s the best way we can achieve greatness.”