Borno State Governor, Baba­gana Umara Zulum, during a late night visit to General Hos­pital in Monguno, on Saturday, announced the approval of a 30 percent salary increase for doctors in seven local govern­ment areas with peculiarities. Medical doctors, nurses, midwives, lab technicians, pharmacists and other health workers in the seven local gov­ernment areas will also ben­efit from a 20 percent salary increase aimed at motivating them to deliver quality and af­fordable healthcare services. The seven LGAs, includ­ing Monguno, Ngala, Dikwa, Kukawa, Kala-Balge Abad­am and Banki in Bama were among major strongholds destroyed by Boko Haram in 2014 and remained unoc­cupied for about eight years until the recent resettling of IDPs and refugees. Zulum, in company of the Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Mohammed Tahir Monguno, visited the general hospital around 1am and was there till 2am. Hewasreceivedandconduct­ed round by the principal medi­cal officer, Dr. Solomon Tiza. The governor ordered the construction of additional staff quarters, the provision of a deep aquifer borehole and solar electricity to en­hance services at the facility. Zulum had, in January 2022, raised the salaries of all medical doctors in Borno to the level paid by the Federal Government to stop rampant cases of state doctors moving to federal healthcare institutions for better pay. The governor had in the last three years approved the re­cruitment of a combined total of 676 medical workers made up of over 40 medical doctors and 241 nurses, midwives and other health workers. POLL Zulum had spent Thursday and Friday nights in Monguno located in the northern part of the state, coordinating human­itarian responses and rebuild­ing projects. The governor traveled to Monguno with Mohammed Tahir Monguno, the Commis­sioner for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Reset­tlement, Mustapha Gubio, Commissioner for Justice, Kaka Shehu Lawan and for­mer Commissioner of Agri­culture, Bukar Talba, among other humanitarian and re­construction officials.