ABUJA – Former President of the Senate and the presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bukola Saraki has revealed that Nigeria is broke. He also revealed that the nation loses N2 trillion to oil theft. Saraki made the disclosure on Wednesday in Abuja when he met with members of PDP Board of Trustees as part of his consultative meeting to get the endorsement of some of the organs of the party to key into his Presidential ambition. He further revealed that Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) contributes nothing to the federation accounting (FAAC) in the last few months. The former governor of Kwara State further revealed that up to 70 million liters of fuel are stolen daily just as the country loses about $2billion annually to fuel subsidy scam. The aspirant, who pledged to bring the era of oil theft and corruption in the oil sector to an end if he becomes the President, added that, “the economy is weak. No. The country is broke. I am not exaggerating. “As of today NNPC does not contribute anything to Federation account. 70% of our oil is being stolen it has never been like this before. I am saying this because I know you know is bad but it is worse than you can imagine. Because there are some of us that have an idea of how bad the situation is. “I cannot be a President and I will be having the kind of theft that is going on in the Niger Delta, depriving hundreds of millions for Nigeria. Today we are losing $3.5b because of the oil theft happening. POLL “When I was a Senator, I raised a motion, the motion cost me because after I raised the motion, I was invited to EFCC but I still fought for what i stood for, that what we’re spending on fuel subsidy is fake. “I raised a motion that we’re consuming 30 million litres a day. After I raised it, it came down to 25 million liters. By my action we saved $500 million for this country. Today, they are stealing 70 million liters per day. The day with your grace, I’m elected president, that will stop in this country. We will save over 2 trillion naira. “Do you know what 2 trillion Naira will do for our schools, our education and our health? This is a time for us to find somebody that has what it takes to lead this country”. The Presidential hopeful said that the country is sharply divided and needed a unifier that will navigate the country beyond ethnic, religious boundaries. He said that the next President must be able to stand between the youth and the old, the business community and the government sector, a quality he claims to possess in abundance. Responding, the PDP BoT Chairman, Sen. Walid Jubrin assured Saraki that the BoT, which he described as the conscience of the party will not pitch it’s tent with any particular aspirant.