LAGOS – Analysts have implored fiscal and monetary authorities to show more concern to rising inflation rate, amid rising food and gas prices in the country. They said food price spikes may continue to hit everyone and are devastating for the poorest and most vulnerable Nigerians this year. They said the development was necessary in order to halt the highest rate recorded since October 2021 — and 0.22 per cent points which is higher than the 15.7 per cent recorded in the previous month of February 2022. They also said the current increase reflects the exchange rate depreciation that has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index as well as the liquidity challenges in the nation’s foreign exchange market . The implication, they told Daily Independent is that, “On month-on-month basis, the headline index increased to 1.74 per cent in March 2022, which is 0.11 per cent points higher than the 1.63 per cent rate recorded in February 2022”. They maintained that the fiscal and monetary authorities should address the long-term challenges in a timely manner to avoid significant economic consequences. They also told DAILY INDEPENDENT that there was need for the Federal Government to initiate policy measures that will address rising incidence of insecurity required for seamless farming, food production to build resilience to balance of payments shocks and ensure a sustainable economic recovery. They said that the escalation of production and operating costs for businesses, leading to erosion of profit margins, drop in sales, decline in turnover and weak manufacturing capacity utilisation can have significant economic consequences in both short and long run this year. POLL The consumer price index, which measures the rate of increase in the price of goods and services, climbed to 15.92 per cent in March 2022, amid rising food and gas prices. The figure represents the highest rate recorded since October 2021 — and 0.22 per cent points higher than the 15.7 per cent recorded in the previous month (February 2022). The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), said this in its Consumer Price Index (CPI) report for February 2022, released last Friday. According to the agency, the rate is 2.25 per cent points lower compared to 18.17 per cent recorded in March 2021, indicating a slow-down (year-on-year) in March 2022. “On month-on-month basis, the headline index increased to 1.74 per cent in March 2022, this is 0.11 per cent points higher than the rate recorded in February 2022 (1.63 per cent),” the report said. “The percentage change in the average composite CPI for the twelve months ending March 2022 over the average previous twelve months period is 16.54 per cent, this shows 0.19 per cent points decrease compare to 16.73 per cent recorded in February 2022. “The urban Inflation rate increased to 16.44 per cent year-on-year in March 2022 showing a decline of 2.32 per cent points from the rate recorded in March 2021 (18.76 per cent). In the same vein, the Rural Inflation increased to 15.42 per cent in March 2022 with a decrease of 2.18 per cent points from 17.60 per cent recorded in March 2021. Dr Muda Yusuf, Economist/CEO, Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE) in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the marginal acceleration of headline inflation from 15.60% in January to 15.70% in February 2022, according to the inflation report released by the NBS was a mere 0.1% increase. He said: “Food inflation, rather curiously, decelerated marginally from 17.13% in January to 17.11% February 2022. Core inflation sub index accelerated from 13.87% in January to 14.01% in February 2022”. Yusuf, who argued that the technical computation of the inflation figures is not in dispute, said: “the reality of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past one year is at variance with the official inflation data. “For the basket of goods consumed by most households, prices have jumped by between 30-100% over the past one year. The same is true of businesses. “The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been intense and distressing.Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have collapsed, and the poverty situation has consequently worsened. “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins. The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks. “The spiraling inflation dynamics deserves an urgent policy response at the highest level of government. The impact on citizens welfare is severe. The effect on SMEs is troubling. There is worsening social discontent, driven by poverty inflicted by inflation”. He said: “the key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on manufacturing inputs, illiquidity in the forex market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns and low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology. Central bank financing of fiscal deficit is also a major driver of inflation”. “To tackle inflation, all forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost. There should also be deeper stakeholder engagements across sectors to develop an enduring strategy on the way forward”, he emphasised . Michael Olawale-Cole, president of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), told Daily Independent that the ongoing war in Ukraine triggered a positive oil price shock with spillover effects on operating costs, raw materials, and inflation in countries not directly engaged in the war. He said Nigeria was not an exception as prices of goods and services were moving northwards with the potential implication of shrinking production of goods and services. The LCCI president said that if the conditions persist, production volumes would be impacted by the raw materials supply chain disruptions, the rising cost of diesel, and other internal security crises. “Job losses are also very likely due to constrained production and disrupted supply chains, and all of these will likely depress growth potential in Q2 2022,” Olawale-Cole said. “Going into the second quarter of 2022, the manufacturing sector will likely suffer some shocks from the rising cost of diesel, logistics, foreign exchange illiquidity, domestic inflationary pressure, weakening purchasing power, poor public infrastructure and port-related challenges. “These may continue to present as headwinds to the sector’s performance. “Additionally, with the war in Ukraine aggravating disruptions to supply chains of raw materials like wheat, barley, soybeans, sunflower, and corn, the rising cost of production may not abate soon.” Olawale-Cole said Nigerians should expect headline inflation to remain elevated in the second quarter of the year. This, he said, would be due to supply chain disruptions caused by the Russia-Ukraine war, food supply shocks, foreign exchange policies, higher energy costs, foreign exchange illiquidity and heightened insecurity in major food-producing states. “We believe a broad-based harmonisation of fiscal and monetary policies toward addressing the identified structural constraints will significantly help moderate inflationary pressure in the short term,” he said. He urged the government to adopt the most sustainable solution of boosting local production of food staples to levels that met local demands. He urged the government to resolve the lingering fuel supply crises by increasing importation to meet growing demand, which was putting pressure on diesel and fuel prices. “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should embark on easing the economy while keeping a tab on controlling rising prices. Credit to the private sector should increase and be targeted to support growth sectors and export-promoting sectors. “Deliberate efforts toward making the business environment more conducive for MSMEs and large corporates at the national, subnational, and local government levels are also very imperative.” Bismarck Rewane, Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company, in recent interview with our correspondent, said that the country’s inflation rate will remain structurally high at a full-year average of 13.3 percent in 2022. He predicted that economic activity in 2022 will be similar to 2021, due to global inflationary trends linked to COVID-19, such as the lingering global supply shortage. “We can expect to see sustained cost-push factors, including a planned fuel subsidy removal, new electricity tariffs and additional taxes; alongside legacy issues, such as increased debt service burden and exchange rate conversion. Inflation will remain structurally high at an average of 13.3%, with an increase in Q1 and Q2,” Rewane said. He noted that the economic outlook for the country is not gloomy, despite its continued dependence on oil. He pegged Nigeria’s economic growth for 2022 at 3.4 percent on sustained growth in the information and communications technology (ICT) and the financial services sector. He added: “Nigeria would be richer and better off in 2022, and key sectors to drive the expected growth are ICT and the financials because other sectors use it to drive productivity. The economy will see a 90 percent surge in e-payment as well as an increased adoption of technology and digitisation.” Auwal Rafsanjani – Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), told Daily Independent that there is urgent need for the reduction of fiscal deficit financing by the CBN to minimise incidence of high-powered money in the economy. He said: “We urged the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria and Finance Ministry to work on more policies that affect the real sector to prevent a clash in policy implementation. “Government, in partnership with the manufacturers, should select strategic products, particularly those with high inter-industry linkage, for backward integration support and upscale the drive for the resource-based industrialisation agenda” “We should note that fiscal sustainability is driven by both cost and revenue. Therefore, managing the major drivers of cost and revenue is imperative. “As far as possible, the government should push-back in sectors or activity areas where the private sector has capacity to deliver desired outcomes. We should see more concessioning and privatisation at all levels of government. This would allow for the infusion of more private capital into the infrastructure space”. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the naira depreciation has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index. He said: “To tame the current inflationary pressure, he suggested that government should reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility, address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures, address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities and address productivity issues in the real sector of the economy”.