LAGOS  – The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has condemned the killing of the Secretary General of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade (Barr) Musa Lawal Ozigi, the Kwara State Chairperson of TUC, Comrade Akinsola Akinwunmi and other Nigerians during the attack on an Abuja to Kaduna bound train on the night of March 28, 2022. The Congress in a statement signed by its President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, sympathised with the TUC over the tragic incidence and irreparable loss of its top officials who were traveling to Kaduna State for a trade union related engagement. Part of the statement read: “The NLC also mourns and commiserates with scores of our fellow compatriots who lost their lives, were injured or kidnapped in the dastardly attack. Unfortunately, till now, it is difficult to establish the actual number of casualties and travellers caught up in this tragedy. “The Congress condemns in the strongest words possible this national calamity. The tragedy of 28th March 2022 and the brazen assault on the Kaduna Airport a few days ago reveal once again that our country is terribly trapped in the throes of terrifying terrorists and banditry attacks. “The message by the terrorists and bandits is crystal clear – no one is safe anymore anywhere in Nigeria – whether by air, road or on the train. “This must be the ultimate wake up call for government. It is either the government and security agencies rise to the occasion once and for all or we would be singing the Nunc Dimittis to a civilized, sane and secured homeland. “Just like previous terrorists and bandits’ attacks, government and security officials are wont to visit the sites of such carnage and issue routine “condemn and condole” statements and thereafter nothing proactive would be done. “This kind of attitude tends to belittle the value placed on the life of the ordinary Nigerian. This is most tragic. This is also most unacceptable not only to Nigerian workers but the rest of the citizenry who are beginning to question the role of the state if the safety of lives and property can no longer be guaranteed. POLL “It is disheartening to note that our security intelligence appears to invest more resources into blackmailing individuals and groups perceived to be uncomfortable with government policies and actions rather than channelling tax payers’ money into confronting the dire security situations facing our country. We expect credible security intelligence that will help nip potential terrorist attacks in the bud”. In a related development, the TUC) under the leadership of Comrade Quadri Olaleye, called on the Federal Government to fish out and punish the perpetrators of the dastardly act. Olaleye said: “The government should go beyond that to condole the families of the deceased, openly condemn the act and issue a marching order to its entire security chiefs to fish out and punish the perpetrators of the dastardly act. “If this administration can no longer guarantee our safety they should quit for God’s sake. Enough is enough. “Paradoxically, the Buhari led administration in its campaign manifestos promised to tame insecurity and protect lives and properties, that is what is lacking today in Nigeria. “Our road, air and rail transport systems are no longer safe, these promises in our opinion are nothing but a ploy orchestrated just to take over power. It is awful and very clear that Nigerians have become sacrificial lamb for politicians. “We wish to emphasize that no government sits and watches its people die like chickens; it is clear that this administration has performed far below average in providing security to Nigerians. “The Congress, hereby, mandates all its affiliates throughout the country, and our civil society allies to get ready to engage Government to rise up to its constitutional role of protecting citizens and properties. “If nothing is done by this administration to fish out these criminals, rescue those held captive and bring them to justice the organized labour is going to react. “Workers are advised to wear a black hand band as a mark of displeasure for the insecurity in the country which of course is responsible for the death of our comrades.