Sunshine Stars have expressed delight at returning to Akure, their homestead, after a rela­tively long play outside their fortress. The Owena Whales marked the return to Akure with halt­ing the unbeaten run of league leaders, Rivers United, whom they piped 1-0 to mark the sec­ond time the Pride of Rivers were losing this season. In a match played at the Ondo State Sports Complex, Leonard Ugochukwu got the Owena Whales off to a flyer. The hitman headed home from the pieces of Azeez Ajag­be’s header off a free kick deliv­ered by Ikenna Cooper inside the opening five minutes as the Owena Whales grabbed an early advantage like they did against the Pride of Rivers on the final day of the 2020/21 season – the last NPFL outing in Akure before Thursday. At the height of Rivers United’s push for a leveller, Mu­stapha Lawal came through in clutch to deny the Pride of Riv­ers with a commanding save few minutes before the break. Despite being a goal up at halftime, the hosts came out of the tunnel rejuvenated and almost doubled the lead two minutes after the restart, but Ugochukwu’s glancing header off a perfectly-weighted free kick from Habib Yakub was marginally off the mark. The Emmanuel Deutcsh tu­tored boys kept United under coercion for a prolong spell and the visitors nearly turned into their own net when Jide jimoh aimed to set up Ugochukwu after a good run down the left channel. Mirroring his display on the final day of last season, Ejike Uzoechi went close to scoring another header against Rivers United, but his effort off a cor­ner kick was kept out by So­chima Victor 11 minutes from time, while Ajagbe narrowly missed the target from a throw-in five minutes later. POLL In the end Ugochukwu’s seventh goal of the season proved decisive as the Akure landlords on their homecom­ing ended Rivers United’s 12-match unbeaten run to re­main sixth on the log with 36 points. Meanwhile, Coach Em­manuel Deutsch, who guided the team to the win, expressed the hope that returning to Ak­ure would bring more positive results. “We are happy to be back to Akure and I can tell you that be­ing here, we will record more positive results,” he said.