EMMANUEL OBETA It is however interesting to note that content marketing according to Robert Rose (2016) can give you easy and quick wins especially if it is the first time that the company or organization has tried to deliver valuable content to their customers who will immediately and instantaneously respond positively to it. However, with time these same audiences will become harder to reach, more demanding as well as more discerning in relation to the types of contents that they consider valuable. This will create pressure for the organization or the individuals in charge on how to find new, relevant and valuable information or content that will enable them maintain or up the impact while keeping up with the increasing demand for higher quality content. This sometimes acts as the breaking point for these organizations in their quest for valuable content for their customers. The most fundamental tool of content marketing has always been high-quality content and storytelling which is as old as mankind, however because the art of storytelling as well as the pattern and dimension of the people’s attention has changed over the years the art of modern-day story telling or content marketing also has to change and evolve to be in consonance with the present-day preferences as well as realities of the people. In summary Content marketing seeks to provide information to the customers that are relevant, valuable and consistent. In talking about relevance, it is important to understand that every purchase decision is made in consonance with or within the circumference of other decisions, choices etc such that there are different factors that impinge or contribute towards the making of that decision. POLL In other words, decisions are not made in isolation as there are so many other factors that are consequential and contributory to such decisions. The ability of the story teller – content marketer to comprehensively understand, identify and speak to these different factors, the more relevant his information will be to the customers. However, if the content marketer is making reference to information or ideas that do not have any immediate relevance to the decision or choice at hand then he is not useful to the customers neither will his or her position be informative or useful to them. The ability to comprehensively capture these factors and indices is to the extent that the information being delivered will be useful and relevant to the customers. For the information to also be relevant the content marketer should also recognize as well as acknowledge the current positions, viewpoints and perspectives of the customers with regards to the issue at hand. If he propounds a theory, perspective or view point without acknowledging the existing views and opinions he would also have alienated them and his views will not be regarded as being relevant to the people he seeks to address. At the end of the day the content marketing efforts need to communicate with audience members on their terms and appeal to them based on their interests – not just the perspectives and priorities your business wants to further. Content marketing according to Jodi Harris will be regarded as valuable when it serves a specific and largely unmet need, like delivering critical information buyers are likely searching for, providing a tool or technique to make their lives easier, or guiding them through the steps of a complicated process they might have difficulty navigating through. Consistence on the other hand refers to the continuity of the material produced on an ongoing basis, being delivered on a reliable schedule, and always aligned with the standards of quality, value, and purpose that the audience expects. The bedrock or foundation of content marketing is research and a clear understanding of the various confusions and pain points of the consumer/ customer as well as the ongoing conversation or perspectives or shades of opinion between the customers and the organization. Without a clear understanding of the need of the customers as well as the different target audiences there will be no way you can come up with effective content that will address the needs of the customers. The objectives or the aims that content marketing seeks to accomplish can be various but the major ones are as follows; • Brand awareness which refers to the extent to which customers are able to recall or recognize a brand under different conditions; the likeliness that a brand name will come to mind and the ease with which it does so. This awareness is usually as a result of two factors; uniqueness of content which makes the impression indelible in the minds of the consumers or as a result of the extent of reach and consistent mention which also burns the image or impression of the brand in the subconsciousness of the consumers. Either way the purpose of the content marketing will be to build consistent identification or association of the brand with the content or manner of the content such that it becomes indelible in the minds of the consumers. The extent of this challenge will be more appreciated if the volume of all the media contents being churned out in respect of different brands and causes are factored in. For your content to achieve, create and own an angle or shade of opinion that will become memorable for the consumers is key. Ingenuity and creativity and constant adaptation is usually the name of the game. Videos by their nature are usually more memorable than words so is the level of authority as well of depth or level of information. • Audience engagement; rallying together of the various kinds of consumers and offering them a voice, platform or angle within which they will feel seen, heard and appreciated will not only galvanize them but also unleash an unimaginable level of loyalty for the brand. For an online platform this can be measured by time spent on a page as opposed to just reach. If there is a high reach but also a high bounce rate (speed or quickness to leave the page) then the engagement cannot be said to be high but if there is more time spent on a page it can be assumed that the level of engagement or interaction with the page is high. Scroll depth measures how far down a page a visitor scrolls. It’s not foolproof, but if most of your visitors are making it to the end of your posts, you should be safe to assume you’re doing something right and that the level of engagement with the page is high. Shares are also another reliable parameter for measuring the level of engagement especially as people share pages that they have read which has resonated with them in some way. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com