ASABA – The newly elected Captain of Ibori Golf And Country Club (IGCC), Asaba, Mr. Larry Osai has promised to hold the 2022 Captain’s Inaugural on Saturday. The new helmsman of the Club for the next year during which he will administer the runnings of the activities in the club including the scheduling and creating of golfing tournaments has assured that his administration would keep the hope of the club alive and healthy. Speaking at Captain’s Inaugural tournament that ushered him in with his other executive members, he noted that uplifting the club to an enviable height in the global golfers’ arena is one of his executive members’ visions and they hope to achieve the same within the shortest possible time. While noting his responsibility as Captain in ensuring the progress of the club, he stated that with the concerted effort the goals will be achieved within a given period but prayed for the absolute cooperation of all members According to him, ” As your new Captain, I assure you that I have great pride and commitment to this position and this Golf Club. I am not going into this year thinking this is all about a parking space and some free rounds of golf. I know there is a lot of responsibility and hard work involved in occupying this position and I am looking forward to working effectively with my Executive Committee to deliver the dividends of your trust. I will mostly appreciate the support of every member in keeping my committee on the straight and narrow road to success in the course of the year. “I could promise you all sorts of competitions and events but these require the unflinching support of members. With this in place, you can be assured that we will do the best we can to make this golfing year as enjoyable as possible for you the members and visitors alike. Please feel free to approach our Committee on any issues that will engender progress for the club. I am optimistically looking forward to a safe and healthy year with golf as a major part of it. Osai said that it cannot be so easily achieved if all of the members remain in their very comfort zones just as he posited that a bird that must fly high must first leave the nest. He therefore pleaded with all members as well as good friends of the Club to help add value to the Club’s existence by contributing in their different capacities and measures to the progress of the club. POLL The captain acknowledged the contributions of his predecessors who started it and made it grow to the present level and he assured that the goal of putting IGCC in the global Golf map will be achieved in this dispensation if all are committed to the vision. He assured that the door is open for ideas and opinions for the progress of the Club irrespective of positions. Equally speaking with the press, Dr. Ifeanyi Osuoza said that Osai is a purposeful leader and able to carry people along in his drive to make the golf club worth the while. He promised to work with him to ensure he succeeds with fewer difficulties. Ogbueshi Peter Iweze who is known popularly for his Caddies Tournament, also acknowledged that Osai is very committed to anything that he does and would do more exploits in his tenure while assuring him of all needed support. A Captain of IBB Golf Club, Abuja, Senator Emmanuel Anosike said that IGCC, Asaba will get adequate support from his club as it is their custom to support any of their members. He noted that the new captain, Larry Osai is a member and his presence will attract attention from IBB Abuja.