A governorship as­pirant on the plat­form of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Jibrin Muhammad Barde, has called on the good people of Gombe State to vis­it the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) local government area offices where their polling units are domiciled and collect their Per­manent Voter Cards (PVCs) if they have not done so. He also called on those who are yet to register to do so within the ongoing windows provided by INEC. In a statement signed by his Media Office on Thursday, the governorship hopeful stated that the only way to change the fortunes of the people and rescue them from bad gover­nance was through voting during elections. This call was against the backdrop of a circular by an INEC Public Affairs officer in Gombe State. Mohorret Bigun announced the reception of 23,871 new PVCs from the headquarters in Abuja. The statement read in part, “The Independent Na­tional Electoral Commission, Gombe State, wishes to inform the general public that it has received 23,871 new Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) from the National headquarters of the commission. “These cards are for those who registered newly or re­quested for information up­date, transfer or replacement of lost/damaged PVCs during the first and second quarter of the ongoing Continuous Vot­ers Registration (CVR) which lasted from 28th June to 20th December 2021. “Therefore, all those who registered or requested for replacement of their PVCs during the period are encour­aged to visit the INEC LGA of­fice where their polling units are domiciled to collect their PVCs from Thursday 21st April, 2022. POLL “The commission wishes to assure those who registered be­tween January and March 2022 as well as those who are doing so right now that their PVCs will be ready for collection be­fore the 2023 general elections. Barde called on both his friends and well-wishers across all political parties to visit their polling units in their areas to get their cards. The statement read in part,”My dear good People of Gombe, the INEC in our dear state has taken delivery of thousands of PVCs and I am calling on all of you to proceed as from tomorrow to collect yours. “It is the only strength and power we have to unseat the incumbent administration of Inuwa Yahaya and clean up the state from the messes it has created and restore hopes back to all of you, both young and old.”