The race to sign Borussia Dortmund superstar Erling Haaland could see its climax before the end of the ongoing month. The 21-year-old has been one of the most in-demand players in the transfer market heading into the summer window. A host of top clubs across Europe such as Manchester City, Real Madrid, Paris Saint-Germain and Barcelona are vying for his signing before next season. Barça have been hot on his trail for months now, with several meetings held with his agent, Mino Raiola, while manager Xavi Hernandez reportedly spoke directly to the centre-forward in Germany. The economic demands of the deal have cast doubts over the Catalans’ chances of landing Haaland, though. Especially considering the financial might of a team like Manchester City, who are ready to go all the way to sign the Norwegian. Indeed, transfer expert Fabrizio Romano is reporting that the reigning champions of England are making all efforts to sign Haaland in the summer, with direct contacts now underway. Romano further claims that Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola wants the striker ‘at all costs’, although the race is still believed to be open. Another report from the Daily Mail insists that a decision from Haaland and his camp is expected to be made in the next fortnight. It further claims that Manchester City remain confident of landing the 21-year-old, but Barcelona, Real Madrid and PSG still remain in the hunt. The Cityzens have put together a bumper financial offer for Haaland. It would see them pay €70 million in commissions and a signing-on bonus, along with a contract worth around €30 million per year. POLL While the sporting project offered will also play a major role in his decision, Manchester City may have an upper hand there as well, owing to the presence of an all-conquering manager like Pep Guardiola and the fact that the Cityzens are constantly challenging for trophies. So, it remains to be seen where the 21-year-old Haaland ends up, with a decision expected before the end of April.