BENIN – The Solidarity For Women in Governance (SWG), a socio-political group, has pleaded with the Edo state government to assist the women in ascending to political positions in the forthcoming local government election in the state and the 2023 general elections. In the letter which was addressed to the Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, his Deputy, Comrade Philip Shaibu and other key government functionaries, the group is pleading passionately with them to assist the women to obtain some elective political positions without many difficulties. In the letter, signed by the State Coordinator. Aigbokhaevbo Augustine and the Secretary, Nancy Idehen, the group commended the state government for its manifest effort in entrenching the ideal of true democratic practice in the state and its support for gender equality among other sterling attributes. The organisation however lamented the current low percentage of women’s representation in Governance, especially elective positions in the state. Using historical statistics, the group lamented the fact that since the creation of Edo State 31 years ago, Esan Central LGA has not had a female LGA Chairman or a female House of Assembly Member. “This is unfair to the women constituency. We tend to do politics in terms of Ward 1, Ward 2 and so on without remembering the ‘Ward Women’, we consciously relegate the women folk which is unhealthy to true democratic practice, equity, good conscience and social justice”. The pro-women Governance organization pointed out that there is so much to be tapped from women in government. God did not make mistakes by making women partners to men in the creation process. The group pleaded with the Governor to take a deeper look at the issues raised and give a benefit of the doubt to Joyce Daniels Oamen to lead Esan Central LGA under his administration to again reinforce the government’s ideas on gender matters. POLL According to them,” the Need to consider Women in Key elective positions as one Solidarity for Joyce Daniels Oamen for the Chairmanship of Esan Central Local Government Area of Edo State. “We write in passionate solidarity for the promotion and expansion of women in key positions of Governance in line with your administrations’ dedication to women empowerment and gender equality. The effort of your administration in seeing that the womenfolk are given the chance to function in key government positions is commendable and serves as an inspiration to stakeholders of the above-named organization. “We appeal for this principle of social justice to prevail in the ongoing Edo State Local Government Electioneering process. As it stands, just a few per cent of the women populace have had the opportunity to serve in an executive capacity across the 18 Local Government Areas of the State. It’s a known fact that women have the capacity, courage and will to bring out their best when entrusted with positions of authority for service. “We, therefore, appeal to the state Governor to consolidate his gender equality drive by calling on the leadership of the People’s Democratic Party across the state to give ample opportunity for women to emerge as Local Government Chairmen in the ongoing electioneering process. Most specifically and passionately, we want our people-oriented Governor to consider Joyce Daniels Oamen – an accomplished public speaker with Sterling records of community service, for the position of Chairman, Esan Central Local Government Area in the forthcoming elections. She has the capacity and network to attract the right partnerships for development in Esan Central, as well as having the leadership ability and capability to lead the council, peacefully with world-class innovation and fresh perspectives.