A political  pressure  group, Ekiti North Concerned Patriots (ENCP) has warned the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to as a matter of priority reward loyal and committed members with elective positions if the party wants to excel in the 2023 General Elections. The group, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Hon. Adebayo Olayisade, in Ido Ekiti, headquarters of Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State, on Saturday made their stance known after  endorsing the candidature of Dr Olusegun Osinkolu for Ekiti North Senatorial Distirct. The group argued that Osinkolu, former Director General, Buhari/Osinbajo campaign Council in the 2019 presidential poll in Ekiti, had made enough contributions to the building of the party much better  than those being wrongly presented for political positions by the party. He said ” we knew and fully convinced that he  merits being compensated with that ticket in APC. Those who have not done half one what he has done have done are representing APC, why should he then be sidelined?”, Olayisade asked. ” He has  always been contesting to be a Senator representing Ekiti North Senatorial District. He did this in 2011, 2015 and 2019 respectively. “We won’t allow imposition this time, the party must field popular candidate, because we will vote against any candidate that emerges via imposition. “He is a loyal party man and loyalty must be rewarded this time. Each time he lost, he had taken his time to spend his hard-earned resources and time working hard for whoever the party picked to win the election. “His believe had always been that the party is supreme and whatever decision it took must be respected. But this time, we think those, who had been loyal and patient with the party’s decisions must be rewarded to further buoy loyalty among APC members”, he said. POLL Olayisade commended Osinkolu  for doing his best to empower many people despite not holding any political position in the district, saying this he had been done zealously  across the five local governments in the district. “He had performed this  in terms of empowerment, financial help for emergency situations and distribution of Christmas gifts on yearly basis whether we are in power or not. It noted that imposition of candidates had been causing disloyalty among members and responsible for why the party always struggled to win National Assembly elections in the zone. Olayisade posited that the group, with members across the 56 wards in the five local governments in the district, had unanimously came into concurrence that  Osinkolu had made a lot of sacrifices for the party and that 2023 is the  time to reap his contributions to APC. Olayisade described the foregoing as one factor that was destroying the fabrics of loyalty among members , which he said must be rectified to salvage the party from losing the June 18 poll and the 2023 elections. “Again, in the last presidential election conducted in 2019, he was the Director General, Buhari/ Osinbajo campaign Council in Ekiti and he delivered Ekiti for Mr. President.