LAGOS – Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has congratulated the Akran of Badagry Kingdom, His Royal Majesty, De Wheno Aholu Menu-Toyi I, on his 45th coronation anniversary. Governor Sanwo-Olu, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, on Friday to celebrate 45 years of Oba Menu-Toyi I on the throne of his forefathers, said the 85 years old monarch has used his wealth of experience and knowledge to contribute to the progress and development of Badagry and Lagos State as a whole. Governor Sanwo-Olu said the people of Badagry are lucky to have a renowned journalist, whose exploits in the pen profession spread across several platforms in the 1960s and 1970s before ascending the throne of his forefathers in 1977 as the 15th paramount ruler of Badagry Kingdom. “On behalf of my family and the good people of Lagos State, I heartily congratulate the Akran of Badagry Kingdom, De Wheno Aholu Menu-Toyi I, on the occasion of his 45th coronation anniversary. “Oba Aholu is an epitome of dedication and selflessness in private, public and community service. He has used his position as a seasoned journalist to uplift the standards of life of the people he worked assiduously to inform as well as contributing to the growth and development of the ancient town of Badagry and Lagos State. “As a journalist, he discharged his duties with the utmost professionalism, competence and dedication. After a remarkable career in the media profession, which spread across several platforms such as the West African Pilot, Daily Sketch and New Nigeria where he rose to the position of Acting News Editor, South, he left the pen profession with impeccable records to become the 15th Akran of Badagry on April 23, 1977.” Governor Sanwo-Olu also noted that “Since ascending the throne of his forefathers, Oba Menu-Toyi I has displayed exemplary leadership and passion for Badagry and his commitment to the growth and development of the ancient town is commendable. Indeed, the people of Lagos State are lucky to have him as a traditional ruler because he has used his office to attract development and laudable projects to Badagry. “I congratulate Oba De Wheno Aholu Menu-Toyi I on his 45th coronation anniversary and I pray that the Almighty God will continue to bestow on him the wisdom, knowledge and understanding like that of King Solomon in the Bible for a continuous reign of peace, prosperity and love in Badagry.”