P/Harcourt – Another disaster occurred on Monday in Rivers State as fire incident killed a pregnant woman and six others in Port Harcourt, the state capital. The incident which occurred at the Bonny- Bille-Nembe jetty in Port Harcourt also killed at its wake some infants and the elderly besides over sixth wooden boats destroyed in the process. Sources said the fire started when some persons were trying to off-load illegally refined petroleum products known as ‘kpofire’ in the local parlance, after transporting the products across the water. “They have warned these people not to carry diesel and fuel inside the boat. Now see what has happened. “I am sure that many people died, even a pregnant woman and a baby. Around 2a.m, my friend and I came out after we heard a large sound like explosion. Some people were sleeping then,” he stated. “Many people died because we have not seen some women. About 30 people may have died. POLL But they have seen two children. For the boats that got burnt, we can’t even count them”, she stated. A woman who escaped with her two children but lost her five months old child said, “We were surprised when we saw a large fire and people started running. I started calling the manager to help me rescue this child I am carrying. He didn’t answer me, so I carried one of them and jumped inside the river. “Before I knew what was happening, one Hausa man threw a rope and asked me to hold the rope. That was how I came out. So they asked me if there were other children in the boat. I told them yes. “So they entered the river and brought my other child. But I told them that my smallest child was still inside. But they didn’t see that one,” she stated. Another woman said she went out to buy something only to return and saw fire, saying her two-year old son was missing. “I didn’t have any money on me. So a woman gave me to buy rice. As I returned I saw huge fire on the boat. I entered inside but I didn’t see my child. “I started shifting backwards as the fire was spreading in my direction. I saw a woman in the river calling for help. So I jumped into the river and helped the woman and her baby. “I later went to the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital. A nurse told me to check if my child was there. I saw some children, but I told her that my son was wearing a long sleeve shirt,” she explained while rolling back tears. The acting spokesman of the state police command, Grace Iringe-Koko, confirmed the incident. “We are aware of the fire. But we are still trying to get the exact casualty figure, Iringe-Koko, the police image maker, stated.