According to various sources, this is how much it will cost to end the 52-year-old’s Ajax contract. This only runs until 2023 anyway, so United would be able to get him next year if they somehow miss out this time around. Ten Hag’s move to Old Trafford was put in jeopardy recently amid claims of interest from RB Leipzig. The German outfit have long admired ten Hag and apparently want him to replace Domenico Tedesco. However, Sport1 journalist Patrik Berger refutes those suggestions. He even goes as far as calling them ‘absolute nonsense’. This leaves Manchester United in pole position to capture the highly-rated Dutchman. Football Insider provide a pivotal update on the manager hunt. They reveal United are getting ready to pay Ajax the necessary £1.7m to release ten Hag from his contract. Following this, the Red Devils will prioritise negotiations with the coach himself. Should these talks go smoothly, then ten Hag could be announced as Ralf Rangnick’s successor next week. The earliest it will happen is Monday April 18. This is due to Ajax’s domestic cup final against PSV on Sunday evening. Many are excited by the prospect of ten Hag guiding United into a new era. However, Gary Neville worries about the manager’s reputation, should it go badly. POLL “It all feels like it’s eggs in one basket with ten Hag,” Neville said on Sky Sports. “If they can’t get him over the line, what a position for Manchester United to be in. And if you’re Ralf Rangnick reporting in to ten Hag and answering him honestly, which I suspect he will be, and if you’re [Donny] van de Beek answering him honestly, which I suspect he will be, and we know Edwin van der Sar is over there [at Ajax] who will be speaking to ten Hag honestly. “They’ll be saying, ‘be very careful, be very careful about going to Manchester United’, because it can be a graveyard at this moment in time for reputations. “Ralf Rangnick came in with an incredible reputation. He still has that reputation, but he’s now starting to be wounded by what’s happening around him. “He looks weaker and more vulnerable on the touchline because of the performances of the players that are nothing to do with him. “Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is a good man, those players liked him, and they turned him over! “So it’s a really difficult position for the club to be at. I feel at this moment, like most Manchester United fans, I don’t know where to turn next or what’s going to happen.”