NSIKAK EKANEM Since Oba is nomenclature of first class traditional ruler among the Yoruba of south-western Nigeria, it would appear strange seeing screaming headlines such as “OBA wins Akwa Ibom governorship” or “OBA crowned Akwa Ibom governor”, if the governorship ambition of the bearer sails through. Undoubtedly, OBA, which has since become a household name in Akwa Ibom, has certain commonality with that of the Oba of the south-west. The first letter stands for Obong, which means Lord, King or Chief. In many instances, Obong is a bridge form of chieftaincy title accorded a number of highflyers in Akwa Ibom and Calabar axis of Cross River States. Since Nigeria is a title-loving society, where many attach umbilical cord to titles, many with the title of “Obong” go about it to a point that people outside Cross River and Akwa Ibom deserve pardon in case of misconstruing the title as part of the certified name of the bearer. The OBA of Akwa Ibom, written in uppercase is an acronym of Obong Bassey Albert, the current senator representing Akwa Ibom North East (Uyo) senatorial district. Just as his goodwill is said be, he has earned many chieftaincy titles across all parts of the state, especially in the course of about 15 years of being in public office, so far. The chairman of Senate’s committee on Upstream Petroleum was Finance commissioner in the governorship era of Godswill Akpabio from the inception of the administration in 2007 until he resigned in 2014 to seek elective post. From a number of indications, his teeming supporters are at peace that the incoming 2023 general elections appears his best chance to get the key to the coveted governorship office in Akwa Ibom. The Senate’s seat, which he has been occupying since 2015, was consolatory offer for him, having acceded to Akpabio’s entreaties to step down for incumbent Governor Udom Emmanuel, who was the former governor’s choice in 2015. POLL Again, in 2019, he was the only serving senator in the state that remained intact in the, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and his refusal to be swayed by the tide of defection, coupled with the tenacity of the then speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Onofiok Luke, among others, boosted PDP’s consolidation of its grip in the state of which Emmanuel’s victory at his second term election was one of the major highlight. Indeed, Ephraim Inyang-eyen, the governor’s man Friday until recently, who had held sensitive office of Commissioner for Works for over five years and later Chief of Staff, is reported to have revealed a couple of days ago that there was a pact between Emmanuel and the senator for the latter to succeed the former. It is on the strength of the preceding political trajectory that the build-up to the 2023 elections is considered OBA’s final onslaught. He is seen by many as the most formidable among those that have picked up the governorship nomination form of the PDP in the state. Even as many people in the state see OBA’s trip to the governorship throne through rose-tinted glasses largely on account of visible large number of supporters, it is also glaring that the senator is onegovernorshipcontenderintheAkwa Ibom PDP family that has a mountain to climb even within his party. OBA’s wall to climb in the governorship race is mounted by current establishment in the state PDP led by Emmanuel, who has remained avowal, though through innuendoes and clandestine scheming, that the former finance commissioner is one person that deserves not to be crowned the governor of the petro-dollar-rich state. With veiled reference to the immediate past administration in the state in which Albert was one of the egg-heads, the governor in recent time only recalled the Akpabio era with derisive remarks at every opening. Insinuating on alleged politically-motivated crimes of assassination, violence, thuggery and kidnaps, the governor often describes the “uncommon transformation” time as dark days in the life of the 34-year old state. On top of opposing OBA’s governorship ambition, Emmanuel has openly taken a decisive step by announcing the person he prefers to succeed him. Along with some select political gladiators in the state, including former Governor Victor Attah, one Umo Eno, who was relatively unknown in the state until last year when he was appointed commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, was presented to the public on January 30 as the chosen person of Akwa Ibom political “stakeholders”. In fact, the choice of Eno was pronounced a day after elaborate ceremony in which OBA unveiled one his legacy projects in Uyo to the cheering of tumultuous crowd, including Senate President Ahmad Lawan and the governor, who poured encomiums on OBA. Reliable sources at the Government House told this reporter that the announcement of Eno was hurriedly arranged that Sunday evening to throw a spanner in the works of OBA’s 2023 political ambition, which its attractiveness to a chunk of the populace is said to have been of discomfiture to the governor. Apart from the governor’s camp, a section of Akwa Ibom elites – not in the political class – appears not favourably disposed to OBA becoming the state governor. Again, the senator’s family is also politically divided in that his elder brother, Ime Albert, who with deep pocket had factored substantially in playing recommendatory role to the younger Albert in occupying the juicy political post under Akpabio’s administration, is now plying his political adventure under the auspices of the All Progressive Congress, APC, the main opposition party to the governing PDP in Akwa Ibom. Amidst the foregoing seeming unfavourable factors, especially regarding colossal and imperial influence wields by the governor in dictating political direction in the Akwa Ibom PDP and even the larger segment of politics in the state, how far can OBA go to actualising his decade-long dream to occupy the Hilltop mansion in Uyo? OBA’s major strength is anchored on groundswell of supporters spread across all nooks and crannies of Akwa Ibom. A sizable number of persons among statutory PDP governorship delegates that will choose the party’s candidate is said to be backing him. Again, while the governor’s popularity is said to have been on all time low, even after winning his second term election, that of OBA is heightening as the clock ticks. Tarring OBA with black is seen by his supporters as weak as anything wavering given the paradox that Emmanuel who is the prime beneficiary of the Akpabio leadership in the state is the principal person pillorying the period of his political incubation. It is curious that though Emmanuel owes his meteoric transmutation from Zenith bank headquarters in Victoria Island to Government House, Uyo solely to human hands of Akpabio, and not the holy hands of divinity, as he has been claiming, his pooh-poohing of the Akpabio governorship years has become his pastime and political capital. The no love lost relationship between Emmanuel and Akpabio fully sprout out in 2018 when the latter made a bolt from the blue by defecting from PDP to APC, dumping the office of the Senate Minority Leader, which conferred on him the officialvoiceof theoppositiontotheAPC-led federal government. It is also argued that Emmanuel’s inability to substantiate his allegations, let alone using the powers of his office to make the senator to face the wrath of the law for his assumed wrongs, is self-invalidation of the implied accusation, just as it is questioning the governor’s veracity, especially from context of the fact that OBA has never been in the category of Nigerian political office holders enjoying immunity from prosecution. Notwithstanding the said 2019 pact, in view of Emmanuel’s body language, the governor camp was the least quarter the senator expected support, hence it is to his advantage that he is the only governorship hopeful from the PDP family in the state that has not been taken aback by the governor’s public preference for Eno. In spite of OBA’s chances amidst offensive from Emmanuel’s wing, there could be a joker in the game through the aspirationof AkanOkon, whoappearsto be waiting in the wings to steal the show from the two frontline combatants. Okon has been a commissioner since the last two years of Akpabio administration and has been retained in different key ministries superintending a number of Emmanuel’s legacy projects until he resigned in the Ministry of Ibom Deep Seaport and Economic Development last month. The estimation of pundits is that in event that Eno’s conscripted ambition keeps remaining unappealing, the governor may resort to throw his weight behind Okon, who has remained his bosom friend for about 40 years, especially as his relationship with the University of Lagos Business Administration graduate has never hit the rock even after he (the governor) drafted another person to vie for the PDP’ governorship ticket against Okon and others. But at the moment, from the visibilities of things to the human eyes, OBA’s chances of getting PDP’s governorship ticket are clear as crystal, provided there would be appreciable level of freeness and fairness in the intra-party contest.