Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong along with some of his top government officials were in Miango, Bassa Local Government Area on Thursday, to meet with the stakeholders over the recurring attacks and killings in the locality. The stakeholders meeting was attended by the Paramount ruler of Irigwe nation, HRH Bra Ngwe Rigwe Rev. Ronku Aka, community, youth and women representatives as well as political and religious leaders, Governor Lalong said his mission was to again condole with the people over the incessant killings and destruction of properties in the area which are a major setback to the progress of the entire state. He commended the Irigwe people for their resilience, patience and efforts to live in peace with their neighbours despite the losses they have incurred over time from attacks by criminal elements. Lalong praised them for their positive attitude towards peace building which led them to signing a peace pact with the Fulani with whom they have lived together peacefully for a long time, until criminal elements came in to fan embers of hate, destruction and crises. He said the Irigwe made the right decision to work together with the Fulani they know and have dwelt together peacefully over many years in order to isolate criminals who come in and try to exploit faultlines and cause chaos. This he said will assist both sides to identify criminal elements who use ethnicity, religion and other excuses as a cover to perpetrate while leaving many innocent people in pain and agony. He urged them to resist the incitement and provocation by criminal elements both external and internal who seek to stop the development of the area and the prosperity of the State, assuring them that Government will follow them and ensure that they are dealt with ruthlessly. According to the Governor, those who have continued to peddle falsehood that his administration does not like the Irigwe people are mischievous persons who want to politicise insecurity in order to gain popularity through misinformation and fake news. POLL He reminded them that he has held several meetings with their leaders facilitated by the Peace Building Agency aimed at finding solutions to the recurring attacks in the area. Lalong regretted the loss of lives and properties and the displacement of people promising that the Government will assist those displaced to get their shelter back as well as continued to provide relief materials and support to those whose lives have been interrupted by the attacks. In his remarks, the Bra Ngwe Irigwe HRH Rev. Ronku Aka expressed gratitude to Governor Lalong for his commitment to restoring peace in Irigwe land despite the many setbacks experienced and attempt by some to discredit him. He appealed to the Governor to use all his powers to ensure that anyone who breaches the terms of the agreement is dealt with in accordance to the law so as to serve as a deterarnt to others because his people are tired of the unwarranted attacks and losses. Chairman of the Irigwe Development Association Mr. Robert Dodo in his presentation said the security forces have done their best but still operate reactively rather than proactively. He also asked the government to resolve the boundary adjustments within the area which is also a factor in the level of insecurity in the area. Irigwe Youth Movement President Mr. Ezekiel Bini and the Woman leader Mrs. Caroline Gwendu asked for the quick passage of the Ranching Bill currently in the Plateau State House of Assembly in order to deal with the issue of open grazing that is at the centre of the attacks and displacement in the area. He also appealed to the Government to empower the vigilante groups so as to enable them to provide the first line of defence and intelligence against any attack.