A member representing Iseyin/ Itesiwaju/ Kajola/ Iwajowa Federal Constituency in Oyo State, Hon. Shina Peller has expressed optimism that a new Nigeria where equity, justice and a robust economy will be the act of the daily activities can be built if Nigerian youths are put in the position of leadership. As the former Chairman, Oyo State Pilgrims Welfare Board (Muslim Wing) Sheik Taofeek Akeugberu Akeugbagold also disclosed that it is only the youths that can rescue Nigeria from the present political, social and economic crises. The duo made the disclosure on Monday evening while delivering the fourth annual Ramadan lecture and Iftar (breaking of fasting) sponsored by Hon. Shina Abiola Peller at the  National Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council. Peller in his remarks, implored every Nigerians including journalists to intensify efforts in helping to correct the social problems militating against the survival of the country. The lawmaker said as the fourth estate of the realm, journalists should use all the instruments at their disposal to help in making sure that the country have a functional system that works for all in the country. According to him, “there can never be societal development in a country that being governed by a faulty system. Our country is presently confronted with so many challenges and this can be attributed to a system failure. “So, we need to create a functional system that will make the existing one obsolete, and you the fourth estate of the realm and Nigerians as a whole have a very significant role to play. “Dear beloved journalists, as watchdogs of the society that you are, I implore you to intensify your efforts in helping to correct the societal ills in our country. POLL “As fourth estate of the realm, you need to use all the instruments at our disposal to help in making sure that we have a functional system that works for all. “Fortunately in 2023 general election, the incumbent president will not be re-contesting, and this should present to us an opportunity to have a level playing ground for all that may be aspiring to take over from him. “It is our duty as fourth estate of realm to ensure that this is achieved in a very peaceful manner”. Also speaking at the lecture on the theme, “2023 Election and Youth Participation for National Development: The Islamic Perspective”, Akeugbagold insisted that any country that does not allow its youths to participate in governance is likely to remain the same. The Islamic cleric advised Nigerians to vote for youths as their leaders, because they are the one that have the mental and physical capacity to rescue the country from contemporary challenges, urging  Nigerian youths to wake up from their slumber and contest for elective positions in 2023. Akeugbagold also urged Nigerians to vote for the best candidates who have capacity to deliver, irrespective of religious or ethnic backgrounds of such persons. He also warned that progress will remain a mirage in a country like Nigeria, that placed ethnic and religious considerations above merit. According to him, “Any country that does not allow youths to participate in decision making will not move forward. When we are talking about progress of a country, you have to shun religious or ethnic sentiments. Religion is for moral and spiritual purposes. “It is the youths that can rescue Nigeria. It happened in Ghana, one of their leaders Jerry Rawlings killed many people to sanitise the country. It is the youths that can do it. “Youths should wake up. In China, it was the youths that did it. China took the youths to the industries and Nigeria took the youths to Churches and Mosques expecting miracles. “Churches are making billions without paying taxes but companies that are making millions without paying taxes were shut. So, the youths, you need to rise and wake up. “When you entered UK, you will be seeing companies, industries, when you entered China, you will be seeing companies and industries, but when you entered Lagos, Ibadan in Nigeria, you will be seeing Churches and Mosques along the streets. We want the citizens, the government to give the youths the chance to rule the country in 2023”.