Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has provoked a full-blown diplomatic crisis with Tunisia after taking sides in the North African country’s domestic political crisis in support of Rached Ghannouchi, speaker of the dissolved parliament and head of the Islamist party Ennahda. Tunisia’s foreign ministry said on Tuesday that comments by Erdogan regarding the dissolution of the Tunisian parliament by President Kais Saied constituted a form of “unacceptable interference” in internal affairs. On Monday, Erdogan criticised President Saied’s decision last week to dissolve parliament, as a “smearing of democracy” and a blow to “the will of the Tunisian people”. The Tunisian ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement, “Tunisia expresses its astonishment at the Turkish president’s statement … these comments are unacceptable”. It added, “Tunisia affirms its keenness on close relations with friendly countries but adheres to the independence of its decision and rejects interference in its sovereignty”. Tunisian foreign minister, Othman Jerandi, said on Twitter on Wednesday that he had also talked to his Turkish counterpart by telephone and summoned the Turkish ambassador to Tunisia to express his country’s rejection of Erdogan’s comments. The Turkish president said in his statement that the transition must be made with participation of all relevant sides, including parliament and “comprehensive and meaningful” dialogue. “Dissolving parliament where there are elected officials is thought-provoking regarding the future of Tunisia and is a blow to the will of the people,” he added. POLL Tunisia’s political crisis intensified, March 30, when 116 members of the Tunisian parliament held an online session to cancel all decisions and decrees issued by Saied since July 25, 2021, when he invoked emergency powers to suspend the activities of parliament and fire the prime minister. Saied responded to the March 30 session by dissolving parliament. Tunisian analysts said that the Turkish president, who was compelled by regional realities to reconcile with countries such as Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, was trying to re-burnish his credentials as the defender of “Islamist causes” by extending a helping hand to his old ally, Rached Ghannouchi in his face off with Tunisian president Kais Saied. Erdogan might be also settling scores with the Tunisian president who, since winning the 2019 presidential elections, has refused to join the Turkish-Qatari axis and involve Tunisia in the political and military encroachment of that axis in Libya. Ghannouchi faces a probe for “conspiring against external and internal state security” after having instigated the online meeting of the parliament, despite a decision by the Tunisian president to suspend the activities of the assembly since last July. The analysts say Erdogan’s intervention could ironically help Saied in the current crisis, since it portrays his showdown with Islamist-led rivals as a face-off between him and the largely-discredited Ennahda party. Ghannouchi is shown by opinion polls to be one of the least trusted politicians in Tunisia. He seems to be counting on outside support to make a political comeback under the banner of defending the democratic process and restoring parliamentary activity. The Ennahda leader said Wednesday he will continue calling for online sessions of the parliament. He also boasted of international connections. He told the German news agency DPA on Wednesday, “We (the party) are not isolated from the world. We have relations with parliaments and with the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and we have friends in the world. We are in contact with all parties with whom we share goals and these relations are in the interest of Tunisia.” Politicians and analysts believe Erdogan wants to reassure Islamist sympathisers in Tunisia and other countries of the region about his loyalty to “the cause” after disappointing much of his traditional constituency by his dramatic rapprochement with Egypt and the reinvigoration of his country’s relations with Israel. The Secretary-General of the People’s Movement (Al-Chaab), Zouhair Maghzaoui, said “the Tunisian situation is an internal matter and Erdogan’s statements are part of his Muslim Brotherhood ties in the region and in response to demands by the Ennahda movement, given that Tunisia is the last stronghold of Islamists in the region.” Magzaoui added, “We have seen on social media calls for the intervention of the Turkish army in Tunisia. They (Islamists) are now trying with all their might to change the equation in Tunisia. After demonstrating in the street and calling for support from abroad (US and France) they are now playing their last card, which is Turkey”. Tunisian political analyst Nabil Rabhi said that “Erdogan wants to posture as the protector of Islam in the region by interfering in the internal affairs of Tunisia, and he wants the Brotherhood’s return to power and he wants to restore the appeal of the Ottoman Empire narrative”.