PORT HARCOURT – The people of Rivers state have been urged to cast their vote for an Ogoni person candidate when they file out to vote on who governs the state in the 2023 gubernatorial elections. Making the appeal, the former Senator and current governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, insisted that it was the turn of Ogoni ethnic nationality to produce the next governor in the spirit of justice, equity and fairness. Abe who stated this during a visit to the Gberemene Gokana Kingdom, HRM King Festus Paago Bagia, assured that if elected as governor, he would serve the state differently, by putting the people far and above every other consideration. The former lawmaker challenged the people of Rivers State to choose leaders with impeccable character, who would impact their lives positively, irrespective of political affiliation. “Your Majesty, I came to tell you that I, your son, Magnus Ngei Abe, seek the office of the governor of Rivers State. If we follow the interest of justice, equity, fairness and what is right. It is the turn of Ogoni. “I have served this state in various capacities and offices and I have never been found wanting. “This time, I want to challenge Rivers people to choose leaders that will be truthful. If you chose me, I’ll put you (the people) first. I want to offer you the opportunity for you to take control of the government of Rivers State and also take control of the destinies of your own sons and daughters. “I want to offer you the opportunity to have a government that will put you first. I have no godfather to report to. I have nobody that will tell me what to do. What we’re agreeing on today is between me and the people of Rivers State. And I promise you that if you give me the opportunity, I will stand by this contract to the very end. POLL “Your majesty, with your blessings I will go forward and do things in a way that has not been done before. I want to promise Rivers people that I will do things differently,” he said. Responding, the Gberemene of Gokana Kingdom, HRM King Festus Paago Bagia, gave the ex-lawmaker his blessings. Bagia speaking through the Chairman, Gokana Stakeholders Forum, Mene Dockday Baadom, said, “He (Abe) came to the palace to ask for blessings, and the Gberemene of Gokana has given him the blessing.”