ABUJA – Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja, has discharged and acquitted a former Group Managing Direc­tor of Nigerian National Petro­leum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Andrew Yakubu. Yakubu was arraigned be­fore Justice Mohammed on March 16, 2017, on a six-count charge of fraud, having admit­ted owning over $9.8 million and £74,000 cash found in a house in Kaduna State that also belongs to him. Delivering judgment on Thursday, Justice Moham­med noted that section 1(a) of the Money Laundering Act, forbids cash payment of over N5 million by an individual and N10 million for body cor­porate without going through a financial institution. The court said to convict Yakubu on both counts 3 and 4, the onus was on the prosecu­tion to prove its case based on the provision of section 1(a) of the Money Laundering Act. According to Justice Mo­hammed, during trial, pros­ecution witnesses 1, 2, 5, and 6, all testified that the monies were recovered from the house of the defendant. However, Yakubu in proving ownership of the money, said it came from gifts and goodwill he got between 2010 and 2014 from friends and well-wishers during occasions, thanksgiving services, marriage ceremonies of his daughters, insisting that the monies were given to him in tranches that did not exceed $10,000 and 5,000 Pounds Sterling. ­ Yakubu confirmed that the monies belong to him and that he kept the money in the house to decide on what to do with it upon retirement. The court noted from the ev­idence of Yakubu that for over 25 years, he had reason to travel abroad and that he received es­tacodes, and other allowances which he saved. POLL More so, the court said the move by the EFCC to amend counts 3 and 4, “cast a reason­able doubt” on the case of the prosecution. The court agreed with the defence counsel that the pros­ecution failed to prove that the monies were given to Yakubu in one fell swoop or as a whole, and in bits that exceeded the N5 million threshold. Having said how he made the money, the court said a prudent and diligent investi­gator ought to have called all those Yakubu mentioned as sources of the money to testify, “but that, the prosecution did not do”. In consequence, I hold that the prosecution was unable to prove that the defendant made transactions that exceeded the statutorythresholdof N5million as capturedunder section1(a) of the Money Laundering Act. The court ordered that the said sums of money be returned to the defendant im­mediately. During the trial, the prose­cution called six witnesses to prove its case against Yakubu, after which the defendant en­tered a no-case submission. Ruling on the application, the court upheld the no-case submission on counts 5 and 6 only. However, on appeal, the ap­pellate court further dismissed counts one and two. In a judgment on April 24, 2020, the Court of Appeal, Abu­ja Division, ordered Yakubu to enter defence at the trial court on counts 3 and 4 of the charge. Effort by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to amend counts three and four was rejected by Jus­tice Mohammed in a ruling on June 17, 2021.