Bayern Munich CEO Oliver Kahn has admitted he can see the positives regarding the uncertainty over Robert Lewandowski’s future at the club. Chelsea have been linked with a surprise move for the Poland international in recent months. The 33-year-old, who has scored 47 goals in 42 games for Bayern in all competitions this term, sees his contract at the Allianz Arena expire in the summer of 2023. Barcelona are the overwhelming favourites to land Lewandowski’s services amid uncertainty over his stay in Munich. However, Chelsea have also been linked. If the Blues do sell Romelu Lukaku in the summer, then Lewandowski could be looked at as a short-term replacement for the Belgian. Bayern CEO and former goalkeeper Kahn, though, has reiterated the club’s stance on the prolific striker, insisting they want the striker to stay for as long as possible. “As of today, Robert has a contract with us for next season,” Kahn told Sport1. “We are in contact with Robert and want him to stay at Bayern for as long as possible. Apparently, some believe that such talks and contract negotiations are just like an online manager game, where I click on something and he then extends his contract. You also have to look at the situation of the players. “Players who have performed well at this club for many years are outstanding. Robert became a world-class footballer with us. Robert is a player who has the potential to score 30-40 goals every year. Of course, at some point, players like this get the idea that ‘I’ve achieved everything here and won everything’. Then it takes time to convince him to stay here. “Let’s look at the examples of players who changed clubs. What do we identify Ronaldo with? For his time at Real Madrid. What do we identify Messi with? For his time at Barcelona. It’s the same with Robert. “And by the way, such conversations also deal with financial matters. We all know that we have two very difficult years behind us. As a club, you have to think about how you can still manage all of this in the current situation because FC Bayern has also suffered from these last two years. “We decide when FC Bayern will start contract talks. We know very well what we owe to this player. It’s also about having a respectful exchange with the player. We don’t let anyone put us under pressure.” POLL Kahn was then asked about the uncertainty over the striker’s future and whether that is having a negative impact on the team as a whole. He replied: “I don’t see that at all. That was always the case at Bayern Munich. “Such a discussion can also create a bit of friction in the team, which doesn’t have to be that bad. A bit of squabbling and unrest isn’t all that bad for the working atmosphere. But the players are far too professional to be impressed. The players get along with it without any problems.”