LAGOS  – Nigeria’s increasing fuel subsidy could pose debt sustainability concerns for the country, the World Bank has said. The bank, which made the disclosure in its latest ‘Africa’s Pulse’ report, a biannual analysis of the near-term regional macroeconomic outlook, stated that the rising cost of subsidies could also weaken the country’s public finance. Recall that the national assembly on Thursday, approved the request of President Muhammadu Buhari to earmark N4 trillion for petrol subsidy. Part of the World Bank report said: “Risk remains high on increasing fuel subsidies, which could weigh heavily on public finance and pose debt sustainability concerns “Nevertheless, public debt as a percentage of GDP is currently moderate.” The Washington-based institution added that the country’s soaring military spending and debt servicing costs could prey on the country’s debt sustainability level. “Persistent fuel subsidies, increasing military spending for security purposes, and rising debt servicing costs weigh heavily on public finance to keep public debt at a sustainable level in Nigeria,” the report added. “The fiscal balance deteriorated considerably in several Sub-Saharan African countries as governments scaled-up spending to mitigate the prolonged effects of the pandemic on firms and vulnerable households.” POLL On sub-Saharan Africa’s recovery, the bank noted that it is multi-speed, with wide variation across countries. “The recovery of the three largest economies in the region — Nigeria, South Africa, and Angola — will continue to be sluggish,” it said. “High oil prices will support growth in Nigeria and Angola. “Excluding Angola, Nigeria, and South Africa, growth is projected at 4.1 per cent in 2022—higher than the growth of the region as a whole. “Non-resource-rich countries are projected to be adversely affected by rising commodity prices, dragging down growth in the region. “The opposite occurs with resource-rich countries whose growth would be propelled by favourable terms of trade.”