LAGOS  – The Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) deductions on banks by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) are a way of controlling inflation, an analyst said. Mr. David Adnori, the Vice President, Highcap Securities Limited, who disclosed this in his reaction to the fresh deductions by the CBN on banks who violate the 27.5 per cent CRR threshold, said the introduction of CRR is a drastic monetary policy targeted at controlling money supply in the banking system. According to him, “If CBN fails to maintain its CRR policy; so much money will flow into the market and further depreciate naira. Generally, the policy has not favoured banks because the fund is not yielding any interest and of no benefit to the productive sector. “These are funds banks lend to the real sector to drive business activities, finance working capital of the productive sector and boost GDP but the CBN are holding it down. “It is not a good development for the nation’s economy in general. However, CBN has its reasons and releasing these funds might result in hyperinflation, which can damage the nation’s economy. It is like a double edge situation-if you don’t do it, the economy is damaged and if you do it, the economy also struggles.” He noted that the only way CBN can cut CRR is when inflation dropped to a single-digit rate. The CBN in 2021 debited 10 banks a whooping N7.02 trillion over failure to meet the 27.5 per cent Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) threshold. According to audited financial statements of these banks, the apex bank had debited them a sum of N6.71trillion in 2020 for not meeting its monetary requirement. POLL The CRR is the minimum amount banks and merchant banks are expected to retain with the CBN from customer deposits and it carries no interest and is not available for use by the banks in their day-to-day operations. In early 2020, the apex bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) increased CRR by five per cent from 22.5 per cent to 27.5 per cent over its intention to address monetary-induced inflation whilst retaining its 65 per cent Loan Deposit Ratio (LDR) policy. The CBN by regulation forces banks to retain up to 27.5 per cent of their deposits in CRR requirement, meaning that the deposits are not accessed by the banks for loans and advances.