Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a progressive lung disease, and it is characterized by persistent respiratory symptoms, including shortness or difficulty in breathing, cough, and phlegm production. COPD is sometimes called “chronic bronchitis” or “emphysema”. Emphysema is the condition when the tiny air sacs at the end of the airways in the lungs are destroyed. Chronic bronchitis refers to chronic cough with or without phlegm production resulting from inflammation in the airways. Air pollution, environmental exposure to tobacco smoke, and occupational dust, chemicals, and fumes are important risk factors for COPD. COPD is the third leading cause of death worldwide, causing 3.23 million deaths in 2019, of which over 80% of these deaths occurred in low- and middle-income countries. COPD is hugely underdiagnosed and significantly under-treated in Nigeria. Symptoms COPD symptoms often do not appear until severe lung damage has occurred, and they usually worsen over time, particularly if smoking exposure continues. Early diagnosis and treatment, including smoking cessation support, are needed to slow the progression of symptoms and reduce flare-ups. Signs and symptoms of COPD may include: Shortness of breath, especially during physical activities; Wheezing; Chronic cough that may produce mucus (sputum) that may be clear, white, yellow, or greenish; Chest tightness; Frequent respiratory infections; Unintended weight loss (in later stages); Lack of energy; Swelling in ankles, feet, or legs. Causes and Risk factors POLL COPD develops gradually over time, often resulting from a combination of risk factors like tobacco exposure from active smoking or passive exposure to second-hand smoke; occupational exposure to dust, fumes, or chemicals; indoor air pollution, early life events such as poor growth in utero, prematurity, and frequent or severe respiratory infections in childhood that prevent maximum lung growth; asthma in childhood; and a rare genetic condition called alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, which can cause COPD at a young age. Risk factors for COPD include: Exposure to tobacco smoke. The most significant risk factor for COPD is long-term cigarette smoking. The more years you smoke and the more packs you smoke, the greater your risk. People exposed to large amounts of second-hand smoke too are at risk. Asthma:  A chronic inflammatory airway disease that may be a risk factor for developing COPD. The combination of asthma and smoking increases the risk of COPD even more. Occupational exposure to dust and chemicals: Long-term exposure to chemical fumes, vapors, and dust in the workplace and poorly ventilated homes is a higher risk of developing COPD. Genetics: The uncommon genetic disorder alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency is the cause of some cases of COPD. Other genetic factors likely make certain smokers more susceptible to the disease. Complications COPD can cause many complications, including: Respiratory infections: People with COPD are more likely to catch colds, the flu, and pneumonia. Any respiratory infection can make it much more difficult to breathe and could cause further damage to lung tissue. Heart problems: COPD can increase your risk of heart disease, including heart attack Lung cancer: People with COPD have a higher risk of developing lung cancer. High blood pressure in lung arteries: COPD may cause high blood pressure in the arteries that bring blood to your lungs (pulmonary hypertension). Depression and Anxiety: Difficulty breathing can keep you from doing activities you enjoy. Dealing with a severe illness can also contribute to the development of depression and anxiety. Diagnosis The diagnosis of COPD should be considered in anyone over the age of 35 to 40 who has shortness of breath, a chronic cough, sputum production, frequent winter colds, and a history of exposure to risk factors for the disease. Spirometry is usually used to confirm the diagnosis. Spirometry: Spirometry measures the amount of airflow obstruction present. It is generally carried out after using a bronchodilator, a medication to open up the airways when someone blows into a large tube connected to a small machine to measure how much air the lungs can hold and how fast the person can blow the air out of the lungs. Two main components are estimated to make the diagnosis, the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), which is the most significant volume of air that can be breathed out in the first second of a breath, and the forced vital capacity (FVC), which is the most significant volume of air that can be breathed out in a single large breath. Usually, 75–80% of the FVC comes out in the first second, and an FEV1/FVC ratio less than 70% in someone with symptoms of COPD defines a person as having the disease. Other tests include: Chest X-ray: A chest X-ray can show emphysema, one of the leading causes of COPD. An X-ray can also rule out other lung problems or heart failure. A chest X-ray does not help establish a diagnosis of COPD. Still, it helps exclude other conditions or comorbidities such as pulmonary fibrosis and bronchiectasis. CT scan: A CT scan of the lungs can help detect emphysema and help to screen for lung cancer. Arterial blood gas analysis: This blood test measures how well the lungs bring oxygen into the blood and remove carbon dioxide. Laboratory tests: Lab tests aren’t used to diagnose COPD, but they may be used to determine the cause of the symptoms or rule out other conditions. For example, lab tests may be used to determine if the genetic disorder alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency may cause COPD in some people. This test may be done if there is a family history of COPD and develop COPD at a young age. Prevention and Management Most cases of COPD are potentially preventable through decreasing exposure to tobacco smoke and other indoor and outdoor pollutants. Smoking cessation Combining smoking-cessation medication with behavioral therapy is more than twice as likely to be effective in helping people with COPD stop smoking compared with behavioral therapy alone. Occupational health Examples of these measures include: The significant goals of management are to reduce exposure to risk factors, including offering non-pharmacological treatments such as help with stopping smoking, use of corticosteroids, PDE4 inhibitors, and Rehabilitation therapy. Prognosis The life expectancy for individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) ranges from good to poor, depending on the person’s COPD stage, with a decreasing outlook as the disease progresses toward stage IV, also known as “end-stage” chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. COPD is progressive and can lead to premature death. It is estimated that 3% of all disability is related to COPD. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital, Dallas Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com