All the people of the world are expectants of something. The old, young, male and female do expect something. What is the thing that people expect? The thing is DEATH. When we wake up in the morning, we do expect death and there is no one death does not ring a bell in his or her heart every day. What makes you thank God for waking up alive in the morning means you did not die. It is not necessary to thank God for waking up alive if you did not know death could come. You know death may not allow you to wake up alive. Why do people thank God for journey mercy when they embark on a journey and arrive safely at their destination? They never know if they would survive the journey. Some people do count their days and think they have certain numbers of years to live before they die. This is because the Bible says in Psalms 90:12 ” So teach us to number our days…” Some old people do not want to struggle for anything again because they always think they have few years to live on earth. Jokingly I told a man of 70 years old that God should give him about N5million. He wondered why God should give him such money when he had few years to live. Did God want him to be struggling how to manage the money at old age, he asked. He felt God should not give him such money. In fact, he believe death would come and another person would enjoy the money, so God would be wicked to give him the money. Therefore people do expect death any time. Even a day old baby hearing the sound of death will be afraid because he or she has been expecting death. Beloved, death is an inevitable thing that will definitely come. All other things we do in the course of living our lives i.e. struggling to own houses, cars and other possessions are different from death. As we are struggling to possess all these things, death is moving closer to us. People are destined to die at a particular time and the time will never be changed. But untimely death of some people through principalities could be averted by the true prophet or man of God. Untimely occurs if a person slanders Holy Spirit and anointed of God because the Bible says there is no forgiveness for anybody (that blasphemes against Holy Spirit(Luke 12: 10) Also, many people could have involved in serious sinful acts that could lead to untimely death. Remember the Scripture says in Romans 6:23 ” For the wages of sin is death…” Imagine a very young man that lived a short life. Some people know that death is inevitable but want to enjoy life by committing sins that could result to their untimely death. Sometimes we forget about death particularly when doing something that is pleasant to us but in the night we then remember death. For instance, a woman that was so successful in textile business, famous and rich suddenly things turned around her. She started experiencing misfortunes and downward trend in her business. This led to her indebtedness and sickness to the extent that she was requesting for death to take her away. In fact. she attempted to commit suicide but to no avail. How did she get her wealth and riches? The means of her riches were not clean but dubious. In fact, I pitied her her because I know her during her famous days. So many people encountered untimely death because of what they have done to get their riches. Therefore, we all know that we are expecting death. But the concern is what will death meet in our hands? Brethren, I want people to be conscious of how they live their life and relate with other people. Some people make others to cry by inflicting pains compounding their problems and creating additional burden on them. I pray that we shall not shed bitter tears in Jesus name. Whatever we do should be done with wisdom because we are awaiting death and judgement. Now that we are all expecting death, let us endeavour to live a good life and do good. The Bible says in Galatian 6:9-10 “Let us not be weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers”