Dr Afis Ayinde Oladosu, a Professor of Middle Eastern, North African and Cultural Studies, Department of Arabic and Islamic Studies, the University of Ibadan (UI), Nigeria has tasked parents and youths to desist from promoting the raging and sickening level of inhumanity and ungodliness in all parts of the country. Prof. Oladosu spoke during the annual Ramadan lecture organised by the Tahjud Youth Forum in collaboration with the Tahjud Congregation Oluwole Ogba Central Mosque at the mosque auditorium. Speaking on the theme of the Ramadan lecture, “Retracing the Path: The Youth, the Madness and Islamic Panacea”, Prof Oladosu said the breakdown of orderliness and shortfall in moral conduct has no justification and excuses. He condemned the ills in society where youths engage in ritual killings, fraud, yahoo yahoo and charged parents to retrace their steps and correct the widespread insanity. “There could be no other logical interpretation to events and happening among the youths than to describe it as madness,” he submitted. He lamented that many have become arrogant with worldly possession such that men and women as parents have abandoned their responsibilities. The lecturer, who explained that many that have gone astray and wallowed in insanity were not aware of their state of mind, advocated for more humane conduct in societies. Speaking on the cause of widespread madness in society, he appealed to parents to retrace their steps and tow the path specified by the Almighty Allah. POLL Many parents have abandoned their responsibilities by tagging every immoral conduct as generational and the way of life of the younger generation. This is wrong! “The bond of religion that is the binding force in homes, offices, communities and country has become a thing of the past. “Proper upbringing has become a thing of the past. There are no quality role models and mentors, parents are not living up to their responsibilities, the youths have taken to the social media influencers like Hushpuppi and they take instructions from the social media. He queried, ” How did this happen, where and how did we get into this madness involving the youths in the dastardly act of using human flesh for sacrifices.” Oladosu said many have lost compassion leading to a loss of empathy and contentment, saying youths have become recalcitrant and wayward. Addressing the womenfolk, the Don urged them to be satisfied with everything Almighty Allah has endowed them with without adding anything more. According to him, it is fashionable for women to have extra nails, artificial nails, coloured faces and lips, extra shoulder pads, and enlargement of body organs, among others, saying that this amounts to a condemnation of the perfect works of the Almighty Allah. “Islam is against lack of contentment by human beings, by men and women. Allah has created every woman in a good image. ” Male youths have become tired of their gender and want to become women by wearing earrings and embracing same-sex marriage. It is nothing but madness,” he added. The host and Chief Imam ofOluwole Ogba Central Mosque, Sheik Sa’Abdullah Bello Olohunlalaro lauded the youth forum for the annual lecture and encouraged others to emulate their exemplary conduct. He charged parents to desist from leading their wards astray, saying parents that encourage youth participation in shameful acts are nothing but insanity.Sheik Olohunlalaro urged parents and youth to retrace their steps by returning to the teachings of the Almighty Allah.