Ukraine is planning to rescue hundreds of civilians who are trapped in the Azovstal steel plant in the besieged city of Mariupol. “An operation is planned today to get civilians out of the plant,” President Volodymyr Zelenskiy’s office told Reuters news agency. It comes after Vladimir Putin launched fresh airstrikes on Kyiv on Thursday evening, while the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres visited the city to meet Mr Zelensky. After the meeting, Mr Guterres said talks were underway to plan the evacuation of the Avostal steel plant, where Ukrainian forces and civilians have been sheltering from the Russian occupation of Mariupol. “Mariupol is a crisis within a crisis. Thousands of civilians need life-saving assistance. Many are elderly, in need of medical care or have limited mobility,” Mr Guterres told reporters according to Reuters news agency. “They need an escape route out of the apocalypse,” he added. On Tuesday, Mr Putin agreed “in principle” to a humanitarian corridor coordinated by the UN and the International Committee for the Red Cross (ICRC) to help evacuate civilians from the steel plant. The Azovstal plant is one of the largest metal works factories in Europe covering four square miles and with a reported vast network of underground bunkers and tunnels. POLL Russia declared victory in the strategic port city on 21 April after almost two months of siege but Ukraine has rejected the claims. It is believed that hundreds of men women and children are still sheltering under the complex. On Thursday evening, President Zelensky condemned Russian airstrikes on the capital during the UN Secretary General’s visit, saying it “says a lot about Russia’s true attitude to global institutions”. He said the attack set out to “humiliate the UN and everything that the organisation represents,” and called for a “strong response”. Blasts were heard an hour after the news conference with the Ukrainian president and Mr Guterres. Officials said that one of the strikes hit a residential block in the central Shevchenko district, injuring at least 10 people. The rockets came weeks after Mr Putin’s forces withdrew from the capital after failing to capture the city. Other cities including Fastiv in central Ukraine and the major seaport of Odesa were also struck by missiles.