Emeka Ebeniro, Chief Executive Officer of Karakuri Limited, an ideas and innovation company,in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, speaks about marketing, branding, entrepreneurship, government policies and other issues. Excerpts: What does Kakuri do? We are driven by ideas and innovation and we provide marketing solutions to our clients. We organise training and help people to optimize their potential. We provide training to help brands increase their equity. How long have you been in the business? We have been in the business since 2019. And how it been over the years? It has been interesting; it has also been tough in a way. Shortly after in 2019, we got into the COVID-19 pandemic; but we have been able to overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic and we are doing much better now POLL What is your assessment of the branding industry in the county? It is evolving, especially in the last decade and it is greatly influenced by digitals. What is your assessment of the business space in the country? The business space in Nigeria is interesting; the business space is tough because the political and economic environment is unstable and unpredictable; there have been too many policy summersaults. This makes it difficult for business people to plan. There is, as they say, “volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (VUCA)” in the system. In the past, businesses succeeded because they had a lot of physical engagement with their customers. This has changed as a result of the pandemic; but now there is a high level of reliance on technology and the Internet. We now have virtual reality, blockchain technology and cryptocurrency. The man that has a small shop in the corner and expects people to come to him, that is not happening anymore. Customers are in their houses and other places waiting for the products to come to them. There has been a massive change in the business environment. How does effective branding contribute to the success of a business? Effective branding can affect a business positively; it can help people to recognize your business because it will be different from other businesses. It also helps you to build trust and loyalty with your customers. The more the customers know your brand, the more they become loyal to the brand. They will tell other people about your business and this will help you to make more money. The additional little things that you are doing will allow you to charge more. What service do you provide in the area of personal branding? Personal branding is a subset of branding and it is about the individual; how can people identify and project what makes them unique? What makes them people? These are very important because as an individual, you need to stand out from the crowd. As a professional, there are many people who do what you do and you need to stand out to get ahead of others. It is about how to identify and project what makes you different and unique. In what I call the “VIP Framework”, the V stands for vision, I for vision and P for promotion. As individuals, you need to know your vision and communicate it to others; how far do you want to go in the business or venture. Businesses should ask themselves how they are leveraging technology to grow the brand. People should learn effective communication skills in order to grow their brands. People are brands and should learn to communicate what makes them unique and separates them from others. Have you been able to secure a loan from a financial institution? I have not been able to secure any; but I applied to the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) but did not secure the loan. We would have to go back to the drawing board and try again. What do you want the government to do to make the business environment better? For me, it is about making sure that businesses have access to low-interest loans; this means that the government needs to ensure that actual businesses have access to the loans. In the case of LSETF, they looked at the operations, accounts and others about the business; this is to ensure that only business people access the loans. Secondly, the interest rate should be low; businesses should not take out loans today and be asked to start repaying immediately. The business should be allowed to start making money from the business before it is asked to start repaying the loan. The government should also educate the people on the need to repay loans because many people think that a loan is a largess and should not be repaid. If more people repay loans in the country, more will access the loans and this will be in the interest of business and the government. The government should also provide better Internet access to entrepreneurs in the country. It should partner with Internet service providers in order to make cheaper Internet bundles available to entrepreneurs. Power is also a major challenge in the country; many businesses provide their own power at very great cost. The government should make power available to businesses at an affordable cost. It should improve the security situation in the country. The government should build hubs with necessary facilities where entrepreneurs can use to do their business. All this will help the entrepreneurs to thrive and help in growing the nation’s economy. What is your advice to young people? I will say that they should have an open mind and be ready to fail; learn from your failure and use the experience as a tool to be successful. There is hardly anyone that succeeded without failing at a point. I will also advise them to get a coach or a mentor to guide them because to go far, you need to have somebody to guide you. I will also advise that they keep learning; they should never stop learning; travelling is a form of learning. Travelling within Nigeria will give you a new perspective of the country.