Rev. (Dr.) Paul Ndeobi is the Senior Pastor of StraightGate Church, Lagos, and President of Igbo Ministers’ Forum. In this interview with NGOZI UMA he called for the foundation of Nigeria as a country to be re-visited and gave recommendations on how to restore peace. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpt: You recently gave an award, tell us what the award is about? The award is about global peace. Everybody knows what is happening in our world today. We are in dire need of peace. There is so much despondency in the lives of people and people are badly wounded. We hear all kinds of negative things happening round the world. There is hopelessness, people are troubled on every side. Often we see people resorting to alcoholism, to suicide, drug addiction and other social vices. Then Human Development Initiative that is affiliated with the United Nations are looking for credible men and women around the world that can be bridge builders in helping to curb the menace of insecurity in our society. We can’t leave it to government alone, or security operatives alone. We need to have people that will stand in the gap to make sure that we have a peaceful environment around the world. The award basically is to encourage the awardees to wake up to their responsibility of assisting every legitimate government official, every legitimate security official, to provide peace and security within our continent Africa and in Nigeria. The Human Development Initiative is affiliated with the United Nations on global peace. As an ambassador of peace and change, what do you think is the root cause of terrorism, banditry, and kidnapping in Nigeria? Insecurity has been a big challenge to our nation. Nigeria as a country needs to be re-visited again. The arrowhead of acquisition was done by Sir George Goldie Taubman who procured a charter from the British government in the name of the Royal Niger Company in July 1886. It was this company that entered into treaty with various kings and chiefs and community leaders that had set up a trading post in the area of the Niger and his interest then as a company was later sold to the British government for 865 thousand pounds. The foundation of Nigeria was a false trade- transaction in which Nigeria as a country was sold to a foreign individual, to a British government. The Bible said when the foundation is faulty, what can the righteous do? We know that Nigeria as a country has a faulty foundation. There is no patriotism in our country today. What we have today are people fighting over their tribes, ethnicity. For that reason, you find a lot of people do wicked things against people of other tribes – one tribe trying to impose themselves on another tribe. And if need be, killing to eliminate other tribes. Terrorism and banditry here and there and inter-tribal conflicts here and there have made Nigerians to be on their knees and we are looking for a country of hope where people can come together as one. Despite all the sermons, it is not getting us out of the woods. We are looking for a peaceful nation, and when we come to elective periods like this we are hoping to elect a good leader to take us to the next level. My recommendation is that the foundation of Nigeria should be re-visited so that this problem of terrorism, hunger, starvation can have solutions. What suggestions are you giving to the Nigerian government in tackling this menace? There are a number of suggestions. A lot of people have brought suggestions like restructuring our security architecture, restructuring Nigeria and our political structure, and all these suggestions seem to be falling on deaf ears. Our leaders are not helping matters. We need to restructure this nation. If you are building a skyscraper and it keeps cracking at the top, you need to stop the construction and visit the foundation. We need to visit the foundation of this nation, we need to come to the round table and forget about this politics we are playing and come together and ask ourselves, do we want to be one? Do we want to come to a place where we want to build a nation that will give our children and grandchildren a future? Because everything seemed to be collapsing. Many Christians today tend to move towards worship centres where miracles are happening, do you think this trend is putting pressures on pastors who do not perform miracles so to say? POLL Government has failed, the economy is bad and everybody is looking for a way out. Everybody is looking for ways to solve their needs and problems. Those things the federal government is supposed to do for their citizens are not there. And a lot of people are now hoping that God will put food on their table. What they are seeking is a way out: miracles. When they go to church most often instead of seeking salvation, righteousness and the kingdom of God, they are seeking how to bail themselves out of their present needs and predicaments. Therefore, there is high demand for miracles and most pastors want to offer this and cannot wait for God to empower them to be able to perform miracles, signs, and wonders, so they go the other way round to become miracle workers. Some that are teachers tend to become miracle workers. Those that are given to various other gifts, everybody wants to be a prophet, everybody wants to be a miracle worker. That is how the society is mounting pressure on men of God. What is the solution? It’s God’s word. When you give yourself to God’s word eventually you will have your miracle because miracle is attached to his word. But because of the present situation of hunger, starvation, lack, accommodation problems, all kinds of problems besetting the Nigerian people, they are looking for a way to bail themselves out of these challenges. And these challenges, some of them have immediate answers, while some don’t. But they want an immediate miracle for it. How can we come out of these challenges? It is for us to keep our faith and hope in God’s word. And why do you think Christians today run after miracles and not the word? Because of the challenges taking a toll on the families. A man that has five children and four of them are in the university, and the other one in secondary school and he is earning a meager salary. He is going to look for a way out: a miracle. Even though he is a Christian the pressure on him from home will make him to be seeking miracles. Because government has failed to provide basic needs for the people, they look up to God for help, so miracles become the order of the day. I pray that God will help people to know that the life of a man does not depend on the abundance of the things he has, rather he should seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness. The Bible said what shall it profit a man that he should gain the whole world and lose his soul? People don’t want to hear it’s going to get better, they want immediate answers. They want to ride the best cars, their children attending the best schools, train their children in the best universities abroad. What advice do you have for young pastors trying to grow their church in terms of membership number? It is not about numbers; church isn’t a political gathering. It’s a place where the kingdom of God is preached. An average Pastor knows by growing your church numerically you grow the economy and finance of your church and influence. Everybody wants to grow their church so that they can become more popular more, acceptable, and then that sense of prosperity or success syndrome. My advice to young pastors, don’t keep your eyes on the numbers, keep your eyes on the work of God and be contented with what you have. One of the challenges we have in Nigeria is there is no contentment. Even a pastor that has 100 members will want to grow his church to 1000 members by hook or by crook, that should not be. Your goal should not be to have 10,000 members or 50,000 members. Your goal should be to make sure that the people you are ministering to are children of light, people that have eternal life abounding in them and not just numerical strength. Numerical strength does not get you into the kingdom; what gets you into the kingdom is the people that are genuinely saved. People should wake up. We can have solution in this country. And as ambassador of peace, Jesus is the author of peace. Nobody can achieve peace without Jesus Christ. Let’s go back to Jesus. And with good works, love, peace will rule our nation.