The South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 (SWAGA’23) has mourned the passage of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, who joined his ancestors on Saturday at the age of 83. In a statement issued by its National Chairman, Senator Dayo Adeyeye and ‘Bosun Oladele, National Secretary, SWAGA’23 described the late monarch as an encyclopedia of Yoruba history and a rallying point for the advancement of the Yoruba race and unity of the nation. The statement reads “The entire membership of SWAGA’23 under the leadership of Sen. Dayo Adeyeye will sorely miss the departed icon and legendary traditional ruler of the Oyo Kingdom His Imperial Majesty Iku Babayeye; Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III the 45th Alaafin of Oyo whose transition was announced on Saturday 22nd April 2022”. “Oba Adeyemi being the longest-serving Alaafin of Oyo was a symbol of Yoruba culture and tradition.  He was an encyclopedia of Yoruba history and displayed a very rare ability for recollection and knowledge of Nigerian history, current affairs and global events”. “The late Alaafin had depth and very sound communication skills hence there was never a dull moment in the palace during his reign and time”. “We in SWAGA’23 will forever cherish the moment we had with Oba Adeyemi when we visited the Oyo palace on 14th December 2020 to discuss the possibility of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidency come 2023, particularly his express support for Asiwaju Tinubu’s presidential project and his prayers to God to make it a reality. We shall continue to hold on to his admonition that “our hands are on the plough, we must not look back”. “He was an unrepentant supporter of our principal; Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and a firm believer in his leadership ability for the benefit of Nigeria and Nigerians”. “We therefore as a group remain committed to our goal in this regard and we are more inspired to work harder and ensure its a success as a befitting honour to the spirit of the departed monarch and for the benefit of every Nigerian”. POLL “In Oba Adeyemi, we lost a bold and fiercely committed royal father. We pray God to give the family, Oyo Kingdom, the entire Yoruba race and Nigerians the fortitude to bear this loss”.