LAGOS – The three weeks Orientation course programme for the 2022 Batch A corps members deployed across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja officially came to a close today. The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Director-General, Major General Shuaib Ibrahim, congratulated both Corps members and Camp officials on the successes recorded throughout the Course, saying the high-level discipline and active participation in all Camp activities attested to their readiness to make the best out of the service year. In his message delivered by the Ogun State Coordinator, Dr Belinda Faniyi, at the Sagamu Orientation camp, the DG urged the corps members to be security conscious as they are deployed to their Places of Primary Assignments. He said, “I wish to assure you, my dear Corps Members, that your welfare and security are topmost on our priority list. In this regard, we have sustained our liaison with security agencies and other stakeholders with the view of not only ensuring your safety but also making the essential provisions that will enable you to have a fulfilling service year. “However, we expect you to play your part by being security conscious at all times. You must avoid risky engagements such as staying out late at night, attendance of late-night parties, visitation to dangerous places, and acceptance of car rides from strangers.” The DG urged the corps members to be diligent in the performance of their duties and integrate into their host communities through the learning of their languages and cultures. Besides, he charged them to “Devote time to identify the felt needs of the communities, and initiate personal and group Community Development Service (CDS) that will uplift their living standards.”Advocating for self-employment options for young graduates, the DG said, “The NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme has been carefully designed to equip you for self-employment and wealth creation. “It may interest you to know that the desire to make the SAED programme more impactful partly informed our advocacy for the establishment of the National Youth Service Corps Trust Fund. Once it becomes operational, the quality of the programme will be further enhanced through the provision of adequate training materials and engagement of more specialist trainers.” POLL He added, “All trainees with bankable business proposals will also be supported with start-up grants. You will in turn be expected to step down vocational training or employ a good number of youths of your host community.” Dr Faniyi in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT urged the corps members to accept their postings in good faith and report promptly to their places of primary assignments. Speaking on corps members’ deployment to health, agriculture, and the education sector especially, the Coordinator a good number of corps members are deployed to this important sector considering its importance and support of the state government in the drive to provide quality learning for students. “The learning community is very important. This is because where regular teachers are not available corps members deployed to rural communities fill the gap for the period of the service year to support the school system and the regular teachers. The welfare has been good and more still needs to be done. The private school sector is good because they pay some stipend to corps members for accommodation and transport but where this is not in place they give them a stipend in lieu. “The state government pays stipends, especially those attached to secondary schools and tertiary institutions. So far the state government has tried to pay corps members in some schools but this is yet to go round and we will keep talking to the government. The ministries, agencies and departments are not paid a stipend but those deployed to government schools are being paid. To assist non-education graduates deployed to schools to function well and fit into the system, Dr Faniyi corps members in this category are given basic teacher education training in camp even as an entrepreneur after the service year.