The telecommunications sector in Nigeria which has been one of the major contributors to the country’s revenue over the years is gradually reflecting not-so-bright indicators in its Gross Domestic Products (GDP) growth trend. According to a report by Afrinvest Research, the GDP performance of the sector shrunk as it grew 7.3% y/y – 863bps shy of 2020 level. On a quarterly basis, it was observed that telecoms GDP grew 7.7% (Q1), 5.9% (Q2), 10.9% (Q3) and 5.3% (Q4). Notably, the GDP growth rate in Q4:2021 was the slowest in 14 quarters since Q1:2018. Despite the unimpressive record, the telecoms sector remained resilient, as its growth pace (2021: 7.3% y/y) continued to outperform the broader economy (2021: 3.4% y/y). Data from the National Bureau of Statistics show that Nigeria recorded a real GDP growth rate of 0.51% in the first quarter of 2021. Nigeria’s telecoms sector has been the major driver of economic growth in the last three quarters and was a major factor in leading Nigeria out of a recession. According to the latest data, Nigeria’s telecommunications sector recorded a GDP growth rate of 7.69%, the slowest since the first quarter of 2018 when it grew at just 1.88%. Nigeria’s telecoms sector constitutes about 11.66% of real GDP, thus one of the largest sectors in the economy. POLL The declining GDP growth rate may not also be unconnected to obvious perennial industry challenges which include weak consumer purchasing power as a result of the harsh economy. In the 2021 telecommunications sector report, ‘Resilience through a COVID-led Recession’, the outlook depicted three major themes that would guide growth for the sector. They are favourable demographics, investment in network infrastructure expansion and mobile money. The Afrinvest Research report further stated that “while the impact of mobile money has been significant in other African countries, helping to bridge the financial inclusion gap, creating healthy competition, alternate revenue stream and job opportunities, Nigeria is yet to explore the opportunities maximally. “However, in November 2021, two operators, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa, received approval in principle to operate as Payment Service Banks, with the privilege to provide banking services to the public. With MTN Nigeria getting a final approval, this is expected to aid the CBN’s goal of onboarding 95.0% of the bankable adults into financial services by 2024 while increasing the profit margins of the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs). Noteworthy, by April 2022, MTNN has received full approval.” While Nigeria’s population growth was favourable for the telecom industry, inching higher by 2.6% to 211.4 million (World Bank), the ongoing NIN-SIM verification exercise initiated by the Federal Government through the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is seriously weighing on growth margins as subscriber base has continued to witness steady decline. Daily Independent, in a recent investigation of the financial implications of barring of over 72 million lines not linked to NIN, noted that over N43 billion was lost in two weeks, about N85 billion in one month and above N1 trillion in a year. In the face of persisting insecurity in the country, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) on telecom has started to shrink. Meanwhile, there was a significant increase in investment level to over $70.0 billion as of 2021 from $38.0 billion in 2015. Indeed, the investments played a major role in deploying network infrastructure and improving service quality. Also, the issue of multiple taxation has been what industry stakeholders over the years keep trying to resolve without significant headway. A recent case in point is the continued shutdown of some of telecom infrastructures by Kogi State government over alleged failure to pay some taxes and levies imposed by the state government. However, chairman of the umbrella body of the telcos, Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, said his members have paid all legitimate taxes and levies in the state, describing the ones in dispute as “unusual”. Adebayo said over 70 sites within the state and environs have been shut down as a result of not allowing their members to access and maintain them. Speaking on the development, Adebayo said: “As a result of these actions by the state government, our members are unable to refuel power generators in these sites, a situation which has led to outage of over 70 sites including hub sites across parts of Kogi State. Now, with a likely impact on the nine states surrounding Kogi, namely Nasarawa, Benue, Enugu, Anambra, Edo, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara, Niger. These are states sharing borders with Kogi and Abuja, the FCT inclusive. This type of incident will definitely affect the revenue base of the telcos. The report, however, posits that there is a potential for strong returns over the next 12 months given the new business expansion drives of industry players and the modest economic growth outlook. In spite of 5G deployment approval by the Federal Government, there are concerns about the infrastructure for this. The challenge of right of way continues to linger, hindering the service providers in some states from laying fibre cables which is the most reliable vehicle to deliver the suite of services the new technology can offer. The recently launched Equiano cable landing on the shore of Lagos will indeed be oiling Nigeria’s economic growth if relevant and adequate measures are put in place by the operator and regulators to ensure that the service it will be providing reaches the last mile. Although the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, and the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, promised to continue to drive policy initiatives that promote investment in infrastructure in the Nigerian telecom industry in order to deepen connectivity to enhance the nation’s growth and development, industry analysts opine that realistic and pragmatic steps need to be taken. In 2022, it is expected that the contribution and growth of the telecommunications sector to the Nigerian economy would further expand. This would be supported by increasing smartphone penetration, recovery in subscriber base, rapid investment in network infrastructure, commencement of operations of PSB licence to MTNN and Airtel Africa and deployment of 5G technology. The impasse of NINSIM integration exercise remains and tops downside risk factors for the financial stability of the telecom sector and by extension on the country’s GDP. Over the years, the NCC has put in place an effective regulatory regime which has significantly facilitated advancements in the nation’s telecoms industry, boosted Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and improved the operations of licensees as well as boosted Federal Government’s revenue generation. Industry observers hold the opinion that, with the current trend of issues such as insecurity, vandalism, cost of power, among others, if urgent steps are not taken to remedy hobbling challenges, the financial trajectory of the telecom sector may continue southward.