The textbook interpretation of Passover will simply mean for something to skip over, however, in biblical context it carries a much mysterious connotation. Passover first took place in the Old Testament, specifically to bring freedom to the Israelites who had been held captives for generations by the Egyptians. (Exodus 12:27) The key element of Passover then, and even now is the sacrifice of blood” In the old testament, God demanded of all Israelites to slaughter lambs, thereafter smear the lintel of their house with the blood. God had already avenged the Israelites of their Egyptian lords with series of misfortunes, but the final blow was to kill every first born, even to animals. The blood on the lintel is to enable the angels to Passover the homes of all Israelites during the execution in the homes of the Egyptians. It was a monumental and historic victory for God, and the Israelites. God would not have it forgotten or swept under, so he instructed them to observe it as an ordinance and memorial service, to teach the unborn its significance to the freedom they enjoy. (Exodus 12:24-27, 2Kings 23:21) Seeing that God loves Nigeria so much, and highly favours his servant, he instituted Passover in the tabernacle to release mankind from enslavement. It is called Jesus Passover because his blood is our sacrifice. The shortcoming of the blood used in the Old Testament is that the potency last just a while. The blood of Jesus however is everlasting, all powerful, it oozes royal splendour and devastating superiority over anything else on earth. Our Passover is the celebration of the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, the remembrance of his death and resurrection at Calvary. God so loved mankind that he gave us his son, and Jesus so cherished us that he bled for us at Calvary; Halleluyah! Since its inception in 1996, Jesus feast of Passover has brought freedom and hope to multitudes worldwide. Not through the blood of animal but through the blood of our Saviour. Three times a year, we converge for 21 days to fast, pray and praise, to celebrate the one who redeemed us from sin and gave us victory over our taskmasters. It is a time of great reflection, of the suffering of our Lord at Calvary, but more importantly, of the victory his death bought for us and the joy of commemorating his bravery, love and compassion over mankind. Your days of grief are over, if you be willing to partake in his Passover, to save you from sin and effect permanent and supernatural turnaround upon your life. We have victory every day, for the blood of Jesus is our Passover! As we celebrate this feast, please join us @ The Saints Gospel Church of Christ (Shadow Tabernacle Int’l), Shadow Tabernacle Close, Olowo Ina Bus stop, Ikotun-Igando Road, Lagos. Join us online @: Jacob Shodeinde/Facebook; tsgcchandoffire/YouTube. POLL Prayer vigil: Date: April 10 – 17, 2022. Time 12:00am. 6 days banquet of praise and worship: April 18- 23, 2022, 5pm – 8pm. Perfection Service: April 24, 2022, 8am.