7Star Global Hangar Limited will be engaging at least additional 30 aircraft engineers following its approval by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to carry out 3 C, CPCP, ADS and ADD on Dana Airlines’ MD83 aircraft with the registration number: 5N-SAI. An approval letter to that effect from the NCAA, signed by Engr. V Goyea, General Manager (ACCA) on behalf of Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, l urged 7Star to comply with all extant provisions of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig. CARs), especially Part 6, and in addition, all tasks requiring detailed, x ray and HFEC inspections in carrying out the task. In his reaction to the approval, Engr. Isaac Balami, the Managing Director, 7Star Global Hangar Limited, said the company has done five C and D checks on various aircraft with Augusta 139 8 Years Inspection (D-Check) being the first time in the history of Africa that the level would be done on that particular helicopter, which he regarded as a complex new generation helicopter. According to him, the approval of the company to carry out the check on Dana’s aircraft would lead to the employment of an additional 30 engineers, stressing that no fewer than 1,500 unengaged, but licenced aircraft engineers would be gainfully employed if all local airlines, private jet owners, State and Federal governments could patronise the company. Balami emphasised further that with the approval on MD 83, it also showed that NCAA has recognised 7Star’s worth and effort to ensure aircraft serviceability across the region. Balami stated that the appointment of the firm would further boost the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) service offering, adding that it would also help to put the Nigerian MRO sector on the global map. Besides, he explained that a test flight was conducted on AW-139 some few days ago after the D-Check and the aircraft came back with zero technical faults. “We feel happy that NCAA has recognized our effort and we know the need to comply with all the regulations and safety requirements. There is nothing like Nigerian standard, but one global aviation standard, which we practice with the guidance and support of NCAA and our technical partners,” he said. POLL Balami further pointed out that 20-year maintenance and inspection on a challenger 604 jet belonging to a Nigerian operator was concluded last month, describing it as unprecedentedly in West Africa. The 7Star boss, said the company’s management remained grateful that the jobs were being done with about 90 per cent of Nigerians. “As Africans, we are happy that we are stopping the huge capital flight and a lot of the jobless aircraft engineers that are hanging around the airport will have something doing,” he added. Balami said having carried out more than five checks and everything was working accordingly without any query and technical issues, showed that the Nigerian aircraft engineers and their partners NHV were making good efforts. He said the company was building the next generation of aircraft engineers and also transferring technology. Balami added that the knowledge transfer is with the support of her sister company, Lead Stream Aviation Training. Speaking on the partnership, Mr. Sukhwinder Mann, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Dana Group, said that the decision by the airline to patronise the hangar company was premised on the airline’s promise boost local economy. He also said that Dana Group would contribute to the elevation of the development of the Nigerian aviation sector. He said: “I am pleased to announce that we have selected 7Star as our preferred MRO partner, the appointment will further enhance the 7Star range of MRO services to now include the MD80 aircraft range which means more jobs for the Nigerian aviation sector and potentially makes the Nigerian MRO sector more attractive to foreign carriers wishing to undertake heavy maintenance checks within the African continent. “To give something back to Nigeria and reinvest in the sector gives me great pride and follows up on our key principles of Africa first.” The appointment will see 7Star increase employment in the local community and train fresh engineers in the MD80 range of aircraft. However, NCAA has urged Dana Air to see their partnership with 7Star as a means of building local content and creation of jobs in the country.