Some facts have emerged to how former Senate President Bukola Saraki and Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State lead the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Northern Consensus arrangement. Daily Independent had earlier reported that the Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF) endorsed Saraki and Bala Mohammed in a communique read by former Ahmadu Bello University Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ango Abdullahi, on Friday. According to Abdullahi, head of the committee which carried out three-phase screening from where Saraki and Mohammed emerged,  the exercise was thorough. In the report of the committee sighted n Saturday, Saraki and Mohammed had 10 votes each, while Tambuwal trailed with seven votes, followed by Hayatudeen, who had five votes. One of the elders reportedly  deferred his votes on grounds of continuing consultations with traditional rulers and other major stakeholders while two members were said not to have cast their second votes bringing the total to 32 votes out of 36. Abdullahi, however, said his committee submitted a report to former Military President Ibrahim Babangida who accepted and approved it. “In the end, resort was made to the historical antecedents of the PDP with regards to previous northern aspirations and the following conclusion was reached: a. That the North West has had the opportunity of contesting and even forming government in 2007. “In 2011 a consensus was made among the four northern candidates, Which North East got the slot but lost at the primaries. In 2019, it got the slot again though the party could not form the government. POLL c. The North Central has not had a single opportunity to get the PDP ticket since the inception of the current fourth republic. “It was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North Central and one from the North East are to be presented as northern presidential candidates. “The two would in turn be required to make further concessions so that in the end one of them would be presented as the consensus candidate, out of the four that presented themselves from the North.” Abdullahi stated that the two aspirants chosen by the elders should work together and decide on which of them would be the consensus candidate. “For the purpose of this exercise, it is hereby resolved that Governor Bala Mohammed from the North-East and former Senate President Bukola Saraki from the North-Central be presented as the northern consensus candidates for the moment. “The successful aspirants are hereby urged to work together to make allowance for further consultations to foster understanding among themselves and the PDP community to ensure a rancour-free primaries in which all eligible candidates would be free to exercise their right.”