ABUJA – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has again reminded political parties of the need to work in accord with the timetable and schedule of activities released by the Commission for the 2023 general election. The timetable released in February provides detailed activities, including the conduct of primaries, the nomination of candidates by political parties and other activities leading to the Presidential, National Assembly elections, Governorship and state constituency elections and conforms. According to the timetable, the next activity in line is the conduct of primaries by political parties which is expected to last for 61 Days in harmony with Section 84 of the Electoral Act (from 4th April to 3rd June 2022). Stressing the need to adhere to the timelines, Barrister Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education also emphasized the need for parties to minimize litigations by adhering to the principles of Internal democracy. “The commission reiterates that parties must adhere strictly to the principles of internal democracy, drawing from their constitutions, guidelines, the Electoral Act and other Regulations and Guidelines issued by the Commission” “At the expiration of 61 days, the Political parties are required to come out with a list of their candidates for the 1,491 constituencies for which elections will be conducted in 2023 who must emerge from democratic, transparent and valid primaries, in line with the provisions of Sections 29 and 84 of the Electoral Act, 2022. “Where a political party fails to comply with the provisions of the Act in the conduct of its primaries, its candidate shall not be included in the election for the particular position in issue, Okoye said. “As required by law, the Commission shall monitor the primaries of each political party that provides the required legal notice in line with Sections 82 (1) and (5) of the Electoral Act. POLL “Failure of a political party to notify the Commission of any convention or congress convened for the purpose of nominating candidates for any of the elective offices specified in the Act shall render the convention or congress invalid. “Primaries must be conducted in the various constituencies as provided in Section 84 of the Electoral Act as it is a violation of the law to conduct primaries outside the constituencies for which parties are nominating candidates. The Commission will not monitor such primaries and their outcome will not be accepted. “Political parties are enjoined to avoid acrimonious primaries that could result in unnecessary litigations that may lead to failure to nominate and field candidates for elections in some constituencies,” he stressed.