ABUJA – The Federal Government, through the Ministry of Finance on Monday said it has been able to aggregate monumental debts of approximately N5.2 trillion owed by taxpayers in the country. Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, gave the figure during the formal launching of the project Lighthouse Debt Analytics and Reporting Platform. The Minister said that of the N5.2 trillion, the sum of N53.5 billion has been recovered within the last 12-18 month, through the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) as a recovery touchpoint. “Sequel to the issuance of the Finance Circular, the Ministry through the consolidation efforts of the project, has been able to aggregate monumental debts of approximately N5.2 trillion. “These debts came to the spotlight from data aggregated from over 5,000+ debtors across ten (10) Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Working in collaboration with the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF), we have been able to recover the sum of N53.5 billion within the last 12-18 months, through the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) as a recovery touchpoint. “However, to consolidate on the current effort of this project, a Debt Recovery Application has been built to be monitored by the new Debt Recovery Unit. “The Debt Recovery Unit will capitalize on the effort made by the project consultants to provide the government with up-to-date records into its credit status by harmonising debt records across all MDAs within the country, giving debtors access to a platform to view and offset debt in a seamless and secured manner as well as strengthen the institutional framework for enforcement and management of the Federal Debt Recovery plan”. Giving further insights into the newly launched debt recovery platform, Ahmed listed the main capabilities of the Project Lighthouse Debt Recovery Application to include: “Admin: to create users and their usage profiles. POLL “Public:- to allow owners/representatives of registered companies with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), sign up on the system and ascertain the status of their liabilities to the government. “Payment Management:- to be used by debtors to offset debt in a seamless and secured manner.“Government Interface:-to be used by the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget & National Planning (FMFBNP) to track the credit profile of the government, ascertain details of the outstanding amount due and the amount recovered from debtors”. The Minister further noted that the platform would give Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) access to update debt records progressively, stressing that in addition to this, a fully functional website has been developed to effectively manage public perception around the Government debt recovery efforts and revenue improvement strategies. She urged Ministries, Departments and Agencies MDAs to on a month to month basis update their list of debtors. “To this end, I want to use the opportunity to urge all FGOEs and MDAs to update their list of debtors on a month-on-month basis against the Project Lighthouse debt recovery portfolio. This also encompasses the development of an institutional framework for enforcement, recovery and management of the fiscal environment”.