Known for its reputation as the most inspiring real estate company in Nigeria and Africa’s top-rate luxury developer, Sujimoto has yet again unveiled a new project, tagged HOMEWIN, this project is meant to give ordinary Nigerians a chance to win a home by simply just participating with only N500. Yesterday the luxury grandmaster, Sujimoto, took the Homewin gospel to his place of birth – the biggest market in Africa – in one of the most outstanding street buzzes that have not been witnessed in a long time. It was important to launch this great project in the biggest market in Africa, also where @sujimoto81 was born and grew up, he says. To participate in HomeWin, play with just 500naira and stand a chance to win a home worth 50Million naira, be one of the lucky winners of SALARY FOR LIFE which is a 100,000 naira monthly allowance for 10years, and 100 Million in 100 Days, amongst many other amazing prizes. With just a minimum of N500, YOU stand a chance to be a lucky winner of Salary 4 Life and many other awesome prizes such as a luxury house worth 50Million naira, 2 cars, 100k to 50 winners, 100 smartphones, 50 microwaves, 50 gas cookers, and 50 television. HomeWin is Nigeria’s Biggest and Largest Promo ever – the mother of all promos, with an ultimate grand prize of a fully furnished Luxury Home worth N50million. Featuring numerous gifts and cash prizes, HomeWin brings a total of 65 winners daily and over 11,000 WINNERS at the end of 100 Days. No other promo comes close because, with HomeWin Promo, everyone is a winner! POLL Nothing but love was what was witnessed and a clear readiness of great people to join the poverty eradication movement which HomeWin has become. In less than 10days, the HomeWin will start giving 100million Naira out for 100 days, either you play or not, people will use 500 naira to play and win a house worth 50million, 2 brand new cars, SALARY FOR LIKE (100K Monthly for 10yrs) and many spectacular prizes. Known as the Rolls Royce of Luxury Real Estate in Nigeria and Africa’s most sophisticated Real Estate brand, Sujimoto has become a synonym for Luxury at its peak and this HomeWin project has succeeded in bringing luxury to the grassroots. Sujimoto’s core business focus includes Residential Development mainly in premium neighborhoods such as Ikoyi, Banana Island, Abuja, Cape Town, Johannesburg, and Dubai; mix-used developments, Commercial as well as Hospitality Developments.