ABUJA – The Court of Appeal, Abuja Division on Thursday dismissed the appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) challenging the decision of a Federal High Court which had ordered it to swear in the Stephen Leo Ntukekpu led Akwa-Ibom State Executive of the party. The Court presided over by Justice Haruna Tsamani with Justice Ugochukwu Ogakwu and Justice Bature Gafai said the dismissal was based on the application by the Counsel to APC, Niyi Akintola, SAN informing the court of his client’s decision to abide by the judgment delivered by Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court Abuja Division. Akintola further informed the court that his client, the APC has enforced the judgment of the lower court by swearing in Stephen Leo Nkukekpo as the Akwa-Ibom State Chairman of the party and the other plaintiffs in the judgment of the lower court as the Executive members of the party in the State.With the dismissal of the appeal, it has put to rest the tussle over the leadership of the APC in Akwa-Ibom State. Counsel to the plaintiffs, Chief Umeh Kalu, SAN did not oppose the withdrawal, like wise Counsel to the Independent National Electoral Commission Umar Farouk, SAN. Reacting on the judgment, the Chairman of the APC in Akwa-Ibom State, Stephen Leo Nkukekpo hailed the decision of the APC to withdraw the appeal and enforce the judgment of the lower court by swearing in his Executive members. He also hailed the Appeal Court for dismissing the appeal just as he extended his hands of fellowship to the party members in the state especially the aggrieved ones and urged them to join hands with him to move the party forward with a view to taking over the Akwa-Ibom government House in the 2023 general elections. The former Secretary of the Caretaker Committee of the Party, John James Akpan Udoudehe was at the appeal court for the judgment. It would be recalled that a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja had on March 17th sacked the Augustine Ekanem led leadership of the APC in Akwa-Ibom State and declared the Stephen Leo Ntukekpo led leadership of the party as the authentic leadership of the APC in the State. POLL The court presided over by Justice Taiwo Taiwo went ahead to order the party to swear Nkukekpu led Exco of the party. Justice Taiwo Taiwo had in his judgment held that the inauguration of the Augustine Ekanem led state EXCO of the party was an act of illegality. The court equally ordered APC to swear in Uduakobong Peter Udoh and Uko Obonodo Ini as the state Secretary and woman leader of the state Executive Council. Justice Taiwo made the orders while delivering judgment in the suit brought against the party, members of the National Caretaker Committee and INEC. Specifically, the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/635/2021 and filed by Stephen Ntukepo, Uduakobong Udoh and Uko Obonodo Ini, listed the APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni (National Chairman Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of APC); Senator John James Akpanudoedehe (Secretary caretaker/Extraordinary conventional planning committee of the APC) and the INEC.