ABUJA – There are indications that the ruling All Progres­sive Congress (APC) is still undecided on where it would zone its presidential ticket in the forthcoming gener­al elections. This comes despite the com­mencement of the sale of nom­ination forms by the party and aspirants purchasing it. National Chairman of APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, confirmed it when he said no decision has been reached of the zone to produce its presidential candidate for the 2023 election yet. This also comes as the North­ern Elders Forum (NEF) led by Prof. Ango Abdullahi, has initi­ated fresh moves to pressure the major political parties to throw their tickets open to all sections of the country, saying that the “power shift arrangement is al­ready dead and buried.” Adamu told State House correspondent at the Presiden­tial Villa, Abuja on Friday after presenting the Ekiti APC gu­bernatorial candidate, Abiodun Oyebanji, to President Muham­madu Buhari, that the decision on which part of the country should produce the ruling party candidate was beyond him. While stating that the APC was yet to decide, he maintained: “I am today privileged to be the chairman of the party. The party is greater than me. The party has not made a decision and I cannot preempt what the party decision will be.” Recall that the ruling party had swapped its national offices between North and South, lead­ing to the emergence of Adamu from the North Central as the national chairman. Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State had said just be­fore the last national convention of the party that even though the APC had not decided on zoning the presidential ticket, the swap­ping of national offices was an indication of where its presiden­tial candidate would come from. POLL Adamu also said that the par­ty does not regret the high cost of nomination forms for candi­dates seeking elective positions under the party. He asserted that the APC was keen to discourage parties that have no chance of winning elections to sponsor individuals to play the role of spoilers. According to him the cost also had to be exorbitant because of the need to raise sufficient funds to successfully prosecute coming elections. “On the issue of cost. Yeah, I’ve been listening, with rapt attention, to the hues and cries from our lovers and from our adversaries. We have no regrets whatsoever. We did some home­work, we know what it takes to go through primaries, go through presidential campaign, go through election for the Presi­dent. We know what it takes. “Over and above that, yes, we are the ruling party. Yes, we need to set examples in what we do, but I ask you, I don’t know which part of the country you come from, If, God forbid, your traditional ruler dies today, con­testants to that office will go for more than N100 million, it’s no news. “When I contested for the Sen­ate, all I paid was just a token; N5 million, N10 million, include the expression. When my colleague wanted to be chairman of the party, in the days of Adams Os­hiomhole, it took him N500,000. Today, for me, just as an example, to contest the national chairman of our party, had to pay N20 mil­lion to contest. “Alright, and even the enor­mity of work that has to be done, and this work will be done with money. We don’t want to contin­ue going begging,”he stated. On the alleged recalcitrance by some cabinet members to resign to enable them face their political ambition, Adamu wrote it off as a legal matter which he would not comment on for now. His words, “thank you very much for your question. Our luck on this end is that I happen to be a lawyer and the issue you are raising is in court right now. So, it will be subjudice for me to discuss it at all.”