The Kinsmen of Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, a 2023 presidential hopeful on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), on Sunday, endorsed his aspiration. Ohuabunwa’s kinsmen and stakeholders of the PDP endorsed him for the 2023 Presidency, during a civic reception in his honour at the Arochukwu PDP Ward 3 Secretariat, to celebrate him for obtaining his expression of interest forms in Abuja, on Wednesday. The Ward Chairman, Hon Samuel Okereke, said Ohuabunwa’s ambition would turn the fortunes of Nigerians for the better. Okereke noted that the endorsement of the presidential hopeful was a testament to the fact that God had already ordained him as president. He said Ohuabunwa’s presidency would be a blessing to the entire of Nigeria. “By the grace of God, I’m the Chairman of PDP, Arochukwu Ward 3. I’m very happy to learn that a son of the soil, from this Ward, picked the presidential nomination form on the platform of the PDP. This has never happened before and it’s my prayer that this dream comes to pass. “The God that has made him pick this form, will also make him become the president of this country. Since he believes in himself and his great God, we also believe in God for him and God will bring it to pass. “It will be a blessing to Atani people, to entire Arochukwu people, to Abia State, to the South-East geopolitical zone and to entire Nigeria. POLL “This is because we all know the man called Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa. He is a detribalised Nigerian. He is an honest man. He doesn’t take what belongs to people, rather he gives to people what rightfully belongs to them. “He is not coming to make money, because going by the kind of man he is, he is very comfortable. He just wants to come and salvage Nigeria. He wants to come and save the needy and the poor. “It’s on this note that we endorse him today as our sole candidate for the presidency, even as we prepare for our party’s presidential convention. He is the only person we know. His credentials and track records speak volumes for him, and he is the best amongst his equals. Mazi Ohuabunwa is our No. 1 endorsement”, Mr Okereke said. Also speaking, a PDP stakeholder, in Arochukwu, Hon. Ejike Okoronkwo, said, “Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa’s ambition is already ordained by God in heaven because he what Nigeria needs now to continue to exist peacefully and prosperously. And until death, no Arochukwu man will forget Mazi Ohuabunwa. “He has put smiles on the face of many-the needy and the less privileged in society, no matter their background. He is a Nigerian of Igbo extraction but has friends and fans from all the nooks and crannies of this country. “It’s a well-known fact that whatever God has hands in, does not stop on the way incomplete. God won’t let us fall in the project, because whoever has God, has everything. God won’t let us fall. All of us here in Arochukwu know the background and family of Mazi Ohuabunwa. “This is a family that doesn’t joke with God and what concerns their fellow man. I’m not sure God will let him fall in his dream to lead Nigeria for the betterment of all. “And so, Mazi Ohuabunwa, we bless you and your presidential ambition today. You people (your family) have not called us these commoners, irrespective of your height in society. You have carried everybody along in whatever you do. Your genuine ambition to lead Nigeria will be actualised. “Therefore, in the name of all the PDP stakeholders of the Ward here present–the Chairman is here, the secretary is here, the Youth Leader is here, the Women Leader is here, everybody who believes in what we do is here, and so we receive you today. We won’t leave you alone in this. You are ours and we will stand by you because you have always stood by us. We endorse you today as our own.” Responding, Chief Ohuabunwa, observed that the importance of the Ward level in Nigerian politics could be overemphasised, saying, “This is the starting point. The party recognises the ward as the starting point of every political membership. If you are not a member of the award, you can’t contest anything in Nigeria. You enter the party through the ward and you leave through the ward.” He promised to restore the hope of the hopeless and lift the Nigerian youths out of joblessness if elected president of the country. He said: “I’m happy to meet you all here today, even though I didn’t know you were planning this. You know God is the master planner. When I was leaving Abuja this morning, I got a call from the NNG in Lagos, that they were to receive me at the Airport. They had finalised all arrangements to this effect, but I told them to leave it. The reason is that I can’t arrive in Lagos this morning and start heading to Arochukwu, Abia State. “I told them I have to be in Arochukwu because there would always be another opportunity for the reception. In Arochukwu, I didn’t know a bigger reception was waiting. This is the starting point. The party recognises the ward as the starting point of every political membership. “If you are not a member of the award, you can’t contest anything in Nigeria. You enter the party through the ward and you leave through the ward. “Therefore, I’m glad to be in your midst. With what you have done here today, the inauguration of our presidency has been done. We are just waiting for the manifestation in the physical. “Mr Chairman, our people say when a child goes out for hunting and kills good meat, he brings it straight to his parents in joy. Sir, I have got the expression of interest form and the PDP presidential form. I deemed it necessary to bring them to you, as our father here. “My presidency will be for all Nigerians. My presidency will restore hope for the hopeless. My presidency will make Nigeria work again. My presidency will end corruption in Nigeria. My presidency will leave the youths out of the dungeon of joblessness.”