…Restrains Govt Authorities AKURE – Ondo State High Court sitting in Ikare-Akoko has ordered the stoppage of the process of selecting and installation of Chief Yahya Obaniyi as the new Oludaja of Daja-Ajowa in Akoko Northwest Local Government Area of the state. The presiding judge, Justice O. Abe, on Monday ruled that the state government, Chief Yahya Obaniyi and other parties in the matter with suit number HIK/7/2020, should maintain the status quo pending the determination of the substantive suit challenging the eligibility of Yahya Obaniyi to the throne of the Oludaja of Daja Ajowa-Akoko. The Ibowe Clan Of Oyagi Ruling House, Daja Ajowa-Akoko, which is the applicant in the suit, had prayed the court to stop the installation of Obaniyi as the Oludaja of Daja Ajiwa-Akoko, claiming that no one in Yahya Obaniyi’s lineage ever occupied the thrown. The applicant also told the court that appointing and installing Obaniyi as Oludaja of Daja Ajowa or recognising as such by the state government would be tantamount to customary aberration. The respondents in the suit include Chief Yahya Obaniyi, Akoko Northwest Local Government; the State Commissioner for Local Government & Chieftaincy Affairs; the State Attorney General, the Ondo State Governor, (Oluwarotimi Akeredolu) and the Ondo State Executive Council. The Court issued an order unequivocally directing all parties in the matter to maintain the status quo ante pending the determination of the substantive suit, thereby restraining the government from installing Yahya Obaniyi as Oludaja earlier scheduled for May 13, 2022. Fielding questions from newsmen after the ruling, the attorney to the applicant, Barrister Femi Emodamori, cautioned the respondents against violation of the Court order. POLL He said: “The public needs to know that the Ikare-Akoko Judicial Division of the State High Court, presided over by Hon. Justice O. Abe, has issued an order unequivocally directing the parties to maintain the status quo ante pending the determination of the substantive suit on Monday 25th April, 2022. “It is public knowledge that Chief Yahya Obaniyi, parading himself as Oludaja of Daja Ajowa-Akoko, has been planning elaborately for his “installation” scheduled for 13th May, 2022, and advertising the event to the public in several radio and social media adverts. “Instructively, the Ibowe Clan of Oyagi Ruling House in Daja Community (our clients)  had, as far back as 2020, filed a case at the Ikare-Akoko Judicial Division of the Ondo State High Court, seeking declarations to the effect that it is their turn to present the next Oludaja and that Chief Yahya Obaniyi is not a member of their Clan. “Our clients are equally seeking injunctions against Chief Obaniyi and the State Government in the said Suit, with number HIK/7/2020: High Chief (Prince) Muraina Obawumi Obadun & 4 Others V. Chief Yahya Obaniyi and 5 others. “In spite of the pending court case, Chief Yahyah Obaniyi is claiming to have secured the approval of the State Executive Council and advertising the purported installation scheduled for 13th May, 2022. He has equally been advertising and selling customized traditional attires, popularly called “aso ebi”, for the planned installation. “By necessary implication (of the court order) therefore, the coronation/installation (of Yahya Obaniyi) scheduled for 13th May, 2022 can no longer hold. Any attempt to perform or be part of such ceremony will amount to contempt of court and attract severe criminal sanctions.” “The Arakunrin Akeredolu, SAN, led government of Ondo State has never hesitated in professing its avowed commitment to the rule of law. We, therefore, believe that the government would never be tempted to treat the order of the court with disdain.”