The aspiration of Christopher Ojo received a boost as his friends and secondary school classmates have begun mobilisation of support and fund to buy his expression of interest and his nomination forms. The coordinator of “Ojo4Reps”, Kehinde Ikpefan, disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Benin, Edo State on Monday. The coordinator said the decision to support Ojo to be representative of Owan Federal Constituency in the National Assembly (NASS) is borne out of the need to revert the negative narrative in the constituency. Ikpefan stressed that they have no reservation about the ability and capacity of Ojo to deliver to the people what they have suffered for too long in the hands of past representatives of the constituency. He noted that though the aspirant have not held any political position or elective office, he has however been a blessing to the people through some initiative he has brought to the area. The coordinator particularly made reference to the annual Owan 10km race and the ongoing mechanic village adjudged to be the biggest in entire Edo North senatorial district. According to him, “One wonder what he (Ojo) will do when he is empowered with political position. “To us and the concern of members of the constituent, we have been shortchanged enough by those that have represented us in time past and we have therefore taken the decision not to stand aloof but take active part on who to represent us. POLL “It is for this reason that we, his friends at home and in the diaspora, as well as some of his secondary school classmates, have come together to galvanise support for him. “Aside going to pay for his nomination form, we will also be supplying most of his campaign materials and other logistics needed for him to come out successful in this quest. “Lastly, some of us who are based at home have also agreed to take active part in his campaign.” While noting that though Ojo is contesting on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), he however said, “2023 general elections will not be about political parties but individuals and their ability to deliver on their campaign promises.” Ikpefan concluded by urging Nigerians to get their Permanent Voters’ Cards ready to vote out bad leaders in the 2023 general elections.