Rather than put to rest agitations for or against zoning with its recent pronouncement from Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), is riven with unease as past actions, decisions of its top gladiators are now freely used to canvass for political interests, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, SAMUEL OGIDAN, SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE From this month till the June deadline when all registered political parties angling to be part of the 2023 general elections must conclude their primaries, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), more than its major opponent and ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), will be in a keener race to keep its house intact before they cast the first ballot, next year. In the last couple of days, the party has been riven with heated arguments over where and whether to implement its zoning principle for its party presidential ticket. Currently, presidential powers have been in the North, albeit, under APC for the past seven years. By gentleman’s understanding, power should shift between North and South, according to an unwritten political understanding among the country’s political elite. But in PDP these days, the aphorism that in politics, one plus one may not always be two appears to be a truism in this matter. This perhaps explains the clearly ambiguous manner the recent communiqué from the party’s 37-man zoning committee was phrased, Tuesday, earlier in the week. Reading a four-point resolution of the committee on Tuesday, Samuel Ortom, its chairman and governor, of Benue State, affirmed that zoning of political stakes/offices is indeed statutory according to the party constitution. POLL But in another breath, on the second point of the communiqué, he invalidated the provision ahead of the party’s next primaries where zoning arrangement should have influenced the choice of presidential candidates to go south for those who want to vie for the party ticket. “In spite of (zoning arrangement), the party presidential ticket is thrown Open,” Ortom said. According to him, the committee arrived at the decision due to “exigency of time,” as he puts it. He also advised that PDP always makes the issue of zoning very clear at least six months before sales of nomination forms. In what appears to be a way out of the expected backlash from the decisions, especially from political gladiators from the South, mainly, the committee advised the party to commend the efforts of some of the contestants on the issue of consensus candidacy. “The efforts should be seen to a peaceful and logical conclusion,” Ortom said. Interestingly, the trio of Aminu Tambuwal, Sokoto State governor, Bala Mohammed, Bauchi State governor, erstwhile Senate President, Bukola Saraki, all three, presidential aspirants under the party, have been harping on the need to have a consensus candidate at the national primaries. Their movement across party and national stakeholders had gained major traction. Even former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, also an aspirant who is seen to wield immense influence in the party and power circles is on record to be on board with the consensus arrangement. Governor Tambuwal of Sokoto has been especially convincing on the need not to allow for zoning. “We must win power first before we share or zone it,” he was once quoted as saying. The argument struck a deep chord within the party. “It is only when you have power that you can zone it,” Tambuwal added. For presidential aspirants from the North which include Atiku, Saraki, Mohammed, and Tambuwal, PDP must play the politics of winning power rather than be concerned with equity. “They strongly believe that since it is almost certain that APC will zone its ticket South, PDP should take its own north because northern voters are more inclined to want to retain power after President Muhammadu Buhari of APC relinquishes power by 2023,” explained one of the zoning committee members in the party who spoke to Saturday INDEPENDENT but asked not to be cited by name. A source privy to the zoning committee and a leading figure in the camp of one of the presidential aspirants told our correspondent why the committee couldn’t take a position on zoning. According to the source, personal and zonal interest dominated the discussion, hence the failure of the committee to zone the presidential ticket. The source added that “when it was asked if the ticket should be zoned to South and if zoned, would it be micro-zoned to South- East, some interest parties said no, it should be zoned to South-South and others said, it should be zoned to their region. “This is the kind of arguments that dominated the meeting and because they couldn’t agree, that was why it was suggested that it should be thrown open.” The source added that “we need to win first before we can zone. You don’t zone what you don’t have. We are not the government in power; it is only All Progressives Congress (APC) that can zone now because they are in power.” This view cannot be easily dismissed. Former Emir of Kano, Mohammed Sanusi II, echoed similar sentiments recently in a viral newspaper article, recently. In a treatise titled, ‘2023: Bola Tinubu and the Cost of Political Miscalculation’, the former Central Bank of Nigeria governor said, “President Buhari’s North has no intention of relinquishing power to the South West or any zone for that matter. What many may not have realised, however, is that for the next three decades, at least, if ever, and should Nigeria remain one, power will not leave north”. Saraki et al may have thought it best that it was better to ride on the perceived sentiment in the north to clinch power first. They had visited Ortom before its decision on zoning came out earlier in the week. Although Ortom was reticent about the zoning formula, it was learnt that the committee, after persuasions from the consensus campaign group decided it was best to urge the party NEC to fling open the presidential race to all aspirants, irrespective of their zones. Another senior party official who spoke to Saturday INDEPENDENT said that the party would throw open the presidential ticket rather than restrict it to a region. The source said, “Reference was made to the 10 states with the highest turnout of voters in the 2019 election. Of these 10, nine were Northern states and only Lagos made the list. Kano, Kaduna, and Katsina had the highest voter turnout while Lagos came a distant fourth. “Aspirants should be allowed to test their popularity at the primary election but if they choose to adopt a consensus approach, that will be acceptable to the party. It is a position every member of the committee was comfortable with.” But Ortom and the majority of members of the committee understand, too, that as appealing as the sentiment is, it is also dangerous, capable of burying the party forever, especially in the South East and South-South, the remaining political stronghold of PDP. For one, there is an equally strong counterbalancing argument from the South of the country. Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Enugu State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, Abia State Governor, Duoye Diri, Bayelsa State governor, have also insisted that PDP must uphold its zoning arrangement. “The party must make a strong point of rewarding loyalty. Those asking us to win the power first should explain fully to party men how PDP lost the power in first place in 2015,” explained a South- South governor in a WhatsApp chat group. The governor, of course, was referring to derisively still referred to as ‘nPDP’, after a 2015 political debacle that ended PDP’s reign. As recalled, Atiku, Saraki, and Tambuwal, were among the top five political heavyweights that left the party at the twilight of President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. It marked the exodus of net worth politicians who left and thereby weakened the party. As perceived, diehard PDP loyalists like Nyesom Wike, the governor of Rivers State and former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose are yet to be pacified by the chieftains that took part in the political perfidy, seven years ago. Interestingly, Fayose, a member of the zoning committee resigned his membership on the same day its communiqué was read in a letter addressed to Governor Ortom before the commencement of the meeting on Tuesday where the decision on zoning was made. Fayose argued that his status as a presidential aspirant in the PDP disqualifies him from the seat on the committee. The letter read, “Having hinted during our last meeting of my intention to run for the Office of the President in the coming primary election and by God’s grace, the general election, it will not be morally right to continue to participate in the zoning debate being an aspirant myself. Therefore, my state has nominated the bearer of this letter, Dr. Gbenga Faseluka to replace me,” he said. More aspirants are expected from the south. Dr. Nwachukwu Anakwenze, a medical doctor and presidential aspirant under the PDP has insisted that it would be unjustifiable and insensitive for the North to retain power in 2023. He urged all patriots and men and women of goodwill in all parts of the country to ensure rotation/ zoning of presidential power in 2023 by electing a president from the southern part of Nigeria. “It is the turn of the southeast zone to produce the next Nigerian president and I am warning that nobody should hide under insecurity to deny the southeast zone of what rightly belongs to it. I am of the firm belief that the main justification for rotation/zoning of presidential power is borne out of the skewed nature of the Nigerian fraudulent 1999 constitution of the Nigerian federation, where one side of the country, through the unjust manner of states and local government creations have been created, is now positioned to produce the nation’s president in perpetuity,” he added. Anakwenze also stated that the basis of any viable democracy, especially in a diverse and complex coun­try such as Nigeria, rests in fair and even sharing of power. “Our position is that since the Northern part of the country would have ful­ly enjoyed the office of the president for the full statu­tory period of eight years by 2023, presidential power ought to be yielded to the South and southeast zone in particular in the spirit of unity and equity. “I urge all presidential as­pirants in the North to as a matter of urgency join and support a PDP aspirant from the southeast geo-political zone. The only zone in the South which has not yet had a chance to produce a pres­ident of Nigeria from the South East and I believe that in the spirit of justice, equi­ty, fairness, and inclusive­ness all of which are critical ingredients in our ambition to build a Nigeria nation, the southeast should be given the chance and supported by all fair-minded and patriotic Ni­gerians to produce Nigeria’s president in 2023 through the platform of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP).” He justified why the south-east should have the presidency. “It is time to give an Igbo person the chance to build Nigeria to the standard God wants. God created Nigeria to de­velop into a major power among nations and raise respect and dignity for all blacks on earth. One of the ways to achieve the feats the nation wanted is to carry everybody along without discrimination which our party PDP has over time demonstrated,” he added. But going by another wrangling in the party, everything appears to de­pend on the party NEC. This much can be gleaned from the reaction of Dea­con Darlington Okpebholo Ray, National Coordinator, Rescue Mission Forum, RMF, a nationwide support group for Governor Wike’s presidential ambition. “For us at Rescue Mis­sion Group, who are solid­ly behind the aspiration of Nyesom Wike, we believe that Governor Ortom has not jettisoned the zoning formula of the PDP, rath­er, the recommendation of his 37-man committee has been forwarded to the NEC of our great party who would give the final word on it. For now, we urge all our members across the globe, who are in support of Wike to remain calm and stay focused.” But a far more ominous warning was made by Dr. Law Mafor, a political ac­tivist, Forensic/Social Psychologist on the impli­cation if the party ticket goes north, again. “In the unlikely event that the other zones con­nive and deny the South East the right to lead Nigeria, a country they co-founded and played a pivotal role in its libera­tion, it will be a redefining moment for them and they will factor such new reality and oddity into their future calculations and survival strategies,” he said. So, for PDP, it’s indeed a long night ahead as 2023 approaches.