LAGOS – Erstwhile Deputy Nation­al Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Com­rade Timi Frank, on Thursday, condemned the N100 million fee for the party’s presidential nom­ination form, describing it as a “clear depiction of deepened ar­rogance in both corruption and governance.” This was as he called on Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari to prioritise the nation’s tertiary education sector by paying the Academic Staff Union of Uni­versities (ASUU) the N200 billion they demanded so that normalcy can return to universities in the country. Frank, in a statement in Abu­ja, lamented what he called the “insensitivity of the APC”, even as he accused the party of reap­ing from the corruption it had en­throned in the country and thus entrenching insensitivity like never witnessed in the country. “It is unfortunate that in a country where hunger, strife, unemployment, insecurity, dis­unity, economic hardship, de­caying educational system and dwindling standard of living has become normal act of state poli­cy, the APC has slammed a N100 million price tag on Nigerians wishing to vie for the presidency on its platform. “The moral question that many Nigerians are asking is: How much is the salary of those aiming to buy the APC’s presi­dential nomination forms? “Again, before venturing into politics and probably even attain­ing their present offices in 2015, how many of these aspirants were known multi-millionaires? How many of these aspirants before 2015 had any business(es) yielding dividends and who are employers of labour? How many? “What the APC has done is that it is taking advantage of the very rot they have entrenched in the system and reaping from the corruption that has turned its aspirants to overnight multi-mil­lionaires. “After all, if in 2015, its then Presidential candidate – Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari lamented the N20 million cost of nomination form, saying he didn’t have the money, what changed suddenly for the APC and its aspirants that today the same President and leadership have no qualms selling nomina­tion forms for N100 million? POLL “If it is argued that it is strictly a party affair, didn’t the same President direct leadership change in the APC recently?” Frank queried. He said it was unfortunate that while hardship pervades the country and universities are shut due to strike by ASUU due to poor management and insen­sitivity on the part of the APC government, the party is only interested in raking billions from aspirations of Nigerians even when they know that they are encouraging theft and stealing of taxpayers’ money.