Chief Yetunde Babajide is the Chief Executive Officer, Yefadot Group. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, she calls on the government to help entrepreneurs access low interest loans and grant in order to thrive. She also encouraged young people to join the agriculture and agribusiness. Excerpts: What made you to venture into agriculture and agribusiness? I ventured into agriculture and agribusiness because I want Nigerians to produce what they eat and also eat what they produce. Agriculture is the foundation on which the Nigerian economy revolves and the earlier we realize that and give it the priority it deserves, the better for us. The Nigerian economy is in dire straits because we have not accorded agriculture the importance it deserves in our economic and political policies. When you say agriculture and agribusiness, what exactly do you produce? I am a farmer; I produce garri, ofada rice, kulikuli (groundnut cake) ginger drinks and others. How long have you been in the business? POLL I have been in the agriculture and agribusiness in the past 10 years. How has it been over the years? It has not been easy because the government has refused to support us; indeed, the people in government are waging a war against those of us that are in agriculture and agribusiness and the private sector. We do not have funds, loans and grants to do our business; it has always been a struggle. What policies should government put in place to change the situation? First of all, the government has to be honest and deal with actual people in the agriculture and agribusiness sector. What the government does when it wants to deal with famers is to deal with people who do not have a farm and do not know anything about agriculture and agribusiness. This is wrong and it is not helping the situation; this is why we do not always get the intended results. Government will announce that it wants to do agric support they give it to the wrong people who are not into agriculture and agribusiness. The actual agriculture and agribusiness people are always left to suffer and this will not help the people in the sector to grow. The government needs to support people in the sector to grow and this will benefit people in the sector, the economy and the government. The government should support people in the sector with low interest loans and grants. Many loans and grants are being given out in the sector, but these are not getting actual people in agriculture and agribusiness. How has the power situation affected your business? The situation has been terrible for my business and others like me; electricity supply from the national grid has dwindled and the cost of diesel has gone up astronomically and most of us cannot afford to continue to produce. As we speak, the cost of a litre of diesel is close to N800 and we cannot afford the commodity at that price. We have stopped production and have asked our workers to go home. We thought it would be temporary but the situation has persisted and we do not know when it will normalize so that we can call our workers back and begin production. The situation is really bad. The cost of conveying products has gone up and it has become very difficult to continue to do business in the country. How have you been able to cope with these challenges? We are just managing; we are struggling to survive. We are still in the business because we have been in it for a long time and do not have another thing we can do. We are Nigerians and are in Nigerian and there is nowhere to run. Nigeria is our home and we love her; the leaders should do the same. There are young Nigerians who love what you are doing and will like to join the business. What do you say to them? They should join the business; those of that are into the business are holding fort; the sector is good and has great potential. If they join the agriculture and agribusiness, they will not be among those that will look for where the next meal will come from. The government should provide equipment for young people who venture into the business; the fund will not be a waste because it will have a multiplier effect on the nation’s economy. The government should provide an alternative source of energy to entrepreneurs because they are the engine room of the Nigerian economy. If small businesses proper, the economy will also prosper. The health of small businesses determines the health of the Nigerian economy; the government should pay priority attention to small businesses in the country. It is difficult for small businesses to break even when they use diesel and petrol to power their operations. It is better for young Nigerians to become farmers than become ritualists. Have you been able to access a loan or grant for government or a bank? I have never got government support in terms of loan or grant. Have been applying? I applied for NISER loan three years ago and nothing has come out it as we speak. I also applied for COVID-19 loan and did not get it. I have not got a loan from the federal or state government and I am still in business and doing my best to survive. Sometimes, the government will organise a trade fair for entrepreneurs to showcase their products, they will ask entrepreneurs to pay for stands at the fair. This is wrong; they should allow entrepreneurs to exhibit their products and services for free. The business environment is difficult and the government should do more to help entrepreneurs thrive. What is your assessment of the agriculture and agribusiness in the country? The prospects of the agriculture and agribusiness in the country are very bright. I must say that the President has put some things in place to move the sector forward. We believe that the future of sector is very bright. Do you support idea of a food bank in the country? The government should set up food banks across the country; it should also provide security to farmers so that they can go to the farm and do their work. They should not be afraid to go to the farm because someone is going to attack them. The government should buy the produce from the farmers and this will encourage them to do more without worrying if there is a market for the produce. The government has a lot of work to do to make the agriculture and agribusiness thrive. Nigeria still imports much of the food consumed in the country; what should be done to make the country sufficient in food production? The government should encourage farmers with appropriate funding and policies and the farmers will do the rest. Depending on other countries for food is not healthy. Nigerians have their own food and should eat what they produce. We need to stop importing the food that we eat. We are Black people and our food is different from that of the Whiteman. They do not eat our food and why should we eat their food? There is need for us to grow more food for our people because the imported food is not healthy for Nigerians. Take zobo drink for instance, it is nutritious and has tremendous health benefits. Everyone should learn to make and drink zobo. It is many times better that Coca Cola. We have ginger nut drink that is also beneficial to the body. What the government should do is create awareness about Nigerian food so that people will see the value in them. Where do you see your business in the next five years? In the next five years, I want to take my business to all the states in the country; I also want to export my products to all countries in the world.