YENAGOA  – The president of the Ijaw National Congress (INC), Professor Benjamin Okaba, has called on the Federal Government to halt the incessant killing and destruction of public infrastructure and communities by bandits and terrorists across the country. Okaba pointed out that the nation’s insecurity challenge had assumed a more frightening dimension with gory tales of violence, killing, abductions and ransacking of villages by dare-devil gunmen every day in parts of the nation. He spoke as chairman of the inaugural edition of the Boyloaf annual lecture, formal launch of the Boyloaf Foundation and 50th birthday of Ebikabowei Victor-Ben, also known as ‘General’ Boyloaf in Yenagoa on Friday. Condemning the dastardly acts, the INC chief said, “On a daily basis, Nigerians are hit by reports of killings, kidnapping and violent attacks by bandits and insurgents who invade communities and slaughter hapless people without any form of resistance by security agencies. “The madness is taking a more frightening dimension as these hoodlums have taken over our roads, airports, waterways and railways, making life unbearable for the average Nigerian and movement difficult in most parts of the nation. “The government must, as a matter of urgency, halt the wanton killing and destruction of property and save citizens from agony and misery. He reiterated that restructuring remained the panacea to rescuing the country from imminent collapse, urging the Federal Government to listen to the clamour from various quarters for restructuring. Okaba also decried the magnitude of oil and gas pollution in the Niger Delta, which had destroyed the marine environment and the livelihood of the people, noting that sustainable peace and development in the region could only be anchored on justice, equity and fairness. The Ijaw leader, while congratulating Victor-Ben on his 50th birthday and the formal launch of the foundation, commended him for the active role he played in the Niger Delta struggle for self-determination, which resulted in the proclamation of presidential amnesty for the agitators. In his keynote speech on ‘Peace, a Priceless Asset for Niger Delta Growth and Development’, the Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Col. Milland Dikio (rtd), said with peace, the Niger Delta would be best placed to live and do business in the country.