Innocent Oweh ; Joseph Undu President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to resist agents bent on causing breakdown of law and order in the country, assuring that no individual or group will be allowed to destabilise Nigeria. “We have the land, we have the resources, and we have the people. But I do not know why people will allow themselves to be successfully subverted to destabilise their own country,” the president said at an Iftar dinner with governors, ministers and heads of government agencies on Tuesday in Abuja. President Buhari, who lauded the governors and ministers for honouring his invitation to break the Ramadan fast, expressed confidence that in spite of the current security challenges, the country will succeed. On the forthcoming general elections, the president affirmed that being beneficiary of free, fair and credible elections, the introduction of technology and the Permanent Voters Card (PVCs) will make it impossible for anyone to claim millions of votes again in the country. Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum and governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, commended President Buhari for demonstrating resilience and determination at a crucial period in Nigeria’s history. “We have a leader who is not distracted by momentary challenges but has continued to commit to the renewal of our nation and we, governors, ministers and heads of government agencies are equally dedicated to building a better Nigeria, on your watch,” he said. POLL Noting that this year’s Holy month of Ramadan coincided with the just concluded Christian Lenten period, the governor of Ekiti said it holds enormous spiritual value on the benefits of renewal, sacrifice, almsgiving, forgiveness and healing for the individual as well as the nation. IGP Moves To Secure Schools, Deploys Operational Assets Meanwhile, the Inspector- General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, on Tuesday ordered the review of police personnel and operational assets deployments to schools and colleges around the country. According to a statement by CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, Force Public Relations Officer, this is to ensure the protection of schools and colleges, particularly boarding schools, tertiary institutions, and their campuses in areas prone to security breaches around the country. The statement said the directive was issued at the management meeting of the Force Management Team at the IGP Conference Hall, Force Headquarters, Abuja, while reviewing the general security in the country including the security of schools and colleges as a result of some isolated incidences reported in some schools. It said the IGP equally directed all state Commissioners of Police, Tactical Commanders, as well as their supervising Assistant Inspectors-General of Police (AIGs) to explore all available options and think outside the box to boost security in and around schools, colleges, and student-based communities. “The IGP has equally directed detectives/operatives of the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) and the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB) to ensure sustained surveillance and intelligence gathering activities within various school environments while the Police Airwing has been directed to extend its aerial patrols to the six geopolitical zones of the country. “The Inspector-General of Police, therefore, assured that all hands will be on deck to ensure a safe environment for all pupils and students in the various schools and colleges of learning within the country. He further reiterated the commitment of his administration to diversifying resources towards sustainable security and safety of all and sundry in Nigeria”, the statement read.