Owing to the unfavourable business climate and infrastructural deficit in Nigeria, Mr Mosope Olaosebikan, Founder of Art Tech District, has emphasised the need for increased collaboration between the government and entrepreneurs. A statement issued by Olaosebikan explained that “Nigeria’s economic challenges are creating a hostile environment for entrepreneurial success.” He identified the country’s inadequate infrastructure, especially the lack of a steady power supply, as one of the plethora of challenges militating against entrepreneurial activities. He, therefore, called for stronger collaboration between the government and entrepreneurs in a bid to overcome some of the myriad challenges facing entrepreneurs who wish to do business in Nigeria. According to him, “There should be more collaboration between the government and entrepreneurs in tackling this behemoth challenge called unemployment. “The government needs to empower social entrepreneurs by reducing the cost and time it takes to register new companies in Nigeria, providing single-digit loan policies, and giving grants. “The government needs to provide tax incentives, design and implement friendly trade policies, and provide contract opportunities to private companies. POLL “Entrepreneurship remains the highest employer of labour worldwide, and economic growth is stymied when entrepreneurial activities are stifled.” Olaosebikan further pointed out that when entrepreneurs do business, the entire economy benefits, as new products and services are developed, jobs created, and communal problems solved. He contended that the economic challenges bedevilling Nigeria cannot be solved by one sector alone, hence the need for public-private partnership. His words: “The economic challenges facing Nigeria are too real and too urgent for a single sector to handle alone, hence the need for government-private collaboration in tackling unemployment. “The forces of entrepreneurship in Nigeria are relatively strong, as the deplorable poverty and unemployment rates leave few other options for citizens. “Youth unemployment, according to the National Bureau of Statistics Q4 2020 report, stands at an alarming rate of 42.5%. “Yet the Nigerian economy, depending on the government or the public sector alone, cannot create jobs more rapidly and consistently mop up labour.” Commenting on the activities of the management of Art Tech District in creating employment for the teeming unemployed, Olaosebikan said the organisation has been working assiduously to create jobs and bridge the storytelling gap in the country through the deployment of technology and hospitality. Explaining the giant strides made by Art-Tech District in its 16 months of existence, he said: “My team and I have been working towards filing an unemployment and storytelling gap in Nigeria through technology and hospitality. “Art Tech District is a tech-based theme park in Abuja that houses Nigeria’s first digital museum, called the Discovery Museum, and four restaurants: Lagos Bistro, Amazonia, Sketch and Kapppadocia. “All of these entities are making a significant impact across the tourism and hospitality industries. “In just 16 months since its launch, Art-Tech District has already expanded from Abuja to Lagos, employing at least 550 young Nigerians. From graphics designers, video producers, and VR experts to photographers, creative writers, and digital marketing experts—virtually everyone in the creative industry sees ATD as a haven.” “The Discovery Museum has successfully merged the past, present and future of Nigerian storytelling, using new-age technology. “So far, it has been visited by UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina J. Mohammed, the French and Bulgarian Ambassadors to Nigeria, the Managing Director of Development Policy and Partnerships at World Bank, Mari Pangestu, among other visitors. “The restaurants on the other hand have revolutionised the concept of fine dining in Nigeria, focusing on experiential spaces based on other locations or creative concepts. And with foreign companies almost claiming a monopoly on the restaurant space in Nigeria, these Nigerian-owned and run restaurants are a breath of fresh air. “What makes Olaosebikan unique is that all his entrepreneurial ventures are pursued with the pure and passionate desire to solve community-based problems. “More than making a profit, Olaosebikan cares about harnessing local talent to provide simple and accessible solutions to socio-economic problems unique to Nigeria: Noticing the large pool of talents in the country and the ongoing global journey toward the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” Olaosebikan said, “we founded the Art-Tech District in a bid to work with the government to create civic products, inspire young Nigerians toward creativity and innovation, and ensure inclusive technological growth in both rural and urban Nigeria. “With a focus on the World Bank’s Sustainable Development Goals,” Olaosebikan adds, “we have worked on all fronts to ensure effective growth and development in the country. “It’s easy and valid for us to complain that things aren’t working for us as Nigerians, but it’s more effective to look for ways to fill in the gap, no matter how small.”