Former associates of the former governor Ayo Fayose have teamed up with Segun Oni in the Social Democratic Party (SDP) ahead of the June 18, 2022 Governorship poll. Amongst them were former commissioners, Local Government Chairmen and members of the Ekiti State House of Assembly. Oni who kickstarted his Local Government Familiarisation  Tour with the new members of SDP said the party would offer equal opportunity to all. In the two Councils visited on Monday, former speaker during Foyose’s administration, Rt. Hon Kola Oluwawole, former Commissioner for Information, Lanre Ogunsuyi and former lawmakers. Welcoming Oni to Ido/Osi, former Speaker, Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon. Femi Akinyemi said Ekiti people embraced the new party due to the track records of the standard-bearer. He promised that the council will churn out the highest number of votes for Oni on June 18, 2022. Addressing party supporters during his visit to  Ido/Osi, Moba and Ilejemeje Local Government areas of Ekti State on consultation with party members ahead of the  June 18 election, Engineer Oni advised the electorate to troop out en masse on election day to cast their votes and also prevent poll riggers from subverting their will. He appealed to people to act as true soldiers of democracy and rescue themselves from bad governance that have taken over the land after his exit in 2010. POLL The former governor noted that he was not seeking reelection for personal enrichment like some governors were allegedly doing in Ekiti, saying he bowed to people’s pressure to plunge into the race and prevent a few individuals from cornering the state’s Commonwealth. Oni urged the SDP adherents not to succumb to intimidations from the ruling All Progressives Congress and the People’s Democratic Party. He described the two dominant parties as spent forces in Ekiti, saying the outcome of the coming election would convince them that they are already rejected by the masses. “I want to assure you that the SDP will win the June 18 poll, so don’t allow anyone to terrify you, we are taking over government from them. Nobody can claim to be more Ekiti than us. We believe the election will be free and fair. “I want you to come out and begin aggressive mobilisation and get prepared. I am happy with the groundswell of support we have been getting from the Ekiti people, but this should be translated to victory on June 18. “We are sure of victory, but they are planning to rig and I know that Ekiti people will prevent their rigging because the power of the people is mightier than any power. Act as through soldiers of democracy and defend your votes and your state”, Oni advised. Oni promised that his government will banish poverty as he did in his first term by initiating programmes that will touch the grassroots. “When we were in government, APC as the then opposition was outside then promising to make Ekiti greater, but they failed. “They worked against some of our good policies like egg and bournvita for our school children. They said the programme was fetish. We thought they will do better, but they got there and did nothing. “By the grace of God, we are bringing a life full of abundance and that is what we intend to do. Whoever terrorises you, report him to the leadership and we will deal with such person using the instrument of law”.