“He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil,” (1John 3:8). Satan sinned against God and he was cast out of heaven. He deluded man to fall from a place of glory. Man was created in God’s image. The nature of his soul was impacted with knowledge and perfect holiness. He had easy and unhindered access to God. On the ground of man’s spotless moral virtue, he had free communion with God. Unfortunately, the crown of righteousness fell and the glorious diadem got broken. The purity of man disappeared, and his joy was confiscated. Jesus gave us hope by restoring what was lost in the first man. We all sinned and came short of God’s glory. According to Genesis 3:6, man disobeyed God in the Garden of Eden, by eating the forbidden fruit. Death was brought into this world because of the fault of one, that is, many bore the consequences of the sin of Adam. Due to the subtlety of the devil, man believed, obeyed and honoured the devil (an enemy of God), hereby, disrespecting the creator of all. Man reverenced the creature in lieu of the creator. The rebellion of man against the sovereignty of his Maker was an act of ungratefulness and disloyalty. Man’s unbelief created enmity between him and God, but through the death of Christ on the cross, the broken relationship is regained. Jesus came for the work of atonement. The blood of Christ was shed for redemption, to deliver us from bondage, and to recover our lost heritage. “And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone” (Matthew 4:6). Beware of the manipulations of the devil because he perverts the scripture. The devil is full of deceit. Nothing good ever comes from him. He is your enemy disguising as a friend, so that he can destroy you. He is also the father of lies, because he abhors the truth. The saints must be able to discern when Satan is around them to pervert the truth. Satan wants to influence you and your decisions. He never wants you to act right. It is your duty to rebuke and resist him, then he shall flee. If you’re a smoker, drunkard, adulterer, fornicator, idolater, murderer, liar, etc., you are under the hold of Satan. The blood of Jesus can set you free from his domination over you. “And he shewed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the LORD, and Satan standing at his right hand to resist him. And the LORD said unto Satan, The LORD rebuke thee, O Satan; even the LORD that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee: is not this a brand plucked out of the fire?” (Zechariah 3:1-2). Satan opposes God’s work. We are the good works of God, so Satan is against our physical and spiritual progress. Satan’s objective is to deprive men of God’s goodness in the blood of Jesus, and to send them to hell where there will be no more repentance or forgiveness of sin. “Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us” (1Thessalonians 2:18). The devil tries to hinder the gospel. When you hear the word of God’s kingdom, the devil doesn’t want you to understand, he picks away what has been sown in your heart, just like the one who received the seed by the way side. The devil has blinded the minds of many so that the light of Christ who is God’s image will not shine on them. Satan works lying wonders. The devil or his agents can assume the form of angels of light. The elects of God must not be deceived by fake miracles and teachings of Satan and his agents on earth. “And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number Israel” (1 Chronicles 21:1). Do not allow the devil to tempt you or minister lies into your heart. The devil dropped an evil thought in the heart of David, so he could transgress against the law of God, and God was wrath with the whole Israel. Let’s submit ourselves to God and be armed against the devil, so we can resist him and his temptations. “Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour” (1 Peter 5:8). We must be watchful and put on God’s whole amour to stand against the devil’s wickedness. We must not be ignorant of Satan’s devices, so he doesn’t take advantage of us. We will definitely triumph over Satan because Jesus has conquered him. Satan has been bruised under our feet.