A Christian Minister with the Resurrected Assembly (GROM), Pastor Felix Aluko has advised former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest the 2023 presidential election or forget being president again if he declines. Pastor Aluko has been consistent with his prophesy that Jonathan will return in 2023 as president through the instrumentality of God’s divine mandate. The clergyman who made the prophetic declaration in Abuja said; “The Lord has said that his (Jonathan) chapter in the PDP has been closed and a new chapter of his political journey has been opened, not in the PDP, but in APC. “That he has to align himself with the purpose and will of God for his life to be able to fulfil his presidential mandate. Aluko had, however, said for this to happen, Jonathan must decamp from his present political platform, the PDP and contest election on the ticket of the All Progressive Congress (APC). “God allowed him to move out of the presidential seat for a purpose to be able to train him on the aspect of the things He wanted him to do. Now that God is bringing him back, he will be able to fulfil that purpose. “That Jonathan should not listen to distractors but that he should move out from their crowd and follow God’s counsel. That the finger of God is pointing at him to become the Nigerian President come 2023. And that can only be fulfilled if he decides to follow the will of God and leave the political party where he is now, and move to the APC” Pastor Aluko said. His first prophetic declaration was in September last year, when he said, God revealed to him clearly that Jonathan will return to Aso Rock as the next Nigerian president in 2023. He followed it up by urging the former president not to trade off the divine mandate of becoming the next president in 2023, but to take the bold steps as this will be his last opportunity to rule the country. POLL “Jonathan should not dilly-dally for too long on the issue but take the bull by the horn by immediately moving into the APC where the key to the fulfilment of his presidential ambition lies. “He should not be scared away from his divine mandate by public opinion. God said to me that this is the set time for his return to Aso Rock and he should not let the opportunity slip away from his own hands. “That he is the only qualified presidential candidate among other aspirants. He is the person who will unite a country, which has been seriously polarised along religious and ethnic lines since Buhari took over in 2015. He will be like a compromise candidate who will be accepted generally. “So, this is the only clear opportunity for him to fulfil his presidential ambition as there won’t be no such opportunity in the future, ” Aluko said.