The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday approved the appointment of the sacked Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, better known as MC Oluomo as the Chairman of the Parks Management Committee in the state. In a statement signed by the State Commissioner for Information, Gbenga Omotoso, said the move is “in fulfilment of the Government’s promise to ensure that events in the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) are not allowed to threaten law and order. The governor also approved the appointment of a former Commissioner of Police in the state, AIG Hakeem Odumosu (retd), as the Government Liason Officer. The duo were part of a 25-man committee set up by the state government to oversee the affairs of all motor parks and garages in the state. The appointment came about a month after an initial denial of the state government to the effect that MC Oluomo who is having a running battle with the national executive of the union, has been appointed. The NURTW had suspended Oluomo over alleged insubordination and refusal to obey the directive by the National Executive led by Alhaji Tajudeen Baruwa. Following his suspension, the state government banned the activities of NURTW in all parks and garages in the state and promised to appoint a management committee to coordinate the activities in parks and garages. But last night, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy in a statement said “The Government has, therefore, exercised its constitutional powers to ensure that no vacuum, which can disrupt the peace of our dear state, is allowed to exist in the parks. This is a duty we owe all Lagosians and visitors.” POLL The appointment of MC Oluomo came a few hours after the NURTW Council he chaired was dissolved by the National Executive. The Commissioner said the committee members were selected following consultations with stakeholders in the sector. The statement read in part, “The Lagos State Government has set up a committee to oversee the affairs of all motor parks and garages in the state. “This is in fulfilment of the government’s promise to ensure that events in the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) are not allowed to threaten law and order. “The government has, therefore, exercised its constitutional powers to ensure that no vacuum, which can disrupt the peace of our dear state, is allowed to exist in the parks. “This is a duty we owe all Lagosians and visitors. Members of the committee, who have been selected following consultations with stakeholders in the sector, are Mr Hakeem Odumosu (AIG Rtd) – Government Liaison Officer. Alh Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya – Chairman…. “Members of the committee are to report to the Ministry of Transportation, Alausa Secretariat, Ikeja.”