The presidential ambition of Akwa Ibom state governor, Udom Emmanuel on Wednesday received the support of Omo Oodua for Development Forum (OODF). The Yoruba group, which declared their support for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential aspirant, described Emmanuel as the man the job needs. OODF, in a statement by its National Chairman, Engr. Kasali Omotayo, expressed hope that Governor Udom Emmanuel will transform Nigeria the way he transformed Akwa Ibom state. The group also pledged to mobilise at least five million Yoruba youths for the realisation of Udom Emmanuel Presidential ambition. OODF said it’s confident that if given the opportunity, the incumbent Akwa Ibom governor will tackle the insecurity problems, improve and diversify the economy and create the enabling environment for millions for the country’s teeming youths. The statement reads in part: “In the last couple of weeks we have studied the past and present presidential aspirants. Of about 25 presidential aspirants that we critically look into their past and their capacity to rescue Nigeria, we discovered that only Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel can rescue and rebuild Nigeria. “Udom Emmanuel is a true Nigerian, who will not divide us, but unite us. He is the unifier that we need. “With how he transformed Akwa Ibom State in the last eight years if given the opportunity, Governor Udom Emmanuel will help tackle all the myriad of problems affecting Nigeria’s development. POLL “We know that insecurity is at an alarming rate, the economy is in bad shape, unemployment is becoming the order of the day and education is in shambles, we are confident that the PDP Presidential aspirant, Udom Emmanuel has the required experience to solve all these problems. “Nigeria needs Udom Emmanuel, he is the man the job needs. Nigeria will take its place among the comity of nations. “We urge the PDP not to miss this golden fish. If the party wants to win the 2023 election and rescue Nigerians, then it should give its ticket to Udom Emmanuel. “On our part, as a way of support for him, we shall mobilise at least five million of our members to promote, campaign and also vote for him to become the next Nigeria President.”