Senator Shehu Sani, former lawmaker who represented Kaduna Central senatorial district in the National Assembly is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna state for the2023 general elections. In this interview, he speaks on the latest bandit attacks in the northern part of the country and his plans for tackling the challenges of insecurity if elected. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: In light of all the terrible news we have been hearing in the country, can you speak on the state of insecurity in the country and how it should be handled? First and foremost, my own part of the country, which is the North-western part of Nigeria, the states of Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi, Nigeria and Zamfara of course are today under the siege of bandits. Bandits that have been kidnapping and killing people, extorting ransom and engaging in acts of ransom. So far, thousands of villages have been burnt and thousands of people have so far moved away from their ancestral lands to elsewhere as IDPs. Now, it doesn’t stop there. The bandits or terrorists have become a state within a state. They are now collecting taxes in villages and imposing fines. They even have some kind of local administration. Our people live in fear and apprehension. There is virtually a loss of hope on the part of the people as far as the competence of the government and security agencies to protect them. In my state, as you know very well, bandits have virtually blocked all access to the state. It is not physical blocking but you can’t move to the state either by train or by road without the fear of getting into the hands of bandits. Unfortunately, if you divide the state into two, Northern and Southern Kaduna, in Southern part of Kaduna, they are engaging acts of mass killings, burning down of houses and also exterminating people and driving them away from their ancestral land. In Northern part of Kaduna, they are kidnapping and killing people. At the same time, they are also making life unbearable for thousands of others. It is not just that. Now, they have even moved to the cities . Just yesterday, they went to the city, kidnapped people in the night and took them away. Sometimes, the hostages are taken as far as Zamfara state. Now, people should ask questions. Where are our intelligence agencies? Where are our security agencies? Where is the government in all these kinds of things? My point is very clear. If the government and security agencies cannot protect our people, it is high time the government officially give the people the equivalent of the weapons being used by these terrorists and let’s see who owns this country and this land. We can’t continue to be sitting ducks and be at the mercy of bandits killing people. Unfortunately, these bandits don’t operate in a group of two. They operate in groups of 100, 200, 300 sometimes up to 500. How can a nation that has been spending hundreds of billions of naira and hundreds of billions of dollars on defence and security cannot track down and hunt down these terrorists? This is a government that has made promises of securing this country. For seven years now, people are living in fear. So, I believe that if there is anything we have to do, we have to do it now. If this government will leave any legacy worthy of being remembered for, it is to leave this country safer than it has inherited it. For now, our people are living at the mercy of bandits and something needs to be done immediately. How will you react to the Twitter exchange between you and the Kaduna state government? First of all, I am from Kaduna state. I was born in Kaduna state. It is the only city I know and that is where I live. I represented Kaduna state at the National Assembly. I am well connected to know and to get some information as far as the activities and the violence being perpetrated by these people is concerned. It is not just me, every citizen of Kaduna state now is conscious and awaken to the activities of these bandits and terrorists. So, if I tweeted that bandits have blocked the road and I advised people to take caution, and then the government now responded that they have bombed them, repelled them and they have cleared the road, you have an option as a Nigerian either to take my own tweet or take that of the government and follow the road. The options are before you; either you take what I said or follow the road since the government had said they have repelled them. There is no competition in that. It is about our state, it is about the safety of our people, it is about the situation which we find ourselves. Years ago, when I was in the National Assembly, I consistently stood up on the floor of the Senate and spoke about insecurity and the paralysis of security in Kaduna state. Many of those who are speaking today were criticising me and defaming me as someone who is destroying the image of President Buhari and tarnishing the image of the government. Some said I was trying to paint the northern part of Nigeria in bad light. Of course, in their own thinking, the image of the government is more important than the corpses of our people who are littering our villages and our towns. They have consistently attacked me for standing up and speaking about insecurity in Kaduna state and other northern parts of Nigeria. So, today we can see it around the whole country. Before them and before the whole country, what I have said have come to reality. Even those who are defending the government and the inefficiency and failure of security agencies have come to realisation that they were wrong. So as for me, it is our state. It is about our future and safety. What do you think the national assembly do on these insecurity crises? The national assembly can come up with any motion or resolution but it makes no effect because the bucks on the table of Mr. President. He is the Commander-in-Chief. Mistakes were made in the past. Service Chiefs who have exhausted their tenure, he kept on extending them and over 4.2 trillion was spent in the course of seven years in the name of defence and security. It has to take the late Chief of Army Staff, Attahiru for him to come out and said he has inherited an office and the army and the military does not have any weapon or funding to fight. So, you ask yourself, where is all these billions that we have been spending and investing on security? How can a nation that is spending hundreds of millions of dollars on defence and security for bandits riding on motorcycles with AK-47 become so invisible? What will you do to boost security if elected governor of Kaduna state? POLL My intention to run for governor is to serve my people, to develop my state and to provide a different kind of leadership that will take into cognizance, the honour and dignity of my people. My first intension is to unite the people of northern and southern Kaduna. They have never been as divided as they are today and the ethnic and religious gap keeps widening. Secondly, is to tackle the debt burden of Kaduna State. Kaduna State is now the second most indebted state in Nigeria. My third priority is how to develop the state with a human face because it is not all about demolition. I want to also focus on developing the rural communities and also want to reactivate the moribund industries that provided chunk of employment to the people. But most importantly, I want to focus on security. I am not one of those who believe that governors are helpless in terms of security in their states. They use the federal police to protect themselves, win elections and to pursue political enemies, so why can’t they use the police to protect the people? I agree that the police are the exclusive control of the federal government but what stops the state government from providing vehicles and other operational materials to security agencies? Go to the zonal commands, most of our divisional police offices don’t have functional vehicles. They will give you an emergency number to call and when you call that bandits are raiding your village, they will tell you they don’t have vehicles. If they have the vehicles, they don’t have fuel or the equipment to fight. From Kaduna to Abuja, there are about 37 villages, how have the federal or state governments involved the youths of those villages in protecting that road? How many youths in those villages were employed into the police or civil defence? So, what you see from Kaduna to Abuja is that bandits don’t attack the villages along that road because most times, the villagers cooperate with the bandits as against cooperating with the security forces and the government. I have a masterplan to addressing problem of insecurity in Kaduna state but whatever I will do is not possible achieve without the cooperation, support and synergy of the neighbouring states. Kaduna borders Niger, which is another bandit-infested state. Kaduna borders Zamfara and Katsina states. All these are bandit-infested states. We have to work together but if I can say categorically, first thing I will do is to make sure that the 23 local governments we have in Kaduna state have drone stations. Drones that can provide intelligence information and launch attacks directly on where these bandits are. Secondly, I will organise the locals into defensive force and give them the necessary finance and equipment to take this war to the camp of the bandits. It is very important to do that. Next thing, the vigilante that have organised themselves into volunteers to defend their towns must be given the opportunity to do that. Lastly, I will ensure that security vote in my state goes to the established constitutionally-recognised security agencies in the state and providing them the equipment and necessary support they need to go after these criminals. You recently said when elected, you would clear the ‘mess’ of the present administration. What exactly do you mean by that? I must appreciate the development within the city which has not been the case in the last three to four decades. The roads have been expanded and there are street lights and shopping malls. The question we need to ask ourselves is, at what cost? Who in Kaduna State will tell you that they have knowledge of the money used for these projects? I’m going to change that; I’m going to run an open and transparent government. This administration has been building roads and one bridge all through. In Kano, Jos, Borno, there are bridges, so why should one or two bridges in Kaduna become such a sensation? What is the use of a bridge if people cannot use it in peace? The Kawo bridge is a marvelous structure and commendable, but I believe the lives of the people of the state is more important than that bridge. You cannot cross that bridge outside of Kaduna anytime outside 8pm without getting yourself into the hands of bandits. Again, this government has indiscriminately retrenched civil servants, teachers without remuneration or concern for their lives and livelihoods and their families. You are elected to serve people not a few individuals or create a beautiful city for a few people. Civil servants in Kaduna have been evicted from their homes, their properties auctioned and at this moment, the government has not published the names of the beneficiaries of those auctioned houses. A mess is a mess when a part of a state feels they are not treated as a part of the state. The people of southern Kaduna are as important as the people of northern and central Kaduna. The priority of a leader should be the people of his state, contracts that should be awarded to competent hands from the state, appointments should be given to competent hands from the state. So, you don’t turn Kaduna into other people’s state while the people of the state are marginalised. You moved from the APC to PRP and now the PDP where there are other strong contenders. Are you concerned? I am a believer in myself and If Allah (SWA) says I will be the governor of Kaduna State, nobody can stop me. If He has ordained that I will not be governor, then I can never be. President Buhari contested three times and the fourth time, he became the president of Nigeria. So, it is not a do or die affair but I have to offer myself to lead which I am going to do.