LOKOJA – The Kogi state government has confirmed the outbreak of Lassa fever in nine Local Government Areas of the state with seven deaths from forty-one reported cases between January to date. A statement issued by the permanent secretary, Ministry of Health, Mr. Alonge Daniel which was made available to newsmen in Lokoja on Thursday stated that nine local government areas namely Idah, Ibaji, Lokoja, Ajaokuta, Ofu, Okene, Okehi, Kabba- and Adavi have reported at least one confirmed case during this period. Mr. Alonge noted that the state Ministry of Health has responded appropriately and timely to the epidemic as a result of Governor Yahaya Bello’s intervention by timely release of funds to curb the outbreak. ” The Ministry is collaborating with other line ministries especially Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Agriculture and partners to curtail the outbreak and prevent further spread of the disease ” The Ministry of Health has carried out community sensitization activities in local government areas affected by the outbreak. This is to enable them to adopt a healthy lifestyle, by keeping their environment clean, maintaining a high standard of personal hygiene and prevent rats from having access to their foodstuff both at home and in market places,” He said. He also mentioned that the health workers in primary, secondary and tertiary health institutions have been adequately sensitized to have a high index of suspicion for early diagnosis and treatment. “Disease Surveillance and Notification Officers from the state Ministry of Health and local governments are following up on the situation for early case detection and timely reporting ” The efforts of the state government is yielding positive result as the outbreak is going down based on our data. Currently, there are two active cases in stable condition receiving treatment at Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital while 32 cases have been treated and discharged POLL “We appeal to our citizens to avoid acts that could favour the further spread of the disease in the state while the government will continue to do everything possible to curb the outbreak and prevent further spread,” the statement noted.