Abuja – In the gale of politicking ahead of the 2023 general elections, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has lashed out at critics of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, saying it was appalling that “those who divided Nigeria with their mouths, with evil, unguarded speaking, are the ones now accusing President Buhari. How sad! Their wicked intentions shall not come to pass”. His comments which appeared on his Twitter handle @FemiAdesina on Monday, is not unconnected with recent criticism from Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah, who condemned Buhari’s anti-corruption drive and the state of insecurity in the country. Kukah specifically accused Buhari of dividing Nigerians on the basis of ethnicity, religion, and region. In his Easter message, the Bishop said, “This carefully choreographed agenda” has made Nigerians vulnerable and ignited the most divisive form of identity consciousness of the people. He had stated that the level of destruction under Buhari has never been witnessed in the history of the nation. “The greatest challenge for Nigeria is not even the 2023 elections. It is the prospects for the reconciliation of our people. Here, the Buhari administration sadly has divided our people on the basis of ethnicity, religion, and region, in a way that we have never witnessed in our history. “Years of friendships, cultural exchange, and collaboration built over time have now come under serious pressure from stereotyping. POLL Notwithstanding these challenges, religious leaders must recover and deploy their moral authority and avoid falling victim to the schemes of politicians and their material enticements.” He chided the president for what he said showing far greater commitment to integrating so-called repentant terrorists than getting our children back from kidnappers or keeping our universities open. “It speaks volumes when the president and his military hierarchy choose to believe these young men who took up arms and for years waged war against their country, killed, maimed and wasted thousands of lives, destroyed entire communities and now, they are being housed, fed, clothed with public funds. “All this while their victims have been forced to make the various IDP camps their new homes! Where is the justice for the victims and the rest of the country they have destroyed?” Kukah asked. Buhari had also come under criticisms for granting state pardon to some former governors charged and sentenced for corruption while in public office. Even though it was the Council of State meeting comprising former Heads of States and Presidents that ratified the decision, cross sections of Nigerians have insisted that it would dampen the morale of the anti-graft agencies, particularly the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC).