…As Zwingina, Hafsat Abiola, Fani-Kayode Lead His Presidential Campaign Organization ABUJA – The governor of Kogi state, Yahaya Bello on Saturday formally declared to run for the President of Nigeria in midst of a mammoth crowd in Abuja. While declaring his intention to run, Governor Bello reiterated that he had demonstrated the capacity to lead Nigeria in his present assignment as the Governor of Kogi State, noting that, for him, all that mattered was Nigeria and the wellbeing of its citizens. He traced his persecution in some sections of the media to his refusal to have godfathers. He said: “I do not deny that false and evil reports against us have often filled the press but all of us know why. He who pays the piper dictates the tune, and those who control the media control their narratives. It is well known that we offended powerful vested interests on our way to power in Kogi State. “Moreover, since we took office, we have committed the unpardonable political sin in Nigeria, that is, refusal to have godfathers and kowtow to them. Their anger has burned furiously against us and sadly they have often misled the media about us. As a result, we have had to work extra hard to receive fair comment, not to talk of accolades or credit for our many achievements.” The daughter of the presumed winner of the June 1993 presidential election, late Moshood Abiola, Hafsat Abiola-Costello and the Director General of the M.K.O. Abiola Campaign Organisation and former Senate Deputy Leader, Jonathan Zwingina, have been named to lead the presidential campaign of Governor Bello. POLL While Hafsat Abiola-Costello is to lead the Bello presidential campaign organisation, Zwingina has been named the national coordinator of the Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation and a former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, as deputy national coordinator. However, the venue of the event, Eagle Square saw the presence of thousand of Nigeria, who came to the venue to witness the official declaration of Yahaya Bello. The venue of the declaration was filled to the brim while an almost equal crowd was seen outside the venue, with many support groups clad in different distinct attires, chanting solidarity songs. Speaking at the event, Zwingina, who said he found in Yahaya Bello, a Nigerian who was determined to fix the nation, added that, “we have a man in our hands who has all it takes to make Nigeria a great nation. “That man is Yahaya Bello. In 1993, we hoped for a great nation. But that Hope was truncated. Today, we have another hope. That Hope will give us prosperity as a nation.” In her remarks, Hafsat Abiola told the crowd that witnessed the event that the time for the renaissance was now. She said: “To the youth and women of Nigeria, congratulations. This is your product, own it.” Noting that Nigerians were poor while Nigeria was not poor, Hafsat Abiola charged the people to elect a leader, who could tap into the potential of the nation to impact on the people. She said: “The journey to a new Nigeria has started and we will go all the way to ensure Yahaya Bello becomes the President of Nigeria. We have seen in him, a cosmopolitan leader who will bring Nigeria together and heal the wounds of the past.” Also speaking, the Deputy Governor of the State, Chief David Onoja, said the Kogi State Governor had protected the political interest of the Kogi women without any special legislation. He assured the Nigerian women of the readiness of Yahaya Bello to ensure women’s inclusion.