LAGOS – As part of efforts to foster good community security and policing, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Adeniyi Adekunle, on Sun­day, visited and enlightened members of three communi­ties under his division. The communities in at­tendance during the visits by CSP Adekunle and his team from the Kemta Police Station are Oya Tuntun, Oya Itesiwaju and Oya Adesina communities all under the Abeokuta South Local Gov­ernment Area of Ogun State. At the meeting, the Chairman of Oya Tuntun Community Development Association (CDA), Mr. Se­miu Owoseni welcomed the DPO to the communities and sought further cooperation with the men of the Nigeria Police. CSP Adekunle enlight­ened the communities on the importance of living together in harmony and urged them to take cognizance of events and happenings in the com­munities to foster and en­hance community policing and security as entrenched in the Ogun State Communi­ty Development Laws of 2013. He emphasized that the essence of his meeting and visits to the communities was to ensure effective communi­ty policing and relationships, ensure peace reigns in the district and check the activ­ities of people with criminal tendencies in the areas. CSP Adekunle said com­munity policing may call for routine patrols; day and night and appealed to the residents to cooperate with their re­spective CDA chairmen and the Police, saying security and safety are the responsi­bility of all. Speaking on community security, the DPO explained under Section 32 of the Ogun State Community Develop­ment Laws of 2013 communi­ties must engage the services of day and night guards and that such must be brought to the attention of the Police and in line with established laws. The DPO, who frowned at the lackadaisical attitude of many Nigerians to issues bordering on safety and secu­rity matters, charged all resi­dents of the communities to demonstrate some measures of commitment by paying monthly dues for security, saying that it is dangerous to owe night guards for services rendered. POLL He cautioned, “The Police will not recommend an indi­vidual to you to engage as a nightguard. Be sure of the persons you will employ for the sensitive duty. The CDA should contact the So-Safe corps, VGN and other recog­nized bodies to assist in the recruitment of night guards.