ABUJA – The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has begun the cultivation of 200 hectares of maize farm in Plateau State during this wet season, as the Authority is targeting the production of 1,000metric tonnes of maize in the State. Prince Paul Ikonne, Executive Secretary of NALDA, stated this while flagging off the “Aggressive Food Production” project in eight communities in Shendam Local Government Area of Plateau State. Ikonne explained that the initiative is part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts to ensure that no matter the level of the food crisis that may arise from the effect of the Russia/Ukraine war, Nigeria would have enough food for her citizens. According to him, NALDA is encouraging farmers with the support of the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) to aggressively produce food by meeting them at their points of need in their localities. “You can see the excitement on them, this being the first time they are having Federal presence of any kind, this shows how committed Mr President is in reaching the unreached using agriculture. “It also shows how committed Mr President is in achieving food security and engaging our youths” “What NALDA is doing at this time is to encourage farmers and individuals to aggressively go into farming in order to achieve food security, considering the situation the world would be going through as a result of the Russian/Ukrainian war. “So these steps we are taking is to ensure that Nigeria will not experience any form of food shortage or go cap-in-hand looking for food” POLL Ikonne noted that after the wet season harvest, there are plans for NALDA to cultivate wheat in the State. While addressing the beneficiaries from the eight communities, the NALDA boss said the gesture is to ensure the communities enjoy less stressful ways of farming, and engage the youths of the community productively, thereby reducing crime in the community and the society at large. He assured them of NALDA’s continuous support all through the farming process through the provision of extension services to ensure maximum yields. Ikonne further assured the beneficiaries of market availability as NALDA would be off-taking from them during harvest. The Projects being executed in the State include the cultivation of 200 hectares of maize farm for the 2022 wet season, installation of five solar-powered boreholes for dry season irrigation farming and water supply to the communities and distribution of inputs. NALDA has already taken delivery of inputs such as seeds, herbicides, pesticides and fertilisers to about 600 beneficiary farmers through the traditional ruler and youth leaders. Before the distribution of the inputs, land preparation activities had been carried out by the Authority. The total land donated by the communities for the projects are 618 hectares, but for the first phase, 200 hectares would be cultivated with a targeted yield of 1000 metric tonnes. In addition to the input distribution,  goat pens and a veterinary clinic is being built by NALDA  at a central location for the communities. The clinic and pens which are nearing completion would serve the veterinary needs of herders and goat breeders in all the eight communities. Also speaking, the traditional ruler of the communities, Kanankur Sule Longvel, while receiving the inputs on behalf of the communities commended NALDA for being the first to bring such intervention to them. While assuring the Executive Secretary that the inputs would be fully utilised, the traditional ruler appealed for the construction of access roads to their farms as well as the provision of tractors to enable them to engage in mechanised agriculture. A beneficiary, Helen Kafas, said women of the communities were excited about the Federal Government’s gesture. She said agriculture in these modern days require the use of farm input like fertiliser for a bumper harvest. “These days, if one does not apply fertiliser on the farm, there is not much yield, the herbicides would help us tackle weeds on our farms and the fertiliser and the seeds would go a long way to boost our yields” Another Beneficiary, Comfort Ezra, said the initiative would boost their yields, put food on their tables and also help cater for their children.