Mr. Segun Agbaje, Group Chief Executive Officer, Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on how the 2021 results showed resilient performance across all financial indices, reaffirming the Bank’s position as one of the best managed financial institutions in Africa. Excerpts: Please, tell us the potentials of GTCO for being proactive in becoming a holding company and the outlook of the company This year is a pivotal year in our corporate history. After years of revisioning and planning, we successfully reorganised into a holding company to harness the potential within our operating environment and consolidate our position as a leading financial services provider in Africa. The company, to be precise, started this year with its corporate reorganisation and finished the year more robust and dynamic to consolidate its lead across the ever-extending breadth of financial services. I am excited by the potential of our new holding company structure; I see the immense opportunities opened by our strategic investments in building up diverse lines of business. This is because the future of financial services belongs to the institutions that will seamlessly integrate the full range of cutting-edge solutions in a people-centric digitally enabled ecosystem. Our transition was made possible, following the shareholders’ approval of our transition to a holding company structure in December 2020, we worked with regulators, the broad spectrum of our stakeholders and some of the most experienced advisory institutions in the world. And to ensure that we have, not only a smooth transition but also the best people and the right structures to drive our vision of becoming Africa’s leading financial services groups. We are happy about our company’s progress in its drive to diversify its income streams and ensure long-term value creation for all stakeholders and we are conscious of our business environment. POLL We have complete confidence in the ability of our team to unlock new and exciting opportunities that will unleash the potential of our diversification for long-term growth and sustainable returns. The results performance of 2021 results showed resilient performance across all financial indices, reaffirming the Bank’s position as one of the best managed financial institutions in Africa. We are excited that the Group closed the year 2021 with total assets of N5.436 trillion, up by 9.9 per cent from N4.945 trillion full year 2020 position. Across all its banking subsidiaries in West Africa, East Africa and the United Kingdom, the Group continues to maintain a diversified balance sheet. The Group closed 2021 with a profit before tax of N221.5 billion; this is in spite of the challenges and head winds presented by the operating and regulatory environments in 2021 When we look at the future-proofing of every part of our organisation; from our talent base to our business models and digital capabilities, I am reminded of just how forward-thinking our management team continues to be in our company’s constant push to be ahead of the curve in creating innovative financial solutions, delivering service excellence and ensuring long-term value creation. Are you saying GTCO will be delivering service excellence and ensuring transparency in long-term value creation? Yes. We plan to update our banking software this year to a friendlier and more adaptable platform; while we will also be publishing our financials quarterly. We are going to create transparency in the Financial Technology (FinTech) industry that doesn’t exist. It was recently gathered that Guaranty Trust Bank intends to return on loans growth path in 2022 financial year after a significant slowdown it registered in 2021. What can you say is the motivation behind the move? We intend expanding our loan book by about N180 billion or 10 percent growth rate in the current financial year. It is expedient to disclose in this parley that the bank’s loans and advances to customers closed at N1.8 trillion last year, compared to the N1.66 trillion in 2020, about 8.0 percent growth which was slower than the 10.7 percent growth it recorded in the COVID-19 dominated period of 2020. Why were more loans not disbursed last year? We were constrained from giving more loans last year by two main reasons, macro-economic headwinds and regulatory restrictions. In fact, we could have increased the bank’s income from more loans to compensate for the general decline in interest margins in the industry during the period if not for these challenges. Be that as it may, we expect that the environment would improve in the current year while re-organisations in the bank would enable us turnout response strategies against whatever headwinds may bring against the industry during the year. We couldn’t grow the loan book more. If you grow the loan book, gentlemen we all live in this country and things are tough. Businesses are going through tough times. Individuals are going through tough times. If you grow your loan book aggressively, you are going to pick up non-performing loans in the future. It is a time to be careful about loan growth. If not you will cough up the money into the future. Therefore, we maintained our conservative stands. Of course we know we can make more interest income. We just book the loans, make interest income, but we may have to cough it up next year. So, yes we can grow the interest income, but we need to be careful as the macro environment is improving we will ramp up the loan book. The bank’s loans impairment charges literarily crashed in the 2021 financial year by 56 percent to N8.5 billion from N19.6 billion in 2020. What about the regulatory restrictions you also attributed to the slowdown in loan disbursement last year? As to that, over 60 percent of the bank’s cash were tied down in Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) during the 2021 financial year. It was a situation which denied us the huge resources for trading and further income. CRR is not unusual. Right now, Ghana just went to 12 per cent. It is the quantum limit. I think our quantum is too high and we should bring it down. The thing about CRR, if you release it to us we don’t even have to put it in Treasury Bills. We can actually put in loans to customers, to grow the economy. We also earn income rather than the zero earnings in CRR; we can put it in retail loans even if we lend at 10 per cent, which means our profitability will go up. My belief is that ultimately at some point we are going to have to reduce the level of CRR. CRR is a monetary policy tool that is available to Central Bank (CBN) and you are allowed to use it to control the liquidity in the system. The only thing you will find that the banks might complain about or reason about is the level of the CRR. Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc), is set to continue its long-running showpiece event– The Food and Drink Festival. Can you throw insight to the event, even if it has been running for the 5th edition? Yes, it has been running, and this happens to be its 5th edition. This headlining event will hold from Saturday, April 30th, to Monday, May 2nd 2022, at the GTCentre, Plot 1 Water Corporation Drive, Oniru, Lagos. As to the essence of the event, the GTCO Food and drink festival brings together the biggest chefs and food lovers from across the world in a celebration of all things delicious with family and friends. Over the years, the Food and Drink festival has hosted millions of people and featured enlightening and engaging masterclasses by world-renowned chefs and food business experts. This year, the free to attend three-day festival will feature cooking masterclasses of cuisines chosen from all around the world and over 140 free retail stalls showcasing everything from the best of Nigeria’s street food to bite-sized gourmet treats and fresh farm produce from the farmers’ market. The well-fitted play area is designed to add another layer of excitement for children and keep them meaningfully engaged. Does Africa’s history and rich cultural heritage reflect in the cuisines meant for display at the festival? Off course, they reflect. The primary objective of the GTCO Food and Drink Festival is to showcase our diversity and industry as a people whilst delivering a sumptuous culinary experience to food enthusiasts across the continent. As our contribution to the development of local SMEs, we want to see our retail customers who also own small businesses thrive by giving them more opportunities to connect with consumers from around the world. What is the essence of the Food Festival? At GTCO Plc, we are committed to offering our customers and communities great experiences with every interaction and will continue to promote viable enterprises particularly in the food and fashion industries, given the massive capabilities and countless multiplier effects inherent in these critical industry segments. In fact, the Food Festival is one aspect of the bank’s “Proudly African” franchise concept and our bank renowned for its innovative approach to customer service and stakeholder engagement which has endeared it to millions of people across Africa and beyond. Over the years, many customers have benefited from our bank’s unique loan products including the Food Industry Credit and Fashion Industry Credit designed specifically for businesses in the food and fashion industry. The 2022 GTCO Food and Drink Festival promises to be an experience of a lifetime. If you have been keen to try all the local street food and would like to go on exhilarating culture-filled culinary adventures, this is your chance!