…I Will Not Work For You, Ayu Tells Atiku ABUJA – Ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primary scheduled for April 28, 2022, the former Vice President and presidential aspirant of the party, Atiku Abubakar on Thursday begged the party leader to give him the right of first refusal. Atiku, who said he cannot be a President like Muhammadu Buhari, who can’t reconcile two warring agencies, added that with 11 million votes already in his kitty, he’s the best aspirant for the party. Atiku, who stated this when he paid a consultative visit to members of the National Working Committee, lamented that the nation is heavily indebted, has no foreign reserves and the economy was in shambles. He said: “When I declared to run for the President of this country, I said I was going to emphasize on five key issues and these five key issues are germane. I said I was going to make sure that I reunite this country. And that was why I referred myself as the unifier. “Secondly, I said I was going to deal decisively with security issues because there has to be rule of law, there has to be security. “Before anything else Mr. Chairman and members of the National Working Committee, about two months ago, I was on a visit to Niger State and I decided to pay a courtesy call to the governor. The governor told me, sir, we have about twelve local governments, which are under the control of bandits. “We don’t know how to conduct elections in those local governments. And I went to the President, I said, Mr. President, we need more policemen and the President said how can I give you more policemen when the Inspector General of Police and the Police Service Commission are in court on who will recruit policemen. I cannot be that kind of President. And that is where we are today. POLL “We cannot recruit policemen because the two agencies are in court and we have a President, who cannot bring under control his own heads of departments, not even ministers. “So I’m not going to be that kind of President and you know that Mr. Chairman because you and I have worked in the same cabinet.” Also listing out what he promised to do, Atiku said, “members of the National Working Committee, you also know I also promise to deal with the economy. So of course, after you have achieved unity, after you have achieved peace, the next is to deal with the economy. “And you known Mr. chairman and many of your colleagues here on the National Working Committee know that when we came into office in 1999, we virtually met a similar situation like we have today. Nigeria was indebted. We have no foreign reserves, economy was in shambles. Mr. Chairman, and very many of you here who are in doubt may know that by the time we left, we left Nigeria in the most healthiest economic position. We have done it before, Mr. Chairman, we can do it again.” Atiku reiterated that he is going to deal with the issue of devolving more powers and resources to the states because “I believe that is the best way to get Nigeria developed to its fullest capacity by giving autonomy and resources to the various components. There are some of us who grew up in the First Republic when we had regions that were virtually in charge of everything in their respective regions, ranging from security to economy to everything, and we saw how we fed and we believe this is the best way to make sure that this country is developed to it’s fullest potentials. “And I dare say Mr. chairman, I am the best candidate. Under normal circumstances Mr. Chairman, this is a guy who has already 11 million votes in his kitty. And I think, as a party, you should give me the right of first refusal but we are in a democracy. All What I can urge you is to make sure that the way you have started, you also conclude the way you have started by being very fair, very credible, giving every contestant the opportunity to face the electorate.” Taking a swipe at the All Progressives Congress (APC), Atiku said that every Nigeria knows that the APC has failed, “but we should not take Nigerians for granted. We should go all out to let them know APC has failed, It will continue to fail. No matter what gap they have come or they appear to be, they will continue to fail and PDP has not failed on your comparative analysis. If you compare the achievements of PDP and the failure of APC, you know that you have no any other choice than PDP.” Responding, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, tells Atiku he will not work for him as an aspirant. “I’m saying this to make it clear that those who say oh, because of my personal relationship with you, as chairman, I’ll work for you. Mr. Vice President, I will not work for you as an aspirant. I will work for all the 17 aspirants. “It is left to you to convince the delegates of our party that you are the best. You have to market yourself, you have to work hard. This National Working Committee for now remains an umpire. We are not going to take side with any particular aspirants. But we love you all. I’ve said repeatedly that each one of you given the opportunity will run this country better than what APC has done or will be able to do. “So in that light, our delegates drawn across the 36 states plus Abuja were ultimately gather hopefully in Abuja and select one of you and the day a candidate emerges we will all rally around that candidate and make sure we win the presidential election next year. “If you happen to be the choice of our delegates, all of us sitting here, the National Working Committee, will work very hard to ensure that you win the 2023 elections and when you win, it will not be taking away again as it was done in 2019.” Explaining how the party picks its candidate, Ayu said, “let me take time to explain to Nigerians that the party has its own internal mechanisms of selecting a candidate whether by consensus, or by election we do it transparently. “Those who love our party more than us should please tarry a little, they should not select candidates for the Peoples Democratic Party. They don’t have our mandate and we will not concede that mandate to anybody, young or an elder, who chooses by himself to choose candidate for us. “Our internal processes will go ahead and we are going ahead with it. At the end of the day, we’ll come up with a candidate choosen by the members of the Peoples Democratic Party themselves. It is that candidate that will present to the rest of Nigeria for the forthcoming elections.” The former President of the Senate, however, cautioned the aspirants against attacking each other, adding, “I want all 17 of you to continue to canvass for votes across the breadth of this country. I also want to plead with you not to attack each other. You must remain as members of one family you must continue to hold meetings and visit each other and call each other on the phone.”