The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has begun the rehabilitation of 33 traffic light intersections out of 172 in the city to provide sanity and reduce traffic bottlenecks in the nation’s capital. Mr Adesola Olusade, the Permanent Secretary who inspected the project over the weekend, said the first junctions were chosen based on the priority of usage. He explained that the goal of the program was to make driving easier while also addressing the ongoing problem of gridlock in the Federal Capital City. The permanent secretary explained that the current upgrade which came with security features will connect all the traffic signals to a central point where activities at the intersections will be monitored to bring about sanity on the roads. According to him, the rehabilitation work was part of the approved FCT 2021 budget, with additional ones awaiting the approval of the Bureau of Public Enterprise. Olusade hinted that the administration had another China intervention support that would commence installation by June/July which will strengthen the traffic lights system. This, according to him, will ultimately translate to tangible improvement in the installation, rehabilitation and maintenance of the lights across the territory. POLL He said: “For some time now, there have been issues with traffic signals in the Federal Capital City but with the award of this contract all the challenges associated with the traffic lights will be addressed” Olusade started the inspection of the traffic lights project at Zakari Maimalara by Muhammadu Buhari way in the Central Business District and ended at Kashim Ibrahim way/Anguiyi Ironsi street in Maitama District. Speaking on its sustainability, the Mandate Secretary FCT Transportation Secretariat, Zakari Dobi said adequate measures will be put in place by the secretariat to safeguard the millions of Naira worth traffic lights infrastructure scheme. He added, “The project is going to be for one year, but with the 2022 budget it can be extended to 3 years considering its importance”. However, the contractor Engr Adewale Ikatun explained that the project which is the rehabilitation and reactivation of some intersections started in the last two weeks, and will last for three months in the first phase.