Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has approved immediate release of 40,000 metric tons of assorted grains from the strategic grains reserve to assist less-privileged Nigerians to celebrate the forthcoming Easter and Sallah festivities. The decision, according to Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammed Mahmood, who made the announcement when he briefed State House correspondents after a closed-door meeting with Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Tuesday, may not be unconnected with the war between Ukraine and Russia, which has indirectly impacted on the importation of essential grains from those countries. Other remote factors that may have also accounted for the presidential directive is economic hardship being faced by Nigerians, especially as Muslims observe their Ramadan fast this season. Mahmood, who said he was summoned by the president and directed to disburse the commodities to the affected people, expressed his optimism that the exercise would also cushion the effects of high prices of grains in the market. According to him, 12,000 out of the 40,000 approved tons will be allocated to the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development by the ministry for distribution to internally-displaced persons across the country. “I’m here this afternoon as a result of a summoning by Mr. President. “He directed and approved the release of grains from our strategic grains reserve by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development,” Mahmood was quoted as saying. “This is to cushion the effect of some of the issues we are facing with high prices of commodities across the country. “It is to make the grains affordable for people to celebrate the festivities — Ramadan, Easter and Sallah. POLL “We’ll also be giving some of the grains to the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, to also do the distribution. “The grains are coming from our strategic grains reserve as directed by Mr. President,” he said. On the kind of grains, he said sorghum, maize, millet and an assortment of grains are in the grain reserves. He clarified that the grain reserves are located across the entire country in all the six geopolitical zones. The minister debunked insinuations that insecurity has adversely affected food production in the country. He insisted that a number of measures to boost crop production has been adopted by the government which trickles down to the grassroots. “Certainly, some measure of insecurity might affect a bit of agriculture, however, as you can see, there’s really no sharp drop in productivity in agricultural production. There’s still food, and people are still cultivating in all parts of the country. “Some of the areas where it has some security implication, yes, it may have a little drop, but the government is doing everything humanly possible to make sure that production continues in other parts and even areas where there are issues, the government is doing whatever it takes. “Like in the Ministry of Agriculture, we have Agro Rangers who sometimes provide some kind of security cover that will make sure food production does not stop. I can assure you that we don’t have problems with food production at this point. “You talked about the government not giving adequate attention to agriculture in the South. No, that’s not true. That’s far away from the truth. In the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, we have programmes, all kinds of programmes all across the country: North, South and Central. So, this is not true. “Yes, indeed, the Russian/ Ukraine conflict is an issue of concern. As a result of that Mr. President has directed that we sit and discuss and not just the Ministry of Agriculture, but NALDA, NCFI, all of those that are concerned, the central bank. We have met about two to three times to discuss the issue of Ukraine. Yes, indeed, Nigeria imports grains and other agricultural input from Ukraine, we are making sure that we look inwards and outwards to make sure this conflict does not affect our agricultural sector.” The minister revealed that the same process used during the COVID-19 lockdown in 2020, to distribute 70,000 metric tons of assorted food items across some states and the Federal Capital Territory would be used in distributing the grains. “If you remember very well, during the COVID pandemic, Mr. President also directed and approved the release of grains.