itel Nigeria and Amatem Softgel on Monday joined the rest of the world to commemorate global efforts to bring an end to malaria, especially among African children and pregnant women. More than 3.3 billion people in 106 counties across the world are at risk of malaria, and according to the World Malaria Report 2020, Nigeria alone accounts for 27% of the malaria burden and 23% of malaria deaths worldwide, and children under the age of 5 remain the most vulnerable individuals to the disease. Recognised for its outstanding services to Nigerians through its Love Always On CSR Initiative, itel has shown its continuous interest in impacting lives in the low-income communities surrounding it over the years.So, it is no surprise that the mobile phone, home appliances, accessories, and laptops manufacturer partnered with Amatem Softgel, a leading anti-malaria drug. This they did to fulfil this year’s World Malaria theme of “Harnessing innovation to reduce the malaria disease burden and save lives”. The two firms collaborated to donate, among other relief materials, anti-malarial mosquito nets, free medical tests, and mosquito repellent creams to more than 1,500 families in the Agboyi Ketu area of Lagos State.Known for its relentless support towards children’s education and growth, itel also extended its love to the children in the community by donating educational materials such as notebooks, mathematical sets, stationery, and other materials to aid their love for learning. To also mark World Malaria Day 2022, the Amatem Softgel team were at Randle General Hospital, Surulere, Alimosho General Hospital, Alimosho, and Ifako General Hospital, Ogba, Lagos to conduct free malaria RDT tests with malaria positive patients receiving Amatem Softgel antimalarial drugs. Malaria enlightenment talks with tips on how to prevent the disease by Elbe Pharma’s Brand Manager, Augustine Aisabokhale and the heads of the Nursing and Pharmacist Departments of both hospitals were some of the key highlights of the health outreach. Over 600 patients in the hospitals were reached with the hospitals expressing their gratitude to the brand for their efforts in reducing the malaria burden. POLL Speaking at the Aboyi-Ketu CSR event, the marketing manager of itel for West Africa, Oke Umurhohwo said “Giving back to our communities is a project of love that we do with utter passion, and malaria is a disease that affects millions of people in Nigeria. Therefore, we and Amatem Softgel have chosen to help reduce the burden of malaria in the Agboyi Ketu Community. Together, we can “Harness innovation to reduce the malaria disease burden and save lives.” ‘Malaria is a life-threatening disease, but it is preventable and curable. We at Elbe Pharma continue to find a better way to combat this disease and support the vulnerable ones, especially young children and pregnant women. Hence, the introduction of this novel advanced soft gelatin antimalarial brand AMATEM SOFTGEL and this CSR partnership.’, said Augustine Aisabokhale, Brand Manager at Elbe Pharma. This innovative initiative by both brands serves as a wake-up call and a reminder for communities and brands to come together to support the vulnerable ones and end malaria in their environs.