Lagos lawyer and human rights activist, Femi Falana (SAN), has accused President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration of paying lip service to the fight against corruption and insecurity. With the spate of insecurity in the country, the senior lawyer expressed concern that the 2023 general elections may plunge the country into a serious constitutional crisis. Speaking at the sideline of the 10th coronation anniversary of the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Ajibade Alabi, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria described as worrisome, the situation where government now fights insecurity with press statements. He alleged that the Buhari administration deceived Nigerians with his anti- corruption mantra to grab power, stressing that recent happenings had exposed what he termed “the deceit of the government”. Though Falana expressed reservations on the recent call by Aare Afe Babalola for a sixmonth interim government, he, however, urged government to address the fundamental challenges facing the country, which also led to the call by the elder statesman. “While you may disagree with call for an interim government, you must at the same time address what has led to the call, which is the state of insecurity in the country. Apart from issuing press statements, the government does not bother about insecurity in the country, they issue statements from time to time and President Buhari will assure Nigerians of the safety and security of their lives and property but after that, we are waiting for the next attack”, Falana said. Faulting the state pardon extended to former governors of Plateau State, Joshua Dariye and Taraba State, Jolly Nyame, who were jailed for stealing their various state funds, he noted that the action of the government has further legitimised corruption and mismanagement of public funds in the country. POLL “Those accused and established to have stolen public funds running into billions of naira have been discharged and acquitted by the court through the deliberate frustration of their cases by the Office of the Attorney General, Abubakar Malami (SAN)”, Falana said, saying the most touted fight against corruption has collapsed like a pack of cards. According to him, “As far as the government is concerned, the pardon is just an extension of the policy of abandonment of the anti-corruption crusade. The government used the anti-corruption crusade to deceive Nigerians and as soon as the government got established, little by little, the whole anti-corruption collapsed. “There are convicts in the nation’s correctional centres who are much older than the two former governors. By the way, the government has been giving different reasons for the pardon. We were told they are being released on compassionate ground, on heath ground and age ground but what is important is that the Buhari’s administration has abandoned the anti-corruption crusade. “The pardon extended to the two former governors is an infinitesimal aspect of the abandonment of the anti-corruption crusade. There are those who have stolen billions of naira whose cases have been dropped or withdrawn from the courts by the Attorney General of the Federation (Abubakar Malami) who simply filed prosequi motions. There are others who were discharged and acquitted by courts on technical ground, not that huge money was not stolen by them but the cases were compromised by the regime, while the suspects have been asked to go and enjoy their loot. Falana said, “Since many parts of the country have been taken over by terrorists it is difficult to talk of having credible elections next year. There are some states and several local government areas that have been completely overrun by the terrorists. “There is no way you can hold elections in such states and local government areas. We are working towards a crisis which is going to lead to inconclusive elections if registered voters cannot exercise their franchise due to insecurity and negligence of the government. Whoever is declared winner will have problems because those who lose elections will insist that you must go and conduct elections in the areas where they are popular but which must have been taken over by the terrorists.” He condemned the fixing of prices of nomination forms by political parties in the country, describing it as illegal, adding that outrageous nomination fees are not part of the criteria stipulated by the constitution for those seeking for elective positions.