CHUKWUJEKWU ILOZUE As the Holy book the Bible said, nothing is really new under the sun. When Governor Peter Obi assumed office in 2006, Onitsha, Anambra business capital was dead and buried under filths. Hooliganism and brigandage were the order of the day. The state was on its knees at the mercy of miscreants masquerading under Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) and Transport unions. Revenue windows were shared among these, supervised by big politicians who relied on security personnel to make returns. Obi’s predecessor, Senator Chris Ngige was overwhelmed. He just survived kidnap/assassination attempt in office and adopted private security outfit to safe-guard his life. But Obi was not in that mood. So, invariably, Obi faced three critical challenges, namely: cleaning up Onitsha, retrieving Anambra from hoodlums and reclaiming the revenue windows for the state. The battle was fierce but Obi was undaunted. It was such that at a point Obi was accused of ordering ‘shoot at sight’ of members of MASSOB. To clean up Onitsha, Obi evacuated over 240 tons of refuse from different parts of the town and cleaned up Sakamori, a major drainage that took Onitsha waste to the river. Then he faced the security mess. Akpaka forest reserve, near Onitsha was a camp for the miscreants. They were smoked out. He then restored the revenue sources and at that time, it was said that if you leave your purse at Upper Iweka, you would recover it the next day. His successor inherited the peace left behind, launched a security fund and secured the state. It is not surprising, therefore, that 16 years after, Soludo is facing similar challenges. In both cases their predecessors were preoccupied by some other things. On Soludo’s assumption of office, Onitsha was as it was many years ago, dead and buried under rubbish. And Soludo being a decent man, it was not surprising that even before he was sworn in, he pledged to clean up Okpoko, a major slum on the outskirts of Onitsha as well as Onitsha environment that stretched to as far as Idemili North and South. In fact, for three days last week the said local councils were on lockdown for purposes of sanitation. POLL The programme to clean Onitsha did not come to him as a surprise. In his inaugural address, Soludo had said: “Within the next one week, the list of commissioners will be laid before the House of Assembly. Tomorrow, we will head to Okpoko in Ogbaru Local Government Area and parts of Onitsha and Idemili as we signpost our commitment to fundamental urban regeneration, beginning with the greater Onitsha metropolis”. True to his words, Soludo swung into action, specifically on April 2, 2022 and embarked on the clean up. He had a day after taking the oath of office embarked on his first official visit to assess the level of environmental degradation within the area. Thereafter he deployed bulldozers under the supervision of the Deputy Governor, Dr Onyekachukwu Ibezim to begin the massive clean up of the urban slum. He spoke to the people on the need to keep the environment clean and to also stop dumping refuse inside the drainage, educating the people that a healthy clean environment can impact positively on their health. He also reassured the people of his determination of not only cleaning the area but to also to make it habitable for them. As he battled Okpoko, Onitsha and surrounding local councils, security challenge was an issue on the front burner. Soludo had expected some understanding from the people when he ordered civil servants to report to work and an end to every Monday sit-at-home. A man in a hurry, he followed the order up by summoning a Stakeholders meeting on security. A joint meeting of South East Council of Traditional Rulers and Bishops/ Archbishops and Igbo Intelligentsia on the State of Insecurity in the Igbo Homesteads including top government officials, jointly declared Monday April 4 as a day of Peace for Alaigbo. In a communique the group also declared that day as a day of supplication to be held in Churches and prayer Houses after which the harmful Monday Sit-At-Home will come to an end. It also said the Anambra State Government will set up a Peace and Reconciliation Commission and called on all the injured, aggrieved and victims of the insecurity in Alaigbo over the past three years to step forward and cooperate with the commission to prove their grievances there. The Anambra State Government would also conduct an inquiry into the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, document and examine the circumstances surrounding the killings in the south east, and recommend on the road to sustainable solutions. It called “on all criminal elements masquerading as working under the instruction of IPOB or ESN to cease and desist from further acts of violence and criminality or face the implacable force of law and order”. In that vein, according to the leaders, all who may have taken up arms in the belief that their grievances could be achieved only through armed struggle should lay down their arms as government and good people of Anambra hereby offered the olive branch for the all to return. The government pledged to undertake to train, rehabilitate and empower all such people to contribute to the homeland development, among other things. The communique detailing the outcome of the meeting was signed His Majesty Obi Nnaemeka Achebe, Chairman, Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council, His Grace, Most Rev. Valerian Okeke Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Onitsha, and Metropolitan of Onitsha Ecclesiastical Province Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu Secretary to the State Government. Other signatories were: H.M. Igwe Laurence Agubuzu, Chairman, Ebonyi State Traditional Rulers Council , His Grace, Most Rev. (Dr) Chibuzo R. Opoko, JP Secretary, Representatives of Archbishops. Not minding that insecurity flared up in the state as if to discredit Soludo’s efforts as not bearing fruits, he went ahead two days later to set up a 15 member Truth, Justice and Peace committee headed by erudite scholar, Professor Chidi Odinkalu with Ambassador Bianca Ojukwu as Secretary. Other members of the committee included: Ohaneze chieftain Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, Dr. Udenta Udenta, Dr. Uju Agomoh, Rev. Fr (Msgnr) Jerome Madueke, Canon Dr. Okechukwu C. Obi-Okoye, Mr. Charles Oputa (Charly Boy), Dr. John Otu, Mr. Ngozi Odumuko, Ms Onyeka Onwenu, Dr. Joe Abah, Mr. Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu, Mr. Sam Egwuatu, and Prof. Joseph Ikechebelu. The aim of the Committee according to the government is to reconcile aggrieved people and douse the tension that has gripped Anambra State and the Southeast. The Committee is also to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts; the healing of the victims of the violence, accounting for responsibility and accountability of the actors and conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators. Other purposes and terms of reference are: restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the State, and the region/Nigeria. Given the cross-border nature of the conflict, the focus went beyond Anambra, and possibly covered the entire Southeast. Specifically, the Committee’s terms of reference were: to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South East since 1999; Document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration; identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands; address any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and charting the roadmap for the future and make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra state/ Southeast. The Committee has six months to submit its report. Soludo had last weekend pleaded with those hiding f in the bush to come out and benefit from the amnesty programme or be declared criminals. Having gone this far, what Soludo may need to accomplish his task is courage