ABUJA – Some Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), as well as a large number of All Progressives Congress support groups, have declared the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as the best choice to emerge as Nigeria’s President come 2023. The various groups under the aegis of Tinubu Grassroots Support Coalition and the APC Core Supporters Network at a joint meeting in Abuja, Tuesday, said Nigerians should vote wisely in order to avoid all the mistakes of the past. Guest Speaker at the event, Professor Yaki Katuka said Tinubu emerging as the next President will assist a lot in redefining the fortunes of the country. While urging Nigerians to support Tinubu’s ambition, Katuka said it will ensure the emergence of a better and prosperous country “May I call on Nigerians to join us, as we work hand in hand in the journey to build the country of our dream. “We solicit your cooperation and partnership to let this happen. While endorsing the presidential ambition of Bola Tinubu, he said the entire North was behind Tinubu’s 2023 presidential ambition. He said the time was ripe for the North to pay back Tinubu for supporting President Muhammadu Buhari. POLL “Northern Nigeria has no option but to support the Yoruba race and Tinubu. If I ask you to give the name of one person who supported the Northern candidature of Muhammadu Buhari, it will be Tinubu. “It is time for us to show whether we are truly sons of our parents or not. This is the time and we are with Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Katuka said Tinubu has extensive vision, rich experience and striking intelligence and networks of vital contacts, a sense of equity, justice and fairness with high regard for the rule of law. On his own part, a University don, Professor Okpe Okpe said among all those who have indicated interest in the 2023 presidency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the most qualified, considering his track record as a two-term Governor of Lagos state, his business acumen and friendly posture. He said Tinubu has the capacity and resources to contest for the presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Nigerians should not get it wrong again, we cant continue repeating the same mistake, now is the time for Nigerians to take their destiny into their hands and get it right once and for all.”