ENUGU – Dr Ejikeme Odumegwu, House of Assembly aspirant in Enugu state, has donated 800 bags of cement worth N3.6 million to Okunerere Adoration Ministry, Nsukka in Enugu State. Making the donation at a thanksgiving service in the ministry on Tuesday, Odumegwu, also a philanthropist told newsmen that the donation was in fulfilment of a pledge he made to the ministry during its bazaar celebration. He said that the donation was meant to uplift the building work ongoing in the ministry as well as “ensure that the House of God is in a benefiting shape”. Odumegwu said that he would use the same passion of his philanthropy to ensure his constituents do not lack by giving them quality representation. “The massive crowd from communities in Igbo-Eze North council area, excluding my extended family members and friends, here today shows the overwhelming support and followership my declaration to vie for the Igbo-Eze North State Constituency – 1 had already attracted. “Just as I have passion for philanthropy, the same passion I will carry over to my political career and ensure that my constituents continue to enjoy quality representation as well as good governance and the good life that goes with it. “Before now, I have given hundreds of pupils and students scholarships even to university level, built amenities throughout the state just like pipe-borne water, electricity and recently a police station in my Igbo-Eze council area,” he said. Responding, the Spiritual Director of Okunerere Adoration Ministry, Rev. Fr. Paul Obayi, said that the ministry was overwhelmed with joy that Odumegwu with faith was bent on fulfilling and had fulfilled the promise he made to the ministry. According to Obayi, notwithstanding the present hardship especially the cost of cement in the market, Odumegwu you decided to make God’s house a priority. “Because you have done this and not held back even in hardship; the great God we serve will surely grant your heart desires. “With your passion for helping the Church, state, community and people around you; God in his infinite mercy will surely lift you up as you have lifted others,” he said. It would be recalled that Odumegwu is a foundation member of PDP and had sacrificed a lot both in cash, kind and membership drive for the growth and popularity of the party in all nooks and crannies of Enugu State and beyond. The philanthropist single-handedly renovated all police stations and police area command headquarters in the state between 2017 and 2019.