LAGOS – The UEFA Champions League semi finals are here and uniquely paired in a way we are assured of four scintillating matches and the possibility of two sides from the same league facing off for the second straight season. Last season, Manchester City and Chelsea faced off in the final, Chelsea winning 1-0 to clinch their second European title. We’ve already had an all-Spanish final when Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid faced off in 2014, so this season, will we have a repeat of Spanish teams facing off, or will it be all-Premier League sides? The English sides start at home in the two-legged semis; Manchester City will be up against record holders Real Madrid and Liverpool will be at home to Villarreal, the least successful of the four sides but coming with a big profile. Man City seeking early advantage over Real Madrid City and Real are familiar foes but Real Madrid will be here on a revenge mission. The last time these two faced off, City registered a 2-1 victory in Manchester in the 2019/20 round of 16 in August, six months after another 2-1 win in Madrid. After getting to their first final and losing last season, Pep Guardiola will want to make it better this time. Of course, he has won this title before but wants the experience with City. With four straight clean sheets in the Champions League it will be tempting to have City as favorites here, especially looking at Real Madrid’s dreadful defensive record. Undefeated in 11 home games in this competition, Manchester City is the favorite in the UCL predictions on SportyTrader. However, Real Madrid have been in England before and beaten the Champions of Europe, Chelsea, there in the last round so they can’t be ruled out at all. Manchester City eliminated the champions of Spain in the last round, and here they face the side that could win the Spanish championship this season. A side with the most lethal forward in Europe at the moment – Karim Benzema. The Frenchman is currently on 12 goals, just one behind Robert Lewandowski, whose team has already been eliminated. POLL Will Villarreal thunder strike again? In the last two rounds, Villarreal have claimed big scalps. With odds heavily stacked against them, they eliminated Bayern Munich in the last round 2-1 on aggregate and that came after thrashing Juventus 4-1 on aggregate. Villarreal coach Unai Emery will have knowledge about how tough this game is, having been here with Arsenal before. His team is the most unfancied, and the only one of the four that has never been to the Champions League final. The team’s budget can’t also be matched with any of the other three, but that was also the case against Bayern and Juventus. Samuel Chukwueze was the star in the Bayern game, his equalizer meaning the match didn’t proceed to extra time and possibly penalties. He will want to extend the same here. Liverpool will be favorites here but will definitely know the damage the Spanish side can cause. They will try not to be victims of similar occurrences to fellow giants in the last two rounds.