ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caucus in Taraba State has declared that the party in the state is now poised to snatch power from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and halt its over 22 years reign in the state. The Caucus comprising senators, members of the House of Representatives, Taraba State House of Assembly and other leading party stakeholders have therefore asked the new APC NWC for support to achieve the goal. Addressing journalists after a meeting with Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Chairman of the party, the group led by Senator Emmanuel Bwacha said the confidence of the party in Taraba has been boosted to rescue the state from misgovernance. According to him, “Taraba state is a PDP government for now but when people are dissatisfied with one thing, they are naturally bound to change,” he said. Also speaking, Ahmed Yusuf, National Commissioner representing Taraba in the Federal Revenue and fiscal mobilization Commission said noted that the Chairman has issued a matching order to the Caucus to work as a unite so as to achieve the set target. With two senators, four out of six members of the federal House of Representatives and five members of the State House of Assembly, Yusuf said the APC is emboldened to make the charge at the Government House of Taraba State. “With the array of personalities here now, those who will join us and many stalwarts who are in the APC, we make bold that come 2023 we are going to capture government house and not just government house but other positions in Taraba state. Moreso, when the national chairman himself gave us a marching order and template. “If we use the template by the grace of God we will win the election. We have two former SSGs who are part of us as well. The chairman told us that the most important thing is to unite not socially but politically. We associate socially but we must translate our social bond into political bond that way we will win elections. That is the number one item on that template and we are going to adhere strictly to that” POLL “My name is Ahmed Yusuf, a federal commissioner at the federal revenue and fiscal mobilization commission. Structurally as constituted politically today in Taraba state, we have two senators, (Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, and Senator Yusuf A Yusuf); four out of six federal House of Representatives members, it is very important to graphically illustrate our presence and spread that is why we are emboldened to say that come 2023 we have the capacity and strength to capture power in Taraba state. “And also here we have five members of the Taraba State House of Assembly including the minority leader of the Taraba state house who is here. This demonstrates grassroots reach in the state and more are joining us due to alignment and realignment later on. We have people whom the president has chosen to man some MDAs. “We have Honourable Sabo Kente here who is representing the North-Eastern states in the North East Development Commission. He represents the interest of the six states. We have other federal commissioners and the minister of state for works who is from Taraba state. “We are also happy to announce our sister who is the deputy national women leader, Zainab A Ibrahim, the whole women of Taraba are well behind her and she has a rich pedigree because she is from a well-known family in the country. “Her father was a former chairman of NPN, her elder sister is the late mama Taraba our governorship candidate in 2015 where she won squarely but the rest is history. Is not as if the party is weak or we don’t have a membership but there are lots of conspiracies woven against us in such a way that it militated against our success. “Nevertheless, with all the arrear of personalities here now, those who will join us and many stalwarts who are in the APC, we make bold that come 2023 we are going to capture government house and not just government house but other positions in Taraba state. “Moreso, when the national chairman himself gave us a marching order and template. If we use the template by the grace of God we will win the election. We have two former SSGs who are part of us as well. “The chairman told us that the most important thing is to unite not socially but politically. We associate socially but we must translate our social bonds into political bonds that way we will win elections. “That is the number one item on that template and we are going to adhere strictly to that. And again, we want to leave a legacy not only for ourselves but we want history to be kind to us. “So, what role have we played in politics that we will want future generations to remember us for? We need to lay that foundation and the only way to lay that foundation is to be united and push our collective interest so that history will be kind to us.”