A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, Comrade Okenwa Nnachi Uka, said any attempt to impose the Executive Chairman of Afikpo South LGA, Barrister Eni Uduma Chima, as the candidate of the APC for Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency in 2023 would be resisted by the people. Okenwa, a Member, governing council, Federal Polytechnic Bali, Taraba State, said Eni Uduma had serially betrayed the people of Afikpo South LGA and was not feat to represent them at the National Assembly. The immediate past State Financial Secretary of the APC in Ebonyi State and 2023 Aspirant for Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency, made the assertion on Friday in a chat with Journalists in Abakaliki. According to him, Eni knows he cannot win any election in Edda Land anymore, the people have rejected him. “I want the world to know today that, Eni Uduma Chima has no character, very unpopular and incapable of representing our people. “Almost all the elections he has won was on more or less appointment cum imposition by the Goverment and this time the people will revolt against any attempt to impose him on the us,” he said. Okenwa alleged that as the executive chairman of Afikpo South LGA, Barrister Eni, had not shown any interest in the progress of the APC in the area. He described the one million naira cash gift given to the members of APC executive by Eni when he met with them recently over his 2023 ambition as a Greek gift. POLL Okenwa queried thus: “Ever since these EXECUTIVES were elected and inaugurated, has he ever called them for any form of meeting before that 27th April 2022? “Does his Amairi Ekoli ward, has APC ward secretariat? “After we were told that the State Chairman paid for the LGA secretariat and money was solicited from him as the council chairman to renovate the place, has he given any kobo? “The answers to the above questions is “NO” and it attest to the fact that he(Eni) has no interest in helping the party to grow in Edda.” Reacting, Barrister Eni Uduma Chima said Okenwa’s vituperations against him were incorrect and should be disregarded. Eni in a statement made available to our Correspondent on Friday afternoon, said, “My attention has been drawn to the vituperations of Mr. Okenwa Nnachi Uka. The summary of which is that I have made no achievements as a Political Office Holder and that I’m not popular enough to represent our people in the Federal House of Representatives. “The young man is entitled to his incorrect opinions. The feeble attempt to deny my usefulness in bringing him into Ebonyi Politics as Management Committee Member of Afikpo South Development Centre is also noted, they always deny what God uses me to do in their lives but the important thing is that the people know who is who and which is which. “Okenwa is my boy who has private reasons to prance about like a cockroach challenging a Cock to a fight. He is a good example of what informed my reason to run for the House of Representatives so that a lacuna will not throw up dim wits to occupy political positions. The boy is an inferior replica of the likes of the current People’s Democratic Party National Assembly Members who climbed to power on the back of His Excellency Engr. Chief David Nweze Umahi and turned round to grand- stand and wave their fists in his face. “Most people return small favours, acknowledge medium ones and repay greater ones with ingratitude. The boy is a political cancer detected very early. At the appropriate time, he will undergo a political chemotherapy. I hold nothing against him, he merely expressed his frustration and manifest incapacity, of course he spoke for himself and the few jealous elements playing the evil sanhedrin role in Edda politics. “For the records, my achievements in infrastructure, human capital development, functional and sincere representations e.t.c are glaring all over Edda and my popularity and capacity to win elections are palpable. These truths are immutable.”