The Accord Party (AP) standard bearer in Ekiti State, Otunba Reuben Famuyibo has argued that it would be wrong for anyone to blame the youths for running after politicians when government has failed in its responsibility to provide decent  job opportunities. The AP chieftain said that he is in the governorship race to change the narrative by ensuring  that viable industries are established to take care of the unemployment shortfalls in the state. Speaking with newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, tOtunba Famuyibo explained that his blueprint has been designed to give power to the people and improve their livelihood. According to him , all indices of economic growth and development are in the negatives across the 16 local government areas of the state. Famuyibo who said the electorate are tired of the maladministration of the ruling APC party  expressed optimism he would be victorious in   the June 18 election. He advised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to live up to their name by being independent and eshew any form of bias and compromise, saying the mandates of Ekiti people must be protected. Famuyibo  said  ” though, I went on political sabbatical and relying on what I was told but now I am at home. I have seen indeed that Ekiti is the poorest of all states in the country. We have unemployed graduates everywhere. “Don’t blame them when they ask money from politicians, they don’t have what they are doing, many are Okada riders. POLL ” How can you have a government that you can’t point to a single industry and all of them are acquiring properties across the country. In Ekiti state, cottage industries cannot cost more than 100,000 dollars . They are leaving us behind in abject poverty, no single development. Teachers are not being paid , graduates are lamenting, pensioners are in pain. ” I am coming to industrialize the state, be friendly with the workers, they will earn the 13th month salary. Ekiti is in a hurry to develop and I will make sure industrialization takes place. All over the world, certificate is worthless because when you have the basic education, you will be able to be productive, not about parading certificates. ” We must teach people skills from the elementary school days. Also, agriculture will be a priority and I must add that human capital development is lacking in Ekiti state.” The Accord candidate explained that only free, fair and credible poll from the electoral umpire would be acceptable to the people.