ABUJA – Nigeria’s oil production has dipped to below 1.15 million barrels per day as vandals carry on their businesses to an alarming height, forcing oil companies to slow down oper­ations. Mallam Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director/ CEO of NNPC Limited, gave the hint on Friday at the offi­cial presentations of Process Standardization ISO 22301: 2019 Business Continuity Manage­ment System (BCMS) and ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management System (QMS) certificates to the National Petroleum Invest­ment Management Services (NAPIMS) in Abuja. According to him, “As we speak now, there is a massive disruption to our operations as a result of the activities of vandals and criminals along our pipelines in the Niger Del­ta area. This has brought down our production to levels as low as we have never seen before. “Today, we are doing less than 1.15 million barrels per day simply because some criminals decided that they should have some infractions on our pipelines. That is clear­ly the biggest form of business disruption that we are facing today and this kind of engage­ment, the certifications that we have today around our systems and processes should be able to respond to this and part of the response is to bring in the best framework possible to contain the situation. “I am happy to tell us that enormous work is going on between us and relevant gov­ernment security agencies, our partners particularly those that are at the corridors that are impacted and also the commu­nity members, and I am very op­timistic that within the next two to three weeks very measurable outcomes will come so that our businesses can continue. “Also, as we speak now, the Nigerian Navy is launching a massive operation to contain oil theft in the Niger Delta region to ensure that every asset of the Nigerian Navy will be deployed with the support of the indus­try and NNPC, in particular, to make sure that we arrest the situation.” Kyari, attheevent, alsohadthe formal launch of the Electronic Material Management System, alsonotedthatasthecorporation progresses towards being fully commercial in July this year, it was critical that its various busi­nesses operate at internationally acceptable standards if it wants to be globally competitive. He said the two ISO certifica­tions point to the direction the company wants to go in line with global best practices. POLL Also speaking, the Chair­man of the NNPC Limited Board, Senator Margret Ok­adigbo, while pledging support for the management team, urged the National Assembly to reduce the number of invita­tions to Corporation officials to enable them to concentrate on their jobs. “I have told the GMD that next time they call you to the National Assembly, take me with you. When they see you come with your mother, then they will know that it is not the same thing”. She said NNPC is focused on delivering value and dividends to its shareholders following the passage of the Petroleum Indus­try Act (PIA). Earlier, the Group General Manager of NAPIMS, Mr. Bala Wunti explained that NAPIMS, with both certifications, became the first government agency to be awarded such in Africa. Wunti explained that the Business Continuity Manage­ment System was developed by the agency to ensure that opera­tional disruptions were avoided during challenging periods like the lockdown that occurred during COVID-19 pandemic.