LAGOS  – Pastor Lazarus Muoka, the General Overseer of the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministries, has warned world leaders that there will be no solution in sight for economic and political problems, unless they embrace God and stop legalising sin. Muoka stated this during a two-day retreat/crusade, titled ‘God’s Covenant of Peace and Blessings’, which was held at the Revival Ground of the church’s international headquarters at Ijesha, Lagos State on Sunday, April 17, 2022. Muoka said: “This generation more than any other has provoked God beyond measure. In our very eyes all over the world various kinds of abomination is being legalised and committed, the world is calling on God to destroy them by their sin. “For world leaders their solution for economic and political problems will not work if they don’t embrace God. “Men sleep with their daughters, prostitution is being legalised; abortion is being legalised, prostitution, gay marriage, killings, shedding of blood, they have provoked God to anger. “Men can now marry men and women can marry women. This was the kind of sin that made God to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah when they provoked the righteous God to anger.” Muoka said there had been a cry in Africa, America, Europe, Asia, with government managing economy, while on the other hand evil had been existing everywhere, stressing that there will be no solution when people commit evil, commit murder, killing without provocation. “Men indulge in killing, kidnapping, cultism, terrorism, while governments of the world stand and watch, he said God is angry,” he stressed, adding that God would judge the unrighteous. POLL He also emphasised that whether as kings, presidents, priests, bishops, popes, whoever that refused to repent from wickedness, the anger of the lord would await such a person. “They will never go unpunished”, he stressed, advising, “They should surrender to Jesus for that is the only remedy. Heaven is real and hell is real, if you remain unrighteous the anger of God will befall you. “As solution to the present world economic and political crises, government all over the world must proscribe gay marriage, prostitution, abortion, and blood-letting because Gods is angry.” He advised men and women to run away from the wrath of God by avoiding being defiled and maintaining purity and perfection all their lives. “Do not entertain sin, don’t bear grudges, unbelief is a terrible sin, anger, impatience, covetousness, masturbation, adultery.” He stated that the unrighteous would never inherit the kingdom of God, adding that sinners, fraudsters, those in secret cult, making charms, stealing, would face the wrath of God.