Barely 40 days to the presidential primaries of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has rejected the consensus arrangement front by himself, former Senate President Bukola Saraki and Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State. Daily Independent gathered that the consensus move has produced Bukola Saraki and Bala Mohammed as the northern consensus candidates of the party ahead of the 2023 presidential election. According to the report in a communique read by former Ahmadu Bello University Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ango Abdullahi, on Friday stated that Northern Elders have endorsed the immediate past President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki and Bauchi State governor, Senator Bala Mohamed. The duo were shortlisted by northern leaders of the party ahead of its presidential primary on May 28, Their emergence was, however, part of the recommendations made by a committee which is made up of northern leaders and presidential aspirants in the party. Reacting to the development swiftly in a statement by his campaign office, Tambuwal said the arrangement has failed and he is now prepared for a primary election. Tambuwal who was part of the arrangement at the initial stage refuted the report, saying the consensus arrangement collapsed on Wednesday. “For the avoidance of doubt, Gov Tambuwal has submitted his Presidential nomination forms and now that the quest for a consensus candidate out of the four has clearly collapsed, will go ahead and face screening and indeed contest the PDP presidential primaries,” his campaign office wrote The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to a news item that former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Governor Bala Muhammad of Bauchi State have emerged as consensus candidates from amongst the four of us announced at a meeting in Minna, Niger state. POLL “This is, to be candid and forthright, not correct. The correct situation is that the team met on Wednesday 20th April 2022, at Bauchi Governor’s lodge in Abuja and had a review meeting; and, unanimously agreed that the consensus arrangement was not working. “The team further agreed that Saraki should come up with a draft statement on how to communicate this decision to the Nigerian public. This was the last time that members of the team sat and mutually agreed on anything. The proposed meeting to review and vet the statement scheduled for 10 pm on the same day was aborted unilaterally by Saraki via a WhatsApp message. “However, on Thursday, April 21, 2022, the same Saraki circulated yet another WhatsApp message suggesting that members of the team should head to Minna for a meeting on Friday. Tambuwal reached other members of the team and informed them that he stands by the decision of the team that the initiative is not working. “This is the reason Tambuwal was absent at today’s (Friday) meeting in Minna. As a result, therefore, the outcome of the Minna meeting has no consequence or any implication on the aspiration of Tambuwal, who had earlier informed his colleagues of maintaining their agreed position that the initiative has collapsed. “Members of the public should be reminded that what was canvassed for was a consensus candidate and not consensus candidates. “For the avoidance of doubt, Tambuwal has submitted his presidential nomination forms and now that the quest for a consensus candidate out of the four has clearly collapsed, will go ahead and face screening and indeed contest the PDP presidential primaries. “This is in consonance with his acclaimed outlook as a pan-Nigerian candidate, with the pedigree of national service as the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, life member of the Body of Benchers and now in his second and final term as Governor of Sokoto State.”