Manchester United are in the mix to sign Youri Tielemans from Leicester and they reportedly won’t have to fend off as many teams for his signature as first thought. Leicester’s financial situation means Brendan Rodgers may have to cash in on some of his prized assets. Leicester announced a £33.1million pre-tax loss for the last financial year with that figure reportedly set to double next year. Rodgers wants to supposedly make three major signings this summer, but will need to sell some key first-team players to raise funds. Tielemans has been named as a player who could be moved on with the midfielder said to be available at around £25million. Liverpool and West Ham had been touted as potential rivals to United in trying to sign Tielemans this summer. But CBS Sports claim both the Hammers and Liverpool have no interest in signing the Belgium international. It leaves United in a straight shoot-out with Arsenal in trying to sign Tielemans for a ‘bargain price’. Liverpool are said to have ‘other priorities’, meaning United may not have to worry too much about a bidding war. United are desperate to bolster their midfield options with Ralf Rangnick the latest manager struggling to get the best out of his current options. Scott McTominay, Fred and Nemanja Matic have been the main options to play in behind Bruno Fernandes. But Rangnick has jumped to the defence of Fred, stating the Brazilian is “underestimated”. “He’s the type of player that if you want to play a proactive style of football then he has a lot of assets that you need,” Rangnick told United’s website. “He’s always trying to win balls and is always on the front foot. He’s one of the most underestimated players in possession of the ball. “He can score goals, give assists and that’s why he’s also regularly playing for Brazil. I’m not surprised at his development.” POLL Fred has chipped in with six assists and four goals this season across all competitions. The 29-year-old will likely be a key role in the final few games of the season as United look to clinch a top-four spot. But it’s currently out of their hands with Tottenham, Arsenal and West Ham all above them in the table.