LAGOS – Proprietor of Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) club, Remo Stars FC, Kun­le Soname, has called on all stakeholders to join hands to­gether for the development of the league rather than seeking elective positions in the running of the country’s football. In a chat with sports jour­nalists at the weekend, the foot­ball administrator said what is important to him now is the growth and development of the league from the grassroots and not seeking for the position of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) president. “I cannot run for the office of the NFF president. It’s only in places like Nigeria that the NFF is more flamboyant than the league itself. What we need to address is the league itself, once that is riped every other things will fall in place. “So for me all these talks about becoming NFF president is just a waste of time, until we settle the issue of structured football in Nigeria as in NPFL, NNL and all the leagues, the NFF is just a waste of time. “Yes you have some success­es but it will just be sporadic, today we succeed tomorrow we will not. But if you want a sus­tained success there must be a foundation for it, the league must be fairly strong, if it is not it never going to work. “That’s when you will see people that have never being to Nigeria but were born by Nigerians, if they lose matches it’s not the same as we that live here and know that if I don’t play well, even if I play abroad when the season ends I must come back here and people will shout at me so you put a little effort into it. “So our league needs to be stronger, kids must be trained from age 10, 12, 13 for them to get to 20 and play quality football.” POLL According to him, he is not in football administration to make name but to help contribute his impact to the development of the game from the grassroots. On the prospect of his club, Remo Stars, winning the NPFL title, Soname stated that what is more important for the club is avoiding relegation for a third time and not about winning the title. “This is our third attempt in the NPFL. Our first attempt we came up and went down imme­diately, second attempt we came up and went down immediately. So our objective for this season is clear and that is we must not relegate. “Even if the season ends and we are in the 15th position we will go to church and do thanksgiving, that is what we want now, let us just maintain our status. In three, four years we can aspire for something else.