Arsenal are still pushing for a place in next season’s UEFA Champions League despite a difficult few weeks. Mikel Arteta’s side have lost their last three Premier League fixtures but still sit just three points behind fourth-placed Tottenham Hotspur, who have also played an extra league match this season. Regardless of whether or not the Gunners can get back to winning ways they still are likely to have an extremely busy summer transfer window and football.london understands that technical director Edu is keen to bring in at least one centre-forward, with a midfielder and a fullback also likely to be targeted. With that in mind, football.london has rounded up some of the latest transfer rumours surrounding the north Londoners. Lucass Paqueta interest Brazilian transfer guru Jorge Nicola has reported that Arsenal are one of the clubs interested in Lyon star Lucas Paqueta. Paqueta has enjoyed an extremely productive season with the Ligue 1 side, netting 10 goals and providing a further six assists. Nicola claims that Edu is particularly keen on the player, who could reportedly cost up to €80million (£66million) this summer. This comes after Italian outlet Calciomercato previously claimed that both the Gunners and Paris Saint-Germain were monitoring the Brazilian international’s situation. Newly-rich Newcastle United have also been linked with the 24-year-old in recent months. Arsenal are in need of at least one centre-forward after allowing Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to join Barcelona during the January window whilst both Eddie Nketiah and Alexandre Lacazette are into the final three months of their respective contracts at the Emirates Stadium. One name that has consistently been linked with a move to the club is Inter Milan frontman Lautaro Martinez. POLL However, Tuttomercatoweb have now reported that the player is holding out for a move to Manchester City, Liverpool, Real Madrid, Barcelona or Bayern Munich. It is currently unclear whether or not any of the five aforementioned clubs will make a move for Martinez but his alleged preference certainly makes a switch to north London appear less likely. Arsenal are in need of at least one centre-forward after allowing Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to join Barcelona during the January window whilst both Eddie Nketiah and Alexandre Lacazette are into the final three months of their respective contracts at the Emirates Stadium. One name that has consistently been linked with a move to the club is Inter Milan frontman Lautaro Martinez. However, Tuttomercatoweb have now reported that the player is holding out for a move to Manchester City, Liverpool, Real Madrid, Barcelona or Bayern Munich. It is currently unclear whether or not any of the five aforementioned clubs will make a move for Martinez but his alleged preference certainly makes a switch to north London appear less likely.