ABUJA – Rivers State Governor and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nyesom Wike, on Tuesday warned the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) that failure to produce him as the presidential candidate of the party will cost the party victory in 2023. He added that having to support them to emerge as the NWC, it is their turn to support him to emerge as the presidential candidate of the party. Speaking during a consultative visit to the NWC, the Rivers state governor said, “the household name now is Wike, so don’t make mistake and lose Wike. Because if you lose Wike, you have lost the election. It is not our prayer that we should lose the election. “So, it is important I take this opportunity and let you know that I am prepared. Psychological, mentally and in all aspects, I am very much prepared. “So let us not waste time. Go and tell our people that you have seen the right person and the right person is Wike. “So it is important you do the campaign for me, that was how I did it for you too. When I was fighting the former NWC, some of you were supporting them. Now all of you are here. “One good turn deserves another. So you people should also pay back. Because you didn’t go to the campaign, but now I am coming to the campaign. So payback. “But please do us the favor to conduct a free and fair election, that will be an advantage for us to win in 2023. POLL Wike also took on the governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed and former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki over their campaign for consensus, saying he doesn’t support such. “When we did our convention in 2018, about 10 people contested. There was no consensus. Why are they talking about consensus? “The Primary was quite open, you know I supported Aminu Tambuwal, I have no regrets, I didn’t support Atiku, But when Tambuwal lost, I carry Atiku’s campaign on my head, that is what it’s supposed to be. “I don’t believe in these people going around on consensus. I told them that their consensus move is shine-shine bobo, the more you look, the less you see. I say am not going to buy it. It will not work and am not a party to it. “I believe in consensus-based on equity, justice and fairness. But not consensus by those who have conspired, they think they can bring me in, but nobody can bring me into it. “This election is determinant for us, is to determine our history. Look at the convention we did in 2018, it was acknowledged by the international community. look at the convention that brought you people in, it was acknowledged by everybody. “I want to please advise, not to make any mistake of what people will say that the NWC is trying to favour an aspirant over others. This will destroy the party. Because as an opposition party, we cannot afford people to say this election is not credible, this election is not transparent. “But if you do anything short of credible and transparent convention, it will be a shame. After we have done 2018, after we have done the convention that brought you in, then you should do a better convention as members of NWC. “I will also advise that this time we are in, is a litigation period. There is no election where you don’t see litigation, there is none. It will come. So that we don’t run into problems again, you should try as much as you can if you can not vacate such an order, try as much as you can to assign people and settle it. “There is no issue that cannot be resolved if you are open and transparent.” In a vague attack on those who left PDP and came back, Wike said that the presidential ticket shouldn’t be given to such person(s), adding, “not those who you give tickets tomorrow they fail you, won’t see them at the party again. And when you don’t give them the ticket, they will also leave the party, no, that is not the way it should be.” He further warned that the ticket should be given to who can win the election, adding, “in all that we do, we should be concerned about who can win this election for PDP. Not somebody who wants to run a presidential election, then lose your state. No, you must assure us that you will win your state before we will give you the ticket. So let us walk together. Don’t say I criticize you, I’ll criticize you. That one, nobody can stop it, if you don’t do the right thing. I will criticise you.” Responding, the National Chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorcha Ayu told Wike that he can’t insist on level playing field and expect them to campaign for him. He said: “On the one hand you want a level playing field from the NWC. On the other hand, you want the NWC to canvas vote for you. “Incoming president, you have to choose one, you can have the two. “But let assure you, this NWC will try to uphold the tradition of the PDP, that tradition since 1999 is running very credible and transparent conventions starting from Jos to the last one that produced this National Working Committee. “I want to assure you that there will be no foul play or manipulation, we will certainly do better than what you did in October last year. We will hold an absolutely transparent convention. At that state, we will try to be the INEC of the Peoples Democratic Party, not partisan. We’ll try as much as possible to make sure that every member of the National Working Committee works for the party. “But I want to also assure you, that once you emerge as the candidate or the party, whoever emerges from that point on, we will be aggressively partisan because we want the party to win the election. We will do everything in our power by way of canvassing votes from the Nigerian people to ensure that the PDP wins the next election because a victory by a PDP candidate is a victory for everybody. “And it is in that light that I particularly like your submission when you made it clear, that win or lose, you will never leave the party. You will work for the party. You’ve done it before and we are very sure that you will do it again.” He, however, cautioned the aspirants against using foul words against themselves, saying, “we’ve never attacked an individual and that is what we want from all our presidential aspirants, that they should stick to issues. They should not attack themselves. By attacking each other, you undermine the party and you are giving the opposition the ammunition to attack us when the candidate emerged.” Also speaking at the event to support Wike, the Abia state governor, Okezie Ikeazu said that he’s an Ibo man, who cannot be held down by geography. Addressing newsmen after submitting the presidential expression of interest and nomination form on behalf of Sokoto state governor, Aminu Tambuwal, the leader of the campaign office of the governor, Dr. Nicholas Msheliza said Tambuwal is a unifier and a bridge builder. He explained that some patriotic Nigerians, who were desirous of change and hoping that this country will for once know peace and come out of its current quagmire picked form for him. He said: “Because of the clamour by Nigerians in good faith Aminu Tambuwal heeded the clarion call and fill his form diligently and we have now submitted which signifies his resolve and intention to aspire to be the flagbearer of the Peoples Democratic Party and contest for the presidency of this country in 2023. “He knows the demography and the geography of this country. He knows the problem of this country. He is the actual unifier. He is the bridge builder. He’s so humble and he’s such a person that is so energetic and vibrant also that can be trusted to forge partnerships and alliances and rescue and build this nation from where we have found ourselves today. “So we are happy that today is so symbolic that the form has been submitted and the next stage is for us to look for the support and prayers of this Nigeria and Nigerians so that we’ll all team up together to rebuild this country once more.”