Ahead of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primaries, a presidential aspirant, Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze has said that it is time for an Igbo man to rule Nigeria, noting that Igbo Presidency should be used to reconcile the region. Dr Anakwenze who stated this on Saturday while speaking with newsmen in Lagos stressed the need for zoning to be preserved in the opposition party. He called on all patriots and goodwill ambassadors in all regions of the country to secure presidential power rotation/zoning in 2023 by voting a President from the southern part of the country specifically the South-East. He, however, warned that nobody should hide under insecurity to deny the South-East zone of what rightly belongs to it. He said, “It is the turn of the South-East zone to produce the next Nigerian President and I am warning that nobody should hide under insecurity to deny the South-East zone of what rightly belongs to it. “I am of the firm belief that the main justification for rotation/zoning of presidential power is borne out of the skewed nature of the Nigerian fraudulent 1999 constitution of the Nigerian federation, where one side of the country, through the unjust manner states and local government creations have been created, is now positioned to produce the nation’s president in perpetuity,” he said. Anakwenze also stated that the basis of any viable democracy, especially in a diverse and complex country such as Nigeria, rests in fair and even sharing of power. He added, “Our position is that since the Northern part of the country would have fully enjoyed the office of the president for the full statutory period of eight years by 2023, presidential power ought to be yielded to the South and South-East zone in particular in the spirit of unity and equity. POLL “I urge all Presidential aspirants in the North to as a matter of urgency join and support a PDP aspirant from the South-East geo-political zone. “The only zone in the South which has not yet had a chance to produce a President of Nigeria is the South East and I believe that in the spirit of justice, equity, fairness and inclusiveness all of which are critical ingredients in our ambition to build a Nigeria nation. The South-East should be given the chance and supported by all fair-minded and patriotic Nigerians to produce Nigeria’s president in 2023 through the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” Speaking further, he stated that South Easterners had contributed greatly to the development of Nigeria in terms of infrastructure, intellect and business. “It is time to give an Igbo person the chance to build Nigeria to the standard God wants. God created Nigeria to develop into a major power among nations and raise respect and dignity for all blacks on earth. “One of the ways to achieve the feats the nation wanted is to carry everybody along without discrimination which our party PDP has over time demonstrated,” Anakwenze added.