LAGOS – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has confirmed that the impending national carrier, Nigeria Air is going through the process of obtaining Air Operator Certificate (AOC) from the agency. Though, Captain Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, NCAA, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos on Wednesday, declined to make a categorical statement on the current stage of the AOC application for the airline but said the agency was awaiting security clearance for the airline. Nuhu, however, said that the regulatory authority could not be specific on when the airline would be issued AOC to commence as a scheduled operator, saying that this would be determined by the performance of the airline at its various stages. He said: “The only thing I can tell you is that the promoters of that airline have applied for AOC and their AOC is ongoing. I don’t have any assurances of when the licenses would be. You see, when you apply for AOC or any certification, some issues like seeking security clearances for applicants are not completely under the purview of the NCAA, security agencies do that. “I don’t have control over security agencies to give such clearances. They have applied and it is ongoing, we are waiting for security clearance.” There are five stages of AOC acquisition by impending airlines. The five stages are the pre-application phase, which entails initial enquiry or request about NCAA’s certification; obtaining of Civil Aviation Regulations (CAR) and formal application (second phase) for intending entrant where documents and manuals (including the curricula vitae of key management personnel) must be submitted for evaluation. The minimum timeframe for the formal application phase is two weeks. The third phase involves document evaluation where the NCAA will review the applicant’s manuals and other related documents and attachments to ensure conformity with the applicable regulations and safe operating practices. The minimum time frame for the document evaluation phase is three months. POLL For the fourth stage, an applicant embarks on a demonstration; while the NCAA’s technical team inspects its operation. This is a key stage of the process carried out only after a satisfactory documentation evaluation phase. At this stage, a thorough audit by the certification team at the applicant’s premises will be conducted to ensure that the proposed procedures are effective and that the applicant’s facilities and equipment meet the NCAA’s regulatory requirements. Also in this stage, other demonstrations like emergency evacuation and ditching will be carried out and after successes in these exercises; a demonstration flight will be carried out. The minimum time frame for the demonstration and inspection phase is two months. According to NCAA regulation, an impending carrier is expected to fly empty for about 50 hours to showcase its readiness and resilience. The fifth and final phase is the certification and this means once the airline has met the regulatory requirements of the Civil Aviation (Air Navigation) Regulations, the NCAA will issue the AOC with the appropriate specifications and ratings. The Federal Government had proposed that the airline would commence operations in July, while the first out of the three wet-leased aircraft for the airline may arrive the country in June. Commenting on the granting of multiple designation points to foreign airlines, Nuhu clarified that NCAA was not responsible for granting such requests to international carriers. According to him, such responsibility lies with the Ministry of Aviation but agreed that the regulatory body participates in the Bilateral Air Service Agreement (BASA) negotiations with the ministry. He appealed to industry analysts and stakeholders to make clarifications before making a categorical statement on sector issues. “NCAA makes its own contributions, but the final decision is by the Ministry. So, anyone that blames NCAA for that is due to the lack of understanding of how BASA negotiations work for Nigeria; and every country has its own peculiarity on how they do BASA. In Nigeria, it is the ministry. “I want to appeal to some of the industry analysts or stakeholders to come to us before making any public comments. When they hear stories or something, they can come to us and seek clarifications, rather than go out there and make wild comments, which aggravate the system. “I read a lot in different platforms daily and sometimes, it is annoying when some certain people who are respected members of the industry and are supposed to be the conduit for the industry, make false comments for whatever reasons without seeking NCAA clarifications,” he said.