Arsenal will try to fend off competition from Newcastle United this summer in the battle to sign midfielder Lucas Paqueta from Lyon, according to reports. The 24-year-old is said to be available at the end of the season despite his current contract not running out until 2025. According to reports in The Chronicle, the Gunners will make a move for the Brazilian after missing out on the signing of his former team-mate Bruno Guimaraes in January – who joined Newcastle instead. Paqueta, who is also wanted by the Magpies, has emerged as an important player for Lyon ever since joining the French club from AC Milan in 2020. In 74 appearances for the club, he has scored 19 goals including seven in Ligue 1 during the current campaign. An attacking midfielder capable of hitting the back of the net would be of interest to Arsenal who have been lagging behind their rivals in scoring terms this season with just 45 goals in the league so far. Last year, the Gunners signed Martin Odegaard from Real Madrid for £30million but with European qualification on the horizon more incomings are required. However, reported interest in Leicester’s James Maddison indicates the club’s intention to keep their options open regarding new signings in midfield. POLL Speaking earlier this month, Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta confirmed he aims to improve the squad further following an outlay of over £100million last summer. He said: ‘I am expecting so, yes. I think both competitions (the Champions League and Europa League) require a much larger squad because the amount of games you play is much bigger in both, so I don’t think (which you qualify for) makes a lot of difference or changes a lot. ‘If you can financially afford it and we don’t have to do the turnaround in the squad that we’ve had to do, if you ask me what I want it’s 22 outfield players and three goalkeepers.’ With Arsenal three points off fourth-placed Tottenham with a game in hand, Champions League qualification could prove crucial to the club’s summer transfer plans.