Kemi Nandap, the Comptroller, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA) Command, Lagos, has reiterated the resolve of the command to implement to the letter the roadmap of Mr. Isah Jere, the Ag. Comptroller General, NIS, in fighting corruption in the system. Nandap also warned that any officer at the command caught engaging in swindling of air travellers or attempting to put the name of the service in disrepute would be dealt with accordingly. Nandap stated this on Thursday at the induction training programme organised for officers newly deployed to the command. The service headquarters had recently deployed over 30 officers to MMA Command, following the commissioning of the new international terminal at the airport. A statement by Louisa Amadiokoro, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), MMA, stated that the training was in line with Jere’s vision of manpower training, stressing that the intensive training was still ongoing for the officers. Nandap explained that the essence of the training was to ensure that the officers are well-equipped for the job ahead, stressing that the command being the first port of contact for international travellers coming into Nigeria, required committed, hardworking and refined officers to positively represent the image of the country. She said: “The officers are presently undergoing an intensive training programme, which is aimed at re-orientating them and ensuring that they are adequately prepared for the task ahead. “Upon the completion of the training, the officers are expected to go round on attachment at different wings and other sections like the Visa on Arrival, Statistics, Human Resources, Quits Aviation and other key areas of the airport. POLL “After all these, the officers will be assessed based on their performance. If the command is not satisfied with any of them, such an officer would be sent back for retraining.” Our correspondent learnt that some of the officers would be deployed to the new terminal, which was commissioned on March 22, 2022 by President Muhammadu Buhari.