LAGOS  – Pastor Sunday Adelaja, Founder, Embassy of the Blessed Kingdom of God for All Nations, Europe’s largest church, has given a spiritual insight to the raging war between Russia and Ukraine. According to Adelaja, a Nigerian, the war between the two countries is God’s judgment on both nations. Adelaja, who spoke during a Zoom conference with journalists on the platform of the Network of African Christian Journalists (NACJOURN) last Sunday, said the war is nothing, but God’s judgment. He said: “I definitely believe that this war is a judgment of God upon Russia, the aggressor, and Ukraine, the victim. Both of them are being judged for things best known to God.” Going further, Adelaja stated: “May be, it is the abomination of same sex marriage, or things embedded in these nations through communism and their past that God wants to deal with. “There is no way we can deny that this is God’s judgment. I admit it. Whether it is God’s judgment against the west, I don’t know of that, but if it is God’s judgment against Russia and Ukraine. I say yes.” Adelaja maintained that any form of war brings destruction, trauma and pains and it is nothing, but God’s judgment. The cleric, however, revealed that God had warned ahead of the war, but maintained that Christians are so naive, thinking everything would be resolved by prayers. POLL He stressed: “Sometimes, we Christians are so naive and only think things would only be resolved by prayers and that was where I was. “Then, when the revelation came, it didn’t come through me, it came through another man of God in England and one in America. “I was thinking we should pray, that if we pray very well, we could resolve everything and that was why I did not make any attempt to interface with Putin and others. I thought it was just in the hand of God. “Now that we have prayed and it still happened, it is a lesson for me to know that prayer alone is not enough. Sometime, we need to go out and act.” Adelaja is known to have had invested about 30 years of hard work in Russia and Ukraine. He stressed that Russian President, Vladimir Putin, is against the western hegemony and the controlling influence of its culture on helpless nations. “One of the things Putin is fighting is the western hegemony. He thinks it is not good to have a world owner; a world that is under the dominion of one world power. “How can the western world, for instance, come to Nigeria and say if you don’t recognise gay, we are going to sanction you, or, we are not going to allow certain things come to you? Putin is against that. He said you don’t have the right to enforce that. “One of the explanations of Putin is that there are some countries that give licence to the church of Satan, saying satanic churches have same rights as Christian churches. He is saying this is madness. Equal rights can’t make Satan equal with God,” he said. Adelaja, a Soviet trained journalist cum cleric, had been in hiding after an intelligence report revealed that he was on the list of individuals being watched by Russia. He said he was, however, consoled with the fact that the current war, like the persecution in Jerusalem, would further expand the kingdom of God. According to him, just as the persecution of the early Christians scattered the disciples of Jesus to every part of the world in the first century, believers in Ukraine are being spread across Europe through the war. “In a vision, I saw something like a volcano, I saw a liquid fire like lava flowing out of the volcano. Those were our members flowing all over Europe, God said don’t worry, that is what would happen, just go back to Africa,” he said. NACJOURN is a body of Christian journalists from different African countries with the purpose of networking professionally and propagating the gospel of Jesus Christ.