The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike has for the second time in one month visited Niger State, but this time to interact and solicit the support of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) delegates ahead of the party’s primaries slated for May 28th and 29th. Wike, accompanied by three other PDP Governors from the southern part of the country; Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State and their Enugu State counterpart, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, met with former Military Presidents General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) and General Abdulsalami Abubarkar over the state of the nation. Wike who is one of the 2023 PDP presidential seat contenders, however, did not visit the PDP family in Niger state, nor was the party Chairman, Tanko Beji during the visit thereby fuelling speculations of possible no-love-lost between him and the party in the state. But at the PDP secretariat on Friday, eastern by-pass, Minna, Governor Wike promised that he will be a President that will speak for and protect the collective interest of all Nigerians irrespective of tribal, religious, or regional and political affiliations if given the mandate. He said the only project the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration bequeathed on Nigerians included heightened insecurity particularly that of the Fulani militia and armed bandits whose activities have sent many Nigerians to their early graves. It is unfortunate that while many homes suffer hunger, deprivation and insecurity, the APC administration looks the other way, this according to Wike is a clear indication that killings of Nigerians on a daily basis by gunmen and the prevailing economic hardship are the least that mattered to President Buhari. If given the mandate, Wike said his becoming President of Nigeria is assured as he will chase the APC out from Aso rock and make sure that no Nigerian is being discriminated against on the basis of religious, tribal or political affiliations. “Leadership is the ability to organise leaders that will do the work while you supervise”, Nyesom Wike argued as he assured that he will be a President for every Nigerian, the poor and the downtrodden inclusive if given the mandate in 2023. Meanwhile, Governor Nyesom Wike has described the Presidential pardon granted to former Governors of Taraba and Plateaau states; Jolly Nyame and Joshua Dariye by the President as not only politically motivated and lopsided but making nonsense of the entire Nigerian judiciary. Wike questioned the rationale of allowing waste of resources, time and the rigours of going through the Courts processes, using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to disgrace them and now granting them state pardon as a, ‘no news at all. “Why were the likes of former Governor James Ibori of Delta state and others not granted Presidential pardon and why now? These are signs of hypocrisy and that of a hidden agenda by the All Progressive Congress (APC) administration”. Responding, Niger state PDP chairman, Alhaji Tanko Beji commended Governor Wike for standing behind Niger PDP in their moments of trials and assured of continued support ahead of the forthcoming party delegates’ conference next month. Beji who however pleaded with Wike towards entrenching a reward system for loyal party members and deserving punishments for ailing members to make the PDP stronger decried a situation whereby people who have invested and made sacrifices for the party’s growth and development were being relegated to the background. The good news however is that the PDP in Niger state has reconciled their differences, now one big family with 98 delegates to vote, speaking with one voice ahead of next year’s general election, Beji said as he assured of support from Niger state. Among those that were on hand to welcome Governor Wike included; a founding member of the PDP and former Minister of Information and National Orientation, Professor Jerry Gana, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Alhaji Abubarkar Achituwo, wife of late former Governor of the state, Senator Zaynab Kure and four former Speakers of the Niger State House of Assembly who are members of the PDP.