ABUJA – A presidential aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Con­gress (APC), Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, has met with party delegates from the five South Eastern states to seek their support and votes in the primaries. According to a statement from the Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi Media Office, the consultation visit, hosted by Imo State Governor, Hope Uzo­dinma, at the APC Secretariat in Owerri on Tuesday, had par­ty chairmen, state executives, local government executives and delegates from Enugu, Anambra, Imo, Abia and Ebo­nyi states. Amaechi pledged that if giv­en the opportunity, his experi­ence in dealing with insecurity as governor of Rivers State, will count in tackling the same in the country. He said, “If you ask ‘why will they support us?’ I’m a young man, a bridge between the young and the old, a son of the soil, and I am approachable. “I may be one of the young­est, but I’m the most experi­enced. As governor of Rivers State, what you’re currently facing here now, I faced in Port Harcourt, and I dealt with it and overcame it. Be rest assured that if we are given this power, we will overcome this crisis by God’s grace.” Reiterating that he is not a sectional but a Nigerian can­didate, Amaechi recounted his recommendations for appoint­ments as being spread out to different parts of the country. He added, “And when I was given those recommendations, I never thought I would go for presidential consultations. I just felt there was a need for balanc­ing because we are Nigerians, and if you see my team, it’s made of nearly every zone in the country. “Give me this opportunity and you will see the difference. Trust me. Once you give me this opportunity, I will be sincere to you and to everybody. We will do our best to make sure that the Igbos are protected, the Yourubas will be protected, the Hausa/Fulani will be protected, everybody will be protected.” POLL The Transportation Minis­ter also assured the people that the ongoing reconstruction of the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri Eastern Rail Line would have been completed up to Enugu be­fore the end of the year, adding that he included Owerri in the plan, which was not part of the old line. He further thanked Gover­nor Uzodinma for his support and for bringing the South-East delegates together. “No presidential aspirant will win the primary election or the general elections without the support of the governors, so we are not taking your (Uzodim­ma) support for granted. This is my introduction. We will come back again to see you, to plead with you, to plead with the par­ty in the whole of South-East, the chairmen, the national and zonal officers to support us,” Amaechi said. On his part, Governor Uzo­dinma assured Amaechi that the South-East stands united to ensure that the APC wins the 2023 presidential election. He said, “You will come again by the grace of God, either as an aspirant or as a candidate. One strong message I want to give is that there is a new spirit in the South-East for our great party, we have done all the necessary political engineering. APC in the South-East is united. South- East APC is one.” “We have two governors of APC in the South-East. You must have also heard that our second Governor (David Uma­hi of Ebonyi State) has also de­clared interest to be president. But this is a contest between a brother and a brother, and when we enter the bedroom, we will resolve it. “We are determined to win. The message we are sending to Nigerians, both members of our party, both those who are not of our party, is that the most important thing for our dear party APC is win-ability. We want to win. Why? Because we are already doing well.