NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, TOYIN ADEBAYO Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), nation’s capital administrative agency, has confessed that intra city rails which were near completion in 2015 are in various stages of vandalisation, even though it never commenced intracity service for one say. Speaking through the Transportation Secretariat, the administration says that it has unveiled plans to begin construction of 5.76 kilometers rail track in the territory, adding that the total bill for embarking on the construction of 5.76 kilometers rail track as approved is $272. Dobi further stated that the bill for the construction of the 5.76 kilometers rail track was before the FCTA Permanent Secretary on it way to the FCT Minister’s table. The Mandate Secretary, Alhaji Zakari Dobi, made this known when he inspected the vandalised Abuja Light Rail Track, Station and Idu Training Centre on Monday in Abuja. He said, the secretariat is working assiduously to go back to site for the construction of 5.76 kilometers and fixing of the vandalise areas of the track. He expressed optimism that the minister, who has so much concern about the Abuja Light Rail would quickly return the file. According to him, “Two things informed this outing. Firstly, to be able to again evaluate and asses the level of vandalisation on the track. POLL “ Secondly, to also look at the Training Centre at Idu Rail Station with a view to be able to relocate some Departments of the Federal Capital Territory Administration Transportation Secretariat due to challenges of office spaces in Area 11. “What we saw was quite bad even though when I assumed office I have been briefed about the issue of vandalisation. “We have intention to go back to site for the construction of 5.76 kilometers rail track in Abuja. The cost of the construction of also contains fixing of the vandalized areas. “We have seen some of the fresh areas that were vandalise and I want to believe that the projection made earlier on fixing the vandalize area will still accommodate what we saw.” He said that the vandalisation occured as a result of lack of operation, adding that if operation was on constantly it would reduce the level of vandalisation. He, however, assured that the FCTA would fix all the vandalise area to ensure proper utilisation of the already completed areas with the four Diesel Multiple Units on ground to put an end to vandalisation. “ We are going to look at issues to see if we can come up with possible ways on how to stop the vandalisation completely but I do know that the first thing to do is to resume operation.”