Dr Michael Tidi, Chairman of Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State has officially declared his intention to contestfor Warri South Constituency 11 at the Delta State House of Assembly. Addressing delegates and party supporters at the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at the Secretariat in Warri, Dr Tidi said that he wanted to put his leadership experience to bear for the good of Warri South 11 constituents. The Warri South Council Chairman expressed concerned over the poor representation of the Constituency at the Delta State House of Assembly (DTHA). According to Tidi, “I want to be the next member to represent Warri South Constituency 11 at the Delta House of Assembly by the special grace of God and your support. “Esteemed delegates, as you already know, I am Tidi, an Itsekiri of Okere, Ode-Itsekiri, Omadino, and Urhobo of Ukpokiti and lgbudu all of Warri South Local Government Area of Delta. “The honest truth is that Warri South Constituency 11 deserves a more robust, knowledgeable, educated and exposed representative.” He added that if given the opportunity to represent the people, he would give them he best representation, adding, ” being a representative at the State Assembly involves articulate presentation, arguments and defense of ideas captured in motions that we have not enjoyed so far. Warri South Constituency 11 needs somebody who can create the enabling environment for developments.” He further said that representing the people involved education and exposure which if given the mandate, he would up the ante, and be opened to new ideas and also understood them. POLL He said, “not too long ago, I assembled people during the 1st and 2nd Warri Economic Summits where we came up with a master plan to provide a roadmap and guide towards the development of our local government. “I have more valuable experience; exposure, education and wider outreach to attract developments, that is why I am offering myself to serve my people, please, give me the mandate.” Dr Tidi promised to run a positive campaign to keep his programmes transparent and focus all his energy on the wellbeing of the Warri South II constituents, adding, “please, I humbly solicit your nomination. God bless you as you nominate me on May 7, 2022.” Responding, Johnson Agbeyegbe, PDP Chairman in Warri South Constituency 11 said that Dr Tidi was not a bad product, noting that he had done a lot as council chairman. Agbeyegbe added, “we have a strong faith in you, we do not doubt your ability. You have proven to us that you can represent us. Talking of digital and scientific approaches, you are there. The delegates have heard you and I am sure they will respond positively.”