Leadway Assurance Company Limited, exemplifying its commitment to promoting quality education in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), has partnered with Slum2School Africa to provide free and quality education to indigent children living in slums and remote communities in Nigeria. The strategic partnership between Nigeria’s leading insurer and renowned non-governmental organisation aligns with the global quest to help the United Nations realise its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for Quality Education and partnership for the goals. Through this partnership, 50 students living in slums and remote communities have received educational support, covering tuition fees, school kits, and education materials worth N2,500,000.00 (Two million five hundred Naira only). The support initiative also includes equipping the child with critical skills through emotional intelligence training, mentorship sessions, and extra-curricular activities. This remarkable scheme has enhanced the provision of well-rounded and multi-dimensional education to Primary School students in selected slums within Lagos State for an academic session. Mr. Olusakin Labeodan, Group Chief Marketing Officer, Leadway Holdings, while commenting on the initiative, stated that the partnership is in consonance with Leadway’s overarching organisational objective to constantly create value and enhance the standard of living condition of people within and outside the communities in which it operates. “As a forward-thinking and value-creating organization, Leadway is dedicated to consistently improving lives and advancing social impact in our communities, particularly in underserved areas. This commitment has driven the organisation to partner with like-minded organisations to collectively actualise these objectives, leading to a more sustainable future for our children. So, we are deliberate about helping children in these communities gain access to quality education as a means to socio-economic emancipation.” “We are a socially responsible organisation, and we understand that positively impacting the education of young Nigerians is also a guaranteed investment in our collective economic growth. By way of exemplifying this philosophy, employees of Leadway will be actively involved as volunteers to provide mentorship to the students and support for the initiative. Through this involvement, the partnership extends beyond providing access to quality education to positively influencing the future of Nigerian children, as it is no cliché that the young ones of today are indeed the building blocks of tomorrow’s leadership.”