The apex socio cultural organization of Ijaw Nation, Ijaw National Congress (INC) has said it would blacklist sons and daughters who are thwarting it’s effort to galvanise support from other ethnic groups within Delta to produce an Ijaw man to govern the state in 2023. INC, in a statement signed by it’s National Publicity Secretary, Engr. Ezonebi Oyakemeagbegha ” It is very sad when we see such a level of betrayal within the Ijaw nation.” The statement noted that the most docile Urhobo person will not declare that it is not the turn of the Urhobos but for the unscrupulous Ijaw man, because of pecuniary gain, personal aggrandizement and greed have lowered themselves before other ethnic nationalities. “These Ijaw men and women who had been bought to do the spoiler role, are enemies within and are playing the role of Judas, as described in the Holy book.They will pay for it at the appropriate time”. “They will regret their actions at the end of the day. They believe they are playing politics, but this is a betrayal. And there are consequences, Why should the Ijaws always play the second fiddle? The statement further added that these unscrupulous, dissident sons and daughters of Ijaw nation playing spoiler role would be surprised to see those people they supported who are saying its not yet our turn ,coming to contest with the people they said was their turn in 2031. INC also charged their sons with governorship ambition not to be deterred, distracted under daunting challenges from these dissident and anti- Ijaw governorship ambition politicians but go about reaching those that matter and preach the need to give the Ijaws a chance to govern the State after Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in 2023. The statement praised His Excellency, Dr Infanyi Okowa for allowing all aspirants to context on a free and fairground which demonstrates that the governor is a democrat and a God-fearing man. POLL ‘We know too well that, His Excellency will not forget in hurry the role the Ijaws played in his first and second tenure elections”.