…..As DHQ Vows To Protect Nigerians Despite Setback ABUJA – The Defence Headquarters (DHQ), Abuja has said, its own troops have arrested 22 terrorists spies and killed scores in the last two weeks as a total of 51,114 Boko Haram Terrorist (BH) and their families surrendered. The Director, Defence Media Operations (DDMO), Major General Bernard Onyeuko stated this on Thursday, at the Defence Headquarters during a bi-weekly press briefing on troops’ activities in the theatre of operations currently ongoing in parts of the nation. General Onyeuko who reiterated the military high Command’s commitment towards ensuring peace and security of Nigerians said, despite recent setbacks “troops would not relent on the arduous task of protecting the lives and property of Nigerians.” According to him, “The last few days was characterized by some operational setbacks orchestrated by terrorists and criminals in North Central. “This, however, has not dimmed the light on the huge gains and success achieved by own troops in other theatres of operation especially in the North East, North West and South-South.” He disclosed that the military high command under the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor wishes to use this opportunity to assure Nigerians on the determination of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, the Nigerian Police and other security agencies to deal with all terrorists and other criminal elements in the Country. “The events of the last few days should not bring despair to the populace. The Armed Forces of Nigeria committed in its resolve to bring peace back to the country as we are stepping up our operations in all the theatres.” POLL While highlighting the operational activities of the Armed Forces in the various theatre of operations between 25th March to 7th April 2022, Onyeuko said, “Operations Hadin Kai land component with the support of the air component conducted offensive operations at different locations of the theatre such as Ukuba/Camp Zairo, Sabil Huda, Ba Masaa, Wulgo, Marta, fulatari village, Uraha Crossing Point, Mbalala, Gamboru town all in Borno State. “Notably among the exploits of own troops was the capture of the terrorist’s stronghold by Ukba/Camp Zairo in the Sambisa Forest where some artillery guns, Armored Personnel Carrier, trailers, and a large cache of arms and ammunition were captured. “Also, own troops destroyed terrorist enclaves, captured some terrorists, destroyed terrorists improvised explosive making factory. “Furthermore, troops also rescued kidnapped civilians and arrested 22 terrorist spies and their logistics suppliers. The Air Component between 28th – 31st after several days of surveillance of terrorist activities at Bukar Meiram and 2km South of Kollaram conducted air interdictions which took out a heavy stockpile of ISWAP weapons in their depot.” Cumulatively, he revealed that in the last two weeks troops “recovered one Battle Tank, five artillery guns, two GTS, three AA guns, one Mine Resistance Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle, three gun trucks, one MOWAG Armored Personnel Carrier, two RPG tubes, three RPG rockets, three RPG bombs, one NSVT gun, two GPMG, one light MG, one PKM, three GPMG belts, fiur belts of PKT rounds, 600 7.62mm NATO rounds, 16 AK 47 rifles, one dane gun, 270 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, one Toyota Buffalo vehicle, one Golf saloon car, four motorcycles, six magazines, two pairs of camouflage, two terrorists flags, one tricycle and one active drone. “Also, troops neutralized scores of terrorist arrests, 22 terrorist spies, 11 terrorists, three logistics suppliers, rescued 30 civilians, of significant, is the surrendered of a high-profile terrorist, Commander Sale Mustapha (Ibin Kathir) to own troops in Bama. “He was the Qaid of Garin Ba-Abba. While a total of 51,114 Boko Haram Terrorist and families surrendered to troops comprising of 11,398 men, 15,381 women, 24,335 children as at 5th April 2022.” Accordingly, Onyeuko noted that all surrendered terrorists have been documented, while arrested, rescued civilians and recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action. Within the period under review, General Onyeuko added that troops of Operation Thunder Strike recorded some modest success as the air component on 30th March 2022 conducted airstrikes upon receiving credible intelligence report about the movements of some terrorists on motorbikes towards Akilibu – Sarkin Pawa road at Mangoro village, between Kaduna and Niger State. According to him, “The air component intercepted and neutralized scores of the terrorists. Accordingly, 34 terrorists were neutralized while 14 locally fabricated guns and 17 motorcycles were recovered. “All recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary action. Also, on 31st March 2022, a large concentration of terrorists were sighted around Kusatsu after deliberate air surveillance and air interdiction was carried no fewer than 33 terrorists were neutralized according to an eyewitness account.” He further stated that “On 23rd March 2022, the Nigerian Navy recorded a milestone in the indigenous systematic survey and charting of our offshore waters. The commencement of the indigenous survey and is necessary to support the Federal Government’s economic diversification initiative through maritime security, maritime trade and transport. “The indigenous surveying and charting will also lead to safety on our waters and boost the confidence of mariners. With this achievement, Nigeria has joined the elite group of chart producing nations in the world. “Hitherto Nigeria sourced its charts from Europe. Prior to this time all the navigational survey and charts was surveyed and charted by the United Kingdom Hydrographic office. “Some of them were conducted as back as 1938. Furthermore, the Nigerian Navy took delivery of a new Ship NNS KADA. The change of flag was carried out in UAE by the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Naval Staff.” The Ship, Onyeuko said is billed to stop over in five ports for flag show before it berths in Nigeria. “With the acquisition of this Landing Ship Tank (LST) it will give more impetus for aggressive combat patrol, policing and other duties in our coastal waters by the Nigerian Navy,” he said.