Alavaro Morata has reportedly given Arsenal a ‘sharp no’ after the Gunners doubled down on their attempts to sign the former Chelsea striker. The need for a new striker is clear at Arsenal with Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah set to follow Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang out of the Emirates exit door at the end of the season. The Gunners tried and failed to bring in a forward during January, with Aubamayng allowed to leave for Barcelona following a turbulent final few months in north London. The likes of Dusan Vlahovic and Alexander Isak were linked with Arsenal, while reports on deadline day suggested they made a late play for Spain international Morata, which was snubbed by the player himself. The 29-year-old is currently with Juventus having signed a two-year loan deal from Atletico Madrid in 2020. Despite Vlahovic’s arrival in Turin, Morata remains a staple in Max Allegri’s side and has 11 goals in all competitions. The Old Lady would like to keep Morata in Italy beyond the end of the season, but are unwilling to pay the €30m quoted to sign him permanently. As far as the Bianconeri are concerned, they have already outplayed around €20m in bringing him to the club for two years and believe they should now pay no more than another €15m to acquire him long-term. Il Corriere dello Sport via Football Italia, claim that the Gunners are willing to pay around £25m for Morata, who endured a difficult time in the Premier League with London rivals Chelsea between 2017 and 2020. And La Stampa, as relayed by Sport Witness, suggest that he has no intention of a return to English football. La Stampa add that Emirates bosses have made contact with Atleti chiefs and are happy to pay more than even the initial clause in Juve’s loan deal. However, Morata would rather stay at Juventus than return to a country where he was ‘left in the dark’ and is said to have given the offer a ‘sharp no’. Arteta, who has Arsenal firmly in the battle for a top-four finish, has told supporters that he anticipates another summer overhaul, having completely reshaped his playing squad in the window last year. When asked if he expects another hectic summer window, Arteta said earlier this month: “I am expecting so, yes. POLL “I think both competitions [the Champions League and Europa League] require a much larger squad because the amount of games you play is much bigger in both, so I don’t think [which you qualify for] makes a lot of difference or changes a lot. “If you can financially afford it and we don’t have to do the turnaround in the squad that we’ve had to do, if you ask me what I want it’s 22 outfield players and three goalkeepers. You have to come a long way in the aspects that you see on the pitch, it’s a lot of things that have to be put in place, and that takes time”