The Inspector-General of Po­lice, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, last week deployed CP Abutu Yaro to head Edo State Police Command. Abutu was among four Commissioners of Police (CPs) deployed to state commands. They are Edo, Kaduna, Imo and Adamawa commands. CP Sikiru Akande Kayode, CP Yekini Adio Ayoku and CP Mohammed Ahmed Barde to head the Adamawa, Kaduna and Imo State Police Com­mands respectively. CP Abutu Yaro, the new Commissioner of Police, Edo State Police Command, said he “will ensure hoodlums, especially kidnappers hiber­nate from Edo State or face police fire as long as l remain in charge of the police com­mand.” He and was posted to Imo State at the time the state was on fire, experiencing high lev­el of criminality resulting in burning of police stations and killing of several policemen almost on daily basis. The attackers were suspect­ed to ethnic militias and mem­bers of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) . Killings of policemen and burning down po­lice of stations were so rampant and un­bearable that some policemen sought transfer from lmo State. However, when Abutu Yari arrived lmo there was san­ity. He successfully curbed their men­ace. Even the state police headquar­ters in Owerri, was attempted by the armed hoodlums but CP Yaro personally lead sev­eral operations at night to their hideouts and botched plans of attacks on police stations. POLL Several SUV cars, large cache of arms and ammuni­tion were recovered from the militias, while many of them fell by police superior power some were arrested and jailed. He told criminals in Edo State, “if you fail to turn a new leaf l will treat you with the dex­terity and prowess with which l curbed excesses of hoodlums and brought sanity to lmo State when the state was under siege by hoodlums. “ Yaro holds a B.A. (Hons) from the Ahmadu Bello Univer­sity, Zaria. CP Abutu Yaro is a fellow of Defence College. He was appointed to the Nigeria Police Force as a Cadet Assis­tant Superintendent of Police in 1988. He has served in various su­pervisory capacities within the Nigeria Police Force, including as Commissioner of Police in charge of Zamfara and Imo state Police Commands re­spectively. Until his recent appoint­ment, he was CP Force Provost Marshal, Force Headquarters, Abuja.