ABUJA – Shehu Sani, the Senator representing Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate and Ahmed Aminu Yar’Adua, the cousin of former President, Musa Yar’Adua, on Wednesday picked the expression of interest and nomination form to contest the Kaduna and Katsina states governorship election. While Sanni vowed to make it impossible for terrorists to operate in the state if he becomes the governor next year, Yar’Adua lamented that the gains made by the PDP in Katsina State have been wiped away by the incompetence of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Addressing newsmen shortly after picking the form in Abuja, Sanni lamented that Kaduna has never been more divided along religious lines than it is today. Insisting that the state needs a leader, who can address the issue of bandits and terrorists, the former lawmaker noted that only justice, equity and fairness could unite the people, as the state has seriously been divided under Governor Nasir el-Rufai-led All Progressives Congress (APC). According to Sani, there is no terrorism and banditry in Kano and Jigawa because “the governments are proactive,” wondering why Kaduna’s case is different. He said: “We cannot continue to fold our hands while the government is helpless. We must unite the people against terror. “Kaduna has never been more divided along religious lines than it is today. Only justice, equity and fairness will unite the country. If governor’s formula was working, he could have united the people.” He further lamented that the North-West has become a haven for terrorists, disclosing that, “our people sell their houses, farmlands to pay bandits. Where is government?” POLL Also addressing newsmen after picking his governorship form, Yar’Adua noted that one side of the state is not accessible because of the activities of bandits and terrorists. Disclosing that he’s contesting for the third time, Yar’Adua, who is a cousin to the later President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, said, “all of you are aware of the insecurity situation in the state. Right now, one side of our state is not accessible, and most of it is due to the incompetence of the administration. “So, we believe when we come in, we will make a difference. The party has made a difference. The leadership of the party has made a difference, and I’ve been part of that progress we recorded from 1999 to 2015 when we lost the election, due to, I can say, emotion. That’s why we lost the election. Not because of poor performance.” He further said: “On the issue of our party taking over the state, I don’t know whether you have been to Katsina State. The 2019 election was just a joke. Actually, it was the PDP that won Katsina State. It is about performance. “Yes. The President (Muhammadu Buhari) is from Katsina. But it was PDP that was in power. We contested the election with him in 2003. We won. He was there, under ANPP, I believe. So, if you go to the state now you will see what’s going on. A local government election is coming up soon.  I believe next week. Maybe some of your colleagues in the state can tell you what is going to happen. “Unless they write the results, it will be PDP which will take over. We may have an incumbent party, but we were incumbent once, but we lost. “So, they will lose again. Because it’s about what the people believe we can do. We can do better, much, much better. We have competent people around us. PDP is a party. The APC is not a party. It’s just a collection of people aspiring for something and they have got it, now they’ve lost it or they will lose it. So, we believe we can.” On negotiating with bandits, which the Governor Aminu Masari administration had tried, Yar’Adua dismissed the initiative, saying that it had not worked. He said: “Has the negotiation of Aminu Masari gotten us anything? What it got is more and more terrorism. The bottom line of this banditry is the total neglect of governance. Are you aware that for the last several years, there is no local government election in Katsina? “So, you can see that the root of governance in Katsina is not there anymore. Simple, basic local government is not existing in Katsina. “Now, all these issues of banditry is the issue of poverty, neglect, and so many things which convoluted often to bring this banditry. But first, in governance, that is no local government agency for the last seven years. That one now they’re arranging next week, we call it arrangement because we believe if there is a fair election that our party will take over. “Now, back to banditry. It is the issue of total neglect, not only in governance but also in the approach to governance itself. When there is no local government, you can see what’s happening. What’s happening is that they’re only sending these administrators to go part-time, go in the morning and go back to their local government. But if you have an elected representative, people know their reps. “They are their own representatives. They know the local people. The local district heads and the local chiefs, they all know who is there. “The people who are doing banditry, they are part of us. The Fulanis, part Fulanis, the Hausas, we have been there for decades and centuries. But this happens because there is total neglect and disconnect between the people and government.”