The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command has arrested two former staff of Legend Interiors Limited accused of counterfeiting Isolem and Permolite paints of their former employer. The Command’s Spokesperson, DSP Josephine Adeh in a statement to Daily Independent, said, they were arrested on the 10th March 2022, following an official complaint by the Chief Executive Officer, Legend Interiors Limited through a petition addressed to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP). According to DSP Adeh, the petition alleged that Princewill Okechukwu, male and Moses Nkamanka, male were staff of the petitioner’s organization before they opted to resign their appointments and opened their own company known as Exquite Designs and Syndep International and began the production of substandard Isolem and permolite paints bringing a new partner by the name Efe Itua on board. “The complainant, who is the sole importer and distributor of the paint in West Africa narrated how the illegal activities of his formal staff members have led to the circulation of substandard paint products of his company, hence sabotaging the economy and defrauding innocent citizens. “Consequent upon the above, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command was tasked to carry out investigations of the allegation. Police investigations led to the arrest of the three suspects here. The Command is concluding investigations on the matter and the suspects would be arraigned in court on the completion of investigations.” Similarly, the Command also arrested two notorious ‘one chance’ armed robbery suspects and recovered the victims’ valuables and the suspect’s operational weapons. DSP Adeh revealed that, on the 5th of April, 2022, upon the receipt of actionable intelligence about the ongoing operation of an armed robbery syndicate perpetrating their dastardly acts in a popular style known as ‘One chance’ using a tricycle, the Utako Divisional Police Headquarters of the Command was swiftly mobilized into action in a concerted effort with Locals in the area, giving the fleeing miscreants a hot chase. “In the process, the duo of Sani Abdullahi and Abdul Idris both 19 years old Male residents of Gashew Garden Of Wuye area of the FCT were arrested. POLL “The arrest of the suspects is particularly a huge achievement to the command as the suspects have been on the wanted list of the command for their involvement in a series of once chance crimes in the FCT. “The Victim, while appreciating the Police for the prompt response that led to the recovery of her valuables and the arrest of the suspects, narrated her ordeal explaining that the suspects had earlier picked her up in a yellow tricycle tagged DAL 1708 but without a registration number along Wuye road, Striped her off all her valuables and threw her out of the fast-moving tricycle. “The suspects upon arrest were found in possession of various knives they had used in causing bodily injuries to the victim and valuables belonging to the victim. When interrogated, the suspects revealed to the Police that they have been in the criminal practice for quite a while. The suspects would be arraigned for prosecution on completion of investigations. The Commissioner of Police, while appreciating residents for their constructive display of Community Policing values, urged members of the public to desist from boarding unregistered vehicles, especially in unapproved parks. “He charged them not to relent in supporting the Police with timely, and accurate information. “As usual, the Command urges the good people of the FCT to remain vigilant and report any suspicious or abnormal occurrence to the Police through the following emergency lines: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653, and 08028940883, While the Public Complaint Bureau (PCB) desk, could be reached on: 0902 222 2352,”