As Abe Faction Declares Event As Insensitive PORT HARCOURT – After weeks of speculations, Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, on Saturday finally declared his ambition to contest for the President of Nigeria in 2023 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Amaechi made the declaration in what was initially tagged a “thanksgiving service” at the sprawling Adokie Amesiemieka sports stadium in Igwuruta area of Rivers state. Speaking in the speech titled “Forward With Courage”, the minister said that his aspiration is not about fulfilling any personal ambition but “I am contesting for office because I believe that it is my moral duty to give what I can in the service of my country”. He noted that to sustain and intensify present efforts at solving the national problems, “our democracy must ensure the emergence of a leadership that is equipped with broad experience in governance to ensure stability and continuity. To sustain our democracy and preserve our unity, we need a steady hand and a passion for success in a nation that remains united to pursue prosperity for all Nigerians. Amaechi added that it is this combination of experience and patriotic passion that he will bring to the table, adding that he has been in the political arena for 23 years. “I have served at every level of government – local, state, and federal. I have served both as a political appointee and an elected official. I have served both as an executive – as Governor of Rivers State and as a legislator – as Speaker of the State House of Assembly. “In these capacities, I did not just fill vacant posts. As a Speaker, I managed the legislative process during a difficult transition from military rule. As Governor, I defeated mercantile militancy and restored security. As a minister, I can modestly claim to have justified the trust of Nigerians. “Today, I stand as an aspirant to the position of President because of that same passion for people; that same drive for results. More than ever before, I am burning with the zeal to make a decisive difference in the lives of all Nigerians. No matter the darts and arrows that come my way, I will remain steadfast because the stakes are too high. We cannot afford to fail. We cannot afford to veer off-course. POLL “I pledge my heart, mind and soul to the task of building a Nigeria in which every child can go to school, every young person can find work or support to start a business, every citizen can travel safely around the country and sleep at night knowing that law and order prevail and every Nigerian feels included, heard, and respected. The road ahead will be long and arduous. But we go forward with faith, Amaechi declared. Speaking earlier, the Governor of Plateau state and chairman Northern Governors Forum, Solomon Lalong said that the north was very comfortable with Amaechi, adding that he was shocked to see the crowd that attended the event haven been told that there was no APC in Rivers state. “This is just a small takeoff from Rivers state. The journey started here seven years ago. When we were told in television that there was no APC in Rivers state, I am shocked to see this crowd here today. My prayer today is that let the will of God be done”. The event was greeted with utter condemnation by the Senator Magnus Abe faction of the APC in the state as the state coordinator of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, BAT, support group, Rivers state chapter, Chief Tonye Okocha described the event as “insensitive” giving the recent unfortunate terrorists attack Abuja bound train from Kaduna in which several persons were killed and about 167 still in captivity. “Have not been vindicated? Thanksgiving as décor for declaration of presidential ambition. Where is humanity in Amaechi? He is still a minister of Transportation, Nigeria. No less than 8 innocent Nigerians are dead.”