Once upon a time, two Kolade brothers, indigenes of Ikare, Ondo State, found out that ink and toner cartridges constitute environmental hazards in Nigeria. It then occurred to them that these electronic waste could be turned to gold. And they swung into action. Olamide Kolade and Damilola Kolade, brothers and Diaspora Nigerians, came home with a franchise from Cartridge World to recycle empty printer cartridges. They came home to turn waste to wealth. Cartridge World is the world’s largest dedicated specialty retailer of ink and toner printer cartridges founded in Adelaide, Australia in 1988. The business The business primarily involves refilling of cartridges. Cartridge World refills ink and toner cartridges, for less than the price that you buy your original cartridges – all kinds of cartridges, all the major brands – Cannon, HP, Sharp, Lexmark, Dell, etc. Olamide said Cartridge World has unequalled expertise in refilling cartridges. Their business strategy is to sell refilled cartridges. They do that essentially to reduce cost and to reduce landfill in the environment. Environmental waste management is a big problem in Nigeria, especially electronic environmental waste. They do not have the capacity to create special incinerators. Electronic wastes therefore constitute environmental hazards – ink going directly into land; and the plastics which take a long time to degrade. And overtime you can imagine how much cartridges we use in Nigeria. This is already a problem. This is a major reason why the Kolades decided to go into the cartridge refill business. It is something that will save businesses money and protect the environment. Cartridge business in Nigeria The cartridge business in Nigeria is quite huge. They felt it would be a good idea to do cartridge refilling business here. In Nigeria business men spend quite a lot on their printer consumables. So they decided to research a bit further, did some research on line to find out if refill cartridges were good, whether they could be used. They found out that there was quite a good market for cartridge market in Nigeria. But the problem was that a lot of people in Nigeria were doing it illegally. They were not going through the right processes. They researched further and brought in some equipment to start a refilling operation in Nigeria. But after further research Olamide and Damilola realized that they would need not just the equipment but the expertise also to carry out this process. So they decided to contact Cartridge World, a franchise that has been in operation for over 25 years and has had more than 10 years expertise in cartridge refilling. They contacted them for about a year, and they were quite interested in coming into Nigeria. POLL Nature of the franchise Cartridge World gave the Kolade brothers the licence to operate Cartridge World in Nigeria. Other than that, they also have the master franchise right. “What this means”, according to Olamide, “is that we are the only company licensed to run a complete Cartridge World franchise in Nigeria.” “Anyone who wants to open a Cartridge World franchise in Nigeria will have to get the licence from us. They will open what we call a sub franchise. But what we plan to do is open our own stores and sell sub franchises as well. The parent company takes 3 percent of turnover.” Challenges From their marketing stand point, market research in Nigeria is more of an individual thing because access to information in Nigeria is a difficult thing. So the Kolades do not have enough primary information and so have got to go out there to scout for information – information on the type of printer that is available, what type of cartridges they use. They want to cater for a wide range of printers so in doing that they need to get information on them. This is a challenge. In the industrialized world, things like these are taken for granted. There will be a bureau for printers where you can get whatever information you need on. The Kolades’ challenge is that the business runs on empty cartridges. So without these empties operations will be stalled. So the main challenge that they have is sourcing empties. People treat empties like trash, they throw them away. In the process, some of them get damaged; some of them get completely dried up. So they have to use as many channels as possible to source for empties. It takes a longer time to process empties sourced from dustbins for reasons of contamination and drying up of ink and toner. But there appears to be a reprieve since there are quite a lot of companies who do not throw away their empties. Some of them sell them to brokers. There is a whole market that is structured around that. You find them in Computer Village, Ali Street junction in Lagos and a lot of other places.