LAGOS – Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has called on the national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu to urgently address the reasons why some members of the party in Kwara who are his loyalists defected to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) last week. While also calling on the decampees to return to APC , the Minister in a statement on Tuesday said nothing will make him leave the party for another party.He admitted that the defected APC members are genuinely aggrieved owing to the manner they were treated by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazak despite the role they played in the victory of the party in the 2029 elections. The statement reads “My attention has been drawn to media reports on the alleged defection of some of my supporters in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). “I wish to state categorically that despite the fact that the supporters are genuinely aggrieved at the way and manner they have been treated by the Kwara State Governor and his supporters, against the backdrop of their immeasurable contributions to the massive victory of our party in the state in 2019, leaving the party is notthe solution”. “We have taken the grievances of our supporters to the highest level of our party, and we have cause to believe that everything will be done to address the grievances and unite the party ahead of the 2023 elections. “I am therefore appealing to those who may have left to reconsider their stand and return to their natural habitat. ”On my part, as a founding member of the APC, as someone who has toiledendlessly to build the party and as one who has worked withstakeholders to deliver Kwara State to the APC, leaving the party isnot an option. I am a bonafide member of the APC and I have nointention of leaving the party”. “All through my political career, I have always remained loyal to anyparty in which I have found myself. That is not about to change now. I want to use this opportunity to once again call on the leadership ofour party to urgently and decisively address the issues that haveforced some members of our party in Kwara to contemplate leaving the party”.