The aspirants for the Federal House of Representatives, Ibadan South East/North-East Federal Constituency, stakeholders and leaders under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have finally resolved to go into primary as reaching consensus failed. Daily Indepedent gathered that a series of meetings held on Monday at Ambassador Arapaja’s house failed to yield a positive result as all parties involved failed to reach a consensus before opting for Governor Seyi Makinde and the Deputy National Chairman (South), Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja’s verdict on the conduct of the primary. According to the directive from Governor Makinde, anywhere they failed to agree on a consensus, they should go for a primary, adding that the governor emphasized that he would provide a level playing ground at the primary. Those at the meeting include Engr Suleiman (World best), PDP Chairman Ibadan South-East; Chief Banjo (IBSE PDP Vice-Chairman); Akeem Alarape (IBSE PDP Financial Secretary); Alhaja Kemi (IBSE PDP Women leader); Aare Ajibi (IBSE PDP Youth Leader) and Pastor Emmanuel Alawode (IBSE LG Chairman). Others were Hon Biodun Adedoja (Ekolo), former IBSE LG Chairman; Hon Popoola (Former Chairman IBSE LG); Hon Fatai Adesina, former state House of Assembly Member; Alhaji Yusuf, (former IBSE PDP Chairman); Mogaji Abass Oloko, (PDP Leader); Alhaji Inakoju, (Former House of Assembly) member; Hon Fadipe (Former House of Assembly Member); Alhaji Yekini Atoyebi (PDP Leader); Alhaji Hassan (PDP Leader); Pastor Adegoke (PDP Leader); Baba Olaoti (PDP Leader) and others. The aspirants present at the meeting where they could not reach a compromise on consensus and opt for primary include a United Kingdom-based Nigerian medical consultant, Kazeem Sina Olasupo popularly known as KSO, Akeem Ige, Deji Aboderin, Laide Ali and others. The aspirants after a meeting at Ambassador Arapaja’s house on Monday afternoon agreed that the leadership of the party should allow them to test their popularity based on their political antecedents. The aspirants also pledged their support for whoever emerges as the party’s candidate provided such is a product of primary election which is the wishes of all members of the party and tenet of the democratic setting. POLL After the meeting at Arapaja’s house, in the evening they proceeded to the government house to brief the governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde the outcome of their meeting. At the government house, it was gathered that Governor Makinde emphatically told them that so far they could not agree on consensus, he has given his consent to go for primary. It was also gathered that the governor told them point-blank that he has no anointed candidate, that all of them should go to the field to test their popularity, which is the beauty of democracy. While pledging their support for Governor Makinde, they thanked him for giving them the nod to go to the field to exercise their popularity. “In as much as we cannot agree on a consensus arrangement, we want to thank Governor Makinde and Ambassador Arapaja for allowing the wishes of the people to prevail because the governor himself is a product of democracy”. Speaking after the meeting, a leader and stalwart of the party from Ibadan South East, Alhaji Tiamiyu Abidikugu disclosed that Governor Seyi Makinde during the meeting at the Government House told all the stakeholders that, where all the aspirants failed to give their consent on consensus, they should go to the primary. He applauded Governor Makinde for allowing the tenet of democracy to reign supreme, saying with this act, the PDP will be victorious at the 2023 general elections. Abidikugu maintained that after the meeting at the deputy national chairman’s house, the aspirants, leaders and stakeholders on Monday evening proceeded to the government house to brief the Governor on the outcome of the Arapaja’s house meeting where they could not agree on a consensus,  hence the need for a primary. He noted that Governor Makinde and Ambassador Arapaja have given their consent on the conduct of primary after they failed to reach a consensus. He maintained that the governor told them that he has no anointed candidate but that all aspirants should go to primary when they couldn’t agree on a consensus. Abidikugu disclosed further that the Governor assured them of a level playing ground during the primary. He maintained that considering the order from the Governor and the deputy national chairman, South, they are awaiting the date for the primary.