LAGOS – Stanbic IBTC Asset Management, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, has charted a new course for real estate investment in Nigeria. The financial institution was appointed to manage a real estate investment trust scheme, UPDC REIT, as confirmed by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) in May 2021. The UPDC Real Estate Investment Trust (UPDC REIT) was listed on the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) in year 2008. The fund manager, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management, was bestowed with the responsibility to implement the closed-ended fund’s investment strategy and other related activities. Since it took up management of the REIT, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management focused efforts on improving the operational and governance structure of the REIT to form the bedrock for improved performance. Likewise, an investor relation was prioritised with the presentation of a ‘Fact Behind the Figures’ session on the NGX in December 2021. These measures had been sustained. It would be recalled that the company recently announced the 2021 audited financial result for the UPDC REIT. The result showed that there were significant rooms for improvement in the largest REIT in Nigeria. The Fund Manager’s analysis highlighted two critical reasons for the decline recorded. One was the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on commercial properties within the portfolio which contributed over 60% of the portfolio’s rental income, and the other was the effect of portfolio revaluation, in view of market realities, which resulted in a 19% decline. POLL The REIT’s rental income in 2021 declined to NGN1.26 billion, compared with NGN1.57 billion generated in the previous year. The decline was underpinned by reduced occupancy level, which was due to remote working strategies adopted by many corporates in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, due to delayed recovery of rental income from some tenants who struggled to bounce back from the impact of COVID-19 on their businesses, a NGN141 million impairment charge was booked. A fair value loss of NGN5.04 billion was taken on the investment properties because the REIT’s properties were revaluated to fulfil regulatory requirements. Thus, the REIT recorded a loss before tax of NGN4.48 billion from the positive of NGN1.93 billion in the prior year. As the spread of the pandemic waned, the Fund Manager was optimistic that outstanding rental fees would be recovered, and the demand for commercial office spaces would improve as more firms returned to work in office premises.