In fact what we are witnessing is one of the theatrics of the Brettonwood institutions, a product of the Centre-periphery structure of the world economy- an arrangement which makes the South, that is the developing countries of which Nigeria is part, to be perpetually tied to the apron string of the North – the industrialized countries. Why is the IMF/World Bank through its stooges saying that the Ajaokuta Steel Plant is not viable? Steel is viable in the West but it is not viable in Africa – what a laughable thinking. Foundry products plants When our steel industry is comatose, the crippling effect is felt in the foundry products plants. These and other fabricating firms are meant to feed the oil industry. Currently, local plants engaged in the manufacture of foundry products are close to being shut down as Chinese and Taiwanese manufactured foundry products flood Nigerian market unchecked. Companies such as Modern Foundry Products Limited (MFP) and Nigerian Foundry Products Limited are currently a ghost of their former status, our investigation has revealed. The costs of production of products manufactured locally far outstrip market prices of the imported ones. Large percentage of staffers has been laid off and products are now manufactured on orders, an arrangement which does not give these companies hope of survival. Local Content Place this against the Federal government’s aspiration to achieve 70 per cent local content in the oil and gas sector by 2010 you begin to wonder whether this aspiration is feasible. L. Chinedu Arizona Ogwu, founder, Nigeria4betterRule in his study titled “The Challenging Limelight of Nigeria’s Technology” threw more light on this subject. For him, Nigeria provides a classic case of a developing country where despite the presence of a wide institutional infrastructure for producing trained manpower, generating new knowledge and providing science and technology (S&T) services, the industry became increasingly dependent on foreign technologies ever since the economy became liberalized under ex-president Obasanjo’s regime. Said he, “The Federal Government’s aspiration to achieve 70 per cent local content in the oil and gas sector by 2010 may not be feasible, following alleged poor compliance with the guidelines governing the Local Content policy by most International Oil Companies (IOCs) operating in the country.” The Nigerian local content policy was initiated by the Olusegun Obasanjo administration to help develop local capacity building in the Nigerian oil and gas sector, with a view to ensuring that Nigerians participate actively in the operations in the sector. The government directed oil companies operating in the country to commence in-country fabrication of equipment as well as other major components used in oil exploration. The government had reasoned that the implementation of the content policy would serve as a means of dissuading capital flight – and thus aspired that 45 per cent of total contractual jobs in the industry had to be done in Nigeria and 70 per cent of the jobs done in-country by 2010. The local content initiatives undertaken to create an enabling environment for increased Nigerians involvement in the country’s economy included reforms in oil and gas industrial policy and relevant legislation, adoption of transparent procedures for granting permission to set up industrial units, adoption of liberal sectored policies in consonance with overall economic policy and establishment of institutions supportive to the private initiatives. POLL R&D Arizona Ogwu argued, “The investment Nigeria is making in R&D is one of the lowest in the world. In 2005-2006, R&D outlay was 0.77 per cent of our GDP. The comparable figures for U.S. (and even South Korea ) are 2.6 per cent and for China 1.3 per cent. Of the total expenditure on R&D, government funding was 31 per cent in U.S., 30 per cent in China, 25 per cent in South Korea and 75 per cent in Nigeria. Steel Industry Mess Godwin A. Adeogba, a steel engineer and research analyst, based in Abuja did a robust critic of the Ajaokuta and allied industry mess. Said he, “The ill-timed, lopsided and politically-motivated development of Aladja Steel plant and the inland rolling mills at Osogbo, Jos and Katsina, instead of first, concentrating upon and completing all infrastructure and logistic network for enabling the entire industry in conformity with the integrated plan contributed to frustrating the plan. So did the deliberate dismantling of the integrated concept of the Ajaokuta Steel project by first separating some aspects (particularly of the civil works) from the TPE Contract to contractors from other countries considered more favourable and well suited to Western interests.” For him, “Ajaokuta Steel Plant and Itakpe Ore Plant both form the real ‘spinal cord’ of Nigeria’s basic industrial development and must be accorded that recognition…” He argued, “It should be noted that General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) is aimed at increasing trade in services globally without necessarily ensuring social equity or elevated quality of life as have already been achieved in developed economies where Synergy of Infrastructure, Logistics & Technology (SILT) is prevalent, continually sustained and geared for enhancement. We will never have a grip on our oil and gas sector with the kind of neglect that our iron and steel industry is currently subjected to.