ABUJ – The governor of Bau­chi State and pres­idential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bala Mohammed, has warned that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is going into self anni­hilation and should not be taken for granted. Mohammed, who gave this warning in Abuja on Tuesday night and Wednes­day afternoon, when he held consultative meetings with the Forum of Former Min­isters and National Working Committee of PDP, also dis­closed that former President Goodluck Jonathan has not made up his mind to run for 2023 presidency. Daring the Economic and Financial Crimes Commis­sion (EFCC) to persecute them if they have any evi­dence, Mohammed explained that the consensus move was about getting the best and de-emphasising zoning, sec­tional sectionalism, etc. The Bauchi State governor said that if elected president he would run a knowledge driven administration and do away with exclusion, division and sectionalism. He said: “As I said, this country is passing through a moment that we have to real­ly pause and do a lot. We need ourselves. We need this fo­rum. We need all the resource persons in this country. “APC has destroyed every­thing. They are moving towards self-annihilation. You can see them copying us even at our convention. The way we did our zoning and transfers, even now the consensus is that they are beginning to read the idea and I want to say we should not take them for granted. “They have destroyed the economy. They have destroyed the country. They are more afraid of accountability than us. All of us stood our ground and faced them in the court or in EFCC and we are daring them to do whatever they can do to persecute us, if they have any evidence against us but they cannot afford that. “The nation is no longer there as we left it. The nation is in pieces. There are names, Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba, Itsekiri anything within the context of Nigeria, but Nigeria is no longer there under APC. POLL “They have destroyed ev­erything. Our focus on mak­ing Nigeria first should be started here because this is where you have people with the knowledge, with the mod­esty and understanding of the country.” On Jonathan, Bala said: “You remember I told you all that if our boss, President Jonathan is running I will not run not because I am in­ferior, but because of loyalty. I came to national limelight through him and I believe he has done so much. And I said that in any party, even if he’s running in APGA or any­where, I will not run because I will not be joining issues with him.