ReelFruit, Temploy, and Made Culture have partnered to launch the ReelSkills for Agribusiness initiative designed to train 1000 youths on technical and soft skills demanded by Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) within the Agri-processing sector in Nigeria. The programme was launched to solve the unemployment issue in the Agri-processing sector in the country. The initiative funded by the Netherlands Government under the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment (CFYE) programme is a training and job-matching program designed to equip Senior Secondary Certificate of Education (SSCE) holders and Ordinary National Diploma (OND) between the ages of 18 – 35-years with skills in Food Safety and Processing, Digital Sales and Marketing. Affiong Williams, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, ReelFruit, while speaking during a virtual media parley said that, “having realised that the Agri-processing sector offers enormous opportunities, we are thrilled to have partnered with Temploy and Made Culture on this initiative that will enable us not only to build potentials but also offers us the opportunity to equip young Nigerians who have the interest to grow this sector. “We are committed to building the Agri-processing sector and creating opportunities for young people. We believe that we can build and support more entrepreneurs within this sector through this initiative and we are happy to have kicked off this initiative that will transform the processing and manufacturing ecosystem,” she said. Also, Juyin Benson, Chief Executive Officer, Temploy Nigeria, said: “Temploy is delighted to be collaborating with ReelFruit and Made Culture to build the capacity of young Nigerians. “We are devoted to recruiting, training and equipping 1000 youths within Lagos and Ogun state over the next three years with digital and technical skills that will prepare them for a career in the Agri-processing sector”. Malaika Toyo, Founder & Principal Director of Made Culture, said: “I believe passionately in using small-to-medium enterprises as skills development hubs for youth. In our quest to tackle Nigeria’s unemployment crisis, we hope to articulate the needs of the labour market to inform how we can provide lifelong learning skills that will improve the lives of young Nigerians.” POLL She added that the first batch of trainees were selected based on their availability, qualification as an OND or SSCE holder, and desire to begin a career in the Agri-processing sector, have officially been trained and are keen on embarking on the job-matching and a lifelong career in Agri-processing. She added that application for the next cohort is ongoing.