I promised last Saturday to continue this series on Nigeria’s Super Eagles World Cup miss as a blessing in disguise. Having discussed the need to take this opportunity to reorganize the domestic league in the first series a fortnight ago and then devote time to training and retraining of our coaches, in the second series last Saturday, today, in the third of the series, I will dwell on another important feature of Nigerian football that has been relegated to the background. I concluded last Saturday that qualifying for the World Cup would have masked the unenviable, palatable and deplorable state of Nigerian football, vis-à-vis the Nigeria Professional Football League and the other football leagues in the country, the women leagues inclusive. The saying that he who feels it knows it best explains the parlous state of Nigerian football and the pains that the footballers, the main actors, are subjected to on daily basis in the league. However, the important feature that needs to be discussed today is facilities, if you like, you can add equipment to it. According to Prof. I. O. Oladipo of the Department of Human Kinetics, Faculty of Education, University of Ibadan, Ibadan Nigeria, “Sports facilities are enclosed areas of sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, billiard halls, bowling alleys, and other similar places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic competition.” These facilities, according to him, are fixed non-moveable, static, permanent long life span materials used in sports. Since this column is about Nigerian football and not Nigerian sports, though they are interwoven, I will limit myself to facilities that pertain to football only. POLL Football facilities are mainly stadiums, training pitches, and the equipment needed to train players, coaches inclusive. Also for a good team to be able to prepare its players and be in excellent condition week in week out, there is need to have outdoor pitches, indoor pitches, the gym, swimming pool complex, player recovery centre, manager’s office, players’ changing room, common room, canteen, opposition preparation room, meeting room, washing facilities, boot room among others. For these facilities to serve the purpose(s) for which they are meant for means they should be well planned, designed and constructed to meet the approved standard requirements for competition, and also must be maintained at all times. A well-planned and constructed facility will respect building principles, which should reflect maintenance needs, traffic and movement patterns, programme needs, supervision, safety and healthful environment. However this is one of the problems in this country. Stadiums are constructed without due consideration to the environment and maintenance needs, traffic and movement patters, safety concerns. Several stadiums were built without consideration as to how to evacuate fans, leading to chaotic scenes being witnessed every time a major football is played. This problem has contributed in no small measure to why several high profile personalities stay away from watching football because of safety concerns. And these personalities who have the capacity to invest in Nigerian football prefer to say aloof or distance themselves from the game. Also several of these stadiums are substandard because they lack some inputs that will make them serve the purposes for which they were built. Several of the stadiums are better described as political edifices and not football stadiums. The available facilities, which are grossly inadequate in the first instance, are in a very deplorable state. They’ve been deliberately left to rotten, because of I don’t care attitude to government properties in this country. This I don’t care attitude has become the rule rather than the exception as it is aiding and abetting the perpetration of frauds as funds earmarked fore the repairs of such edifices have found there way into private pockets. A good example is the National Stadium Lagos and the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja that were left to rotten away on the pretence that funds were not budgeted for the maintenance of the facilities. The importance of modern facilities and equipment in the development of players cannot be overemphasized since having the right quality and quantity of football facilities and equipment is an in tegral part of football development. To a great extent, the high disparity in football facilities and equipment between developing countries and developed ones is one of the reasons for the disparity in quality of football and footballers between developed and developing nations. In the developed world, football facilities and equipment of the appropriate standard are available which enhance the development players’ performance. There is therefore no reason to deny the fact that one of the reasons why developing country as Nigeria lag behind in football development is the near absence of quality football facilities. This explains why many Nigerian footballers witness improve in performance when they join European clubs since they are exposed to quality facility and equipment that help in unleashing their potentials. While developed countries are daily providing excellent facilities, and even researching into how to improve the use of these facilities and also provide conducive environment for their footballers, Nigeria pays little or no attention to the provision of facilities. This explains why Nigeria experience exodus of players to European countries since that is where their talents would be developed. There is no way football can develop in the country in the absence of modern facilities and inadequate equipment for use of footballers. With footballers discovered early in life and put through the fundamentals of football, the absence of such in the country is a big cog in the wheel of football development and this is why the country has to rely solely on Europe in the development of its players.