LAGOS – Chain Reactions Nigeria celebrates its 15th anniversary, as the Chief Strategist, and Public Relations guru,  Israel Jaiye Opayemi hinted of a new direction of the company which will bring huge positive technological disruptions in their service delivery. Before his address yesterday at the event, which was witnessed by a  mammoth crowd Opayemi called for a minute of silence for those that lost their lives during the senseless terrorist train attack in Kaduna-Abuja bound train. He maintained that the day’s event was not just an anniversary celebration, but it was also a watershed in the continuous march of Chain Reactions towards growth and impact on businesses. He spoke about the journey of Chain Reactions in the past 15 years, while also commending every person that has contributed to the success story. According to him, there is a God factor in their every achievement. “When I look back at the last 15 years, it hasn’t done to me how long the journey has been until someone asked me and said, in a volatile environment where start-ups and businesses die before the age of five, how have you done it? However, I can’t ascribe the credit to myself, but just to say, there is a God factor in all we have achieved, and it calls for celebration for the resilient spirit of Nigeria. Indeed we have been able to triumph over every single challenge that we have met on our way, from funding to getting clients that will be loyal to you, stay with you, grow with the growth continuum, you have been there since we began as a company with just two people at inception.” he said. Opayemi added that the event is not just a celebration of the company’s accomplishments in the last 15 years, “it is also to tell you some of the things we are about to do, not just for ourselves and for our clients, but also for this great country and this great continent. And so we decided to have a marked shift from all we have always done, we must first disrupt from within, and so the Chain Reactions you have always known is disrupting and you are going to be witnesses to that disruption this evening.” He said the latest in quality service will not just be for the clients that cut across the public and private sector, but will also include service to the country. POLL “And on this occasion also you are going to be meeting an entity that will define some of your brands that will also be able to better understand not just the African narrative but also understand the minds of the African consumer and the African stakeholder, because the African market is quite nuanced in all ramification of it, and so we said if we continue to do what everybody does, we just do Public Relations, we do Reputation Management, we do integrated Communications, how can we do something that will help our clients, especially international brands wishing to do business in the reputation economy of Africa, as we said this is what the shift is going to be all about. To help such businesses to be able to tap into the potential of the Nigerian market and African market, and so we said we ourselves must lead on that journey.” Fafore Olusegun Michael, Executive Assistant to the Lagos State Governor on Public Relations and New Media, speaking on the importance of Technology to mankind said “The use of the word disruption does not necessarily capture the benefit technology has given to our world. Technology has come to make our world easier and better, it simplifies things for us and it is bringing turnaround time for most of the engagements and activities that we undertake faster, so as something that has come to make life better, we need to embrace it, we need to understand it and I will say the idea of technology has even conferred advantage on certain demographics for people that are above 40. I want to believe that technology is something that they met and they needed to embrace it, but for the ones that are younger, they are lucky, they are born with it, they can do so much with it and if you look at what is happening around the globe you will see that innovation drivers are the younger ones. So we need to open our eyes, our mind, we need to open our hands, we need to embrace technology with its innovation, it is not disrupting anything, it is for our advantage, it is an enabler.” Adekunle Dixon, a Strategic Communication Expert who works in the Strategy Unit of Chain Reactions, spoke about good News Nigeria, a unit of the organization. He said Good News Nigeria is a platform that was meant to help correct the negative narrative about the country, “we know that those negative narratives are not anywhere near the many many positive and good news that is out there to tell about this great country, Nigeria. So, what exactly is Good News Nigeria? It is a news platform where all that you can find in that platform is only positive news about Nigeria. It could be positive news about Nigerian locations, states, local governments, parts of the country, north, south, east and west, it is not only some bad things that are happening with people from the north, but some of them are also some of the best people we ever know, all you need to do is to interact with some of them and you will realize that it is not as the rest of the world seem to paint it to be. “Good news is about our culture, our tradition, and if we pay attention, and the rest of the world has actually paid attention, there is a lot about us as a people, the way we live our lifestyle that is beautiful, that is why we have come to dominate the music industry, the entertainment industry, not just in Nigeria and West Africa but across the continent,” he said.