Former Ondo State Commis­sioner for Information, Hon. Kayode Akinmade has bagged the ‘Most Impactful Leadership Award’ from Radio Nigeria Pos­itive FM 102.5, Akure. The award was bestowed on him to mark the 20th-anniversa­ry celebration of the station. Giving the award during the Dinner/Awards Nite held at GoodnessEventsCentre, Akure, the Ondo State capital, the Gen­eralManagerof thestation, Mrs. Olubunmi Olalere, described Hon. Akinmade as a media guru who used his position as com­missioner to establish excellent rapport between the press and the government of Ondo State. Mrs. Olalere noted that the Idanre born astute politician, who was once the Special Ad­visertotheSpeakerof theHouse of Representatives, Hon. Dimeji Bankole set a template in the ministry of information which other subsequent commission­ers had been building upon and some other neighbouring states had been studying and using as model to follow. According to her, Akinmade operated an open door policy, whichimproved therelationship betweenthegovernmentandthe governed as people were being carried along regularly on gov­ernment policies. Pioneer General Manager of the station, Alhaji Kola Ani­masahun, while presenting the award to Hon. Akinmade, de­scribed the recipient as a good rolemodeland agood leader who operated an open door policy in government, noting that he was not surprised that the manage­ment decided to pick him for the ‘Impactful Leadership Award.’ Also speaking at the event, formergubernatorialcandidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, Dr. Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) said the award was well deserved because Hon. Akinmade had truly positively impacted the lives of many peo­ple. He described Akinmade as “a great party man whose com­mitment to issues of human development cannot be under­estimated as it has reflected on the honour done on him.” POLL Ogun State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Abdul Waheed Odusile, in his message at the event, said he is proud of Hon. Akinmade’s ac­complishments, describing the honour as well deserved.