The Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Oyo state chapter, Hon. Isaac Omodewu, has said with the recent development in the party, the party is poised to be victorious in the next elections. Omodewu made the disclosure on Wednesday in Ibadan during the swearing-in of Alhaji Olayide Abas as the State Deputy Chairman of the party. The swearing-in was conducted by a legal practitioner and legal Adviser of the party, Mr Mohammad Abdul-Salam. He expressed happiness that the party was waxing stronger, saying the coming on board of people like Abas would further strengthen the party for future successes. The party chairman commended the leaders of Ibarapa Elders Forum led by Chief Timothy Jolaoso for the understanding and support for Progress of the party. Omodewu assured members of the party in the state to continue forging common front toward a greater APC in the state. Abas in his remarks, said his absence from the meetings was based on mind training, adding he is always non-aligned at every period of factionalisation. “I don’t struggle for positions, but always committed to the ideals of progressive politics. My absence and siddon look ever since is based on mind training. POLL “In 2001, I was the State Deputy Chairman of defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) under late Chief Samuel Farinu and later became Acting Chairman. “I have been involved in a lot of reconciliation process, particularly within the progressives and to be prepared for such circumstances, one needs to non-aligned,” he said. He said that his coming on board was based on the need to contribute to the progress of the party through advisory roles. Abas thanked all members of Ibarapa Elders Forum led by Pa Jolaoso, promising to serve in the party to best of his ability. Also, Hon Mojeed Olaiya, the Oyo South Senatorial Chairman, commended the leaders led by Pa Jolaoso for his effort at ensuring the party is united ahead of future elections. Olaiya said that the combination of Abas himself and others with vast experiences in progressivism would further position the party for more successes.