Ahead 2023 National Assembly elections, youth organizations and students’ leaders of Ife extraction on Sunday endorsed a former Federal lawmaker, Hon. Rotimi Makinde for the Ife House of Representatives Seat. Speaking during a joint press conference of youth and students leaders held in Lagos, the Chairman of the Makinde Youth Group (MYG), Comr. Ayo Ibirogba said that the decision to endorse the former 7th Assembly Federal parliamentarian for a fresh term in office was informed by the fact that he maintained a performance record of credibility and quality representation, especially in youth inclusiveness and empowerment. He also disclosed that it was only in Makinde’s tenure (2011-2015) that youths who do not have God-fathers were given the opportunities to have thier hopes rekindled. The young Nigerians said they chose Lagos as their venue for the media parley to prove a point of how widely connected and accepted Makinde is, in the South-West. “We re-affirm our support for the reelection of Hon. Rotimi Makinde and promise that we shall mobilize all our members to their respective polling units to vote, observe and ensure that our votes count”, he said. He added that the group will also do everything possible to ensure that Governor Adeboyega Oyetola succeeds in his reelection bid as Osun State Governor for another term. He however stated that there was the need to equally step up measures to further work against any gang ups or campaign of calumny against Mr. Governor by the fifth columnists. “While we commend Hon. Makinde for his level of youth inclusion, empowerment, and the ability to attract Federal employment opportunities to the Ife Federal constituency during his first term, we demand for more appointments this time around of young persons with recourse to various youths and students organizations when he eventually wins in 2023, because we’re confident that he will win. Makinde Youth Group (MYG) is also assuring the good people of Ife and Osun State as a whole that we would throw our weights behind Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for another term in office. He has proven beyond doubt that he is the best man for the job and his excellent works will definitely speak for him. And I assure everyone that every gang ups or campaign of calumny against him by the fifth columnists would be quashed. Ibirogba stated” The group further gave a strong assurance that beginning from Tuesday it would start a door to door campaign to mobilize over 50,000 votes for Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and Hon. Rotimi Makinde ahead the coming elections. POLL “We also want to assure our all stakeholders that Makinde Youth Group (MYG), beginning from Tuesday April 12, 2022 would begin a door to door campaign for Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and Hon Rotimi Makinde to mobilise over 50,000 votes starting from Ife South.” The youth leader assured. The meeting had in attendance leaders and members from the Makinde Youth Group (MYG) who are championing Makinde’s reelection back to the hallowed chamber of the National Assembly as well as the election of the incumbent Governor of Osun State. The group commended Makinde for the press conference he organized last week Tuesday, April 5, 2022 at Ile -Ife, adding that they are resolute in their resolve to support Makinde and the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government. Some of them who attended the meeting were Comrades Tijani Elempe, Olumide Adeyera, Oni Kolawole, Tobi Abuah, Omolara Ikotun to mention but a few.