The recent grant of presidential pardons to two former governors who were tried and duly convict­ed for the high crimes of official corruption, i.e., Jolly Nyame of Taraba State and Joshua Dariye of Plateau State, alongside 157 other convicted persons has sparked considerable opprobrium from the public who see the development as a direct negation of the government’s self-declared war against corruption be­cause the pardons constitute clear signals to those who are still looting government treasuries that there is nothing really to fear as there are presidential pardons awaiting them down the road. What a boost for corruption and its ubiquitous practitioners! Beyond the obvious jurisdictional ultra vires occasioned by the fact that the FG cannot, by virtue of section 175(1) of the Constitution, pardon offenders convict­ed under state laws as was the case with these purportedly pardoned governors, there is still the larger issue of constitu­tionalism which precludes the President from recommending those pardons be­cause they are not in any way consistent with the basic principles of the nation’s Constitution which seeks to make every­one equal before the law for the simple rea­son as was explained by the US Supreme Court in Biddle v Perovich (1927) that “a pardon in our days is not a private act of grace from an individual happening to possess power. It is part of the Constitu­tional scheme.” In other words, under our Republican Constitution, that power has been drastically restricted to be used for “public interest purpose” only and there is no discernible “public interest” goal where convicted enemies of the public are perfunctorily granted pardon by a gov­ernment specifically elected to protect the people from corrupt gubernatorial pillaging. I have previously lamented on this page in a piece entitled, “Enahoro’s Double Par­don: A Prerogative Tainted by Ineptitude”, the dubious transactional deployment of prerogative of mercy, if strictly con­strued, could indeed be unconstitutional as it does not serve any positive public purpose. In the case of this administra­tion which is indiscriminately doling out pardons to undeserving individuals who have been duly convicted for corruption is circumstantially a blatant repudiation of the mandate upon which the government was birthed. There are certain reasons why the pardoning power should never be trivi­alised or turned it into a tool for ‘you rub my back, I rub your back’ transactional do-goodism because: (a) it strips the crim­inal process of its deterrent quality; (b) it encourages lawlessness as criminals tend to look forward to eventual pardon for their destructive economic crimes against the commonwealth; (c) it is a scheme often exploited by criminal State Capturers to whitewash themselves of their criminal­ities and (d), it could be an anticipatory self-serving investment for getting their own pardons for their stewardship howler later. Practical Considerations in Pardon Processes Section 175 of the 1999 Constitution dealing with the “Prerogative of Mercy” provides that “The President may- (a) grant any person concerned with or con­victed of any offence created by an Act of the National Assembly pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions; (b) grant any person respite, of the execution of any punishment; (c) substitute a less se­vere form of punishment imposed on that person for such an offence or (d) remit the whole or any part of any punishment im­posed on that person for such an offence or of any penalty or forfeiture otherwise due to the State on account of such an offence” Subject however to the proviso that (2) The powers of the President under subsection (1) of this section shall be exercised by him after consultation with the Council of State”. However, in contemporary re­publican societies, certain pardons have become suspect unlike the past monarchi­cal eras when Kings indecently traded and profited from their ‘prerogative of mercy’. In this connection, Richard Lempert in his essay, “Presidential Pardons: Settled Law, Unsettled Issues, and a Downside for Trump” published in the Brookings essays of 17th January, 2021 had this to say: “Although the Constitution speaks of “reprieves” and “pardons,” these words encompass more than what they might seem to entail. The rationale for so-called “pre-emptive” pardons is that there is no point in requiring a person to live in fear of conviction or to go through a trial if the offense of which he is or might be accused would ultimately be pardoned. The pres­ident can tell a thief not to worry about being convicted for the crime he commit­ted yesterday because he has pardoned him. But a pardon today cannot forgive a crime the thief commits tomorrow”. What is more, pardon or reprieve cannot serve as purgation of the facts because an offender remains an offender even if pardoned; the only benefit is avoidance of punishment. In the words of Justice Robert Sharpe, JCA, Ontario “Pardons were a safety valve that allowed for consideration of mercy and compassion in cases where the law failed to reflect understandable human frailties”. That is not the lesson that the actual practice of pardon has taught the world. Yes, there are very legitimate con­ditions in which it could be used to right a prosecutorial wrong, pacify a wrongly aggrieved person or groups or seek to achieve substantive justice where not to grant it would amount to injustice. It is also a fact that pardons have been abused world-wide to reward criminals who act­ed in cohort with State authorities as the recent pardon by Donald Trump of his supporters who violated the law confirms. POLL Richard Goldstone, previously a South African Constitutional Court judge and former Chief Prosecutor at the Interna­tional Criminal Tribunals for both Rwan­da and the former Yugoslavia, thinks it may be time to curtail the use of pardons: “In my view, the pardon power is incon­sistent with the rule of law and allows the head of state to exercise an arbitrary pow­er …Where it is subject to judicial review the position is somewhat ameliorated but by no means completely. I have no doubt that the power can be replaced with a more democratic system”. Serious debates about the presidential prerogative to pardon criminals resur­faced recently as already noted above when Trump was mulling the possibility of pardoning himself if by chance he was convicted by the Senate after his second impeachment twitting: “I have the abso­lute right to PARDON myself…” The act of pardon is only necessary if there has been a guilty situation and that is why a person can reject a pardon, if he believes that he is innocent. The only exception is with respect to the commute of death penalty which the beneficiary cannot, in practical terms, reject. In the particular case of Buhari’s re­cent pardon of duly convicted governors for the high crime of official corruption, what is the public purpose being served by such an egregious abuse of a prerogative? As have been rightly pointed out by many concerned citizens, it borders on abuse of the prerogative of mercy to pardon crimi­nals whose unbridled thievery has impov­erished their people; it undermines the integrity of the constitutional order itself. It does not speak well of a government that has wasted public funds prosecuting thieves and other enemies of the nation to unceremoniously turn around to be pardoning the same offenders; it is tan­tamount to abuse of a prerogative espe­cially as it constitutes a form of double jeopardy for the citizens who were robbed and had their scarce resources further wasted to prosecute the robbers only for them to be pardoned without their con­sent or approval. The Constitution is be­ing mocked whenever a Head of State or a State governor proceeds to pardon greedy individuals whose economic crimes have impoverished their people and have ac­tually made it difficult for them to enjoy the blessings of constitutional democracy. Something is just not right here.