ABUJA – The Defence Headquarters has said that Nigerian troops have eliminated 23 Terrorists in the last three weeks, including a top Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) Commander, Abubakar Dan-Buduma in the fight against terrorism in the North-Eastern part of the country. The Defence authorities also disclosed that troops arrested a notorious informant and logistic supplier to the Islamic State of West Africa, Mallam Abba Sidi Lawan at Auno town in Konduga Local Government Area of Borno State. Major General Bernard Onyeuko, Director, Defence Media Operations (DDMO), who disclosed this on Thursday, in Abuja, during a briefing on the operational activities of troops across the country said troops carried out a series of operations on land, maritime and air across the various theatres of operation. According to htim, the briefing focused on summary of troops’ operational activities between April 7 and April 28 2022, saying, the past three weeks yielded significant successes. While giving the breakdown of the troops operational activities, General Onyeuko, stated that “On 11 April 2022 the land component of OPERATION HADIN KAI with support of the air components conducted an offensive operation in Arina Woje in Marte Local Government Area of Borno State and neutralized a prominent Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) Commander Abubakar Dan-Buduma and scores of the terrorists. “A notorious informant and logistic supplier to the Islamic State of West Africa Mallam Abba Sidi Lawan was arrested at Auno town in Konduga Local Government Area of Borno State. Additionally, the operation led to the destruction of terrorist enclaves and their central workshop where vehicles are fabricated for vehicle-borne Improvised Explosive Devices (IED). “Troops within the period also conducted operational activities in Mallam Maja in Angua Baba, Kajimari, Mireri Villages in Dikwa Local Government Area, Damasak in Mobbar Local Government Area, Kwatara hill, Pulka-Kirawa, Ngimari, Gasa Zamani, Garat, Mbalula, Chabbo, Jabullam Kukawa Villages in Abadam and Baga Local Government Area, Sabon Gari in Damboa Local Government Area, Auno Town in Konduga Local Government Area, New Mante, Wurge and Da’ala village, Grusulu Dikwa-Marte, Amdaga, Balazola, Ndakaime, Jango Sabah and Gobara, Gwoza, Yamteke Gargash, Gumshe, Modu, Pala Pala, Kotokuma villages, Bogomari, Chachile, Bula Daloye, Diffa near Nigeria/Niger border, Beji-Beji and Yimirgza villages in Askira-Uba and Chibok Local Government Area, Damboa-Bulabulin-Komala, Marte, Wulgo Ngurosoye along Bama-Banki Junction, Kopre Dutse Uku and Zah general area all in Borno State. Other location include; Butum Biyu village in Gassol Local Government Area of Taraba State”. In another development, Onyeuko explained that, Islamic State of West Africa Province fighters on 5GTs attempted to attack Nigerian Petroleum Product Company Depot in Diffa near Nigeria and Niger border the attack was repelled and unspecified number of terrorists were killed. POLL “Subsequently, the Joint Security Forces of Nigeria and Niger Republic successful destroyed the 5GTs. Similarly, troops arrested Abdurrazaq Hudu a logistics supplier of Islamic State of West Africa Province at Mutum Biyu village in Gassol Local Government Area of Taraba State. “Own troops also recovered 49 AK 47 rifles, 728 rounds of 7.62mm, 4 MG’s, 1 G3 rfiles, 3 60mm mortar, 1 AA gun, 1 SMG, 6 Magazines, 1 hand grenade, 1 UXO anti tank RPG bomb, 11 dane guns, 1 gun tripod, 1 binocular, 5 bandoliers, 8 crowbas. Other iterms recovered which includes; 7 motorcycles, 31 bicycles, 4 heavy duty generators, 3 Canoes, 3 tri-cycles, 4 motorcycles, 22 sewing machines, 1 video camera, 4 grinding machines, 8 mobile phones, 4 cars, 4 trucks, 1 Toyota buffalo vehicle, 8 drums of grains, medical syringes and 43,000:00 Naira cash. “While a total number of 1,158 terrorists and their families surrendered to own troops within the period under review comprising 164 men, 367 women and 627 children. “Also troops neutralized 23 terrorists, rescued 619 civilians and arrested 19 terrorists. All surrendered Boko Haram Terrorists, recovered items, rescued civilians and captured terrorists have been handed over to appropriate authorities for further actions”. As part of the non kinetic operations measure to bring lasting peace to the troubled parts of Kaduna State under the OPERATION SAFE HAVEN theatre of operations. The Chief of Defence Staff Gen Leo Irabor conducted an operational visit to Kaduna State during his visit the CDS met with critical stakeholders drawn from 5 local government areas of the troubled parts of Southern Kaduna. “He also interacted with retired military senior officers of Southern Kaduna extraction to chart ways towards bringing an end to the incessant attacks in the area. The visit has impacted positively to the peace efforts in the area. In a related development, troops while on patrol received a distress call on the activities of criminal elements in Heipang in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State. “Troop quickly moved into a swift action and on sighting own troops the criminal fled in disarray. The exploit led to the recovery of 178 rustled cows. The recovered cows were handed over to the appropriate authority for further handing over to the owner”. The Director added that, “Troops also carried out series of community engagements, sensitization programme and civil military cooperations activities to engage relevant civil society in a non-kinetic approach in resolving lingering security challenges which has recorded a huge successes in curtailing banditry and other criminals related activities in the theatre of operation”. He stated further that, “In another development, on 21 April 2022, the Commander of OPERATION SAFE HAVEN at its Headquarters in Jos handed over a total of 517 small arms and light weapons recovered from bandits and other criminal elements to the Coordinator North Central Zone of the National Centre for the control of Small Arms and Light Weapons. He however, commended troops for their resilience and successes recorded at stamping out criminal activities and the recovery of numerous illicit weapons. This is as he also commended the spirited citizens who gave actionable information to the troops that led to the huge success recorded. “The breakdown of the weapons are 26 AK 47 rifles, 1 FN, 2 Barreta rifles, 3G3 rifles, 6 Barreta pistols, 1 Harris Bing pistols and 1 SMG. Others include 183 locally fabricated rifles, 163 dane guns, 102 locally fabricated pistols, 19 locally fabricated SMGs, 6 single barrel guns and pump action gun”. He spoke on what he called ‘SECESSIONIST ACTIVITIES’, stating that, “The proscribed Independent People of Biafra attacked the South East Security outfit EBUBE AGU at Echara/Agubia in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi in the process one of the assailants was killed and 5 others were arrested. “In a related development troops of 82 Division arrested 4, criminals elements of the Independent People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network and recovered some AK 47 rifles, one pistol, 5 magazines, 30 rounds of 7.62mm (special) and some rounds of 9mm in Abakaliki”. On OPERATION DELTA SAFE, General Onyeuko noted that, the theatre of operation have continued to clamp down on the activities of oil thieves and other criminal elements in the Area of Operation (AOR) such as; Egwa, Opumami, Zion Creeks in Warri North Local Government Area, Okpoko Water Ways, Edjeba Community, Bennett Island in Warri South Local Government Area, Asugbo in Warri Local Government Area, Yeye Creek in Burutu Local Government, Emohua and Warri South Local Government Area of Rivas, Umudaike in Oshimili South Ole in Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State. “Other location include; Awoba in Degema Local Government Area, Embikri Ifoko in Asari Toru Local Government Area of River State. Within the period under reviewed, own troops discovered several illegal refining sites with 133 ovens, 194 metal tanks storages, 127 dugout pits, 5 wooden boats, 12 receivers, 2 ovens, 2 engines, 2 pumping machines, 1 oxygen cylinder, 1 motorcycle, 1 jetta vehicle, 4,000 polythene bags of illegal refined black oil and 5 trucks. “Cumulatively, Seven Million Seven Hundred and Thirty-Two Thousand (7,732,000) litres of crude oil and Ten Million and Eight Hundred and Twenty-One Thousand Six Hundred and five (10,821,605) litres of AGO was recovered. All recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action. “Similarly, troop of Operation DAKATAR DA BARAWO conducted operations in Asugbo, Egwa, Lelema, Jones creeks in Delta State. Other operational activities that were conducted were by NNS LUGARD at location off Akili Ozizor community in Ogbaru Local Government Area Anambra State, NNS Victory at Habour road in the city of Calabar, while NNS SOROH conducted operational activities within Ereweibio creek in Brass Local Government Area, Otuokpot area along Kolo creek, Ogbia waterside Saint Nicholas Axis from Akasa area of Bayelsa State respectfully. “Furthermore, during the operation troops discovered and destroyed several illegal refinery sites, 145 ovens, 201 storage metal tanks, 9 pumping machines, 1 Yamaha 40HP outboard engines, 55 dugout pits, 58 drums of AGO, 2 wooden boats, 100 polythene bags illegally refined AGO, I tanker loaded with illegal refined AGO. Cumulatively, within the week under review a total of One Million Seven Hundred and Eighteen Thousand (1,718,000) litres of AGO, Three Million Eight Hundred (3,800,000) litres of crude oil, Three Hundred and Fifty Thousand (350,000) litres of sludge, Twenty Thousand (20,000) litres of PMS and One Hundred Thousand (100,000) litres of DPK. All arrested criminals and recovered items were handed over to the appropriate authorities for further actions”. In the same vein, troops in OPERATION HADARIN DAJI theatre of operation to sustained aggressive operations to deny terrorists and bandits further freedom of action. “On 10 April 2022, troops responded to a distress call of terrorist attack at Wanzamai in Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Troops mobilized to the village and engaged the terrorist where scores of the terrorists were killed”, Onyeuko said. He added, “In The cause of the operation troops rescued 32 women and 18 children. Similarly, troops successfully foiled terrorist attack in Bakura village in Bakura Local Government Area of Zamfara. In the process unconfirmed numbers of terrorist were neutralized while 200 rustled cattle were recovered. “Troops also conducted operational activities in other locations such as Kanoma Birni, Kanoma Dumma in Maru Local Government Area, Jaya village of Moriki District in Zurmi Local Government Area and Bakura village in Bakura Local Government Area all in Zamfara State. “Other locations include; Batagarawa and Mashi Local Government Area of Katsina State, Dalolo village in Gange Shuni Local Government Area of Sokoto State and Maibuhu village in Zango Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State respectively”. According to him, “Cumulatively, within the 3 weeks period under review, troops recovered 592 rustled cattle, 45 different assorted weapons, 80 rounds of different caliber ammunitions, 50 motorcycles. Troops also rescued 179 civilians, neutralized 62 terrorists and apprehended 100 terrorists. All recovered items, rescued and apprehended terrorists were handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action”. In respect of OPERATION WHIRL STROKE, he said, “Troops of OPERATION WHIRL STROKE continued aggressive fighting patrols and clearance operation across the general area in the theatre of operation. “The efforts of troops of Operation WHIRL STROKE to get rid of unscrupulous elements and restore peace and normalcy to the general area led to the arrest of Leggi Jobrin a notorious gun runner and kidnapper who has been terrorizing the people of Gidan Bawa village of Nasarawa Local Government Area and he is also on the wanted list of operation WHIRL STROKE. “Operational activities were also conducted in Umerger, Bakin Kolta, Branch, Tse Fawuma, Dauda in Nbadwen Council Ward, Tumuyi, Gbajimba, Tse-Nyialagh, Chijuo village in Guma Local Government Area, Anongo, Nyikyaa in Mbayongo Council Ward of Katsina Ala Local Government Area, Mbabubu village, Gaambe Ushin Council Ward, Akpata in Tyoughatee in Jaha Council Ward in Gwer Local Government Area, Akpaniho village in Apa Local Government Area, Odejo Under Odugbeho Council Ward of Agatu Local Government Area of Benue State. Other locations include; Timberline area in Wukari town of Taraba State and Gidan Bawa village in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Nasarawa State respectively. “Consequently, troops recovered 5 AK 47 rifles, 6 AK7 magazines, 110 rounds of 7.62mm ammunitions, 5 mobile phones, 8 motorcycles and 7 cutlasses. While 6 bandits were arrested. All recovered items and apprehended bandits have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action.”