LAGOS  – Lagos State Planning and Environmental Monitoring Agency (LASPEMA), recently met with the leadership of the Lagos State Vulcanisers’ Association in Lagos to suggest better ways to improve their operations. The meeting was part of LASPEMA’s stakeholders’ engagement with key players in the informal sector towards sanitising and regulating activities on all setbacks and incidental urban spaces in the State. Tpl. Daisi Oso, the General Manager, Lagos State Planning and Environmental Monitoring Agency, (LASPEMA), while speaking during the meeting, said that the Agency will soon start data capturing the data of all Vulcanisers occupying road setbacks in the State. The General Manager stated that the business of vulcanising has gone beyond the level at which it is being practised locally, just as he expressed the readiness of the government to support vulcanisers in imbibing new technologies that will fit into the planning design of Lagos setbacks and align the Association’s operations with the Lagos Smart City. His words: “Recently in Glasgow at the World Climate Summit, President Buhari told world leaders that the goal of transitioning from fossil fuel to clean energy, reaching a Net-zero ambition for Green House emission, would require critical infrastructure to be in place in developing countries. It is in furtherance to this that LASPEMA is introducing Solar Powered Vulcanising Equipment to Vulcanizers in the State with a view to supporting the net-zero emission initiative.” “Solar Vulcanising Equipment will not only promote operational efficiency of our Vulcanisers but will save our communities from pollutants”. Tpl. Oso further encouraged the Association to support the drive to improve the aesthetics of Lagos by ensuring their members adhere to all policies and initiatives of the Agency. Prince Aderopo Oguntunde, Chairman, Lagos State Vulcanisers’ Association, in his response, commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for his interest and support for the Association by introducing the laudable initiative. POLL He expressed and pledged the Association’s commitment to supporting all activities and programmes of LASPEMA while also using the opportunity to solicit the Agency’s support in carrying out their forthcoming statewide environmental sanitation exercise. In a related development, LASPEMA as part of the ongoing efforts to sanitise and regulate Lagos setbacks and incidental open spaces for effective urban planning, urged the leadership of Chief Anthony Enahoro Estate Residents Association, WEMCO Road, Ogba and LSDPC Medium Housing Estate, Agege to support the State Government on the initiative. Its General Manager, Tpl. Oso made the call during a stakeholders’ meeting with the residents towards achieving a common objective of better management of setbacks and incidental open spaces adjoining the estates, emphasising the need to correct the misuse and usage of the spaces before it gets out of hand. His words: “The setbacks/incidental open spaces in the State are under immense pressure due to massive influx of people from other States and neighbouring countries. This has led to an increase in spending by the State government on infrastructural facilities to beautify urban spaces in line with the T.H.E.M.E.S development agenda”. He went on: “It is imperative to hold engagements to decide on how best to manage these spaces. It is also important to collaborate on it with critical stakeholders who may have better recommendations/suggestions to enhance the effective management of the setbacks/incidental open spaces” Clearing the air on who has the power to control and determine the usage of these setbacks, the General Manager said by virtue of Section 2a of Urban and Regional Planning and Development Law of 2019 as amended, the Agency has the statutory responsibility on all aspects of Physical Planning and Urban Development among others in the State. Mr. Dapo Daramola, the Chairman of the LSDPC Medium Housing Estate, Agege, in his remarks, expressed appreciation of the residents to LASPEMA, adding that the leadership of the Estate is elated on having such a crucial engagement with the Government through the Agency.