ABUJA – Zara Gift Onyinye, the Director, Women Mobilisation, Hope 23 Campaign Organisation for Governor Yahaya Bello has urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to back the candidate of the party that has the full support of Nigerian women and youths. This is as the APC women leader hinted that President Mohammadu Buhari will decide the candidate of the party along the leaders. The Women mobilizer made the request when she led women on a courtesy call to the new APC National Women Leader, Beta Edu, assuring that Governor Yahaya Bello enjoys overwhelming support from the two largest voting population of Nigerians, women and Youths. According to her, the Kogi State governor has demonstrated enough commitment and support for the women and youth to now expect a reciprocal gesture as the race for 2023 thickens. She insists that Gov Bello Stands a better chance to secure the vote of women and youth and win 2023 for APC. “A candidate who supports a woman will definitely stand the chance of winning this election because women form the highest number of voters across Nigeria and they also know that if they support that person, that person who has shown that he has the women in his heart, he has a love for women, he creates enabling environment for women, he gave them that opportunity to sell and that person is Yahaya Bello and all the women have shown that he had indicated interest as the person who supported them, that same person they’re going to support and so that stands him out of all the aspirants going for this election. “The other one is the for the youth. Yahaya Bello is a youth, as we all know, and if you check all his appointees in Kogi state, I can say that 95% of them are all youth of Nigeria, and I know they will support him”. Also speaking, the SSG of Kogi State said the governor have given women in the state support, adding that women sit as Vice Chairmen in all the local government areas in the state. POLL “We are here to say congratulations on your new office and also to assure you that you have the support of all the women in the Yahaya Bello support group. I need to just let you know of the fact that Yahaya Bello loves women, he gives us a place of honour. “In Kogi state, as we stand from 2016 to date, I have been the SSG a woman. Not just that, the head of the service has been a woman. We have a pioneer pension commission, His Excellency says let me put a woman, DG. “All the 21 local government areas all the vice chairman are women. We have six institutions, three of them (leaders) are women. The APC National Women Leader while addressing Hope 23 Women Wing said the president, the national Chairman Senator Abdullahi Adamu, and other leaders of the party will come together and decide the candidate of APC for the 2023 presidential election. She noted that the good thing is that the Aspirants who have so far indicated an interest in the election are qualified to lead the party and country. She charged the women to go ahead and mobilize for the APC. “Before that decision is made, something requires time that we must do immediately. If indeed you are supporting a candidate in APC, you are supporting Governor Yahaya Bello, you must go out now and begin the door to door mobilisation for registration. Go door to door and begin the campaign for voter registration. “The APC women’s wing will be coming on out, will be going to states to mobilise women to go and register remember. If they don’t have their voters card our work is useless even if they give any of our aspirants the tickets it will not amount to (victory). So we must take our time now door. “Let us pray for our leaders. Let’s pray for our country. Let’s pray that the best leader will emerge victorious in our next convention. That’s where we can go with our full shoulders to the polls.”