Chelsea head coach Thomas Tuchel has confirmed that Antonio Rudiger intends to leave the club this summer. The Athletic revealed on Friday that Rudiger had decided to seek a move away from Chelsea, with his contract up at the end of June. The west London club’s inability to agree fresh terms with the 29-year-old before owner Roman Abramovich was sanctioned by the UK government in March proved problematic. It was previously reported that Rudiger wanted to make a decision on his future by the end of April — Chelsea’s takeover is not expected to be completed until May. Tuchel confirmed Rudiger’s imminent departure following the 1-0 win over West Ham on Sunday, which the defender missed through injury. “The situation is that he wants to leave the club,” Tuchel said. “He informed me of this in a private talk. “We gave everything — me and the club — but we could not fight anymore because of the actions. “Without the sanctions, we would have at least had the chance to keep fighting for Rudiger to stay but for many weeks now, our hands have been tied.” POLL Chelsea’s first contract offer was made last August but that proposal was seen as something of an insult with Rudiger already one of the lowest-paid senior players on around £90,000-a-week. It did not help matters that Romelu Lukaku was given a base wage of about £340,000-a-week when he joined from Inter Milan for a club-record £97.5 million last summer. It took four months for negotiations to properly resume again and the two parties did get a lot closer to an agreement. The Athletic has been told that Chelsea — who were determined to make Rudiger the highest-paid defender in their history — in February offered a four-year deal worth £230,000-a-week, plus a signing on fee. It was still less than what some other clubs were prepared to pay, however, with offers worth in excess of £290,000-a-week made to the Germany international. Rudiger has been able to talk with foreign clubs about joining them as a free agent in the summer since January. Real Madrid, Barcelona, Paris Saint Germain, Juventus, and Bayern Munich have all made contact in some form. Manchester United are also keen. But there was optimism at Chelsea and in Rudiger’s camp that one more offer would secure his signature because the player’s preference all along has been to stay at Stamford Bridge and continue to play for Tuchel. It is understood that Rudiger did not need the biggest financial sum to stay at Chelsea, and was willing to accept a smaller amount than those offered to him by other clubs, due to his strong relationship with Tuchel and the club’s fanbase. But since Abramovich was sanctioned, Chelsea have not been able to discuss contracts with anybody.