The Ijaw National Congress, (INC) has reemphasized its commitment to the ambition of Ijaws to produce the next governor of Delta State. The spokesperson for the INC, Ezonebi Oyakemeagbegha reiterated this during an interview with newsmen on Sunday, in Warri. According to the INC image-maker, Ijaws did not shelve their pursuit of the governorship seat at any time as speculated in some areas. He described claims that Ijaws have agreed to wait till 2031 to produce the next governor of Delta State as laughable, unimaginable, unthinkable, untrue, evil and as mere political gimmicks. “Ijaws have never shelved our governorship ambition and we never will. We have never had that conversation and neither will we consider such. “It is laughable for anybody to say such on behalf of Ijaws. We are in this for the fight to finish. “We will continue to lobby the other ethnic nationalities to support our cause. By the grace of God, victory is sure, as Ijaws will produce the next governor come 2023,” he said. Oyakemeagbegha cautioned those Ijaw sons and daughters to refrain from endorsing candidates and making declarations on behalf of the entire Ijaws in the state. POLL He stated that if there should be any declaration for the Ijaws, it should be the INC to do so, as the apex socio-cultural group of the Ijaw nation. Advising that individuals were free to exercise their right to freedom of association by supporting their choice candidates, they should do so on their own and avoid such romances in the name of the Ijaw nation. “Everyone is free to exhibit their right to freedom of association. We can play politics at our levels, it adds to our magnanimity. “However, we would not tolerate anybody making declarations or issuing statements in the name of Ijaws. That must stop immediately and we will no longer tolerate such display of falsehood. “Individuals found wanting of such practices would henceforth be sanctioned and dealt with accordingly. The Ijaws will not continue to play second fiddle. It is time for Ijaws to be at the helm of affairs and we will not give room for anybody to sabotage it this time,” he added. Ezonebi, thanked His Excellency, the Governor of Delta State, and Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa for allowing a fair playground, describing him as a true democrat. Recall that three Ijaws are part of the frontline aspirants for the 2023 governorship race in Delta State. Senator James Manager, His Excellency, the Deputy Governor of Delta State, Dcn Kingsley Otuaro and Hon Dr Braduce Angozi all remain strong in the race to succeed Senator Ifeanyi Okowa in Osadebe House.