Chief Taiwo Kuye is a former member of the South-West Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caretaker Committee. In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he speaks on the recent state congress of the party, inauguration of the new state executive committee of the party, 2023 general elections, zoning arrangement in the party, among others. Excerpts: Lagos PDP Congress is still contentious and the national chairman of the party has ordered the inauguration of those elected during the controversial state congress, what do you make of the situation in the party? The situation is extremely bad and with this development, Iyorchia Ayu and the National Working Committee (NWC) want to turn Lagos PDP into a banana republic and nobody would ever take it from him. It will not happen because this is not how to run a party. I have been a party manager for over 16 years, and have managed our party at different levels, so I’m in a position to know what is good or bad. So, for Ayu to tell them to go and inaugurate those that emerged from incomplete congress, it is unacceptable to us and to the majority of party members. Is this a supremacy battle between Chief Bode George and Deji Doherty …? Chief Bode George is not fighting anybody. But it seems that Chief Bode George’s camp is the one aggrieved with the outcome of the congress while Doherty’s camp is now in charge of the party? Doherty has no camp. As far as PDP is concerned in Lagos State, Doherty has no place in the party. So, there is nothing like his camp. Chief Bode George has no group but he has friends. So, we are friends that are loyal to him because he took up this party from its inception, compared to Doherty that came to the party in 2003. So, you can’t say that Doherty has a camp, where did he get that camp from? Doherty has contested four congresses in Lagos PDP and lost all. The highest vote he got from those four congresses was 16 out of over 6,000 votes. How can you come back and tell me that kind of person will mount the leadership of this party, that kind of a person will now come back and forcefully put himself as the candidate of this party in Lagos, how can that work?. It looks like all the members of the new exco in Lagos are his people and they normally hold meetings in his office …? POLL It happens like that but what is their number compared to the members of PDP in Lagos. So, these are some of the arguments of the members of the NWC that they cannot sit down and allow a small number of party members in Lagos to control the exco. More particularly, the 2023 general election is on the way coming and Ayu did not listen because he is working for a particular presidential aspirant. What is the way forward out of this controversy and crisis in Lagos PDP? Well, it is not acceptable to us. And as I told you, we are going to operate a very high powered parallel exco in Lagos. By then Ayu will know those he is up against as a chairman. Don’t you think that would work against your party in 2023? Nobody cares because a leader must be a leader at all times. When you have about four children fighting and you are the father, you know how to come in and settle them amicably, not that you will apportion blame and single one out as the only good child while others are bad children. If you do that, you are escalating that hatred among them. For Ayu to have sanctioned the outcome of the state congress, does it mean that your group did not present your case well to the congress appeal committee? We presented a very solid augment and we had a team that was led by the former deputy governor of Lagos State, Mrs Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor and they gave constructive facts and evidence and everything we presented was in the good fate of the process. How did the appeal committee now arrive at the decision of approving the outcome of the congress? The appeal committee was neither here nor there but at the end of the report of the committee, the committee made reference to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) report and advised the NWC to read the report in order to make a very fine decision about the congress. We have the INEC report, which described the process as shameful and inconclusive. The entire process was an eye sore and a shame. So, whatever happens, we as a state are ready to go and set up our exco and operate as PDP. If Ayu likes it, let him come to Lagos and tell us that is not so. If you set up a parallel exco won’t it affect your chances of pursuing the case in court? It won’t because it is part of our augment to show that we actually are the people on the ground because if the process was free and fair, we will win convincingly and that is what we are sure of. How did Lagos PDP get into this mess of unending controversy and crisis? When it started all we agreed was that a consensus congress and I salute the courage of Oyo State Governor, His Excellency, Engineer Seyi Makinde because he used his energy and resources to see that Lagos PDP is in good hands. But there are hawkers in this PDP in Lagos, some are PDP in the morning and APC at night, and these are leaders of the party and we have confronted most of them and they were speechless. But some chieftains of the party are blaming Governor Makinde for not managing the zone well? How is that possible? You remember this man has his own state to manage as a governor. What actually happened was that the Secondus administration was bent on putting Lagos PDP into a crisis for whatever reason. They started the Ekiti and Osun crisis, which brought us to the South- West zonal congress. If not that Makinde was so clever, the South- West congress would have been a disaster. He has come to Lagos more than 20 times and unknowingly to him, he feels that he was appealing to members that are aggrieved not knowing that he was appealing to those that would work against him. The way forward is for Ayu and his team to come down and do the needful in Lagos. If we lose the election in Lagos, it is gone for any PDP presidential candidate and that is the end of the party in the state. He is the national chairman and the buck stops at his table. The Board of Trustees (BoT) cannot talk to him and the national caucus cannot talk to him because he is a member of both organs of the party. You said Ayu and the NWC should do the needful, what is the needful? His decision on the inauguration of Lagos PDP exco should be reversed and then let us come back to the drawing table for a constructive harmonized exco. Failure to do that, Lagos PDP is as good as a forgotten party. We have met him many times and even the leaders of BoT have met him on this. From what you are saying, it is obvious that PDP has already lost the 2023 general elections in Lagos State? I’m not saying so because Ayu may change his mind and support a peaceful resolution of the crisis in Lagos but something will trigger it. With this crisis, what is the fate of the party members that have declared their interest to run for one position or the other in the state? It doesn’t matter because the dates of the congresses are still very far away. The congresses would start on May 7, so something better can still come before then and if it doesn’t come, we will go into the congress the rough way. But for me, my local government is the toughest local government in the state, Mushin Local government, nobody will challenge it. What do you make of the decision of your party to jettison zoning ahead of the presidential convention? Let me tell you the secret behind what is happening at the national level. Some members of the NWC want the ticket to be thrown open so that it will favour Atiku Abubakar. We have 37 members of this zoning committee, 21 out of the 37, people are from the north. So, if eventually, they put it to vote, the northern members of the committee will win and Ayu himself knew about this arrangement. But what Ayu doesn’t know is that immediately Atiku emerges as the presidential candidate of the party, the chairmanship will be rezoned to the south. Governor Nyesom Wike that I know very well would be at the forefront to make sure the chairmanship is rezoned to the south. And they told Ayu from the beginning that his coming in doesn’t mean that he will remain as chairman if a northerner emerges as presidential candidate of the party. The only person I pity is Governor Seyi Makinde because he has worked a lot to ensure that the ticket is zoned to the south. How determined is PDP to take over power from APC in 2023? Where Ayu got it wrong is that he is mad about Atiku’s presidential ambition and he is thinking that Chief Bode George will not support Atiku. But is it mandatory for all of us to support Atiku when we are already talking about zoning and power shift to the south? How can all of us one day jump up and say we are supporting Atiku? As it stands now, let them throw it open and if they are not careful we will lose the presidency for one reason the majority of PDP state excos are standing with one leg because of the crisis.