LAGOS – Tony Udomiaye is big a name in Nigeria’s digital marketing space. He, like many others, had struggled in the past to find a path for himself, career-wise. Little did he know that destiny had a place for him in the digital ecosystem. According to him, as soon as he discovered the light in digital marketing, he plunged into it, and through hard work and persistence, he has become highly sought-after. It s interesting to know that Udomiaye led the digital analytics and insights on social media platforms and monitored the share of voice and sentiment analysis for the then All Progressives Congress gubernatorial candidate, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, in 2018. Sharing insights on how it all began for him, Udomiaye noted, “From when I was 20 years of age, I took a decision to follow my passion for online entrepreneurship. Starting and failing in many different pursuits and then eventually finding success in online advertising and digital marketing. “Although it took me about a year to learn and develop these digital skills, I can say today that it’s worth the time and investment. “I have a background in digital marketing, online reputation management and online sales. I also have an endless string of impressive credentials in my portfolio. My contributions to the digital marketplace are phenomenal and globally recognized,” he said. POLL According to the digital marketing expert and mentor to many, he is on a mission to make the digital process much easier and more understandable for as many as are willing to learn the ropes. “I help my clients to simplify the steps to launching and monetizing a digital business minus the lingo and hype so they can get on with living the life they envisioned. “Through actionable training, tools and resources I provide in my one-one sessions, mentees gain the clarity and confidence they need to create amazing digital products and courses, implement digital marketing strategies and campaign specific to business and use the right tools to grow their business online,” he added.