An attack against a spacecraft could usher in the next global war, Dmitry Rogozin, the head of Russia’s national space agency Roscosmos, said on Saturday. “One must keep in mind that the destruction of a foreign spacecraft means World War III. It’s a casus belli, and there’s no doubt about that,” Rogozin stated in an interview with Rossiya 24 TV channel, using a Latin term for a formal legal reason to start a war. Rogozin was commenting on Washington’s decision to stop conducting anti-satellite missile tests. Announcing the move on Monday, Vice President Kamala Harris called the destruction of satellites during such tests “reckless and irresponsible” because it leaves dangerous space debris. The Roscosmos chief, however, argued that the US is now “pretending to be doves” because it had already conducted all the necessary tests. “This move should, therefore, be strictly viewed as propaganda,” he added. Rogozin argued that the Boeing X-37, an unmanned US shuttle-like spacecraft currently orbiting the Earth, could potentially be used for spying and carrying weapons of mass destruction. He stated that a proposal by Russia and China to sign a treaty banning the placement of weapons in outer space was met with “dead silence” in Washington. The stationing of weapons of mass destruction in outer space has been internationally banned since 1967. Russia’s Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) will be much more powerful than other strategic weapons, including the American Minuteman-III missile, according to Rogozin. POLL “This is a missile that is much more powerful than other strategic weapons, including the Minuteman-III missile, which is in service with the United States. Both in terms of global reach and the power of warheads that can be delivered to the territory of an aggressor,” Rogozin stated. According to him, the technical data makes this rocket invulnerable to both existing and future US and NATO missile defense systems. “This is a huge success for our designers and engineers. We are very proud,” he added. Russia successfully conducted the first launch of a Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) from the Plesetsk cosmodrome in the Arkhangelsk Region, Russia’s Defense Ministry reported on Wednesday. The Sarmat ICBM has been developed at the Makeyev State Rocket Center (part of Roscosmos) and is manufactured at the Krasmash enterprise. In experts’estimates, the RS-28 Sarmat is capable of delivering a MIRVed warhead weighing up to 10 tonnes to any point of the world both through the North and South Poles.