Abuja – The governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic (PDP) on Monday berated the spokesman of President Muhammadu Buhari, Garba Shehu, over his comment on their communiqué. The governors had on March 23, in Abia State, chronicled the dire living conditions of Nigerians in the administration of the All led Federal Government. Garba Shehu, according to the governors, in a statement by the Director-General of PDP Governors’ Forum, Hon. CID Maduabum, had described the communiqué as a fantasy, delusional and fictional. The governors noted that Shehu was dazed by the sheer assemblage of facts, figures and evidence on the existential threat Nigeria is facing as a result of the APC misrule, with respect to the economy, security, stealing of Nigeria’s crude, etc. as contained in the communiqué. The PDP governors had in its communiqué made a comparative sketch of Nigeria of 2015 under PDP and Nigeria of 2022 under APC. The communiqué reeled out the fact that in almost all sectors, things have gotten worse by over 1000%, adding, “This is reflected in prices of basic foodstuffs, unemployment rate, electricity prices, kerosene, diesel, fuel, aviation fuel and air ticket prices which have all gone through the roof. It reeled out figures on poverty, inflation, exchange rate, debt accumulation and corruption. “Indeed, all aspects of life in Nigeria are being systematically destroyed by the APC administration. Life has become short, brutish and valueless in Buhari’s Nigeria as insecurity ravages the land. POLL But this is not the problem of Garba Shehu, who is enveloped in the Presidential Villa, totally oblivious of the suffering and agony Nigerians are facing. “The most disturbing aspect of misrule of the APC as chronicled in the communiqué is the petroleum sector. “The stealing of Nigeria’s crude oil and the connivance of NNPC in shortchanging other tiers of government, namely, states and local governments is simply mind boggling, if not outright criminal. Nigeria now produces 1.1 million barrels of crude oil per day. It has capacity to produce 2.5 million per day. It cannot even meet its OPEC quota of 1.8 million per day. “Nobody can call them to order to desist from the part of lawlessness and unconstitutional acts it has chosen to dwell in. Of course, President Buhari is the Minister of Petroleum Resources. Under his watch, the Nigeria’s oil and gas sector is deteriorating. In an accountable government, he should have resigned his position as Minister of Petroleum, as a result of the cataclysmic failures in the sector.” The governors added that “it is even shocking that Garba Shehu admits that funds from NNPC are now directly used to fund social and health programmes, road construction etc, in an unconstitutional overreach.” The governors also said that “Garba Shehu conveniently ignored the facts in the PDP Governors’ communique that exposed the deduction of N788 billion for NNPC’s own chosen projects without recourse to the Federation Account; the deduction of N8.3 billion monthly for rehabilitation of refineries in Nigeria that do not work; the scandal called petroleum subsidy that gulps trillions of naira yearly without accountability and value for money. “What did Garba Shehu say about 18 federation revenue agencies that have refused to remit funds to the Federation Account in breach of the constitution? Nothing! What an impunity? What a robbery? What a reckless and whimsical approach to governance! “The presumption is that we can talk as much as we want, since power resides in the presidency, we can do nothing. But there will be a day for accounting. There will be a day of reckoning. When that day comes, arrogance of power will not avail the perpetrator of these serial acts of theft of Nigeria’s patrimony. “ Garba Shehu accused PDP governors of influencing ethnic and religious tensions. How does pointing out the deteriorating state of affairs in Nigeria inflame ethnic and religious tensions? “The Buhari presidency by all objective accounts is the worst in Nigeria’s history in managing our diversity. Under APC’s 7 years rule, Nigerians no longer trust one another, ethnic and religious differences are not properly managed. All our fault lines are exposed and exacerbated. “Garba Shehu had the temerity to praise the military success under Buhari as compared to the PDP. That someone in today’s Nigeria can be this stone-deaf to the cheapening of life in Nigeria under the watch of the APC is to say the least, unfortunate.” PDP Condemns Sack Of Abuja Chief Imam Over Anti-Govt Sermon Again, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned the sack of Sheikh Muhammad Nuru Khalid, the Chief Imam of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque, Abuja, by the mosque’s Steering Committee over his anti-government sermon following penultimate Monday night’s attack on an Abuja-Kaduna train. Sheikh Khalid was initially suspended by the Steering Committee of the strategic mosque. But on Monday afternoon, the mosque’s Steering Committee declared him sacked. They ascribed their latest decision to sack him for not showing remorse. Sheikh Khalid had on Sunday said that God is the owner of power and dictates whom he gives. In the sermon, he flayed the government over its failure to tackle the rising insecurity and killings in the country. The imam hinted at some measures that the electorate should devise should the authorities fail to protect lives. Khalid asked the electorate not to vote for any politician who cannot guarantee them the safety of lives and property. “The condition of the Nigerian masses is one, stop killing us, go to the polls, let us be killed, we will not go to the polls, since you have nothing to do but vote,” Khalid had said. On Sunday, the Sheikh had said he was unperturbed about the suspension. The cleric said God is the owner of power and dictates whom he gives. “O God! The master of sovereignty, you give sovereignty to whom you please, and seize sovereignty from whom you please, you honour whom you please and you abase whom you please, all good is in your hands, indeed you have power over all things,” Khalid said, vowing to continue speaking the truth, daring those who perceived his sermon as inciting to show evidence. PDP Warns APC On Fascism Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alerted that the clampdown on the revered Muslim cleric, Sheikh Muhammad Nuru Khalid, for speaking truth to power on the failure and now exposed refusal by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration to decisively defend Nigerians from terrorists signals a dangerous trend of fascism in the country. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba said, “While the PDP refrains from delving into religious issues, our party cautions the APC to note that suppressing the concerns of citizens and resorting to fascist measures where constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression is being brazenly assaulted is capable of triggering widespread social restiveness and escalating the already tensed situation in the country. “This APC’s recourse to an onslaught on the voice of citizens as witnessed in the clampdown on religious leaders, the opposition, the civil society and the media indicates an unacceptable descent to tyranny and imposition of a siege mentality to suppress dissenting voices in the face of APC’s manifest failure.” The PDP added that it is often said that when propaganda, falsehood and lies have been promoted, elevated and institutionalised by a government (like the APC has done), every truth by the citizens is viewed as a rebellion, which the government feels obliged to crush by all means. “This is the character of fascism which is gradually and steadily creeping into our country under the APC and now deoxygenating our citizen’s exercise of their freedom of expression as guaranteed under the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). “The clampdown on Sheikh Khalid is reminiscent of the days of the obnoxious Military Decree 4 of 1984, under General Muhammadu Buhari, as Head of State, when telling the truth was categorised as a crime. Those days are scaringly creeping back!” the party said. The PDP said that Sheikh Khalid, in his sermon, clearly expressed the frustration and concerns of millions of Nigerians across the country irrespective of religious, ethnic and political leanings. “The question to ask is: Is Sheikh Khalid not stating the facts when he stated that ‘everything is not working well. People are dying; our roads are not secured. Most of the part of the country is not secured’.., that the APC is more concerned with 2023 elections than the welfare and security of Nigerians? “Sheikh Khalid further wondered like every other Nigerian that if terrorists can gather and dispatch intelligence information as if they are a government of their own and use same to massacre and abduct Nigerians, how come the APC government cannot gather and share intelligence information to stop the carnage by terrorists? “These are self-evident facts and what Nigerians expect from the APC administration, if not complicit, is to shed its arrogance in failure and reassure the people by taking decisive action against terrorism and worsening insecurity in our country,” the party said.