Some critical stakeholders converged in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State to discuss the fundamentals of the new Electoral Law 2022 ahead of the June 18 Governorship election in the state. The event was organised by the coalition of  Ekiti State Civil Society Organizations  (COESCSOs) in collaboration with the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ekiti State Council. Legal and media experts as well as leaders of CSOs brainstorm and proffer ways of sensitising the public about the possible gains in the amended act in our electoral processes. One of the discussants and Senior Lecturer at Ekiti State University (EKSU), Dr Michael Afolayan in his presentation entitled “Analysing the Fundamental Provisions of the New Electoral Act 2022 ” posited that Nigeria’s democracy would have fared better if successive governments had devoted equal attention to governance as in Electoral matters. Barrister Afolayan explained that the Electoral act 2022 is important because government activities are guided by law to which those in authority must comply. He said “ if we pay much attention that will pay on the electoral process to governance, the country will be better. For instance, criminal law brought from Australia in 1904 has not been amended. “As civil society organizations, we are involved in a volatile situation which is an election, whoever is involved in the electoral process must be conversant with law and abide by it. “ New electoral process is in place. it is very important for everyone to take time and go through the new electoral law for a proper guide. POLL “The duty of  INEC on voters’ registration is a continuous process, with the new electoral law which the ascension into law by President Muhammadu Buhari took a very long battle, INEC now has wide latitude as the law supports the use of technology. “The issue of a person living with a disability is a very key area in the electoral process, these people have been neglected over time in Nigeria. The new law makes provision for them”.Afolayan said. In his submission, the chairman of COECSOs Professor Christopher Oluwadare said the event was “a mark of giant stride to ensure a peaceful, free and fair election in Ekiti. He charged INEC and Security agents to be on alert, stressing that legal information provided that the Electoral Act is not an amended Act of 2010 but a new Act that overrides the previous one. According to him, INEC would continue to provide guidelines to suit exigencies as allowed by law, especially in the case of the June 18 Election. Oluwadare hinted that the CSOs had agreed in principle to summarize the New Act into pamphlets and distribute them for sensitisation ahead of the election. ” This is doable when COECSO receives support or collaboration from partners. CDD is looking towards this direction” In future actions, he said the group shall organise public rallies and mobilization towards peaceful, gender-friendly and youth participation in the election at Senatorial levels. “We still believe FIDA, Cleen Foundation, SCG, NDI, CSOs Situation Room, Yiangha can leverage on this action for much more voters turnout by June 18” Speaking,  the NUJ chairman, Comrade Rotimi Ojomoyela  said  journalism has rules and regulations guiding the profession  by which every journalist must abide  for the development process, Ojomoyela, however, decried certain setbacks affecting the roles. He said:  ” journalists have ethics that specified how to go about the roles. Section 22 of the 1999 constitution specified the role of journalists in holding the government accountable for how they manage the affairs, journalists have been performing their roles, unfortunately, there have been hindrances. ” People found culpable over corruption in the  land  were recently released diminishing the battle fought by journalists” He added that the recent announcement of nomination forms as announced by political party signified that “political office is no longer for everybody, its for oligarch as demonstrated by one of the major parties’ He lamented that despite the role of equity on the part of journalist “how can the state media go on this when opposition party will reel out manifestoes that will collide with that of the ruling party” The NUJ chairman  who  gave the assurance that journalists would not relent in upholding the ethics of the profession in the interest of the nation  urged civil society organizations/Non  governmental organizations NGOs to work in line with journalism profession in keeping the gate  devoid of bias for credibility and transparency in electioneering. The chairperson international federation of women lawyers(FIDA)in the state Mrs Oyinade Olatunbosun  who stressed that the interest of women lawyers lies on women and children said the focus signified  that: “ Any election is very important to us ,there are new innovations in the new electoral law ,we want to have election worthy of celebration in Ekiti”. The FIDA chairperson urged media to focus on  featuring leadership quality of female politicians rather than other sides. Another presenter, Barrister Stanley Okonkwo with the topic-Why the electoral act 2022 is  important No 6-10 stated that the new act encourages early primaries for political parties and to submit the names of their candidates 180 days before election.