Ahead of the presidential primary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the zoning committee on Tuesday recommended an open race for all candidates vying for the position of president in the 2023 general election, contrary to the Southern Governors’ call for a southern presidency. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State-led 37-person zoning committee in Abuja revealed that it took the critical decision based on the high voter turnout in the North and the party’s determination to return to power in 2023. Citing ‘exigency of time’ for its recommendation, the committee, however, advised the party to always make the issue of zoning very clear at least six months before the sales of forms. However, the recommendation of the committee generated angry reactions from organisations such as the Igbo socio-cultural group, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Pan-Niger Delta Forum and the Middle Belt Forum with some of them saying it would affect the chances of the PDP in the 2023 polls. But justifying its decision, the PDP committee, in the document titled, “Recommendations of PDP Zoning Committee,”  stated, “ Zoning, as in our party constitution, is affirmed. In spite of the above, the ticket is thrown open, this time around due to the exigency of the time. “Our party is encouraged to always make the issue of zoning very clear at least six months before sales of forms. “Our party should commend the efforts of some of our contestants on the issue of consensus candidacy; the efforts should be seen to a peaceful and logical conclusion.” On March 16, the party’s National Executive Committee, at its 95th meeting, instituted a 37-man committee comprising members from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to recommend a zoning formula for the various electoral offices ahead of next year’s polls. POLL Speaking with newsmen at the end of the meeting, the Chairman of the zoning committee, Governor Ortom said, “By the grace of God, we have unanimously adopted a position that will be sent to the NEC of our party that appointed us. “The good news for teaming supporters of the PDP and Nigerians is that we have resolved and every one of us – the 37 members – unanimously adopted the position that we are going to present to NEC.” Although Ortom was reticent about the zoning formula, it was learned that the committee would urge NEC to fling open the presidential race to all aspirants, irrespective of their zones. Another senior party source who spoke to one of our correspondents shortly after the meeting said the party would throw open the presidential ticket rather than restrict it to a region. The source said, “Reference was made to the 10 states with the highest turnout of voters in the 2019 election. Of these 10, nine were northern states and only Lagos made the list. Kano, Kaduna, Katsina had the highest number of voters’ turnout while Lagos came a distant fourth. “Aspirants should be allowed to test their popularity at the primary election but if they choose to adopt a consensus approach, that will be acceptable to the party. It is a position member of the committee was comfortable with.” It could be recalled that the PDP zoned its presidential ticket to the north during the 2019 general elections. The party argued that the zone still had an uncompleted tenure following the demise of former President Umaru Yar’Adua, on May 5, 2010, who only served for two years and 11 months. Consequently, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar emerged presidential candidate at the 2018 primaries held in Port Harcourt. In a related development, the former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, has resigned his membership in the zoning committee. In a letter addressed to Governor Ortom before the commencement of Tuesday’s meeting, Fayose argued that his status as a presidential aspirant in the PDP disqualified him to seat on the committee. In attendance were Governors Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Darius Ishaku of Taraba, former Deputy National Chairman,  Bode George;  former governors Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna), Boni Haruna (Adamawa), Sule Lamido (Jigawa) and Ibrahim Shema (Katsina).