The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has noted that the support of the United Nation is critical to the survival of democracy in Nigeria and other parts of Africa. Speaking while receiving the United Nations Needs Assessment Mission led by Mr. Serge Gakwandi Kubwimana, at the party national secretariat, the National Chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, charged the observer’s team not to only access, but to encourage the democratic process. He said: “We are very happy to see that your support is critical for the survival of democracy in Nigeria and other parts of Africa and the world. “So observer teams like yours should not just assess but encourage the democratic process. “We think your support is important. We are happy to hear that you are interested in various forms of support not just to the country but also to civil society organizations in such a way that they will be strengthened. “We think this will go along with some of the technical support particularly that will facilitate electronic transmission of results and other areas that we have to check election malpractices are very important to us. “As a political party, we’re very confident that if we have a free and fair election, the PDP will sweep all as we have demonstrated that in recent times. POLL “In some of the midterm elections, we’ve had in the city of Abuja a couple of months back, out of so many challenges which opposition parties go through, we were able to come out as the best-performing party. “We won 44 counsellors to the party and the party in government won only 18 counsellors. We won the six local governments but we were able to sustain only three, but those three were the main local governments that constitute the Federal Capital Territory. So we did very well and including of federal constituencies in about six states. “So we’re very confident, in a free and fair election, we will return to the winning ways and will be able to win several states and then next year, when we have the presidential elections, we will definitely win the presidential elections. “The only obstacle in the way we believe is when elections are not conducted freely and fairly. But as long as they are conducted free and fairly, this party is capable, is up and going, is rebuilding, is strong, is spread all over the country and Nigerians believe in us. “Therefore, your comment to support particularly agencies like the Independent National Electoral Commission, and several other supportive organizations will be very, very useful.” Earlier, Kubwimana explained why they are in Nigeria, adding, “this is an electoral Needs Assessment mission that is in the country in response to a request for electoral support. “So, we are here to assess the needs of the country but also of the key stakeholders that play a role in elections. Also to assess the overall context, possible challenges that may affect the electoral process and how best the UN could assist the government and the various stakeholders in the lead up to those elections. “We were involved in previous electoral cycles going back to 1999 not mistaken. So that’s sort of a continuum of that role. The mission has been dispatched by the leadership of the UN in New York. It comprises of colleagues from UNDP because in the country, those are the one that turns our recommendation into actual activities and programs.”