ASABA – Delta State Government has justified the approval of the N150bn credit facility requested by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as a proactive measure to shield inflationary tendencies against its accruals from the Federal Government. Addressing journalists yesterday in Asaba, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu and his counterpart in the ministry of Finance, Mr. Fidelis Tilije, explained that the credit facility was not a loan per se. Aniagwu noted that the decision reached at the State Executive Council and backed by the legislature, was in the best interest of the state and has nothing to do with politics as may be assumed in some less-informed quarters. According to him, “We have decided to brief the press because it is in line with our transparency posture since 2015, and also to make it clear that the decision we have taken has nothing to do with the season “Otherwise, some individuals might want to think that we are looking for money to play politics… We are not playing politics; the decision is in the best interest of the state and will further advance our development trajectory” Likewise, Commissioner of Finance explained that the credit facility was a discounting of receivables supposed to have accrued to the state over the years, along other oil-producing states. ‘’The total amount that is expected from this recovery is N257bn for Delta State in one trench of it. We believe that what we are discounting now is being reasonable. If you take a trip to other oil-producing states, you will discover that some of them discounted 100 percent. We have not taking the proceeds of this discounting facility yet but when we do, we will tie it to the receivables directly from FAAC; it is deducted from the source and then payment is made. This is why we say it is not a loan because it is tied to a fixed stream of income that is verifiable, credible and suitable. POLL Giving a background, Tilije clarified, “We found out that there were certain expenditures that were not remitted to oil-producing states and so we put up a fight; at the end of the day, those funds were made available. “We also discovered that the Federal Government was double-charging oil producing states with respect to the 13 percent remittances. For the oil subsidy extended by the Federal Government, 13 percent were not deducted from those subsidies that were paid. “By law, if you were going to be expanding what belong to the oil-producing states, you must deduct that 13 percent as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Because that was not done, we had to insist that those 13 percent must be deducted from all subsidies that were paid from 2010 to date. “We also insisted that the 13 percent must be deducted from all priority projects that were entered into by the Federal Government on behalf of the federation. So, those funds were expected to be refunded in trenches to all oil-producing states including Delta State. “What we are doing now are actually funds that would have been received by Delta State a long time ago; 2010. But because the Federal Government cannot pay those funds outright because of the economic balances of the nation, it became reasonable and logical for us to enter into an agreement that some part of it be paid within three years and the other part paid within five years. “Having reduced the debt profile of the state from 151bn to about 70bn, it is important to note that we have so many other contracts that we have awarded so many other contracts within the period of time; because it is the close of a particular tenure, it became very important that we ensured that those legacy projects are completed before the Okowa-administration winds down’’. Tilije further stressed that part of the credit facility would cater to the reduction of state pension outstanding of past due, reduce the outstanding of local government pensioners, complete ongoing projects such as the Orere Bridge, Ode-Itsekiri Bridge, the Koka Interchange, the Asaba-Ughelli Road,, among other infrastructural projects across the state.