ASABA – Move by the spirit of patriotism and good citizenship, the Delta State Chairman, Accord Party (AP), Chief Fred Obi, has Lambasted the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Nigeria for high costs of nomination forms pegged for Nigerians vying for different elective, political positions in their various States and Nigeria in general. Chief Obi made the assertion on Saturday, at the Party’s Secretariat in Asaba, Delta State capital, while fielding questions from journalists. Obi, who was also the Former Delta IPAC Boss frowned at the insensitivity and greed of the two biggest political parties in Nigeria. He said: “Democracy is now completely hijacked by the big and powerful men in our country, how can you tell me that a beginner who has all it takes and would want to contribute meaningfully to our democratic processes be able to afford these forms”? He queried.” Recall that PDP’s Nomination forms were pegged at N40 million for Presidential aspirants, N21 million for Governorship candidates and others as well as the Thursday, this week’s release of the costs of nomination forms at N100 million for Presidential aspirants, while Governorship aspirants N50 million and others for All Progressives Party (APC) for people vying for different elective positions Nationwide. Obi spoke further: “The painful and annoying thing is that, they claim to be giving discounts to the youth, the women and the physically challenged in the society.” According to him, “it is just a ploy to deceive the public.” He stated: “Now, for the purpose of argument, and let’s accept it that it is true. How much is the 50% of One Million Naira? No matter how you make your calculations it is still on the high side beyond the reach of Young Men and Women in our Society.” POLL The Delta Accord Party Boss also stated that the excessively high cost of nomination forms sold by the two leading political parties has attracted nationwide criticisms, with Nigerians saying that the two political parties are insensitive to the plight of citizens, especially the Nigerian youths as they are hell-bent on disenfranchising the Youths contesting elections regarding the costs of forms. In his words: “I will not entirely blame these political parties. Honestly, it’s not their fault. It is the fault of those running after them. You know why, because we are all lazy, nobody wants to work especially those in the political arena.”