Comrade Harrison Ugochukwu Asonye, President General, Senior Staff Association of Shipping, Clearing and Forwarding Agencies (SSASCFA), in this interview with ANDREW UTULU, shed light on members’ welfare, relationship with shipping companies and other sundry maritime-related issues. Excerpts: Can you tell us all we need to know about you as the President General of SSASCFA sir? My name is Comrade Harrison Ugochukwu Asonye. By the grace of God, I am the President General of Senior Staff Association of Shipping, Clearing and Forwarding Agencies (SSASCFA). I am an Apostle of Jesus Christ, a God-fearing man, nice, fun and friendly comrade. I believe in honesty and sincerity. I have good listening and communication skills, with a creative mind and always up for new challenges. I also believe in setting out goals and achieving such goals. My Association, as a matter of fact, is an Association of senior staff employees within the maritime industry. It’s a sister union to the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN). MWUN is basically for the junior employees within the maritime sector, while SSASCFA is meant for the senior staff employees within the sector. I assumed duty as President General on November 19, 2020. Last year November 2021, we clocked one year in office. So, this is almost my second year in office as the President General of the union. What are some of the achievements recorded since you emerged as President General of SSASCFA? They are apparently numerous, but I wouldn’t want to mention those achievements since we came on board because it wasn’t really a good experience when I emerged as the President General. I wouldn’t like to blow my trumpet at all. But have it at the back of your mind that, we, today brought our secretariat to Apapa where the hub of maritime activities are. We have also strengthened our rapport with TUC which is our major labour center. To clear backlog of debts is another success story we have recorded. It’s a great achievement though. A Secretariat staff who was down with illness was also paid off despite meeting an empty treasury when we came on board. POLL Equipping the secretariat is another success story and the list is endless considering where we are coming from. Today we have a good working relationship with our employers, members. They are numerous; though, we are still struggling to get things right. What are your projections for the year 2022? I believe in forward ever and backward never. Like Martin Luther King stated- “I have a dream”; honestly, I have loads of dreams for this union and one thing I know that matters most as far as this union is concerned has to do with capacity building of my members. You see, training is key. We need constant training and retraining of our members and that is our vision. Both the national and units’ officers; members and secretariat staff need additional knowledge in line with their respective field of endeavors in order to compete favourably with the global village. They should be able to know and understand what is obtainable globally. Before I came on board, I submitted a theme to the National Delegate Committee tagged: “Leading a union during COVID and post COVID era”. Of course, you know COVID 19 came with lots of challenges. God has been our strength. Also, the health of our members matters a lot to us. We are working round the clock to make sure that we check the health status of our members yearly. We cannot shy away from the fact that at least twice a year, we organize workshops for the officers and members to know more about our health condition and proffer solutions to any member that needs health services. What is the relationship between MWUN and SSASCA? MWUN is like a bedrock for me because that is where I started my career as a unionist from. Anytime any day, MWUN is my second home, my foundation, my base etc. That is why, when I came on board as the PG of SSASCFA, I went to MWUN National Secretariat with my National Executives on a courtesy / familiarization visit. And again, the President General of MWUN is a very good friend, brother and an in-law to me. We have come a long way as far as the struggle is concerned. Wherever we meet, we always remind ourselves about the nostalgic feelings. That is by the way. We have however agreed to work together for a common goal by synergizing on the best way to protect our members’ interest in all the companies. We are partners in progress anytime any day. I can’t pass by Osho Drive without stopping to pay an august visit to the union executives. MWUN is a cradle for me because that is my foundation, it is my evolution. Correct me if am wrong, your union appears not to be popular in the maritime industry. Am I correct? Really, it’s a two-way thing because, firstly, maybe before I came on board two years ago, the union was not popular. It was not really known to players of the maritime industry. But today, we are trying to revolutionize the union and we are trying to make ourselves known the same way our sister union is known within and out of the sector. I think our unpopularity can be attributed to the fact that our previous leadership didn’t really push for us to get the deserved recognition within and outside our industry. Can you share the antecedents of your predecessor because it appears nothing was achieved during the past leadership of the union? For me, I believe in forward ever and backward never. I don’t want to go back to what transpired previously but I am here to resuscitate and revitalize the union and make meaningful achievements to project the image of this great union to the world at large; and that is exactly what we are doing now. Today, we are very popular to our various employers. Today, we are very popular to our labour centre which is Trade Union Congress (TUC) and we are also very popular to the Ministry of Labour and Employment. However, very soon we will draw the attention of NIMASA, NPA, NIWA, Shippers Council and others within the industry about our existence and that is our projection for the year as part of revolutionizing the union. How old is the union? The Union was restructured under trade unions acts via Trade Unions (Amendment) (No. 2), Decree No. 26 of 1996, Third Schedule Part C, line 13. As at the time of registration, shipping was the trending name. Clearing and Forwarding was added to the name so as to capture everybody in the maritime sector within the senior cadre. But, today, the name Shipping is old fashioned since after the concession of the ports which split shipping into haulage, terminal operations, logistics, warehousing, inspection services. Two years down the line, can you tell us about the challenges you are facing as President General of the union? One of the challenges we are facing is the issue of our employers trying to frustrate workers from joining the union and that is the major problem. There is a particular issue we are battling right now in Onne. They are fighting to ensure that we do not unionize their workers. Also, another issue we are facing has to do with the economic challenges, because every capitalist wants to maximize profit, and by so doing, they want to cut cost due to the exchange rate. As we speak, our naira is valueless and is seriously impacting on our economy negatively. There is a particular organization that is about to embark on restructuring. On our own part, we endeavor to strike a balance so that it will not appear as if we are antagonist to our employers, but to have a good rapport with them. If management insists that they want to drop some workers, then there must be need for a roundtable engagement. So, how do you cope as the President General of the union and as the same time an employee to one of the multinationals? First, God Almighty has always been and He is still my strength. It has not been easy; God has been faithful. Also, considering my age as a young man in my mid-40s, I still have the strength and the vigor to move around. My blood is still pumping to get things done the right way. By so doing or having said that, I just must strike a balance because the world is a global village and that is why we must embrace digitization and digitalization. With the use of ICT, we can be able to meet up with the office demands; and of course, that of the union. We are at the Union’s secretariat as we speak, and I can also discharge some of my office assignment right here with my laptop. And basically, that is one thing that makes a difference. If there is need for me to step out and do the physical aspect of the job, I am always ready and available to deliver. How do you intend to familiarize your union with the critical players of the maritime sector? Firstly, we have concluded plans to pay a courtesy visit to those regulatory bodies I mentioned earlier, and we don’t burst into people’s houses without informing them about our visits. So, the only way to go about it is to formally notify them about our visitation. However, we are going to write to those agencies for a familiarization visit formally in order to let them know about the visits. The response will further determine when and time.