…As Both Factions Agree To Work Together ENUGU – Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, in keeping with his peace initiative, on Monday, met with stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Aninri Local Government Area over the disagreement that erupted at the monthly LG meeting of the party, held at Ndeaboh, during the weekend, which left some people injured. Gov. Ugwuanyi enjoined the Aninri PDP stakeholders to embrace peace and work together as brothers for the progress of the party, the council area and the state in general. The governor on receiving the report of the incident visited the injured at ESUT Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu to empathize with them and made funds available to ensure that they were given adequate medical attention. The peace meeting, which involved the faction led by the Council Chairman, Hon. Benneth Ajah and the one led by the member representing Aninri Constituency in the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Chinedu Okwu (Otaka), offered the participants, including those who sustained injuries, the opportunity to table their grievances and revelations before the governor. In their separate narrations, all the speakers reiterated that Gov. Ugwuanyi is their leader, and pledged to abide by his decisions at the meeting aimed at resolving the issues amicably. They also pledged to abide by the governor’s directions in respect of the PDP primaries in the state and the 2023 general elections. They appreciated Gov. Ugwuanyi for his commitment and resilience in resolving issues in Aninri LGA on several occasions, apologized to the governor for the disagreement during the party meeting and assured him that they will ensure that such unfortunate incident does not happen again in the council area. Resolving the issues to the satisfaction of all the stakeholders present at the meeting, Gov. Ugwuanyi directed that on no account should people who are not members of the PDP in Aninri be brought to party meetings in the council area. POLL The governor also directed that the suspension of some party executives in Oduma Ward IV should be lifted immediately. He added that Victor Okoro remains the Chairman of the PDP in Aninri LGA, and that nobody should attempt to remove the chairman for his deputy to preside over meetings of the party in the council area. Gov. Ugwuanyi urged the stakeholders to support the council Chairman, who they all described as a good man, to develop the area and promote peace and unity among the people, advising them not to allow themselves to be used for political tussles. Accepting the decisions, the leaders of the two factions, Hon. Ajah and Hon. Okwu, and their followers embraced one another and pledged to work together in the interest of peace and progress of the council and the state. They also thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for his fatherly intervention as a man of peace, and described him as a God fearing and humble leader who has sacrificed a lot for peace to reign in Enugu State.