Ogun State born politician, Dr. Adejare Adegbenro, in this interview with journalists, speaks on anti-corruption war and his expectations from the major political parties ahead of the 2023 general elections. He also speaks on other issues as they affect the state of the nation. AKINWUNMI KING brings the excerpts: We are approaching another election year. Do you see the two leading political parties in Nigeria, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), addressing our current challenges? There is not much difference between the ruling APC and the main opposition, PDP as both have almost the same ideologies as well as almost identical personalities. It is no surprise that the way both of them go about their politicking. A bit of difference is just the way of infusion of former members of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), whereby they lean backward to relate with themselves even in the new arrangement called APC. And if you look at the defectors from the PDP to APC, they still carry about the PDP mindset in the APC. And the mindset is sharing the booties and moving on. However, in the APC, whether we accept it or not, the party has been focusing on infrastructure development. Though it might be slow, it is steady and surely. APC has been trying in the area of infrastructure development. But when it comes to politicking, it is not about what you have done but about how you can push your agenda to the minds of the people in the way they would accept you. Sadly, however, what you read in the media nowadays is about rancour like APC accusing the PDP of one thing or the PDP accusing the APC of another thing. Whatever the case, both of them are aiming at 2023. However, the bottom line of all these will depend on the candidature of the parties at the end of the day. What I am trying to say is that whoever emerges as the presidential candidate of all the parties will make a lot of difference. Let the choice among them be decided through robust debates. Let the choice be through the calibre of the candidates and not based on the political parties they belong to. So, if the APC and PDP field their separate candidates, we should encourage a very strong debate between them to decide who is more capable. The consideration should not be about the political parties. I would want the people to look through the personalities and not their political parties. It is about who can do it better. From the people consulting and others rumoured to be interested in contesting for the position of president, who do you think is best for Nigeria? Well, I don’t think the candidate for the presidency has come out yet as far as I am concerned. So, let’s wait and see. It could be a woman presidency or joint male for presidency and woman for vice president. That will be exciting, you never can tell. What is your take on the zoning system and power rotation between the North and the South? As for me, I believe as a Nigerian, I think anyone from any part of the country can contest for president whether male or female, young or old so far they have the capacity to run Nigeria well. Also the issue of religion should be out of it. It should not be part of consideration. If we look at it, there is only one God. Do you have any word for the women and the youth in the country on politics and governance? POLL There is no doubting the fact that the women and the youth control the votes in Nigeria. Demographically, the youth are more than the women in the country. This is because the youth are a combination of men and women. However, the women have some roles to play in guaranteeing good governance in the country. The women have the capacity to mobilise, to sensitise and create the required noise to raise awareness towards doing the right things for the people as required of democracy. And against this backdrop, women should be given more opportunities in governance. Former President Goodluck Jonathan promised the women 25 percent in government and he went ahead to make that happen. Though the Buhari administration did not make a policy, from the looks of things however, President Buhari has promoted the women in his government. Examples are that Finance Ministers in this administration are women who control a major part of the country’s economy. We expect those women too to have created a form of encouragement for other women. In politics, we have to understand something, you don’t sit down at home and expect manna from heaven. So, the women should do more for themselves. What are your views on the future of the country? One thing we must understand is that our economy has to be salvaged. We should start working out a homegrown solution. Most of the problems we are facing today are borne out of the fact that we are a consuming nation. We want to only consume everything we do in this country. People are talking about the price of wheat. Are we saying Nigeria is not producing wheat? No, we do. But we export most of our products because there is more money out there that we make. We are not putting a lot in our agriculture and we are not putting a lot into our technology. We are not putting a lot into our SME. These are areas that can spur growth, the areas that brought growth in 2021 are agriculture, technology and manufacturing. How are we unburdening this into the mindset of the coming generation? Truly, Nigeria wants to make it big but we don’t like hard work. People leave the shores of this country to the USA, Canada, where they are willing to do any menial jobs. They are willing to do anything to survive. We should have a way to create opportunities. The reason the government exists is that they have been given the mandate to create opportunities. As soon as we start to create opportunities at all levels from local government, from state to the Federal level, you will see us moving to a better country. Now the constitution review will help us to achieve some of the things. In the review, you can see that some items have been moved from the Exclusive list to the Concurrent list. And you can see that we have the local government autonomy, the judicial autonomy and we pray that the President signs it because at the end, the framework determines where development goes. So, with this, each level can enhance policies. Are you comfortable with the way ethnicity is undermining the benefits of our diversity? That is another major issue we have to tackle in this country. It is how to create that system where a Yoruba man will be able to live comfortably in the house of an Igbo man, where an Igbo man can also live comfortably even in the house of a northerner. So, there is the need for a new orientation that would emphasise that we are one Nigeria. Corruption is still very much with us despite the promise by the present administration to eradicate it. How can we effectively tackle this monster? Former President Goodluck Jonathan said stealing is not corruption and we laughed at him. But with the recent happenings in Nigeria today, you cannot differentiate between how to be a thief and how to be corrupt. Corruption is actually a systemic thing. Being a thief is a personality. What do I mean by this? If somebody is not interested in stealing before, but when he gets into government and you get to resume as Commissioner for the Environment, and they tell him the United Nation Environmental Protection Agency is sending in 150, 000 equipment for a pilot programme and he says fine. Where is the equipment, they say none. And he says let us set up the structure and they say no. And they call him, Oga, that is not how we do things here. That is the problem with Nigeria. The problem is the system of how we do things here. And when you insist, they will tell you repeatedly that this is how we do it here. As long as we have the system of ‘how we do it here,’ corruption will continue. I tell everybody that corruption cannot be stopped because it is systemic. It happens in the principal’s office. According to a story, the principal told his student I am selling this book to you at N1, 000. The student goes home to tell his parents that the book is N1, 500. The father now thinks of how he can increase the price to N3, 500. It goes on and on like that in a cycle. Corruption is systemic and we have to look for a way to curb it at the systemic level. And if you ask me which department in government has been mostly influenced by corruption, I will say the Civil Service. From the local government to the state government, down to the Federal Government, corruption flows like a river through their systems. Most civil servants go to work not with the intent of serving the country wholeheartedly. They go with the notion that, ‘is it my father’s work or if I die today somebody will not come to replace me?’ If there is training for example in Dubai, they will rush to Dubai and come back as the same people. So, there is the need for civil service reform so it could be managed like a private sector. And to do that, it will depend on the quality of the ministers or commissioners in charge. For corruption to stop, the highest office holders like the President and the State Governors must sit down to select the people that would focus on results. Once there is result measurement or metric in place, it will now be difficult to bypass the structures and the system. The first enemies of the country are those who insist that things should remain the way they are because they profit from it.