It has been revealed that the impending airline, NG Eagle, lost about $53.4 million (about N22.214billion at the official rate of N416 to a dollar) in six months to the non-issuance of Air Operator Certificate (AOC) to the carrier by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). This is as an investigation has shown that the regulatory body was set to issue the airline an AOC in September 2021, which would enable it operate as a passenger, cargo, scheduled and charter flight operator until the interference from the National Assembly and some aviation unions that compelled NCAA to suspend the issuance of the certificate to the airline. Also a source close to the Ministry of Aviation has advised the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) to pay back the entire N43 billion debt of Arik Air to agencies and auxiliary companies in the sector before going ahead to form another carrier from the troubled airline. A document made available to Daily Independent by an industry source over the weekend, listed salaries, insurance, engine lease/shipment, procurement, contracted services, IT, logistics, rent, repair/ renovation (offices), preservation maintenance, contracted engineering personnel, heavy maintenance and revenue as some of the line item categories the airline had suffered losses on since September 2021 till March 2022. The document shows that on salaries to 100 personnel, including pilots and engineers, the airline incurred a loss of $1,664,545.26; insurance for three aircraft, $934,611.55; engine lease/shipment, $757,964.57, and procurement, $525,386.82. Others are contracted services, $298,605.78; IT, $121,829.95; logistics, $113,699.37; rent, 25,588.08; r e p ai r / r enovat i on, $16,583.41; preservation maintenance, $36,000; over 20 contracted engineering personnel, $757,620; heavy maintenance, $2,400,000, and revenue losses at $45,750,000. AMCON had planned to float a new carrier from Arik Air where it has since February 9, 2017 served as receiver manager. But some industry unions, Nigerian Association of Aviation Professionals (ANAP) and National Union of Pensioners (NUP), to be precise, kicked against the planned granting of AOC to the airline by NCAA and therefore petitioned the National Assembly and the Ministry of Aviation. POLL The unions had claimed that the plan by AMCON to inaugurate a new carrier instead of considering ways to bail out Arik Air out of its predicament was a bad business move, stressing that its plan to save the airline from imminent collapse over alleged debts of N30 billion had failed. Besides, an AOC approved by NCAA and sighted by Daily Independent indicated that the regulatory agency had planned to grant NG Eagle Airline the certificate by September 2021. The certificate with the number, NGE/AOC/08- 21/001, was to expire on September 20, 2023. AOC is a certificate authorising an operator to carry out specified commercial air transport operations and it is usually issued by the Civil Aviation Authorities (CAAs). AOCs are issued to airlines in Nigeria by NCAA. The certification is only valid for two years and subsequently renewed once the applicant (operator) fulfills all the requirements. Though the certificate sighted by Daily Independent was yet to be signed by the Director-General of NCAA, but a source close to the airline confided in this newspaper that the Directorate Of Operations, Licensing & Training Standards (DOLTS) of NCAA was awaiting the DG’s signature before higher authorities prevailed on the helmsman from signing the document. The certificate read in part: “This certificate certifies that NG Eagle Limited is authorised to perform commercial air operations, as defined in the attached operations specifications, in accordance with the operations manual and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations Part 9.” The industry source wondered why NG Eagle was yet to be issued AOC despite allegedly fulfilling all the requirements, while airlines that started processing after the airline had been issued their certificates and subsequently commenced operations. The source said: “All those who started their AOCs like Green Africa, United Nigeria Airlines and others after NG Eagle have secured their AOCs, while NG Eagle is still waiting to get its own. “NCAA has refused to say the reason it suspended the issuance of AOC to NG Eagle, despite the fact that the airline passed all the stages of AOC processes. I think rather than keep mum, NCAA should tell the public why it has failed to issue the certificate to the airline, yet the airline with its entire staff cannot commence operations as planned.” However, a source close to the Ministry of Aviation over the weekend confided in Daily Independent that NCAA may not grant the airline an AOC until it paid off the entire N33 billion debt owed by Arik to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Apart from the agencies’ debt, the airline was also allegedly indebted to ground handling companies and other auxiliary organisations in the sector to the tune of N10 billion. Besides, the source purported that AMCON had planned to liquidate Arik Air after acquisition of AOC from NCAA, stressing that the three aircraft used to process the certificate belonged to Arik Air. “I don’t know how NCAA can issue an AOC to AMCON on NG Eagle Airlines. Who is going to pay the N33 billion debt owed FAAN, NCAA and NAMA by Arik Air. You claimed you want to set up an airline, but you are using the aircraft of another airline to process your AOC. What does that mean? It means that after you obtain the AOC, you will liquidate the existing airline. Who will then be responsible for the payment of its debt?” The source queried. A letter signed by Sen. Smart Adeyemi, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Aviation, to the NCAA on October 11, 2021, made reference to a joint petition by ANAP and NUP, challenging the issuance of AOC to NG Eagle over huge debt agencies. But Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative (ASRTI), the industry’s thinktank, has condemned the interference by the National Assembly on the matter. In a statement signed by Olumide Ohunayo for ASRTI, the pressure group noted with dismay how, in the past, the lawmakers had interfered in the affairs and duties of the NCAA, saying such undermines and whittles the powers granted to the regulatory agency.