A business management consultant and researcher, Engineer (Dr) Taofeek Ashiru has tasked corporate organizations and individuals from all walks of life to adjust to changing business environments to avoid decline. Dr. Ashiru, a Cambridge College Global Adjunct Faculty spoke during a hybrid public lecture organised by the Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers (NSChE), Lagos/Ogun chapter. Speaking on the theme of the lecture: “Thriving in the Changing Business Ecosystems”, the guest lecturer emphasised the need for individuals and organisations to embrace and adapt to changes and digital technology at every level of their endeavours. He revealed that many business empires and individuals that are stiff to changes and trends in the world have suffered irreversible declines. According to him, the world is replete with a rich history of organisations that have gone underground due to refusal to adapt to change, introduce new products/services, inability to establish notch marketing, operating with obsolete technology, lack of appropriate skills, none or management vision, lack of creativity and poor communication strategies, among others. Using now-defunct Kodak as an example, Engr. Ashiru said research shows that the firm saw a lot of changes taking place in the sector where it holds sway but stuck to its method of producing pictures. He said, ” Kodak did research to discover the digital technology for photography and the likes but kept that under the hood until other people discovered it and at the end of the day kicked Kodak out of business”. The data analytic expert charged individual business owners and organisations to review and change their business model because sticking to a particular prototype could be detrimental to business survival. POLL “The current change is rapid, fast and a lot of things are happening at the same time. No more long span of life for companies.” In the oil and gas sector, we have witnessed a lot of advancement in robotics, multi-directional drilling technologies and so many trends that have made the sector cheaper than what it used to be.“Mobile technology industry keeps evolving and automation is ongoing as the Internet of Things, cloud technologies are changing the way we do business and advanced robotic is helping out in improved manufacturing and automation,” he added. He charged individuals and organisations to invest and look in the direction of technological developments and embrace good business models to stay afloat in their operations, adding that platform business has become an avenue where people and organisations are making good money.Ashiru urged organisations to take advantage of the various generations; the baby boomers,Gen Z, Millennials, Gen X, saying a good mixture has different capabilities that could be useful in different ways. He charged the older generations not to retire but retire to mix with others to become creative and bring about development. To the government, Dr Ashiru suggested that the ability to solve problems confronting the country in the areas of education, food sufficiency and quality healthcare would leapfrog the country from its present predicaments to guarantee a secured future. Chairman of the occasion, Engineer Johnson Awoyomi lauded the guest lecturer for the quality presentation, saying the regular public lecture forms part of the efforts by the Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers (NSChE) to foster career development and opportunities for members to strengthen their technical competencies and create opportunities for students.