As the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) prepares for its presidential primaries slated for May 30th and 31st, President Muhammadu Buhari has warned the leadership of the party against imposing unpopular candidates as the flagbearer of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. President Buhari issued the warning on Wednesday during the 11th meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party in Abuja. Speaking during the meeting, Buhari also enjoined the leadership to always follow due process in all the party processes as well as to develop more mechanisms against corruption. “I enjoin you all to follow due process in all the party processes and more importantly to develop more mechanisms against corruption. “I call on all party members to abide by all extant laws, rules, and regulations and to leaders of our party to avoid the imposition of candidates that cannot win popular elections. “This dictatorial behaviour cost us many strategic seats in the past. In the recent past, this led to some of our strong members, unfortunately, opting to go elsewhere because of the unfairly oppressive behaviour of party leaders at the state level. “I must caution strongly against any tendency towards developing cliques, infighting within the party. “We want to win well not succumb to factions on account of personal acerbities and desire to retain control at all costs. That surely is not the road to win.’’ POLL The president also told newly inaugurated members of the National Working Committee (NWC), which had been delegated powers of NEC for a period of 90 days, to work towards keeping the party together by creating more room for discussions. “There’s no time to develop differences among ourselves. We have no time for that,’’ he added Buhari also warned of tougher security measures in restive parts of the country, a review of operations and strategy, reassuring Nigerians that the efforts that resulted in relative peace in the South-south and rescuing of the North-east from the hold of terrorists would be ramped up. According to him, the major security challenges have remained in the North-central and North-west, saying, “We are going to be very tough.’’ He added: “I will like us to reflect on what the situation was before we came in. How many Local Government Areas were under the control of terrorists in the northeast? “In the South-south, we all know what the situation was; now we have relative peace. With the resources at our disposal, we have done very well. “People are very forgetful. Our main problem now is in the North-west and North-central. People are killing one another in these places, what for? We are going to be very tough.’’ In the forthcoming general elections in 2023, Mr Buhari urged party members to be more mindful of the pitfalls that led to the ouster of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015. “The PDP thought that only time could remove them, and the time came. They thought it was impossible to lose elections,’’ he added. He said the APC was formed by a merger of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), some members from All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the new PDP, which was a fraction of the then ruling party. “We put together a committee with clear terms of reference on how to remove the PDP from power. The PDP thought it wasn’t going to be possible. But it happened,’’ he said. The president commended the Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) for offering themselves to serve the party at a critical moment in utmost satisfaction despite all the attendant challenges and for organising the National Convention that produced the NWC. “I must also sincerely thank all the aspirants for their desire to serve but had to withdraw their aspirations for the overall interest of our party. I consider it an honour to my person and an unwavering sacrifice for the unity of our great party as we approach the coming elections. “I plead with all aspirants who were not elected to put in efforts in support of the leadership of the party to achieve our goal of success in the forthcoming elections.