Governor Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State has said that the empowerment of youths in the country as well as their involvement in leadership positions was key to national development. Udom, stated this during the 2022 Junior Chamber International (JCI) Nigeria Southern Conference, held in Benin on Saturday. The conference was themed “Young Leadership and Empowerment: Preparing Nigeria for Development”. The governor who was represented by Dr Uwemedimo Udo, Chairman, of the Uyo Local Government Council, said that young people must be equipped with the right knowledge and empowered to enable them to impact society positively. He noted that the 2020 #EndSars# nationwide protests was a manifestion of the frustration felt by the Nigerian youths due to their inability to assert their strength and have a voice in the affairs in the country. He pointed out that his administration was empowering youths in his state as well as bringing them into positions of leadership in order to have sustainable development. Also speaking, Dr Linda Iboi, Deputy Managing Director, Flowell Pharma Nig ltd, said that the empowerment of Nigerian youths would make them get actively involved in politics. “Entrepreneurship is the basic for leadership. Youths need to be empowered to enable them get involved in active and results-oriented leadership. POLL “The future of the Nigerian youth is bright, but they need to be supported. They need empowerment that will make them contribute their quota to societal development. Iboi, who is also the present First Lady of Benin Club, added that youths needed guidance and encouragement from the government, private sector and other members of the public. Earlier, the Benin Metro President, JCI,, Mr Moses Ahem, said the conference was to bring leaders from different spheres to sensitive youths on empowerment and leadership. Ahem, however, urged youths to be proactive, key into skills and apply such skills to enhance the development process. Meanwhile, the keynote speaker for the event, Dr Tom Obaseki, Edo Project Coordinator, Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project, tasked youths on political leadership. “The young people have been so quiet, they have to speak out. “Most of the people planning for the future of the country are those that will not be part of the future, so the young people should plan for the future they want to be part of”. He added that the government needed to support youth empowerment by providing subsidy for them to undergo internship in different organizations.