The campaign trail of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (alias BAO), received a boost with the donation of megaphones to it by a chieftain of the party, Mr Ayodeji Adesina Adarabierin (Asipa I) in Ado-Ekiti, the State capital. Adarabierin, who is a House of Assembly aspirant for Ado-Ekiti State Constituency I, disclosed that the gesture was to ensure that the APC wins the June 18 2022 gubernatorial poll with a wide margin, particularly in Ado-Ekiti. Speaking with journalists in Ado-Ekiti after handling the items to the ward leaders, the APC chieftain who also distributed food items to the Muslims said the party would leave no stone unturned in ensuring that it retained power beyond 2022 in Ekiti State. Amongst the items distributed included, milk and beverages. The state assembly hopeful who is from ward l (Idofin) noted that no lawmaker has ever come from the ward in 22 years of our democracy, urging the people and party to give the ward a chance. The Assembly hopeful promised that the APC, therefore, urged Nigerians to intensify prayers for the country to overcome the security challenge. According to him, the ongoing Lenten and Ramadan periods should be used by the citizenry to seek the face of the ravaging insecurity in Nigeria. He maintained that Nigerians irrespective of their religion must pray for the peace of the nation at this trying period. “I congratulate the Muslims and indeed all Nigerians for witnessing another Ramadan. I want to enjoin them to use this opportunity to pray for the nation, particularly on the precarious security situation being experienced in our country. I believe in the efficacy of prayers, that God Almighty will consider our plight and supplication in this holy period and return peace to our land. POLL “We are using this sentiment to tell the people and party that we have qualified people and sellable candidate in me to do it better.” The Ado-Ekiti politician also dismissed the insinuation that the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) were poaching members of the APC. He said, “If you are following the political trends in the state, you will know that it is PDP that is being depleted not APC. “The records are there, that APC defeated PDP, SDP combined in 2018. Now that APC is doing better in governance through Governor Kayode Fayemi who is doing well in terms of infrastructure, regular payment of salaries, social security, health, education and putting a whole lot of other things in place, with the pedigree of BAO, we are confident that APC will coast to victory in the June 18 polls.” Adarabierin advised APC members in Ado Ekiti and the state at large to be steadfast, focused and believe that better days are ahead. “We are having it better now, but the better and best days are still ahead of us when BAO wins the election and start building on the legacies of Dr Fayemi,” he said.