Ahead of the 2023 general election, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant and leader of agitations for the Middlebelt Presidency, Moses Ayom, has challenged the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, former governor of Anambra State governor, Peter Obi,  and former President of the Senate,  Abubakar Bukola Saraki to debate on competency and capacity. Ayom, who said he will prove his capacity and fitness by declaring a certificate from a government owned hospital, said that non of the above-mentioned aspirants can match him. The aspirant, in a statement, said: “I am challenging the notable aspirants in Nigeria to a pre-debate especially the likes of former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, whom I have much respect for, Peter Obi,  former Senate President  Abubakar Bukola Saraki and former Lagos governor Bola Tinubu for Nigerians to know that non of them will match me. “The only thing standing between me and them is that most of them are money bags which the president is continuously begging Nigerians not to vote for. “I will be armed with my fitness certificate from a Government-owned hospital,  and my  assets  declaration sheet ready for the debate and I urge fellow contestants to bring same.” Ayom has also called on the National Chairman of APC, Abdullahi Adamu to join the race for the presidency in 2023. He said: “In the spirit of justice, equity and fairness because Middle belt remains the only region that has been cheated, marginalized from the presidency. So as a Middle Belter with experience, he can join the race so that head or tail it remains in the region. Head or tail the region will produce either President or at least Vice President.” Ayom said his call was based on his belief that Adamu, who has been a bridge builder and a strong believer in the unity of Nigeria can use the opportunity of being the President to perform better in the capacity of a bridge builder. POLL The presidential aspirant however pointed out that his call on Adamu to join the race does not void his own presidential aspiration, adding, “I am only not being selfish and desperate. I know that Adamu is from the Middle Belt too. In the end, any of us could emerge from the zone.” He however said his belief in the Middlebelt Presidency remained strong, a reason, he has asked Adamu, a known leader in the zone to join the race. “Since I met Adamu through the former Benue state Governor, George Akume, during the administration of Olusegun Obasanjo, Adamu personally introduced me to the then President as the contractor that designed and built the presidential Lodge in Lafia, which was commissioned by Obasanjo. “I have known Adamu as a detribalized Nigerian. He exhibited his capacity to build bridges when he crossed his state to appoint a TIV man from Benue into his cabinet in Nasarawa State. “His wealth of experience in building bridges can be traced to as long as when he was made OBATERU OF THE SOURCE,” he said. On his readiness for the presidency in 2023, Ayom revealed that he has been more prepared by President Buhari to take over from him in 2023. Speaking about his capacity, competence and potential, Ayom drew attention to the fact that non of the aspirants understand international transactions in China like himself. “Therefore I will use the opportunity to turn the whole of South East and South South to the Gwadong of Africa and part of the towns as Gwarzhou of Africa. I will promote Freezone partnerships between China and South East and South South because of their skills and of course we have the cheapest labor on the planet. I will leverage on my relationship with China and wipe off unemployment,” he said. The Benue State born presidential aspirant said that if elected as President, “there will be no alternative to having our refineries running at the optimal capacity. All cases of Oil theft will be eliminated throughout the deployment of appropriate technology.” He assured that come May 2023 if sworn in as the President, Nigerians will have enough energy to transact businesses, adding that “security, robust economy and  employment is 100 percent guarantee.” He also spoke about the blessings and support he is getting from President Muhammadu Buhari, pointing out that “by way of President Buhari’s actions and utterances, I strongly believe that the President has endorsed me for the presidency come 2023. “My proof for saying this is not far fetched.  Recently, the President commissioned the second largest fertilizer plant in the World, in Lagos. In the deal that gave birth to this, Mr. President also selected me along with Aliko Dangote to participate in the signing of the same magnitude, the activation of which is in the offin. To be specific, the deal was signed with SBM, one of the biggest firms globally in manufacturing mining equipments. “Specifically,  I am talking about the transaction that will give rise to multiple big mining processing plant across Nigeria, which will wipe off unemployment. Although there are hiccups, we are seeking political solutions through the intervention of the President to unravel the potential in the deal which was signed in China in his presence and witnessed by the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele. “It is noteworthy to appreciate that the CBN Governor has since gone ahead to give the company GRANITE AND MARBLE a grant (RSSF) to execute the contract . “It would be recalled that President Buhari was in South Africa where he said he wished he was younger to take on the task. Despite this, Buhari has been able to revalidate the Ketti District under the land swap Programme of the Federal Capital Territory, which is now being handled by the company in partnership with the Federal Housing Authority.– Federal Housing Authority/Ketti investment company.(FHA/KETTI DC). “This revalidation will no doubt put Nigeria in the front burner on the issue of climate change as Ketti City is being built to become the foremost African climate city.” Still talking about the proof of the President’s blessings for his ambition, Ayom said, “Mr. President warned the Adamu led National Working Committee not to give the presidential ticket of the APC to the highest bidder (money bag). All these presidential actions and utterances are tailored towards me. I strongly believe.” Ayom insisted that nomination forms should not be too expensive so that leaders with great potentials for nation building will not be scared away by the High prices. He had earlier on his Arise TV  interview condemned the the hike the price of chairmanship nomination form.