The Government of Imo State has signed a Memorandum of Un­derstanding (MOU) with the Niger Delta Develop­ment Commission (NDDC) to intervene and complete some road projects awarded by the NDDC in Imo State in the past but abandoned by the contrac­tors along the line. Performing the ceremony in Owerri on April 26, 2022, Governor Hope Uzodimma expressed satisfaction about entering into the pact with the NDDC and regretted that some of the roads were award­ed 14 years ago. Uzodimma identified three of such roads awarded by NDDC but abandoned and which the MOU will take care of to include: Avu/Etekuru/ Ohaji/Egbema road; Umudi/ Nkwerre road and Imerien­we/Ngor-Okpala/Etche road. He said the roads were awarded to foreign contractors who abandoned them, citing security reasons, youth res­tiveness among other reasons they have refused to come back to complete the roads. Uzodimma said his gov­ernment, in partnership with NDDC, has decided to source for local contractors who un­derstand the terrain and the environmental challenges of the roads to complete them as soon as possible so as to allevi­ate the suffering of the people. The Governor said: “Aban­doning those roads has added to security challenges and as soon as they are completed they will add to the economic status of the State and help to open up those areas and help the local farmers to promptly evacuate their farm products and make life more meaning­ful for the populace.” He said based on the part­nership with the NDDC the lo­cal contractors who are tested and trusted have already been mobilized to site and promised to support them with part of the funding and “local logistics to ensure that the enabling en­vironment is there to encour­age the contractors to work according to specifications.” To achieve a win-win situa­tion in the pact, Uzodimma as­sured that “there will be a joint management team of relevant engineers from NDDC and Imo State Government who will constitute a Committee of Project Management that will supervise the projects to ensure that quality and sus­tainable roads are delivered and guaranteed.” POLL The Governor added: “The supervising consultants in collaboration with the Project Management Team will be on the toes of the contractors to ensure that they deliver the roads as designed and on time too.” He thanked NDDC manage­ment, the Minister of Niger Delta, Chief Godswill Akpabio and the President Muhamma­du Buhari, for giving a nod to his request to get the roads completed in partnership with the NDDC. Earlier, an excited Interim Administrator/Chief Exec­utive Officer of NDDC, Dr. Effiong Akwa, explained that he came with his team to meet with the Governor based on his request for a partnership that will help in the comple­tion of NDDC roads.