Nigerians traveling to Dubai for business and leisure will now enjoy a new travel experience as Emirates has just launched the Dubai Experience. This is a powerful and intuitive platform for customers to easily browse, create and book their own customised itineraries including flights, hotel stay, visits to key attractions, and other dining and leisure experiences in Dubai and the UAE. Nigerians can now book their customised itineraries including flights, hotel stay, visits to key attractions, and other dining and leisure experiences in Dubai and the UAE from the comfort of their homes, offices, and diverse locations. They will also now experience the vibrance of Dubai in a more exciting way. Whether it is one of the many popular free attractions across the UAE, or one that requires pre-booking and payment, the easy-to-use itinerary planner provides details such as estimated duration, location map and cost, allowing customers to confidently plan and maximize their Dubai and UAE visit. Customers can choose from pre-curated itineraries if they are first-time visitors, or if they have specific interests in sports, culture, adventure, or entertainment and the arts. They can also have fun creating their own unique itineraries from scratch, pulling from an extensive list of recommended activities and dining options, or mix and match, using pre-curated itineraries as a starting point. According to Adnan Kazim, Emirates’ Chief Commercial Officer, Emirates is proud to promote the very best that Dubai and the UAE have to offer on Dubai Experience, which is fully integrated with emirates. com. “This powerful platform offers our customers the ability to plan their Dubai journeys and stopovers, and benefit from exclusive rates and expertly curated recommendations. POLL “Through the Dubai Experience platform, Emirates aims to add value to our customers and enrich their journeys, and ultimately drive more people to visit our beautiful home and hub in the UAE. We will continue to add more exciting content on Dubai Experience, and look at opportunities to launch it to customers in more markets.” Today, Emirates’ customers in 19 countries can build rich and customised itineraries from a selection of over 100 hotels and 200 activities – all of which can be added onto an existing Emirates flight booking or created around a new one. Customers who book their journeys via the Dubai Experience Platform can enjoy 10% savings on their new Emirates flight bookings, complimentary breakfast, and other exclusive benefits in over 100 hotels. Customers also get discounted pricing on over 200 activities and curated recommendations to 200 top Dubai suggestions and dining locations