A political pressure group called the Southern Frontiers has rose from an emergency meeting in Ibadan, Oyo State on Tuesday and threw its weight behind former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan’s (GEJ) candidature saying ” he is the only person amongst the aspirants so far, who has the wherewithal, to rescue the country from the mess it’s currently enmeshed”. In a seven-page communique signed by its Scribe, Mr Bamitale and made available to journalists, he emphasised without fear of contradiction that “We have wholistically place the aspirant’s side by side with the former president and we have tried to separate the wheat from the chaff like a proverbial winnowing grain farmer and we have come out with a stark fact that to put APC on a deserving pedestal in the coming poll, no other aspirant stands next to Jonathan in terms of what we call  CEC-Character, Experience and Competence”. The group’s General Secretary stated further that “At this defining moment, we don’t want a fresher who will start to experiment with Nigeria like a guinea pig, we want someone with cognate experience to hit the ground running and put Nigeria back in its rightful position as a true giant of Africa. “The group are earnestly calling on the former president not to ignore the calls coming from different quarters that he should come back to take the front seat and liberate Nigeria as great men emerge when their need is Great. He should rather see the calls as a sacrifice to make for  Nigeria”. The group listed the seven points agenda that threw up GEJ above others summarily as including, “Jonathan is a unifier and will build the bridge between various tribes and parties. The smooth peaceful transition has placed Nigeria on global attention. “Various reforms under GEJ  administration like port reforms and Airports standardisation etc. “His fond love for homemade goods made Nigeria’s import bills reduce in 2014. “He is the only aspirant who can faithfully implement the Idris Luigi led recommendations in the national conference because he started it. The ability to wake up Nigeria s economy is now moribund. POLL “Lastly, put permanent cessation to ASSU strike which is now rampant and constitute a cog in the wheel of Education”. The group, therefore, called on President Muhammad Buhari not to be carried away by political sentiments but put the right peg in the world’s right hole.