Rev. Dr. Frank Freds Nwosu is the President, Elim-Africa Mission Inc. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the scope of the ministry and other issues in Christendom. Excerpt: Could you tell us about your ministry? Elim-Africa Mission Inc is a daughter church of the Everlasting Life International Ministries, New York. It is specifically a missionary organisation set up for the purpose of world evangelisation, with Africa as our focus. ELIM-AFRICA MISSION was actually established by the international missionary, Bishop (Sir) Osborne J Giles Snr, from New York, USA. What is the scope of your ministry? Our scope is rather large and still enlarging, with the ever-expanding Kingdoms of our Lord God and His Christ. It includes: Prophetic direction, In-depth Bible Research, Meeting Needs via the Miraculous, Alacrity of Word Delivery, Character Refinement and Attitudinal Re-orientation and Global Partnering with Sound Inter-ministerial Relationships. What would you say makes your ministry unique? Elim-Africa Mission Inc is the only church I know in the whole wide world, where money never features prominently. At Elim-Africa Missions, money is never collected as tithes, offerings, harvest levies, first-fruits, last fruits, and all such distractions prevalent in today’s contemporary churching. We convert and baptize, but we don’t charge for birth certificates, baptismal certificates, death certificates and other such extortionist subterfuge. You are someone with wide experience in the secular world. What did it take you to overlook the gains of the secular world to concentrate on the ministry? POLL Well, it took me returning the Mercedes Benz car I was driving to my very generous employer. It took me packing from a duplex in the highbrow estates of the megacity, to start risky road trips into remote mission fields where there is neither electricity nor telephone connectivity. It took me literally taking my family on a ride through poverty, while combing the unmapped regions of several nations and communities. The most life-saving one: it took me, and is taking me, and will continue to take me “looking up to Jesus, who — for the joy that was set before him – endured the cross” and several unrecorded self-denials. What are some of the testimonies you have recorded in the ministry? Ours is a teaching and prophetic ministry. Although I was personally licensed as an International Evangelist by the First Pentecostal Power Ministries of North Carolina, USA, I have deliberately retired to an austere lifestyle, now de-emphasising international trips in favour of more sedentary discipleship and insightful prophetic releases, as the Lord often reveals. Great testimonials we are glad to share include the mass conversion and group baptisms that we have witnessed that is far above the effort we have put in. Another is the very regular occurrence of people (who we have not solicited for support) coming to give us cash support, saying that God told them the specific sum to give…and then, specifying the exact activity God wants us to do with the money. This is how we have been running our Radio programmes in the last five consecutive years. This is how our headquarters cathedral got built. This is how other ministers are being sent to partner with us… and more. Some of the testimonies I have recorded in the ministry also revolve around my expanded focus on consolidated spirituality. I have been told that I was spotted in the West, whereas I was in the East – a clear case of being ubiquitous. So, I fearlessly teach my disciples the unlimited possibilities of God, as is manifested in miraculous signs and wonders, levitation, teleportation and ubiquity. And we’re seeing results. Thus, the full slogans and pay-offs of our Mission are: ELIM-AFRICA MISSION… Preaching the Everlasting Gospel… Sharing Kingdom Principles and Expounding Divine Mysteries. So, we have our radio programme, DIVINE MYSTERIES, exploring these themes which are shamefully neglected areas of spirituality. The average clergyman and churching folk are too dull to fathom these depths of spirituality, or scale these rungs of the spiritual ladder, largely due to self-doubt, ignorance and suspicion. Apart from the South East, what other places does your ministry have outlets or branches and how do you coordinate their activities from your base? As earlier stated, the Dioceses of Everlasting Life International Ministries (ELIM-AMERICA), domiciled in Atlanta Georgia and Buffalo, New York, are managed by the Overseer-Designate, Apostle Tiffany Deary Giles. We see our missions in Africa basically as OASES in the desert, just requiring a supervisor to keep off dirt and pollution from the refreshing spaces. So, the South East Oasis of Elim-Africa has Prof. Emmanuel Ukah, while the South West Oasis has St. Margaret Funmi Nwosu, M. Ed, managing it. How do you see the Nigerian Church presently? To what extent does the Nigerian Church fulfill the Divine Commission? The divine commission is primarily to preach, or promote the coming kingdom of Christ, but it seems to me that the contemporary church has left this primary assignment, and headed off tangent to the three most risky murky waters. These are selling alternative medicines in the name of multilevel marketing (rather than simply HEAL the sick and cast out the devils of infirmity). This sorry inclination has been adequately exposed in my book, ‘Syncretism in World Missions’. Now, the church is championing the frantic search for dubious “grants” from some nebulous undisclosed sources, and thereby defrauding the gullible and already frustrated people, thus making it look like we are living in a large CON-TRAY instead of the roundly blessed nation that Nigeria is. Everyone knows that they have already been “captured”, pulpit and pew alike. The church is now driving headlong into elective political fray, without the necessary tools of demonic accompaniment. The status of the present day church is saddening because it is worsening. We are speeding down the precipice, and think it is a roller-coaster ride. Would you say that with denominationalism in the Nigerian Church, Church unity as envisaged by the Lord is being achieved? Authentic church unity is being wonderfully achieved and consolidated. If this position shocks you, sorry, I have a rather lean apology to offer. Would you care to know that the narrative that the devil’s advocates would like us to admit is that denominationalism is raging bad; so that they would sell us syncretism, falsely uniting autonomous churches into an apostate One World Church. But we are not unaware of the devil’s devices. Better let us remain free, independent and vibrant, than captured, caged and dictated to by a religious gang whose motives are suspect. The authentic church terrestrial is marching on, and the gates of hell cannot prevail over it, till we are wedded to the church celestial. I have taken time to outline my thoughts on this subject matter in my book, ‘The Seven Healthy Habits of a Growing Church’, available online at www. frankfreds.com.ng To what extent would you say that materialism has infiltrated the Nigerian Church? Yes, materialism has eaten deep into the fabric of the Nigerian church, but we must admit that this is a global trend, which only time will sort. As Christ once warned His disciples, we must not take the judgement into our hands. We must let the wheat and tares continue growing together, till God sends His angels to do the sorting. What is your advice to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and its affiliates on how to move the Nigerian Church forward? The CAN, PFN, CPFN, UGCAN, and every other umbrella church Association should, firstly, know that it is a great trust from the Lord to be saddled with the onerous task of manning the steering wheel of all the churching organisations. They should, secondly, focus on individual Character Refinement and Attitudinal Re-orientation of Christians generally. Nobody will harm you if you are doing the right thing, but you must expect censure when you go carrying hard drugs across international borders or supplying weapons to criminals, and giving spiritual cover to the occult. Forget about politics and money schemes and scams. Instead, expunge the operators of such dubious schemes from your ranks. Thirdly, they should reactivate the “Power of Pentecost”. In fact, this is the core message of my book of the same title. Nobody can come molesting the church if it were operating with divine fire-power, with evidence-based testimonials, not hired theatrics. With all humility and due reverence to the leadership of the apex religious organisations in this geographic area, we predicted the COVID-induced closure of churches in the book, ‘Timeless Prophecies’, 2017. Now what we are seeing concerning the Nigerian church is not very auspicious, unless there is a sudden, drastic turnaround.