Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential zoning committee chairman, in this interview monitored on Arise Television speaks about zoning of presidential ticket, why President Muhammadu Buhari should curb rising insecurity, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: How would people feel after eight years of rule by a Northern President, another northerner takes over leadership in 2023, do you think that is healthy for the unity of the country? We didn’t throw the presidential ticket open. As the chairman of the zoning committee we didn’t say that the presidential ticket is thrown open, so it is wrong for anybody to insinuate that. Whatever we did we submitted to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party. It is wrong for the media to take a position when they are not members of the committee. They were not there and I came out to brief the media. NEC is the final authority on the matter of zoning. I was the deputy chairman of the committee when party positions were zoned. NEC directed us to zone the positions without minding where the president would come from yet, and when the time comes for the presidential slot, mandate will be given by NEC. For me as Samuel Ortom, I believe in justice, equity and fairness. When the issue came up last year, I made my position known which is personal to me. PDP hasn’t brought out any report on zoning. People have spoken to me and they want PDP to get it right. We are consciously working to ensure that the right thing is done. We are sure that by the grace of God we will get it right but preempting the work of the committee and the NEC’s decision is not right. NEC will soon invite us to a meeting and a decision will be taken. People with observations or recommendations can reach out to the chairman of our party or even some of us, and on the day that we are going to discuss the matter we can make their views known. Some of the aspirants are discussing the idea of a consensus candidate for the position of the president. What is your take on the issue of consensus? In my personal opinion, I am not speaking as chairman of the zoning committee; I will tell you that zoning is one of the best processes of getting candidates. I have done that in my state and I have a good result for it. Currently as I talk to you, consensus is being discussed at all levels. In the Electoral Act, consensus has been recognised and there are several advantages of working on a consensus candidate. As the Electoral Act says, where there is consensus, all the aspirants will sign and agree that they have made such a person a consensus candidate, and where there is consensus and out of ten persons, one person disagrees then we will go for primaries. In my party, it is the man or woman who gets the highest votes that will be declared winner. I will tell you personally that consensus is the best. I learnt this when I was secretary of the PDP in Benue State, Yar Adua was governor of Katsina State in those days and President Muhammadu Buhari was contesting, Yar Adua won almost all the elections including the gubernatorial and it was through consensus that he emerged. Consensus made us have a free, fair and transparent convention that brought in the current leadership of our party. The All Progressives Congress (APC) copied from us. Consensus is a very good option but shouldn’t be imposed. I recommend consensus to the extent that all the aspirants will agree as enshrined in the electoral act. What happens if consensus is not achieved? Consensus is a process and the last attempt is to allow for primaries where people will vote, the delegates will be there whether it is direct or indirect primaries. In PDP we have resolved that there is not going to be any form of short changing. We will ensure that we have free and fair primaries for all our aspirants and the person that wins will be declared. Nobody will be short changed or have his or her name replaced. Where we don’t achieve a consensus there will be voting. Convention, congresses, at the zonal, state, local government and ward levels, it will be decided and I believe that everyone should be able concede defeat when the people who you seek to represent vote for somebody else. In 2015 people walked out on Goodluck Jonathan because that slot was for the late President Umar Yar Adua, and Jonathan from the South took it and they felt cheated. Is it safe that in an event that somebody from the North gets the ticket will the Southern members walk out on PDP just like what happened in 2015 against Jonathan? POLL I have been in politics for over 40 years, and one thing that I appreciate is that politicians can discuss the challenges before them and come out with a resolution, working towards achieving it. Once they agree, they look at the larger picture. Honestly, zoning or no zoning, this person getting this or not getting this, is not what is obtainable from where we borrowed the presidential system of government in America. It should be anyone who can deliver but because of marginalization in third world countries like Nigeria people tend to believe that they belong to the government when their own son or daughter is there. It is not so in advanced countries, and I pray that someday we will also get advanced and look at value addition. Who can add value? Who can make things work? Who can give us security? Nobody can travel anywhere today, is that the kind of thing that we want? Look at our economy, everything is going down. I am from the industrial/private sector, you cannot do anything. The rate of unemployment today is amazing. Industries are closing down, you cannot import anything. A dollar is going for N600 in the open market. When our security men are being attacked, who is safe? I was attacked last year in March. As we speak nobody has been prosecuted. The government doesn’t have the interest of the people but their own personal interest. I have proffered solutions, any time that I criticize, I try to give advice. If the federal government doesn’t act fast, Nigeria will be buried. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State chose your state for the declaration of interest in the presidency. What is your relationship with him? Wike is my friend and a title holder in Benue State and he is someone who is very passionate about the plight of Benue people, especially the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). He has extended his hand of friendship to us many times. He has continued to voice out even when others choose to keep quiet about the plight of Benue State. You will recall from 2016 when I started shouting about the evil that foreign Fulani from Mali, Senegal, Libya, North Africa and other parts of the world perpetuated in Benue with a resolution to take Nigeria as their country. The attacks started coming against me and Wike was one person that stood by me. He has demonstrated that he is someone who is a friend of Benue State. I have no choice than to be his friend. If Wike is contesting for anything, just like he has declared for presidency, as a person, I will support him, and If at the end the party says it is not him, I will support any person that the party decides that we should work with because the party is supreme. Wike has the capacity, he is bold, fights for justice and equity, and that is one thing that has united us. I believe that with him as president he will enthrone justice and equity in Nigeria. You accused the APC, but the APC repeatedly said that the problem they have is created by the PDP. They accused the PDP of looting the treasury, creating ghost soldiers and doing nothing and for over seven years they are still trying to resolve the problem that PDP created. How about that? God has vindicated PDP. When I went to the APC it was because I was chased away from PDP by denying me the ticket. I went there and secured the ticket. I soon discovered that it was a party that is the direct opposite of what they were preaching in 2015. When our president in 2014, said that he will take Nigeria from top to bottom three times, people didn’t understand him, and that is what they have done today. We are gone beyond being bottom, we are going beneath the earth and that is where Nigeria is sinking. I have been barred from seeing the President and I take it as my fate for advising him. Somebody should tell the President that Nigeria is sinking and if he doesn’t do something urgently, like I said before, these terrorists who are Fulani from Niger, Mali and the rest of the world will go and take over Aso Rock. They will also take over all the state houses. What happened in Afghanistan will happen here if the President doesn’t rise. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential zoning committee chairman, in this interview monitored on Arise Television speaks about zoning of presidential ticket, why President Muhammadu Buhari should curb rising insecurity, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: