LAGOS – Lagos state is undoubtedly the commercial centre of Nigeria with the highest Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of N45billion monthly. However, many Lagosians argue that the state is underdeveloped despite huge amount of money being generated by the government. The state government had proposed N1.758t fiscal budget for 2022, which is the biggest ever appropriation by the state. The government is also bracing itself for the task of generating massive IGR to fund the budget amid multiple taxes and levies on businesses. Since the beginning of the current political dispensation, one party has been controlling the state. The Alliance for Democracy (AD), the platform under which Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was elected governor in 1999, it later metamorphosed into Action Congress (AC), to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) before it merged with some other political parties to form the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2014 The major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been trying its luck to take over the state from the ruling party but this is yet to be materialized. There has been clamour in some quarters that a new party that fields a credible and reliable candidate in the 2023 general election should be tried since both APC and PDP have failed Nigerians. On Tuesday, March 22, an accomplished technocrat, a son of the soil, Funso Doherty, declared his intention to run for Lagos governor on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). POLL He said he strongly believes that Lagos needs somebody who would reform the public service, free up resources that can be re-directed in the enlightened public interest to enable the state to do more in many areas. “If I become the next governor of Lagos, my focus would be on reducing the burden of tax and regulatory harassment on small enterprises, improving the ease of starting and doing business, delivering innovative traffic, power and broadband solutions, investing in primary, maternal, child and mental health, rebuilding quality in education, including qualitative vocational options, safety net programs especially for children, the elderly and disabled,” Doherty said. It is believed that with his master plans, experience and love for the masses, Lagos would be taken to greater heights in the next four years. This agitation for a new party to take over the state gave rise to the people demanding for the man who has integrity, vision and technical knowhow to redeem the state from the shackles of poverty and hopelessness. According to Jimi Lawal, a public affairs analyst, Funso Doherty is an accomplished Professional with a distinguished record spanning more than 25 years. “He most recently served as the Managing Director and chief executive officer (CEO) of Pensions Alliance Limited (PAL Pensions), one of Nigeria’s foremost Pension Fund Managers where he led a nationwide team overseeing a large portfolio of assets, concluding his tenure in March 2022. “He was previously Managing Director of Valu Alliance Asset Management Ltd, a member of the African Capital Alliance (ACA) Group. Funso had served as the Pioneer Managing Director and CEO of ARM Pension Managers, which he led from its inception to become one of Nigeria’s most successful Pension Fund Administrators. Lawal noted that during that period, he was elected pioneer chairman of the Pension Fund Operators Association (PENOP) the umbrella body of all licensed Pension Fund Managers and Custodians in Nigeria. “In his extensive prior experience spanning over two decades, Funso has held a number of positions in leading foreign and local firms including Goldman Sachs & Company and PNC Advisors in the United States of America and ARM in Nigeria. “It is time for Lagosians to make an informed decision to elect Funso Doherty, who is credible, trusted and dependable. He has not only the fear of God but also the interest of the masses at heart,” Lawal noted. The analyst maintained that with the experiences that the gubernatorial hopeful has gotten over the years in the corporate world and how he has astutely managed various businesses where he was the helmsman, he would be able to manage Lagos wealth and give Lagosians a new lease of life.