BENIN – Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has finally doused all the speculations about his senatorial ambition as he formally announced his intention to contest the Edo North Senatorial seat in 2023 on the party’s platform. Oshiomhole’s declaration came after the party local government Chairmen and the ward chairmen across the district beckoned him to represent the district at the Senate during his 70th birthday at his country home Iyamho, Etsako West local government of Edo state. Oshiomhole while yielding to their pressure said “I said until APC is fixed, you cannot talk of contesting election using the platform. I have been chairman of the party, I know the danger we face if we are not able to fix the party this was completed and consummated on the 25th of March 25 with the election of a new National Working Committee and National Executive Council under the able leadership of a former governor, a former minister and a current senator, Adamu Abdullahi.” “It is true that for sometimes now, many of our people have asked me, why don’t you contest for the Senate seat? I answered that first, APC has a crisis, let us fix the crisis and let there be convention” “You can’t begin to discuss what kind of baby you are going to have when you are not married and we have done what we need to do and I am inspired by the position of the new leadership as it relates to retaining power in 2023.” Oshiomhole said he was convinced that this is the time to proceed to the next step of the conversation of who lead the great people of Edo North in the senate by 2023. “And it is time for me to join the race to represent Edo North in the Senate. I have also been examining myself because I do not want to go to the senate and sit down, listen to motions and collect a salary at the end of the month.” He said he doesn’t believe in going to the senate to take a sabbatical because it is an important institution where men and women are elected by their people to contribute to affairs that affect them, adding that it has to do with how funds are allocated and ensure that the people of Nigeria get value for their resources and money. POLL “We lay more emphasis on the rotation of people but I am more concerned about even development. I have made it clear before as president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) that democracy means that the leaders must listen to the people and if he deviates from what the people want, they have the right to interrogate the leader” “If I did that as an ordinary Nigerian, I believe that as a senator, your interest cannot be ignored in the red chamber in Abuja. “By my antecedent, I am a believer that this country has come to stay and our business is not to lament the imperfections but dedicate ourselves to the challenge of fixing the nation so that we can create a nation where every citizen will have a basis to be proud that he is a Nigerian. With your mandate, if I get to the senate I will do that.” Oshiomhole also said the idea of empowerment should be redefined from the tokenism that is given to constituents to ensuring that the infrastructure needed is built for the people to express themselves, pointing out that the people were not lazy. “Our leaders from the six local government areas have gathered here today to say I should contest and I believe that with your support, we will get there,” he said. Earlier, the local government chairmen and ward chairmen in the district had at an enlarged meeting in his residence asked him to represent the district at the Senate. One of the stakeholders, Abubakar Akokhia, a former chairman of Etsako West local government had raised the motion that based on Oshiomhole’s past antecedents, he should represent the district at Senate and was supported by all the stakeholders present at the meeting. Following his acceptance to enter the senatorial ring, Oshiomhole’ will now slug it out with the incumbent senator Francis Alimikhena who had also declared his intention to seek reelection for the third time.