A  lawmaker representing Ondo East and West Federal Constituency, Hon. Abiola Makinde on Monday called for the re-election of all public office holders who performed outstandingly in order for them to consolidate their laudable achievements. Makinde made the call in Ondo city while officially declaring his interest to contest again for the seat in the House of Representatives in the forthcoming general election. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, who is the current Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Federal Character, emphasised the need to re-elect those who performed well so they could ensure implementation of all laudable programmes they facilitated to their constituencies and facilitate more. Making his declaration before several members and supporters of his party who trooped out in large numbers, Makinde informed the crowd how he went about the successful passage of the bill upgrading Adeyemi College of Education to university status. He briefly reeled out some of his achievements in his first term at the National Assembly which include the ongoing construction of an ultra-modern public library in the heart of Ondo city, the construction of a modern skill acquisition centre at Adeyemi varsity, besides several renovations and construction carried out in public schools within the constituency. No fewer than 25 students currently studying in different countries in Europe are being sponsored by the lawmaker. Flanked by his wife, Rhoda, Makinde said: “We have successfully reconciled the representation disparity between the people of Ondo and their erstwhile representatives. “We rekindled the belief of the Ondo people, gave the game a new name, and redefined politics and democracy beyond textbook meaning. POLL “More can be done. What we have done so far might be described as unprecedented by many, however, they are tips of the iceberg, “I assure you all that more will be done to give our people the federal constituency of their dreams while we are at the helm. “I urge the entire Ondo people and our members of the APC to collectively opt for reaching the crescendo of these waves of development rapidly springing and spreading across Ondo East and West Federal Constituency and that can only happen when we vote for Hon Abiola Peter Makinde for the second term as your servant and Member House of Representatives.” Present at the event are the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Wale Akinlosotu, state Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperative Services, Mrs Lola Fagbemi, Special Adviser on Strategy, Political & Legislative Matters, Dr Jibayo Adeyeye, member of the state House of Assembly, Ondo East, Oladiji Landmark, Chairman, Ondo West Local Government, Ebenezer Akinsulire and his Ondo East counterpart, Wale Akinkuotu, and aspirants for different political offices on the platform of APC in the upcoming 2023 general elections.