The list of presidential aspirants for the 2023 elections stretches out daily like a contaminated river bursting out with poisoned fishes. It’s always a bandwagon experi­ence in Nigeria. Every event gives birth to a multiplicity of actors. Similarly, general elections in the country have always witnessed a surge of aspirants, sometimes threatening to equal the num­ber of voters. At the end of the day, the voters only know just a few – from the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and possibly the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the Af­rican Democratic Congress (ADC), the National Conscience Party (NCP), Action Alliance (AA), and two or three others. When the votes are being counted it be­comes a clear competition between the APC and PDP. At least, it’s been so since 2015. The other parties go to sleep after the elections and wake up when it’s time for balloting again. In one of my recent write-ups here, I expressed disappoint­ment with the way these other parties are run, and suggested that they have helped to increase the quality deficit of political leadership in Nigeria. My observation is right now being reified across the nation­al stage. The APC and PDP are dictating the tempo while the other parties try to play along, knowing that from the word go they can only make some opportunis­tic gains at the grassroots level, say, for a state House of Assembly. Lest someone tries to play up the funding excuse; no, it’s not about a contender’s financial war chest though this is very vital; it’s about their long absence on the turf. It’s about their refusal to truly sell the party’s ide­ology and mobilise sympathizers to grow its membership. These parties should be able to target segments of the society for political awareness, orientation, and af­filiation, thus – hopefully – ignite some flashes of light over the landscape. This has not happened. I am truly one of the extremely sad Nigerians who believe that representative democracy in the country has been ebbing gradually but surefoot­edly into the shape of an insipid ritual where the actors are champions of ba­nalities. This is a realization that hits me every day these days. Now, the country is on the cusp of another quadrennial balloting opportunity but what is on offer is depressing, and I keep trying to fend off the late Prof. Chinua Achebe’s rath­er sardonic suggestion that we may have gotten to the bus stop when the last bus had already taken off. So, when I refer to a landscape of darkness on the top of this piece, I am not particularly referring to the dismal energy dilemma that has seen more re­sources being wasted on the production of energy while the returns in terms of megawatts are in inverse proportion: the more energy that is generated the less that is utilized. Lately, we all have been in crawling darkness. Here, indeed, the state of physical darkness becomes a metaphor for Nigeria’s political darkness. Amid this darkness, the refrain in town is zoning. An army has arisen on both sides with threats and blandish­ments over the matter. The two political behemoths, APC and PDP, have gone into marathon sessions on how to negotiate themselves out of their self-imposed con­fusion, and whatever decision wins the day will be just one more contagious shot on the reflexes of the party membership, with a sure potential to open up cracks and dispersals. Already, membership rig­marole has so far attained such universal dimension among our professional poli­tricksters that it no longer attracts rep­rimand. So, waiting on the wings to soon receive the alienated parts of the APC and PDP are the PRP, YPM, and the rest of the detached ensemble. They would leave as hurt horde only to go hibernate elsewhere and no more. In 2027, they would be back to the same old fold. ‘No­where like home’, they would proclaim. It seems all too distasteful that 21 years after the return of a castrated democratic programme this is where we are. In vain I have waited for that inspiring message of hope, unveiling every part of a practical programme which usefulness would become evident by contrast to the autopilot mechanism of the present gov­ernment. A message that would clarify the confoundment of the present order. A message that would chystalise the vague­ness, distil the obscurity of misplaced priorities, and fill up the vacuity of the moment. I have heard some but not too sure that what I have heard can lift my languid spirits. To be sure, I suspect that two or three, even in the tents of the PDP and APC, have clear ideas in their head but these elements are struggling against the head­winds of monetized politics. And that re­minds me: I have heard complaints over the ruling party’s decision to draw huge financial blood from those who dare to aspire on its platform. I was not one of those complaining because I know that only those who have done well for them­selves, dipping their fingers into the pub­lic till without getting them overtly soiled will eventual buy the right to aspire. It has always been so. A party leader once defended the excess demand by parties for nomination forms by saying anyone who had not made good enough money to buy expensive nomination forms had not been a successful person and so was not even qualify to vie for political offic­es. Such failures, he said, would not have ideas to lead Nigeria out of the woods. Impressive argument, of course, except that those who are capable of paying – of­ten through proxies – for the declaration of intent and nomination forms have not really made their money through inno­vative and excellent money-making ven­tures but largely through underhand deals in politics and business. This is why throwing the money around takes the same effort as a flick of the fingers. Some of those who have declared their intentions to be president have made too much money to care about how much is demanded by parties for primaries, nei­ther are they bothered about how much will go to delegates – the ultimate decid­ers – if things go as planned. For now, it’s worthwhile to mention that the stakes are high. As we all know, it’s not just about service to the people. More appropriately, it’s service to the ego, because for some of the presiden­tial aspirants, it has been a life-long ambition to occupy the highest office in the land, and even though age does not appear to be an ally in this cause and its course, the contenders seek to take this sick patrimony by force. The age clock is ticking away insensitively and if it doesn’t happen in 2023 it may nev­er happen again. For them, the thought of missing a life-long ambition is kill­ing. Despite Reuben Abati’s claim that Aso Rock is haunted, and that virile men get there and lose their libido (and then their wives have to make do with dildos and vibrators), some people will give up their life to occupy it even for one hour. For those who have lived with the ambition for many years and made much money and stored them in bullion vans, Aso Rock is the least ambition they have now and would do anything – if giv­en the chance – to get there. If you’re not a presidential aspirant you cannot understand the nature of presidential ambition. Living with presidential am­bition is a hard life. It makes your hands shaky when you talk. I won’t risk my life so ambitiously, and that’s probably because I’ve never real moved up there and enjoyed privileges that make men’s stomach bloated. And come to think of it, the atmo­sphere revved up quite significantly re­cently with the entry of Governor Nye­some Wike, Minister Rotimi Amaechi, and Governor Kayode Fayemi amid the withdrawal of Doyin Okupe and the ini­tially rumoured possibility of Governor David Umahi backing down. Minister Babatunde Fashola, earlier touted to be interested in the race, is yet to show up or begin his own declaration and con­sultation. Peter Obi is keeping the game up after his initial doubts when he de­clared he would only join the race if the presidential ticket is zoned. The man is now up and down with what a friend of mine calls his Chinese economic gospel. Whatever that means. But the limbs are getting sore for Anyim Pius Anyim who seems to have danced himself lame be­fore the real dance. Or maybe not. Of all the fascinating characters, Wike is my favourite. Not for anything he may have done better than others but because, like an incurable political cow­boy, he is ramming it down the throat of his party. They must give him the ticket because he sustained the party, he said. Payback time. Unfortunately, I am not too sure his party men are listening to his blackmail-like request. POLL In the North, Bukola Saraki’s consen­sus pack of cards has crumbled – Aminu Tambuwal has backed out, having clear­ly seen through the game plan which saw the emergence of Bala Mohammed and Saraki himself as the choices of the North. Anyone with any speck of polit­ical insight should have known all the while that Saraki was planning his own emergence after his own fashion. All this in PDP’s house of intrigues. As for the ruling party, the APC, the tempests and bile are going down grad­ually as the party, this week, almost seemed to have settled for indirect pri­maries – barring any last minute deci­sion from Dan Daura. The tempests and bile were all coming from the camp of Bola Tinubu whose hot-headed support­ers embarked on insupportable mud­slinging against Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in what must have come across many observers as a vicious campaign of desperation. I never understood why Osinbajo’s declaration could have stirred up so much anger and claims of betrayal. It was simply incomprehensible and de­spicable. Well, they got some promise of reprieve when it dawned that the party would adopt what they craved most – in­direct primary. For Tinubu, meeting and endowing delegates is as familiar an act as eating amala and ewedu – does that remind you of amala politics, in all its manifestations? Anyway, Tinubu is pre­pared for it, having already begun, before any other person, crisscrossing the coun­try, with his proverbial largesse following him. Bullion vans were not assembled for nothing. Again, I am distraught over the nev­er-changing political times. Nothing is changing in the form of improved electioneering. No new faces, no new messages, no new processes, no new anything – the landscape of darkness is filled with dull, blurry, stale and common­place things. And what happens hereafter would be what has already been predict­ed. The heart bleeds.