The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has challenged Christians in the South East to use the lessons from Easter to usher peace among themselves and stranger elements among them. The association also called on Christians to pray for the peace and unity of Nigeria as they celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The South-East Zonal Chairman of MACBAN, Alhaji Gidado Sidikki, made the call in a statement in Awka, in his message on Easter Sunday to Christians in South East, South-South regions. Sidikki while describing the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ as the pillar of the Christian faith said it is a period to reflect on His earthly mission characterised by good works. He urged Christians to use the celebration spirit, to usher in sustained peace and unity among the host communities, the regions, especially, the Southeast and the country at large. He appealed to the Governors of the two regions to continue to carry the Miyetti Allah leadership along in their regional discussions on issues concerning national unity. He said: “I sincerely recommend that the uniqueness of Nigeria in its diversity of tribes languages, cultures, religions and trades should be strategically harnessed to everyone’s advantage based on the adoption of comparative advantage of the country’s economic model. “Nigerian citizens should be encouraged to freely engage themselves anywhere across the country, provided that such engagement is legitimate and with peaceful coexistence. POLL “The federal government should ensure that Nigerian doing business across their tribal lines are duly protected. Sidikki, therefore, urged Christians to remain resolute in their abiding faith and hope for a better country. He also urged them to take advantage of the period to renew their faith in the unity and peaceful coexistence of Nigerians. He said that Nigerians are people with common destiny and heritage in spite of differences in religion, tongue and political ideology. According to him, with prayers and faith in God, the country will prosper and overcome all the challenges that threaten its unity. ‘As Christians celebrate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ today, I urge them to reflect on the lessons they learnt during the Lenten period. “Let us love one another and see ourselves as one indivisible entity in spite of our Tribal differences,” Sidikki added