LAGOS – The Ogundare/Agbina­je/Victory Light CDA in Aminkale, Alag­bado Area of Lagos State, staged a peaceful protest against the Ikeja Electric Com­pany, whom they accused of under-serving them with pow­er supply. Residents of the commu­nities comprising landlords, tenants and business owners trooped out in their hundreds on Easter Monday, carrying various placards with slo­gans expressing their displea­sure with the electric supply company, accusing them of shortchanging them despite the communities’ huge invest­ments in electrical installations and equipment in their area. The protesters gave ac­counts of how despite the low power supply of an average of 3 hours per day, they were be­ing given outrageous estimated billings ranging from N10,000 to N30,000 per month. Olugbile Lukman, Chair­man, Electric Installation Committee for the three com­munities, said, “Seven years ago, the Ikeja Electric came to the community with the aim of boosting its power supply by installing 13 mini-transform­ers at various points, but left them unconnected since then, expecting dwellers to buy the metering devices for the trans­formers to be connected. “About two years ago, a member of our community was magnanimous enough to buying a 500KVA trans­former which the communi­ties installed, including the purchase of several electric accessories and connection polls, but the Ikeja Electric Company refused to connect it, asking us to pay for the con­nection meters.” Mr. Olanipekun Kassim, Secretary of the CDA, also said, “We have written more than 10 different letters to Mrs. Soetan Folake, the Chief Executive Officer of Ikeja Electric, with copies to Jide Ikumapayi, the Sub-manager of the company, expressing our grievances, but in the past seven years we did not receive any positive re­sponse or actions from them.” Sunday Ayandele, Chair­man of the CDA, said the great­est injustice meted out to the community was denying them of enjoying the maximum ben­efit of hosting the Ikeja Electric Company substation in their community. He said, “Working on the request of the Ikeja Electric Company, we provided them with a land and electric acces­sories for free, where they locat­ed their step-down sub-station, from where they supply elec­tricity to all the communities in this area, yet our communities who hosted the station is being denied of its benefits.” POLL Pastor Ade Ajayi, a C.A.C minister in the community, said part of the demands of the protest was to ask the Ikeja Electric to remove their sub-station from the commu­nity, stressing that they can no longer bear the attitude of robbing Peter to pay Paul by the Ikeja Electric Company.