Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has condemned in strong terms the illegal arrest, arraignment and detention of Honourable Farah Dagogo. He called on the federal government to call the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike to order over the illegal arrest, kangaroo arraignment and remand of Hon Dagogo by a Magistrate’s Court in Port Harcourt. Hon. Dagogo represents the Degema/Bonny Federal Constituency of Rivers State. He also called on the Ijaw National Congress (INC), Ijaw Youth Congress (IYC) and the Pan Niger Delta Forum ( PANDEF) to speak up over this political witch-hunt and ensure that Dagogo is immediately granted bail since the charge against him is a bailable offence. Frank, in a statement, said that Dagogo was on Thursday arrested at the PDP governorship screening hall and detained at the Rivers State Government House based on the orders of Governor Wike. Recall that Governor Wike had last Wednesday declared Dagogo wanted for allegedly ‘hiring cultists to attack the PDP Secretariat in Port Harcourt’, an allegation the lawmaker denied. Frank who is the United Liberation Movement for West Papau (ULMWP) Ambassador to East Africa and the Middle East, called for the immediate and unconditional release of Hon Dagogo from detention within 24 hours to prevent Niger Delta Youths, now seething with anger over the gross violation of Dagogo’s fundamental human rights, from becoming restive. He called on the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman to caution the Commissioner of Police in Rivers State and his men to steer clear of harassing and embarrassing innocent citizens being framed by political opponents. POLL He called on the National Assembly, especially the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to immediately launch an investigation into the arrest and remand episode, to ensure that Dagogo is not unjustly punished based on politically motivated trumped-up charges. Frank said: “We know that Hon. Dagogo, an Ijaw leader from the riverine area of Rivers State has obtained nomination forms to contest the governorship primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and that this kangaroo arrest ordered by Wike was meant to prevent him from being screened by the party. “We know that Dagogo has no immunity, but let him be admitted to bail immediately since the charges against him are bailable. “Let me warn that his continuous detention may sooner than later disrupt the peace now being experienced in the Niger Delta and its social-economic benefits to the Federal Government. “Dagogo is not small fry in the Niger Delta struggle. We know the role he played in 2015 to ensure that PDP and Wike emerged victorious in Rivers State. “He has a right to aspire to be governor of Rivers State. So those that are planning to frustrate him with this arrest should think twice by giving due consideration to the prevailing peace in Rivers State and the entire Niger Delta region today. “As a stakeholder in the Niger Delta region who contributed immensely in ending militancy in the region, I advise the Federal Government to urgently intervene to ensure that this political intimidation against Dagogo is halted because an injury to one is an injury to all. “I urge the leadership of the INC, IYC and PANDEF to urgently condemn the unjust arrest and remand of Dagogo over frivolous charged and to demand his immediate release.” He called on the governors in the Niger Delta Region to caution Governor Wike to desist from using security agents to harass Dagogo and other political opponents as the 2023 general elections draw near. “The repercussion of this gross violation of the fundamental human rights of Hon. Dagogo can be better imagined as Niger Delta youths who will not fold their arms in the face of injustice against one of their own. But the consequences can be averted if Dagogo is immediately released and allowed to continue the pursuit of his quest to become Governor of Rivers State,” Frank declared.