The House of Representatives has berated the acts of fraudulent activities going on by medical practitioners of scammed cryptic pregnancies which could lead to health challenges and eventual loss of life. The House urged the Ministries of Health and Women Affairs to give directives to the relevant authorities to commence public enlightenment campaign at the grassroots to achieve the desired results. It also urged the Federal Government to adopt monitoring and evaluation mechanisms on the consequences of scam pregnancies which could lead to health challenges and eventual loss of life. The resolution of the House was a sequel to a motion on a need to investigate the Implication of Cryptic Pregnancies in Nigeria brought by Hon. Ikenna O. Elezieanya, (PDP, Imo). Hon. Ikenna noted that cryptic Pregnancy is a slow-growing pregnancy caused by insufficient hormones as such it takes a longer time for the fetus to mature after a long while, however, there is a trend that has pervaded the Nigerianspace where women are falsely pronounced pregnant by persons who impersonate themselves as Doctors and Nurses refer to this fraud as cryptic pregnancy. According to him, “Many families in Nigeria are lured and fall victims to this fraudulent activity in the quest to have children, women are injected with hormones of pregnancy and while these women parade themselves as being pregnant, no pregnancy is detected in the ultrasound. “Worried that, the scammers inject women with hormones to boost pregnancy which has adverse effects on the adrenal gland and eventually leads to kidney failure. “Women are sometimes sedated and operated on or given an episiotomy thereafter the scammers bring arranged babies, several desperate women who have gone through this process ended up in perpetual sorrow due to the adverse effects of the drugs which damage the female reproductive sense organs thus, killing some women that have underlying ailments in the process. POLL “The core mandate of the government is to protect the lives and properties of its citizens, thegovernment should carry out public enlightenment campaign from the grassroots on the danger and consequences of cryptic pregnancies”, he noted. In adopting the motion, the House mandated its Committees on Healthcare Services and Women Affairs to invite the Ministers of Health and Women Affairs to investigate the trend of cryptic pregnancies.