Tottenham manager Antonio Conte has praised Harry Kane for the example the Spurs star sets for the rest of his team-mates following the thumping 5-1 win over Newcastle. Kane played an instrumental role despite not scoring in the victory at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, which saw his side climb above North London rivals Arsenal into the top four of the Premier League. The England captain, who has been the subject of transfer rumours amid reported interest from Manchester United, dictated play from a deeper position as his team ran out comfortable winners – thanks largely to an impressive second-half display. Conte said Kane’s performances since he took over at the club in November had been ‘amazing’ – and said he was bucking the trend of star players ‘sometimes being lazy’. ‘At the end of the game I said it was a shame that he didn’t score but he played in an amazing way and got an assist,’ Conte said. ‘To have a player like this in your team is very important. He can score goals and create chances. I like him as a person. ‘Talented players don’t always want to work hard but from the first day I arrived here he set an example. You think that’s normal but it’s not. Great players are sometimes lazy and that’s not him. He’s a big example for his teammates. He’s encouraging us to be competitive.’ The comeback victory for Spurs – who fell behind before scoring five unanswered goals – boosted their chances of qualifying for the Champions League. POLL Conte’s men are level on points with Arsenal but ahead of them on goal difference in the race for fourth but the Gunners have a game in hand, while the two are also due to meet in a crunch clash that is expected to be rearranged for the penultimate week of the season. The Italian – who has had difficult moments during his tenure but has turned the tide in recent weeks – believes no other team want to face Spurs given their current form. Spurs have won four of their last five Premier League games, with Kane – the club’s top-scorer with 22 goals in 42 appearances this term – playing a pivotal role in their success. ‘Having more time and more days to work with my players that definitely helps,’ Conte said. ‘More training makes the physical side of the better. But we can improve. ‘This performance and like the last performance in this period need to give us confidence. Of course with the Premier League it’s very tough and anything can happen but it’s not easy to play against us now.’