ABUJA – Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong on Tuesday served notice of his intention to contest for a place in Nigeria’s upper legislative chamber, picking the form for his Senatorial district. Hon. Yusuf Gagdi, lease of the Plateau Legacy Group, collected the expression of interest, nomination forms and guidelines on behalf of Governor Lalong. Similarly, Senator Ita Enang, Senior Special Adviser (SSA) to President Mohammadu Buhari’s on Niger Delta Affairs also made history as the first aspirant from his state to pick the All Progressives Congress APC gubernatorial form for next year’s governorship in Akwa Ibom State. Senator Enang who also contested for the ticket of the party in 2019 said this desire to change the developmental stride of his state has not diminished, adding that gas a lot to contribute to the growth of the state. On what he has on offer this time around, the presidential aide said: “I’m bringing to the table accountability, change in the mode of doing things, concentration in the manner in which we generate funds from the State and from the National level, attracting and working more with the federal government, cooperating with federal institutions to be able to bring development to the State and giving attention to agriculture, education and declaring an emergency on the development of Youths and the development of human infrastructure.” He spoke on the factional fight that has pitched APC stakeholders in the state against one another, Enang dismissed the divisions pointing out that there are no factions in Akwa Ibom APC. “There’s no more faction in Akwa Ibom State. All the interests have sunk into one family and the family is the All Progressives Congress, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Chairman. “Whatever is remaining is to tidy the end, we will tidy up and we will go into the nomination as one united family, in one venue, coming out with one candidate, one winner for every gubernatorial, Senatorial, House of Representatives and House of assembly elections, we will come out strong and able.” POLL He expressed appreciation to President Mohammadu Buhari’ and leaders of the party led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu for putting in place a seamless process that enables aspirants to obtain their forms. Presenting the expression of interest and nomination forms to the Aspirants National Organizing Secretary, Sulaiman Muhammad Argungu allayed fears of any hoarding of the forms. Accompanied by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Barr. Felix Morka and the Deputy National Organizing Secretary, Nze Chidi Duru, Argungu assured aspirants of adequate forms, dispelling fears of hoarding, assuring them of a Transparent process.