ABUJA – The Senate has moved to establish the National Industrial Technology Park to assist in nurturing Nigerians to be technologically savvy and competitive, as well as serve as a veritable platform for the promotion and commercialization of research and development. The Senate took the action on Tuesday when it passed for second reading, a Bill on “National Industrial Technology Park Establishment Bill 2021, sponsored by Senator Ibikunle Amosun (APC Ogun Central) . In his lead debate, the Bill Sponsor pointed to the importance of establishing the Industrial Technology Park, insisting that it will go a long way to create the much-needed stimulant for the country’s economic development. According to him, “all over the world, industrial parks are taking the lead as incubators for innovative technology and a circular economy. “The establishment of Parks, such as this, makes it easier for companies and entrepreneurs to leverage the availability of resources, technical know-how, knowledge and professionalism, which can pave the way for developing and testing business and technology solutions.” He explained further that the establishment of an Industrial Park of this nature will go a long way towards accelerating the process of reforming and diversifying the nation’s economy, by attracting innovative businesses that can generate jobs, higher incomes, and more resources for institutions. “When this Bill is passed into law, it will bring about technological advancement and technological self-reliance for our nation, thereby making Nigeria an industrial nation. It will also serve as a source of wealth generation and enhancement for investors and governments”, he stressed. The stated objective of the Industrial Park shall be (i) Stimulating investment and creating employment, facilitating export growth and foreign exchange earnings, (ii) Developing industrial clusters, (iii) Eliciting knowledge transfer and technology spillover, (iv) Establishing connections to the global value chain development of research centres and (v) Fostering sustainable growth and social equality. POLL Accordingly, the Bill was welcome with wide support by Senators, hence its passage for second reading.