In order to encourage public primary schools pupils in Lagos to embrace science subjects, Wuraola Atinuke Agbaje-Owolabi (WAAO) Capacity Building Initiative recently launched an education support programme. The support programme which is tagged “3-in-1 project’’, includes the setting up of the Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Club and Laboratory; No Tattered Uniforms (NUT) in Lagos Public schools and a scholarship for 100 Indigent Engineering Students at the entry point in University. Speaking at Ifako-Ijaye Community Public Schools, Lagos one of the beneficiaries, and the initiator of the project, Engr. Wuraola Atinuke Owolabi explained that the idea behind the initiative was to touch the lives of children in public schools, inspire and motivate them to study science-related courses and bring them up as tech kids. Owolabi further explained that they would be holding the STEM Club classes in the science laboratory, to introduce the pupils to science from elementary to advanced classes. According to her, it is most important to catch them young, shape and sharpen their brains. In her words: “We have initiated timetable for 18 sets of kits kitted with robotics, smart geoboard, artificial intelligence (AI), speed mathematics, technology and engineering kits. “Today, we have introduced them to solar energy stove, chemical reaction, artificial intelligence and the classes continue as the students will be coming every Friday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. “We want to use these children as community ambassadors through technology. POLL “It is also part of our advanced stage to teach them coding through which they can develop different apps for their communities. “So, we are turning Ifako-Ijaye into a tech community,” she said. However, she appealed to individuals, philanthropists, private/public organisations and the government to support the initiative to enable her to extend the programme to students in other communities and secondary schools. On his part, party chairman, APC Ifako Ijaiye, Deacon Banjo Omole applauded the initiator of the project and added that it would go a long in encouraging the young ones to develop an interest in science-related courses. Representative of the Lagos State Commissioner for Science and Innovation, Ajibola Rotimi, described the initiative as a welcome development, interesting endeavour and laudable. Rotimi said that the initiative would create opportunities for the young students, especially the girl-child, to develop an interest in science and build a career in related courses. Rotimi said any society or nation that wants to be reckoned with globally must be grounded on applications of STEM to growth and development. Education Secretary, Ifako-Ijaye Local Government Education Area, Olamilekan Jogbon who also spoke at the event, said Wuraola had exhibited a high level of commitment to the grassroots and in particular to community education. ”She is significantly making impart in Ifako-Ijaye, both in education and welfare. ”We have over 1,000 students from this community gathered here today for this wonderful programme and I must say that we are happy and impressed,” he said. NAN reports that Wuraola also used the occasion to mark her birthday with the pupils. She donated books, stationeries, sown school uniforms and materials, bags, sandals and socks to the students. Also in attendance were Mrs Omonyemen Abulu Representing the Commissioner of the Ministry Of Education and Mrs Ajibola Rotimi, representing the Commissioner of the Ministry Of Science And Innovation, the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria ( CAN) Ifako-Ijaiye Chapter, Chairman, Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria, Engr Monsurah Alagbe, the First female Agric Engineer in the country, Engr Mrs Idiat Amusu, and most female Engineers in the state.