Tottenham boss Antonio Conte is “dreaming” of being PSG manager as early as next season, according to reports in France. The Italian only took charge of Spurs this season and has appeared to have made an almost instant impact as they fight for a spot in the Champions League next season. Despite the upturn in form and momentum, the former Juventus manager is “dreaming” of life at the Parc des Princes next season, according to a report i Le Parisian. The 52-year-old signed an 18-month contract when he signed with the club in November. PSG are poised to sack former Spurs and Southampton manager Mauricio Pochettino just two years into his reign at the French giants. The sacking would come with another failed Champions League campaign that saw the Parisians dumped out of the continental competition by Real Madrid in the round of 16. According to the French newspaper, Le Parisian, Conte is already “dreaming” of life at the Parc des Princes whilst it is also reported that he is “looking for a new challenge”. Despite the admission from the manager who has won titles with Inter, Chelsea and Juventus, he isn’t necessarily believed to be PSG’s first choice. Real Madrid and France legend Zinedine Zidane is believed to be top of the list for the French club as they keep their eyes firmly on winning the Champions League. The Champions League-winning player and manager has been out of work since leaving Real Madrid last season and is reportedly the main candidate. Conte spoke out last month when he said that he is “committed” to Spurs for another year, although his relationship with the club can still “improve”. He said: “For sure at the moment there is only one truth – I am committed to this club for another year. The club wanted this type of situation and I accepted it because it was good to get to know each other. “After four months I think the club have understood the way I want to work and I understand the club. We have three more months till the end of the season to continue to improve our knowledge of each other and then to find the best solution for both. I can tell you that I am enjoying working for this club and I would like to fight for something important for this club.”