Predicts BAT Will Be First Former Senator, Two-term Governor To Emerge Nigeria’s President An Interdenominational Christians group known as Tinubu Support Prayer Group (TSPG), comprising Anointed Men of God which who cut across the 36 States of the federation and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has thrown its weight behind the presidential aspiration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart and former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, noting that he (Tinubu) has all it takes to be Nigerian President. This was contained in a statement signed by the group president, Apostle Claudius Olanrewaju Omogbemi and made available to the press in Lagos over the weekend. The statement said that Tinubu will be the first former Senator, two terms State Governor and an American trained politician would be Nigeria President if elected comes 2023. “No President in Nigeria has ever been senator, two-term elected state governor, American trained before becoming President. BAT is going to be the first president with such an advantage in his kitty to Aso Rock come 2023. “He is a schemer and strategist whose Lagos State has never lost any election since he emerged AD governor in 1999 (22 years ago).” The statement further reads: “Our mission is to prayerfully support his presidential ambition. His success will be beneficial to all Nigerians and Nigeria. Hence, we are interdenominational whose membership cut across the thirty-six states in Nigeria and the FCT Abuja.” “Interestingly, Nigerians in Diaspora have begun to join the TSPG platform in their thousands. Before July this year TSPG will hit 10 million membership target.” POLL The stated said that Tinubu has a robust and pretty religious quality credentials which no leader-president has ever attained. “BAT is a muslim while his wife is Christian. What a very good and balanced, pedigree for national unity. On his age, the statement cleared that Tinubu age is an added advantage for rule the country successfully based on his wealth of experience both in business and politics. “Age is an added advantage for BAT, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Alhaji Shehu Yar’dua and President Mohammadu Buhari (PMB) came on board not as youth and they performed creditably well. The Nigerian foreign reserves positively shoot up astronomically during OBJ government as well in PMB government, in spite the unprecedented and drastic fall in the international price of oil, the internal security challenges and the ravaging global covid-19 pandemic, the government is doing pretty well. Come to face it, the underlisted world leaders are not youths. President Biden of America, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany, President Vladimir Putin of Russia, President XI Jinping of China, President Emmanuel Macron of France, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of, Canada, Australia, Spain to mention just a few.” These world leaders according to the statement are not youths, yet their brains have not expired but working and productive as leaders of powerful nations. “The age of BAT is not as much as any of the aforementioned leaders, therefore, the President age of BAT is an advantage for him to run for presidency in 2023.”