YOLA – The All Progressive Congress Party (APC) has warned the Adamawa State Government against purported plans to rig the council elections in the State. Speaking during a crowded press briefing at the APC Adamawa State Secretariat the National Chairman represented by the National Vice Chairman North East Comrade Mustapha Salihu sounded a warning that the state wing of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP should abort it’s rumoured plans to rig the Local Government Areas elections. Comrade Mustapha Salihu also called on ADSIEC to exhibit maturity in handling the elections. He said, “I will also wish to call on the Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC) to ensure utmost professionalism in the conduct of the exercise by ensuring that logistics for the distribution of the election materials are handled well and that all participating parties are giving a level playing ground.” APC National Vice Chairman North East said, the Adamawa Government through it’s state electoral body, the Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC) scheduled its Local Government Councils election for April, 9th 2022 and there must not be rigging of any kind. APC Chieftain Zonal also called on registered voters to come out en masse and vote for APC candidates in their various polling units in the 21 LGAs of Adamawa State. “I want to therefore use this medium to call on all registered voters especially youths and women to come out en masse and vote for the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in their various polling units from 8:00 am to 2:00 pm,” he said. A total of 111,762 voters have so far registered online on Adamawa – ADSIEC. POLL Salihu called on women and youths to come out en Mass encouraging them not to lose faith in their quest for better leaders who have the interest of the masses at heart. The APC Deputy National Chairman revealed that “measures are being put in place to checkmate them this time around,” and assured them that “your vote will be safeguarded”. “Failure to come out for the exercise will only give them room to manipulate the exercise and will allow them to install their minions who will be potential riggers for them next year”, he said. Salihu added: “As you can see, there’s a whole lot at stake. We cannot afford to play with this very crucial election. “Failure to come out for the exercise will only give them room to manipulate the exercise and will allow them to install their minions who will be potential riggers for them next year,” he said. “I will also wish to call on the Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC) to ensure utmost professionalism in the conduct of the exercise by ensuring that logistics for the distribution of the election materials are handled well and that all parties in Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission ADSIEC Local Government Councils elections must exhibit all norms of fairness.”