Granit Xhaka admits he was on the verge of leaving Arsenal after being booed by fans during the infamous 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace in 2019. The Switzerland international’s substitution was greeted with widespread jeers from the Emirates faithful, sparking a furious reaction from the player. After cupping his ears and swearing at his own supporters in retaliation, Xhaka was stripped of the Gunners captaincy, and appeared to have played his last game for the club. A contract with Bundesliga side Hertha Berlin was agreed, but the 29-year-old had a change of heart. Speaking to The Players’ Tribune, Xhaka explained: “My bags were packed. The passports were out. I was done with Arsenal. Finished. “There was a contract on the table from another club, and all I had to do was sign. I had talked with my wife, Leonita, and we had decided to leave. “I was just going to say goodbye to Mikel, and then we would board the plane.” He added: “When I close my eyes now, I can still see their faces. I can see their anger. POLL “It’s not that they don’t like me. No, it’s different. This is hate. Pure hate. I am really not exaggerating this.” Having spent six years at Arsenal, Xhaka has always been a divisive figure, with his performances heavily scrutinised. However, since the Palace incident, the midfielder has emerged as a key player for manager Mikel Arteta, earning a new contract last summer. And Xhaka admits that while his relationship with supporters remains fractured, he hopes it can improve moving forward. He added: “My head had left Arsenal, but my heart had not. My heart was telling me, ‘You can’t leave this football club like this’. “Mikel and I didn’t speak about my future again, because after six months I was happy. Today I know I made the right decision, absolutely, because I’m still here. But I can’t pretend that my relationship with the fans will ever be the same, because that moment will always be in my heart. “It’s like broken glass, you know? You can piece it together, but the cracks will always be there. “I would like us to have a better relationship. I would like us to understand each other better. That is exactly why I’m telling you all this.”