LAGOS – Rev. Dr. Frank Freds Nwosu, Chairman, Elim-Africa Mission Inc, has lamented that materialism has eaten deep into the fabric of the Nigerian Churches. Speaking with Sunday INDEPENDENT in an interview, Nwosu, whose ministry has branches in different parts of Nigeria, especially in South East and South West Nigeria, stressed that the trend was not only Nigerian, but a global. According to him, “Yes, materialism has eaten deep into the fabric of the Nigerian church. But, we must admit that this is a global trend, which only time will sort. “As the Christ once warned His disciples, we must not take the judgment into our hands. We must let the wheat and tares to continue growing together, till God sends His angels to do the sorting.” He maintained that the Divine Commission was primarily to preach or promote the coming kingdom of Christ, but stressed, “It seems to me that the contemporary church has left this primary assignment, and headed off tangent to the three most risky murky waters. He maintained that church leaders who were called to the ministry to preach the gospel and win souls for Christ had been engaging in selling alternative medicines in the name of multilevel marketing, rather than simply healing the sick and cast out the devils or infirmities. Rev Nwosu, who referred to his book, ‘Syncretism In World Missions’, stated that God’s ministers had been championing the frantic search for dubious ‘grants’ from some nebulous undisclosed sources instead of engaging in what God called them to do. Nwosu said that by their actions, gospel ministers had been defrauding the gullible and already frustrated people, thus making it look like “we are living in a large con-tray, instead of the roundly blessed nation that Nigeria is. Everyone knows that they have already been ‘captured’, pulpit and pew alike.” POLL He stated that it was regrettable that Christian ministers had been driving headlong into elective political fray, without what he termed “the necessary toolset of demonic accompaniment.” Nwosu said: “The status of the present day church is saddening because it is worsening. We are speeding down the precipice, and think it is a roller-coaster ride.”