LAGOS – The African Action Congress (AAC) has congratulated Nigerian women over the recent court victory secured after a long legal battle against what it termed a patriarchal political system that relegated them for long. It would be recalled that the Federal High Court, Abuja in a landmark judgment on April 6, 2022, ordered that 35 percent of appointments should be reserved for women in line with the Affirmative Action provisions. The AAC, through Femi Adeyeye, its National Publicity Secretary, in a statement, stated: “We give kudos to the legal team led by Funmi Falana Esq and to all civil society organisations who led the campaign. “We accept our unfortunate reality, which is that women are underrepresented in our political space. Even in our political parties, they are either chosen as deputies or are already fixed as women leaders. “Positions such as Women Leader, when there is no ‘Men Leader’ is a testimony to the fact that women are treated like some afterthought in our society. “But, as a party that is geared towards re-engineering society, we have proposed since 2019, a 50/50 chance for our women at the political tables where decisions that affect generations are made. This for us, we stated, was going to be the starting point. “We do not see our women as weaker elements who should be ‘allowed’ or given the chance – to use the Nigerian political parlance, we rather see them as major players in our polity, who should be given all necessary social and economic support that would make politics so attractive to them. “We believe that the idea of appropriating figures to the participation of our women or our youths, is decorated tokenism, to put it mildly. POLL “We, as a revolutionary party, acknowledge the age-long saying that there is no complete revolution without the liberation of women. “That is why we use this medium to call on Nigerian women, to seize this period of electioneering to flood all political arena. “From Presidency to States, Legislative and Local government positions, we want to see them in action. Not just waiting to be political appointees. It is not enough to win in court. It is important they win politically. “Congratulations once again to Nigerians, and in particular, our women. Onward to victory.”