LAGOS – In what looked like breath­ing fresh air into the ad­ministration of the various national teams, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) re­cently announced the appoint­ment of coaches for them. The teams are the African Nations Championship (CHAN) Super Eagles, the U-23 team, the Flying Eagles and the Golden Eaglets, the unarguably most successful national team in Af­rica, with five FIFA U17 World Cups. Coach Salisu Yusuf, who had been there before, was named as head coach of the CHAN Super Eagles as well as the Olympics team. Salisu, it will be recalled, was part of the mainstream Super Eagles’ technical crew that was fired following the country’s failure to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. Nevertheless, he has been saddled with the responsibility of leading the country’s African Nations Championship squad and the country’s U23 squad. His appointment was sequel to the Executive Committee of the NFF approving the recom­mendation of its Technical and Development Sub-Committee for the choice of the former Enyim­ba, Rangers and Kano Pillars boss, who will be assisted by Kennedy Boboye, Fatai Osho, Abubakar Bala Mohammed and Fidelis Ilechukwu. Eboboritse Uwejamomere will serve as match analyst, with Nigeria football great Ike Shorounmu named as goalkeep­er trainer. Meanwhile, Ladan Bosso re­tains his post as head coach of the U20 Boys. Former U-17 head coach Fatai Amoo, Oladuni Oyekale, Jolomi Atune Alli and Baruwa Olatunji Abideen will assist him. POLL Under Bosso, the Flying Ea­gles failed to qualify for the 2021 African U20 Cup of Nations in Mauritania. This time around, the tactician will be aiming to help the country reach Egypt – where Africa’s representatives for the 2023 FIFA U20 World Cup will be selected. Elsewhere, Nduka Ugbade was named as head coach of the Golden Eaglets. He will work with Ahmad Lawal Dan­koli, Omoniyi Haruna Ilerika, Yemi Daniel, and Mohammed Nasiru Isah. Former Super Eagles star Ug­bade captained Nigeria’s first cadet team that won the FIFA U16 World Cup in China in 1985. Coach Patrick Bassey will handle the U13/U15 Boys, known as Future Eagles, with Abdul­lahi Tyabo Umar, Mohammed Kalli Kachalla, Ifeanyi Uba, Mo­hammed Kwairanga and Abuba­kar Abdullahi his assistants. Reactions from various quar­ters have trailed their appoint­ments. The reactions have been on the desirability or otherwise of having some of the names managing various national teams, particularly at this time that Nigerian football needs a quick renaissance after fail­ures of virtually all the national teams to qualify for their indi­vidual tournaments. For instance, although it did not take place, the Flying Eagles failed to qualify for the 2021 FIFA World Cup after fail­ure to book a place at the 2021 CAF U20 AFCON in Mauritania. They drew their first game 1-1 with Cote d’Ivoire only to lose to Ghana in the second game. These results left their fate in the hands of other teams and they needed Ghana to beat Cote d’Ivoire by at least a two-goal margin for any chance to prog­ress in the competition. Cote d’Ivoire, however, defeat­ed Ghana 1-0 to make sure Nige­ria didn’t make the next round. Paul Aigbogun, the former Eny­imba of Aba manager, managed the team. Golden Eaglets, five times world champions, were affected by the Covid 19 pandemic as they also failed to participate in the 2021 FIFA World Cup in Peru as FIFA cancelled the tournament due to the pandemic, even as CAF also cancelled the continen­tal U17 AFCON in Morocco for the same reason. The Morocco event would have served as the qualifiers for the World Cup in Peru. Fatai Amoo managed the team then. For the U23 side, the story was the same as they failed to qualify for the men’s football events of the 2020 Olympic Games in To­kyo, Japan. On the last qualifying day for the Tokyo events, the U23 Eagles needed just one goal to topple the South Africans and assure of a place in the last four of the U23 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt – irrespective of the result in the other match between Cote d’Ivoire and Zambia. Olympic Eagles failed to find their sting in the fore. The Eagles held on too much on the ball without effective contact or meaningful touches in the opposition critical zone, thus were pegged and failed to qualify for the 2020 Games in Tokyo. Incidentally, but for a couple of coaches like Boboye, Fatai Osho, Mohammed and Ilechuk­wu, as well as Uwejamomere and those of the U13 and U15 boys, all other coaches appointed were involved in those last fail­ures of various national teams, thus raising questions on their suitability to lead the teams now following their appointments. The engagement of these coaches, particularly Yusuf and Bosso, analysts said, meant that the NFF has not learnt anything from their previous failures. The analysts continue that one of the problems in Nigeri­an football in the last few years was recycling the same old faces that had contributed nothing to the growth of the game in the country. Before his latest appointment, Bosso had been in charge of the Flying Eagles on two occasions, and he failed in both spells. His first spell was in 2007, when he led Nigeria to the quarter-finals of the World U-20 Youth Championships. He re­mained in that role for another two years but was sacked after the 2009 Africa Youth Champi­onships after Nigeria finished third. Eleven years later, Bosso was again appointed as the U-20 coach, but the team failed to qualify for the Africa U-20 Na­tions Cup. Still, two years later, the NFF has decided to place the fate of the semi-cadet team in his hands, which defy all logics warranting such appointment. Going by history, according to an NLL insider, recycling of coaches has never worked in Nigeria. “That thing has never worked in Nigeria particularly when such coaches have nothing tan­gible to show. “It has happened in the case of Eguavoen who has had the chances to coach the Super Ea­gles but failed to lift his game,” he said. Talking about that, Austin Eguavoen was in charge of the National team twice before his last spell, but he never showed signs he had improved tactically. But he was considered to lead the team after Coach Gernot Rohr was sacked. But it turned out to be a disaster as Nigeria crashed out in the round of 16 at the AFCON and failed to qualify for the World Cup. The football house has towed the same line with Bosso when they should have learnt their lesson and opt for another but better manager to lead the Fly­ing Eagles. This is also similar to the re­appointment of Salisu, who has been part of the Super Eagles set-up since the days of Stephen Keshi. Salisu served under Keshi, Rohr and Eguavoen as the first assistant coach. At the same time, he was also the home-based Eagles coach the last time they qualified for Africa Nations Championship. However, he took the team to the final of the 2018 African Na­tions Championship in Morocco where they lost 4-0 to the home team in the final. But some commentators are looking beyond the struggling of the Super Eagles Team B to question the rationale behind the appointment of Yusuf who was in­dicted and subsequently banned by the football house after he was caught on camera negotiating bribe from an agent to feature his wards at that year’s CHAN. Besides, arguments also sur­faced on why he should not have been considered given that he was part of the last Eguavoen regime at the mainstream Super Eagles that failed to qualify the country for this year’s World Cup in Qatar. But Tijani Babangida, former Super Eagles winger, came to the defence when SUNDAY INDE­PENDENT sought his opinion on whether Yusuf was qualified to lead the CHAN Eagles given wide condemnation trailing his appointment. The former Ajax star said that the coach was eminently quali­fied to lead the team, citing his experience on the job before. “He was not coach that they called back; Ladan Bosso also come back and a lot of other. “Yusuf did well the last time he handled the CHAN Eagles and after that, he did not have another chance to handle the team. “I think they want him to go further with the team because of his experience at this level. He is good to make a comeback in the team,” he said. The former player, however, urged Yusuf to prove his em­ployers right with good perfor­mances. “You know he has managed this team before and led them to the final. “I know he has the experience and those that appointed him perhaps want him to go a step further and win the cup. They have faith in him. “It is now left for him to do his best and get the job done and prove his critics wrong. “Many people believe he should not be there but having been appointed, it is left for him to redouble his efforts and make sure he justifies his choice as the coach of the team,” Babangida told our correspondent. A product of high football Ni­geria, Oladimeji Lawal, said that much as issues should rightly be raised, there was the need to perhaps give the coaches some chance to see if they would right the perceived wrongs. “I am sure Nigerians com­plaining have genuine reasons because some of these coaches have been tried out before but they could not deliver. “But I think we should give them the benefit of doubt as the authorities have found them pre­ferred to hold onto the jobs. “Sometimes it is not quite easy to come up with decisions on who or who to go with but having decided on the coach­es, against popular demands, we cannot do anything about it now,” he said. To Izilien, who led the Super Falcons to win the African Wom­en Nations Cup title in Johan­nesburg, South Africa in 2004, the reappointment of the coach­es, particularly Yusuf was very wrong given his alleged corrup­tion tendencies. “If it is true, then the NFF would have destroyed our foot­ball completely. “What will be NFF’s message to other coaches, who are into corrupt practices? I just hope it is mere rumour. But if it comes to reality, the Amaju Pinnick-led NFF would have rubbished ev­erything left in our football. “For you to preach equity, you must come with clean hands. It will be a bad precedent for the NFF to re-appoint Salisu Yusuf as coach of the Home-based Ea­gles,” Izilien stated. But Shehu Dikko, the chair­man of League Management Company (LMC), organisers of the Nigerian league, defended all the appointments. “I don’t want to single out any coach on the decision we have made. It was not a single decision; the Technical Committee, the ex­ecutive committee, and the Minis­try of Sports were carried along. “Let’s start with Yusuf, he also served as CHAN Eagles coach under Gernot Rohr and we are trying to respect the con­tract and if you look at records.” “He has the best record among all the coaches who have handled the team. He’s won sil­ver in Chan and WAFU compe­tition.” “He worked as an assistant to Keshi, Oliseh, Gernot Rohr and the reports are always positive, which means he has something tangible to contribute.” “For example when the Super Eagles were not doing well and we asked Rohr what’s going, he will say, he wants Salisu Yusuf back, so that shows the quality he possessed. “The other guys appointed as assistants are Coaches who are also doing well in the league ” “As for the U20, we are look­ing for stability, because the U20 Championship is starting in three weeks and we need people who understand the environ­ment and can hit the ground running. So we believe he has the experience as he has been in the job for some time,” he said.