ABRAKA – Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta Stat is expected to lay the foundation stone of the Faculty of Management Sciences Complex and launch projects at the Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka Ethiope-East Local Government Area of Delta State. This was disclosed by Prof. Andy Ogochukwu Egwunyenga, Vice Chancellor, Delta State University, Abraka at a world press conference held at the University as part of activities to mark the 30th anniversary and 14th convocation ceremony of the University. Prof. Egwunyenga said that the governor will commission the Faculty of Pharmacy Complex, Access Link roads to Faculty of Pharmacy, Animal House and Faculty of Science. He added that other projects to be commissioned are Faculty of Arts Complex, Department of Nursing Science Extension, Educational Technology Building as well as the laying of foundation stone of Faculty of Management Sciences complex. Prof.Egwuyenga disclosed that Prof. Emeritus will investitured on Prof. Eric .A. Arubayi and Prof. Sam Ukala(Posthumously) by the University. He further disclosed that a retired Judge of the Supreme Court, HRM. Justice Francis Fedode Tabai who is now a royal father in Delta State and Mr. Jim Ovia MFR, CON will also be investitured at the University during the convocation ceremony. According to Prof. Egwunyenga, “on assumption of office as Vice Chancellor on the 2nd of December 2019, I elected to lead, inspire and advance the transformation of Delta State University by building a motivated workforce, pursuit of innovation, strengthening academic and administrative units of the University, improve her revenue base and deploy a new approach to administration based on robust focus on staff and students welfare and open communication.” POLL He spoke further, ,”through this strategy, we are now firmly on track in realizing the functions of the University as enshrined in the enabling law; the Delta State University Edit,1998.” Prof. Egwuyenga noted that the University has made tremendous progress with determination to do more. Speaking on progress of the university so far on ranking, Prof. Egwunyenga said, “fom the latest National Universities Commission (NUC) ranking of over 200 Universities in Nigeria, DELSU has emerged14th position among best universities in Nigeria-2021, 4th position among best State University In Nigeria 2021, 2nd best in the South-South geo-political zone 2021, 3rd State University nationwide with highest number of professors 2021, No.1 State University with the highest number of professors in the South-South geo-political zone 2021, 5th most efficient State University per capital index nationwide 2021, 4th highest ranking State University in knowledge economy nationwide 2021 and No. 1 State University in knowledge economy in the South-South geo-political zone 2021.”