OWERRI – Critical stakeholders in the Southeast region have continued to express concern over the nation’s deteriorating economic situation and youth unemployment. Some of the analysts who spoke to our correspondent in Owerri challenged industrialists from the zone with already established flourishing business empires in various parts of the country and even abroad to extend same at home to stem the worrisome tied. Only recently, Elder Statesman, Industrialist, and Chairman of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Council of Elders, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, said the Igbo Umbrella body (Ohanaeze Ndigbo) would soon set up a Council of business leaders which would comprise successful industrialists from the South-East and Igbos in such state as Delta, Rivers, and Benue with functional Industries/Factories and other job-creating Establishments to engage the youths. Nzeh Uzozie Ubanwa (Septuagenarian) – MD/CEO – Uzozie Group of Companies, reacting to the situation, angrily castigated some wealthy individuals from the South-East for their refusal to contribute to the industrialization of the zone. “Our sons have chains of industries and factories in Lagos, PH, Abuja, Kano, Jos, Kaduna and other cities in the country but the question is this: how many of them have established even one block industry at home? “An average Igbo man is enterprising, hardworking, and creative but we have refused to accept the fact that charity begins at home.” Chief Ezenwuihe Eberendu Iwegbulem, MD, Ebenugbo Plate Manufacturing Industry, said the South-East is heavily populated and for them to help the youths who would succeed them, they would need to look inwards. “The government should help those of us who belong to the organized private sector to set up businesses and also maintain the existing ones to engage our youths once. “If you go to the Onitsha Road industrial layout here in Owerri, you will weep because there are no access roads, no light, no water and even security is not there. POLL “I agree that the rate of youth unemployment in the South-East is becoming unspeakable and that is why the crime rate is on the increase.” Felix Onyejiaku Omerenna, a Hotel Proprietor, said: “Our people are just busy injecting millions and billions of naira in politics instead of establishing industries. “Those in the State and National Assemblies do not see any need to set up factories to employ our youths, instead they dish out motorcycles for graduates to become Okada riders. “The governors of the South-East should revive our ailing industries so as to give the youths jobs.”