BAUCHI – The Chairman of the North-East Baptist Conference, Reverend Ezekiel Oyebode has urged Nigerians to be hopeful in the face of all the challenges facing the country as it will soon end. Ezekiel Oyebode disclosed this in his Good Friday homily titled: ‘Agony of Jesus Christ delivered to commemorate the 2022 Good Friday worship service. He noted that just as Jesus Christ preserved throughout his trials leading to death on the cross and came out victorious, Nigerians too well overcome the current situation and come out better and stronger. The Clergyman expressed optimism that no problem facing the country at the moment is not beyond what cannot be overcome pointing out that all that is required is for Nigerians to be steadfast in prayers for divine intervention from God. Taking his reading from Isaiah 53:3-10, he said that, “God knows what is happening in Nigeria, he is aware of what situation we are going through because he allowed it to send a message to us. Very soon, it will be a past history and Nigeria will come out better and stronger”. Ezekiel Oyebode who is the Senior Minister in charge of GoodNews Baptist Church, Wuntin Dada, Bauchi challenged political leaders to be fair, just and equitable to all Nigerians irrespective of ethno-religious and political differences saying that, that is the only way things can get better for the country. He also challenged religious leaders to always say the truth as contained in the holy books without mincing words saying that they should know that, as spiritual leaders, all of them will give an account of the followers before God on the judgment day. Ezekiel further admonished Christians not to lose sight of the significance of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ to the salvation of mankind telling them to remain obedient always and challenging them to be good citizens, loyal and faithful to the government at all levels because according to him, the administration was instituted by God and must be respected. POLL Ezekiel Oyebode called on the Christians to pray fervently to God for a positive turnaround in the country which he said is very possible as has been done in the past to countries that have worst situations.