Alhaji Maruf Arowolo is newly elected National President of the Motor Mechs and Technicians Association of Nigeria (MOMTAN), in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, he said he would prioritise the training of members of the association in order to enhance the services they render to their clients. Excerpts: What areas are you going to priotise as the National President of the Motor Mechs and Technicians Association of Nigeria (MOMTAN)? As president of the association, my priority is to ensure that members of the association are trained to be able to repair vehicles that are built with new technologies. You know that most of the new vehicles that come into the country come with new technologies; we will organize training workshops where experts will help members upgrade their skills and acquire competences to take care of the new vehicles with new technologies. We need to make sure that members of the association are abreast of the latest technologies in town. We will also make the welfare of members of the association a priority; where they work; the conditions in which they work; we will also ensure that they have good relations with their clients. We will train them to do more and be more. What is the situation in terms of mechanic villages in Lagos State? When the idea of mechanic villages was mooted, Lagos was as developed as it is now. The mechanic villages were located in the outskirts of town and with the concept of a mega-city, the villages are now in the urban centre; development has caught up with them. POLL We are telling the government to provide more villages for us. We also want the government make the conditions in the villages better. What is your assessment of the roles of motor mechanics in the nation’s economy? Mechanics contribute immensely to the growth of the Nigerian economy; they play a role critical to the smooth running of the economy because they help in keeping goods moving from one area to another. Without the contributions of mechanics, most of the vehicles that move the goods that keep the economy going would be grounded and the economy will suffer. If you drive a vehicle carrying goods from one part of the country to another and it breaks down, it is the mechanic that will repair it and this keeps the economy moving. Without mechanics, the goods that farmers produce in the rural areas will not reach the urban areas where they are mainly consumed. Mechanics play a role big role in the movement of government officials; when their operational vehicles get damaged, its mechanics that they ask to make the repairs. The life and safety of many people are in the hands of mechanics and mechanics should be given their dues in society. What are doing to bring in mechanics that are not members of the association? Yes there are mechanics that are not members of the association; we do not want to force anyone to join the association but when they see the benefits that members derive from the association, they will want to join us. Members are getting training and other benefits. We are talking to them in a manner that they will understand. What is the association doing to eliminate quacks? We need the support of the public to do that; every member has an identification number and we have units. The public should only patronize those that belong to the association. What is your advice to young people? The youths should learn a trade; roaming the streets and engaging in fraudulent activities will not take them far. They should learn one profession or the other and get grounded in it. This is the only to make it in life.