A total of 350 structures were demolished on Thursday in a densely populated Bassa-Jiwa hamlet near the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The majority of the structures that were demolished were residential buildings, shanties, butchers and kiosks that were located on the right of way (ROW), under the railroad bridge, and at pedestrian crossings in and around the Village, off the Airport road. Officials from the FCT Administration’s Task team on City Sanitation assisted by a combined security team stormed and cleared the structures for allegedly defacing and constituting a major security danger in the region. Explaining the exercise, Director, Development Control Department, Murkhtar Galadima, said the about 350 structures removed were part of the 500 uncontrolled developments marked for demolition in the area. Speaking on whether adequate notice was given before the exercise, Galadima said: “Before marking the structures, we came for sensitisation first, thereafter, we removed them. According to him: “It is part of our regular exercise to sanitise the city, and in furtherance of the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport expansion project being awarded by the Federal Executive Council, so we are to clear all these uncontrolled developments before the commencement of the project. They are over five hundred in number, and we have removed close to 350, and we are coming to continue with the marking and removals”. POLL Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring Inspection and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah noted that the area has multiple levels of illegality, as underneath the main train bridge connecting the Nnamdi Azikiwe Int’l Airport is full of shanties and the whole community has turned into the shanty and being a security threat. His words: “The whole community is wrongly built, thereby defacing the area, as the community has been expanding extremely. Although good people are in the community, the bad ones have easy access to hide and commit havoc. “Even the chief and some of the locals agreed that Bassa- Jiwa needed to be cleaned, and did that while respecting some of the previous markings we had in the community for resettlement and compensation of some indigenous persons there, those were not touched, but several others were not spared, as they were removed. “We will keep coming back here, because the FCT Minister gave us a strong marching to actually purge all communities along the Bill Clinton Drive Airport connecting Road and several others around the city, to ensure that all shanties are cleared”, he stressed. Reacting to the development,Dauda Gimba, Chief of Bassa- Jiwa Village, simply thanked God that the FCTA officials didn’t do too many bad things to us, as they worked together during the exercise. According to him: “It is for our good. The removal of the batches under the bridge and along the road corridors have opened up and brought back sanity to the area. “Even though the exercise also affected me, as they demolished my structures including that of my secretary, I still thank God that they came and notified us, and we worked together with them to ensure compliance. “What we want the government to do for us is that they should be on the ground and ensure that nobody is allowed to erect any structures in the areas cleared. However, a resident, whose shop where he gets his daily bread and caters for his family was demolished,Mohammed Abdullahi, decried the role of the indigenous people in the area, urging the government to call them to order, as they were the ones giving land to those who erected the affected structures. He noted that hitherto to the exercise, “the place was very unhealthy because it was too crowded and uncleaned. “The way the operation was carried out was commendable, as they were allowed to take their goods and other belongings from their structures without any harassment”.