.. Lamido, Hayatu-Deen React Crisis appears to be brewing in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over failure to harmonize consensus drive that would have given the party an hedge in the forthcoming 2023 presidential election. The consensus, which was driven by some presidential aspirants, has, however, hit the rock, a development that is causing bad blood in the party at the moment. Some of the aspirants are, the governor of Sokoto state, Aminu Tambuwal, former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, governor of Bauchi state, Bala Mohammed and ex-banker, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. On Friday, the PDP Northern leaders had shortlisted Saraki and the Bauchi state governor, Mohammed in the interim, ahead of the PDP primary scheduled for May 28, 2022. Explaining why the two aspirants were adopted, the PDP Northern leaders, in a communique signed Prof. Ango Abdullahi, said it was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North-Central and one from the North-East are to be presented as Northern Presidential candidates. The communique reads in part: “For the purpose of this exercise, it is hereby resolved that Gov. Bala Mohammad from the North- East and former Senate President Bukola Saraki from the North-Central be presented as the Northern consensus candidates for the moment. “It was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North-Central and one from the North-East are to be presented as Northern Presidential candidates. POLL “The two would in turn be required to make further concessions so that in the end, one of them would be presented as the consensus candidate, out of the four that presented themselves from the North. “It should be recalled that four major Presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, have met and decided to limit the number of aspirants from Northern Nigeria by forming a consensus among themselves. The candidates that presented themselves for the consensus areGov. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Gov. Bala Mohammed, Dr. Bukola Saraki and Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. In a swift reaction to this development, Tambuwal had said he was not party of the meeting that shortlisted Saraki and Mohammed. The Sokoto state governor, in a one paragraph statement by his Special Adviser Mohammed Bello had said, “four of them met on wed and agreed that the the consensus has failed. They called off the Minna meeting, so, Tambuwal didn’t attend.” Backing the position of Tambuwal on Saturday, the former governor of Jigawa state, Sule Lamido said that the position of the supposed Northern Elders is their personal opinion and not PDP members in the North. He said: “The attention of key stakeholders of the PDP in the Northern States is drawn to reports in the Media that some Northern Elders have shortlisted two of our prominent and deserving aspirants as consensus PDP Presidential Candidates. “Having widely consulted Party Leaders across the 19 Northern States and FCT, it is hereby stated to our teeming Party members and the general public that what is reported in the media is only the personal opinion of those who issued the statement and not the position of the PDP members in the North! “Discussions are ongoing with ALL the aspirants in our party with a view to having a National Consensus if possible or at least working towards having a smooth acrimony free national convention. The position of the Northern Elders is not only injurious to the North but equally injurious to the Northern aspirants!” Also reacting, one the aspirants, Hayatu-Deen, who explained why the consensus collapsed, added that the committee constituted by Prof. Ango Abdullahi is completely faceless and the evaluation criteria is totally subjective. Hayatu-Deen, in a statement said: “For the record, we would like to state that the process of arriving at a consensus candidate had collapsed. The candidates involved could not reach a compromise amongst themselves, resulting in the decision of our principal, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, and Governor Aminu Tambuwal to discontinue the process. “The announcement we witnessed yesterday was not based on the principles of equity and transparency, which we believe should lead the country and the party into the future. The committee constituted by Prof. Ango Abdullahi is completely faceless and the evaluation criteria is totally subjective. “It seems to us that this entire charade was designed to achieve a preconceived outcome.”