Food lovers around Lagos are certinly in for a mouth-watering weekend as Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO) Plc has announced the return of its annual Food and Drink Festival two-years after COVID-19 pandemic disrupted it. The festival is set to kick off today, Saturday April 30 and end Monday, May 2. Speaking at a media announcement in Lagos, the Group’s Corporate Communications Team lead, Charles Eremi, revealed that over 150 vendors from all over the country are expected at the festival. GTCO Food & Drink Festival is an annual food exhibition and sales event aimed at projecting the diverse angles of the food industry. This year’s edition will take place at the GTCentre, Plot 1, Water Corporation Drive, Oniru, Victoria Island, Lagos with the theme Authentic Nigerian Cuisine. According to Eremi, the group is glad to continue the fair aimed at driving the viability of the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the Nigerian food sector. “This is the fifth edition of the GTCO Food and Drink Fair after a two-year break and ready to accommodate more vendors than in previous editions,” he said. Eremi said that the free to attend three-day festival would feature cooking masterclasses of cuisines chosen from all around the world and over 150 free retail stalls showcasing Nigeria’s street food. POLL “We hope to promote Nigerian cuisine and deliver a great experience for participants this year,” Eremi said. The team lead reiterated the group’s aim to boost the retail and SMEs food sector by making the exhibition free for all participating vendors. “The selection of the vendors was done following a two-week application period on the GTCO Food and Drink fair online platform. “The fair will also have various masterclasses from renowned chefs across the world that will bring to fore their experiences in the international food business. “We want to maximise the potential of our local food and drink industry. “We will have an array of Nigerian cuisine at the fair. We are ready to handle the number of persons expected at the fair, we have the right measures in place in terms of security and health care. “The fair is not profit-driven as the vendors are not paying for their stands, most of the food will be discounted, it is part of GTCO’s Corporate Social Responsibility initiative. “We will have marshals go around to ensure vendors sell within the agreed range,” he said.