Cristiano Ronaldo informed Ralf Rangnick he was ready to return for Manchester United during a conversation at the club’s training ground following the heartbreaking death of his baby son. Ronaldo and his partner, Georgina Rodriguez, confirmed the devastating news of their newborn’s passing as they announced the birth of their daughter. As expected, the Portuguese superstar was not available for the Premier League trip to Liverpool on Tuesday night, which United lost 4-0. In a statement before the match, the Red Devils said: “Family is more important than everything and Ronaldo is supporting his loved ones at this immensely difficult time. As such, we can confirm that he will not feature in the match against Liverpool at Anfield on Tuesday evening and we underline the family’s request for privacy.” Ronaldo arrived back at United’s Carrington training ground on Wednesday and Rangnick confirmed he would be available for Saturday’s lunchtime kick-off against Arsenal while speaking in his pre-match press conference one day earlier. “Cristiano Ronaldo is available again – he’s been training with us,” the United interim said. In a fresh update shortly before the game at the Emirates, Rangnick opened up on his conversation with Ronaldo upon his return to the training ground, saying: “We spoke on the day he returned. He said to me everything is well he can train again and play again. It’s good to have him back in the squad.” Glenn Hoddle anticipated Ronaldo’s return to the starting XI would give United a “massive boost” as they aimed to bounce back from their humbling defeat at Anfield. “There had to be changes after that Liverpool performance, Liverpool were excellent on the night,” the Tottenham hero told BT Sport. “Cristiano Ronaldo coming in will give them a massive boost and I think with (Scott) McTominay in midfield with (Nemanja) Matic, they have got a right job on today, but I think they are the right personnel in there today.” Hoddle added: “I think they have the chance to bounce back because that team looks a lot more balanced to me. With Nemanja Matic and Scott McTominay in there, I think those two together give it a nice balance in midfield. But it is about attitude, how they are going to come out of that tunnel and getting things right and putting a good performance on.” POLL Despite Hoddle’s upbeat verdict on United’s hopes of victory in North London, the Red Devils found themselves 1-0 down just three minutes into the match after Bukayo Saka’s shot was saved into the path of Nuno Tavares, who tapped in from close range. Eddie Nketiah then looked to have doubled the Gunners’ advantage but his goal was ruled out in exchange for a penalty due to him being offside following an earlier foul on Bukayo Saka. It was Saka who then stepped up to take the spot kick to ensure Arsenal extended their lead.