LAGOS – Political stakeholders in the North-East geo-political zone, have accused Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka of attempting to divide the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and at the same time draw the party’s National Secretary, Iyiola Omisore into a controversy with a view to distract him from doing his job. The Northern leaders under the aegis of North-East Unity and Advancement Forum (NEUAF), was reacting to Soyinka’s comment on Omisore’s emergence as APC national Secretary. In a statement issued by its Chairman, Alhaji Ibrahim Musa, NEUAF maintained that Soyinka’s spate of criticisms on Omisore was totally in bad faith, describing the latter as a man of profound moral rectitude. The leaders alleged that the inability of a certain serving Minister from the South-South, whom they referred to as “Soyinka’s benefactor”, to hijack the national leadership of the party, was responsible for the attack on Omisore. The statement, which described Omisore as a patriot, thinker and a fighter for good causes, noted that influential Yoruba leaders should rise in condemnation of the uncomplimentary remarks on Omisore, which they described as crude propaganda and an “obvious desperate move to please his paymaster, a former South-South Governor and a major donor to the Nobel laureate’s organisation that twisted the minds of many young Nigerians most of whom are now adults regretting toeing the path of Prof Soyinka in their teenage years. “The current posturing of Prof. Wole Soyinka is totally in bad taste and drips with malice. He is attacking Omisore, Muhammadu Buhari and members of the ruling party for electing Omisore as the party’s National Secretary,” part of the statement read. It further emphasised Omisore’s rich and inspiring profile, meritorious services to the nation and humanity, peaceful disposition and gentility. The leaders accused Soyinka of dabbling into politics, threatening thunder against Omisore, whilst encouraging mediocrity and protecting the former South-South governor for supporting him in the last ten years. POLL “We know the tactics of Wole Soyinka. He likes to grandstand as an independent man. Many believe he is speaking for the people, campaigning for good governance and quality leadership, while the reverse is the case. There are many questions begging for answers in Soyinka’s relationship with the ex-South-South governor for anyone to take him seriously. “Wole Soyinka knows that his sponsor is a weakling who obviously finds himself where he doesn’t belong. Soyinka’s recent remark on Omisore was borne out of selfishness. “The energy and vigour with which Soyinka undertook a fierce political crusade against the APC National Secretary left no one in doubt that his target was to divide the ruling party, draw Omisore into controversy and then distract him. “We have watched in astonishment how Soyinka turned himself into such a burden to the former South-South governor. “Wole Soyinka ought to be more decent with his choices of words in addressing Omisore and should not undermine the fact that his sycophancy might land him in trouble,” the statement added.