LAGOS – One of the leading global disc jockeys (DJs Samuel Enyi, has disclosed that his vision and passion led him to establish Voodoohouse Music. He disclosed that he became a DJ officially in 2008, four years after Voodoohouse Music was established.Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent, Enyi, whose stage name is DJ Irem$, stated that the main aim of forming Voodoohouse was to promote Afrohouse, showcase African talents and be that bridge between Africa and the Western world in the best way he could. Voodoohouse Music has been the link for most of the mainstream artistes in Africa who get paid good money to perform abroad. However, he posited that DJs are the ones who promote music in the clubs by making fans Shazam or go stream more. He added that DJs also create mixtapes online that fans listen and dance to at their private parties at home. Speaking on the name of the label “Voodoohouse Music”, Enyi, who is the chief executive officer of the record label, explained that music is spiritual to him, and that “good music is magical just like voodoo or charm when you hear it, you can’t stop playing it over and over. Technically good music is demonic in nature and can capture your heart at any given time irrespective of your faith in religion.” He said he called it “Voodoohouse Music” because he initially started with South African Afro-house music, which is irresistible like voodoo/charm to him. The internationally acclaimed DJ said he has been playing Afrohouse music for years and has become very successful in the house music scenes in America and across the globe. “We have many talented people in Nigeria and in Africa ranging from musical artistes down to the DJs and others, so I decided to create Voodoohouse Music, which comprises many from artiste management, mixtape creation to record label and full entertainment services. “Voodoohouse Music has had working relationships with many artistes, both mainstream and upcoming. Hosting of events abroad, such as the most popular “Union rooftop” party in Minneapolis where you have many Afrobeat DJs and also bringing the likes of Peter (Pasquale), Poco Lee, Polo G, DJ Tunez, Victoria Kimani etc, which was part of the reason it was created in the first place,” he stated. POLL DJ Irem$ disclosed that the Late Cameey was one of the first artistes that Voodoohouse Music started with and he was signed in 2018 before he passed away due to cancer. He added that Cameey recorded about 16 songs that were yet to be released but due to the respect that Voodoohouse had for the deceased, they decided to shut the project down and continue with other others.He said that Voodoohouse Music has been involved in the management of many artistes, content creation, production, DJs and artistes that cut across the globe. The founder and CEO of Voodoohouse Music says it has a painstaking and capital consuming process but adds that it is worth the risk when you have the passion and Voodoohouse Music will certainly be among the leading record labels in time to come he says.