The Students from across Ogun State have called on Governor Dapo Abiodun and all the security agencies to urgently put an end to the recent cult killings before it spreads to higher institutions in the State. It would be recalled that in the space of one week, no fewer than 16 persons were killed in the Abeokuta, Sagamu and Ilaro areas of Ogun State, following the rivalry between two groups of Eiye and Aiye fraternities. The killings followed the butchering of a popular area boy around the Onikolobo, Adigbe and Panseke areas of Abeokuta popularly called Tommy a week before. While the clashes claimed seven lives in Abeokuta within one week, eight people were killed within two days in Sagamu and one killed in Ilaro. The students made the call at a joint congress of the Senate of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Ogun Joint Campus Committee (JCC) and the National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS), held at the Tai Solarin College of Education (TASCE), Omu Ijebu, over the weekend. Although all the killings had occurred outside the campuses of tertiary institutions in the state, the students expressed worry over the likelihood of spreading to higher institutions. The students urged the state police command, the Department of State Security (DSS), the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and other security agencies to nip the killings in the bud before it escalate. They warned that, if the menace spread to their campuses, it may degenerate into a full-blown crisis that may cripple tertiary education in the state. POLL The students also called on the state government and the various security agencies, to engage Community Development Associations (CDAs), and local vigilante groups to curb the cult clash and ensure the students of tertiary institutions in the state. Reading the resolutions of the congress, the NANS chairman, Comrade Kehinde Damilola Simeon said, “we all know Ogun state is a volatile state that is prone to cult clashes because of the high number of tertiary institutions in the state. But we are urging the government and all the security agencies to immediately weigh in on the recently renewed cult battle. “We want the security agencies to immediately swing into action and arrest the situation before it spread to the campuses of our tertiary institutions. They must prevent this issue from escalating. “We also call on those involved in this dastard act to stop in the interest of peace. “We are also using this medium to appeal to the state government to help rehabilitate roads leading to our tertiary institutions and the various health care centres in the state.” Responding to the demands of the students, the Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Femi Ogunbanwo, said “I want to assure them that, work will soon commence on these roads, especially the Aala – Omu road. Contractors are already moving to the site. “On insecurity, it is a national problem and I believe the President and all our governors are concerned as we are also concerned about the situation.” After deliberating on the state of the State affairs, the students also passed a vote of confidence on the Governor.