CHUKWUJEKWU ILOZUE; PERCY ONYEJEKWE AWKA / NNEWI – Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State on Thurs­day visited the scene of arson attack in Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government headquar­ters, where he lamented wan­ton destruction of public prop­erty, vowing that Anambra won’t bow to criminals. The Education Office and Works Department including the traditional rulers’ build­ing within the premises were torched. Accompanied by the state commissioner of police and other heads of security agencies, Soludo described the destruction as very un­fortunate. He said his heart bleeds with the mindless destruc­tion of key buildings within the local government head­quarters. The governor assured that these acts of criminalities and lawlessness will not continue. He urged the security agen­cies to go after the criminals and fish them out to face the law of the land. He regretted that the re­sources to be deployed in recon­structing the burnt buildings would have been better utilised to provide essential needs and infrastructure that will benefit the people and appealed to Ndi Anambra not to despair, adding that the state will rise again and no amount of repression can prevail or thwart the efforts of the government to build a strong and safe Anambra State. POLL Nnewi South Local Govern­ment headquarters, Ukpor, was Thursday attacked by gunmen about 2a.m. The gunmen, who were said to have arrived Ukpor town, shot sporadically into the air when they arrived the place. They were said to have passed through the Eke Ukpor market where they shot sever­ally into the air before landing at the local government head­quarters which they attacked and destroyed by setting the secretariat building ablaze. An eyewitness said before heading to Ukpor, the gunmen, who had been parading the state recently, stopped briefly at Nnobi Roundabout at 9:25p.m. Wednesday night, shot sporad­ically into the air and went to Nkpor-Onitsha Road axis of the Afor Nnobi Market where they looted shops, dispossessed travelers of their money and phones and stole one motor­cycle. It was gathered that the gunmen later arrived Ukpor Thursday about 2:45a.m. to un­leash the mayhem in the town. Anambra State Police Com­mand PPRO, Ikenga Tochuk­wu, who described the incident as sad, said police had arrived the place in pursuit of the gun­men, adding that investigation was ongoing. “It is a suspected case of ar­son, investigation is ongoing,” the PPRO said.