LAGOS – The move by rubber producers and marketers under the auspices of the National Rubber Producers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria (NARPPMAN) to tap into the potential of Lagos State has yielded positive results with the inauguration of a new executive of the body in the state. The event, which took place at the Lagos Television, Ikeja, saw the Mr. Adejuyigbe Alo, the state chairman, pledging that envisaged investments in rubber will increase the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state. He called on the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to make the dream come true by helping the association by providing sufficient land in the Ikorodu and Epe areas of the state for rubber cultivation. Alo, who was dispatched from Osun State to give birth to the association and revolutionise rubber production in Lagos State, said: “When I was asked to come to Lagos to begin the process of the rubber revolution, I thought at first that it was an impossible assignment. “I am happy that today, this dream has become a reality. I promise to deliver and will not disappoint,” even as he and the new executive of the body were sworn in. Alo said: “We look forward to a mutually rewarding relationship with the Lagos State government, going forward. “Yes, Lagos State may not have the size of land that rubber plantations require, but, there is a back-up arrangement in one or two of our neighbouring states such that farmland is not a constraint to our rubber project in Lagos State. “From our plantations wherever sited, we shall be able to feed our rubber processing companies in Lagos State with the much needed raw materials for production activities.” POLL The NARPPMAN National President, Igbinosun Idowu Peter, represented by the National Secretary, Hon. Orimisan Stephen rejoiced that with the inauguration of the new executive, Lagos State had joined the league of rubber stakeholders in Nigeria. “With the inauguration, NARPPMAN has recorded her presence in 19 states and 117 local government areas, cutting across the six geo-political zones in Nigeria.” Hon. Peter noted that Nigeria had been in a critical situation because of total independence on crude oil, even as expressed joy that the Federal Government had taken a deliberate decision to develop the non-oil sector, which before now, was the mainstay of the nation‘s economy. In a paper titled, ‘Economic and Environmental Sustainability: Natural Rubber to the Rescue’, the NARPPMAN Osun State Vice Chairman, Prince Adeyokunnu Adeniyi, lamented that the Federal Government under successive administrations, progressively neglected natural economic trees by formulating policies that did not encourage their cultivation, despite their commercial values and ability to grow within the environment to the detriment of the economy. He said the current economic situation in Nigeria called for alternative high revenue yielding products that would not destroy, but would enhance the stability and sustainability of the ecosystem, hence the interest in rubber. A highlight of the event was the decoration of the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, as an honorary member of NARPPMAN in Lagos State.