Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has reassured Nigerians and stakeholders at home and abroad that the spate of insecurity across the country will not deter it from the discharge of its mandate in 2023. It equally assured of better electoral experience for Nigerians in the next general election, leveraging on improved knowledge and experience garnered over three successive electoral cycles as well as an improved technology. Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the commission, stated these while presenting the 2022-2026 Strategic Plan and the 2023 Election Project Plan (EPP) on Thursday, in Abuja. The commission, he said, is not unaware of the rising security challenges as it prepares for the 2023 general election, insisting that nothing will hinder the advanced process already put in place to deliver on its mandate. He said INEC will continue to engage the security agencies and other Nigerians for improved situation since security is a shared responsibility. “We are also aware of the security challenges and their impact on the electoral process. We will continue to engage early and intensely with the security agencies to ensure the safety of our personnel and materials, accredited observers and the media and, above all, the voters. “Clearly, these are challenging times but we are determined that election must hold in 2023. However, this is a shared responsibility. POLL INEC plays a critical role but the commission alone cannot deliver the elections we all desire. I therefore appeal to all Nigerians to joins hands with us in ensuring that we make a success of the process”. On his outlook ahead of the poll, he said the institutionalisation of planning, innovations and drawing from knowledge and experience of previous elections have largely improved the electoral process, assuring that the cumulative impact of these milestones would enhance the progress in 2023. The INEC chairman disclosed that election plan finalised ten months ago will involve over a million electoral officers using a new Electoral Act. “The election will be conducted for 1,491 constituencies nationwide made up of one presidential constituency, 109 senatorial districts, 360 federal constituencies, 28 governorship elections and 993 state constituencies. “The election will involve an estimated one million electoral officials (both permanent and temporary or ad hoc staff) deployed to 176,846 polling units in 8,809 wards and 774 local government areas across the country. The election will be governed by a new Electoral Act 2022”. According to him, INEC processes have largely improved to deliver a seamless election. “Against the backdrop of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the current security situation in the country, both plans had to prioritise the institutionalisation of the commission’s processes for the effective delivery of its mandate by focusing on capacity-building, the promotion of professionalism, encouraging greater synergy among departments, improving efficient utilisation of resources, increased deployment of technology as well as greater sensitivity to threats to the electoral process as well as election personnel and infrastructure. “These concerns are reflected in the plan’s five strategic objectives, each of which identified several key actions, key activities and key outcomes that constitute a broad guide to the vision of the commission to provide electoral operations, systems and infrastructure to support the delivery of free, fair, credible and inclusive elections. “The plan also forms the basis for the Election Project Plan which focuses on five key objectives identified by the commission as critical for the successful conduct of the 2023 general election”. The INEC chairman disclosed that by next week, the guidelines and regulations for the conduct of the 2023 election will be released by INEC and would mirror the 2022 Electoral Act. He advised Nigerians who were yet to collect their PVCs or who PVCs have issues to act fast and correct them ahead of the general election.