The simmering crisis rocking Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ondo State has deteriorated as a factional group within the party dismissed as charade the newly emerged executives of the party. The party at a congress held over the weekend elected a new state executives with Mr Stephen Adewale as the chairman of the party. In reaction to the election, some members of the party insisted that the said congress was a charade, alleging that a lot of card-carrying members of the party were disqualified through an alleged obnoxious method adopted by the Congress Committee. Meanwhile, the party’s Publicity Secretary, Remi Olayiwola, alleged that people within the party were instigating violence intending to defraud unsuspecting aspirants ahead of the 2023 general elections. In his acceptance speech, the new Chairman of the party, Stephen Adewale, urged party all members to settle their differences ahead of the general elections. He said, “I, together with other members of our newly elected State Working Committee of our great Party, SDP, express our gratitude to the delegates of our great Congress. We acknowledge the responsibility they have been bestowed upon us, and we will strive tirelessly to meet their goals for the growth of our great party in Ondo State. “In the following days, we will knock on every door in the state, demolish every stronghold, and visit every nook and cranny in order to ensure that the SDP is registered in the minds of the people of Ondo State. “You’ll need to do feasibility studies if you wish to launch a new profitable firm. On this basis, we have done our homework and discovered that Nigerian political parties have been using the incorrect formula since 1999, and that their incorrect formula has left Nigeria poorer and more backward than when they arrived. POLL “We want to make the Nigerians see that their bad policies have satisfied no one, enraged everyone, and succeeded in deepening the cleavage of the very crisis they were supposed to solve.”