Ahead of June 18, 2022, Governorship Election in Ekiti State, an international peacebuilding organisation tagged Search For Common Ground has organised robust training for the Civil Society Groups in the state. The three-day programme held at the Delight Hotel, Ado-Ekiti had leaders of the various non Governmental organisations and Civil Society Groups in attendance. The SEED project is funded by the United States Agency for International Development, Foreign and Commonwealth Office as well as the United States and United Kingdom governments. The Ekiti State Chairman of the CSOs. Prof Christopher Oluwadare who commended the organisers described the programme as not only timely but crucial to the success of the forthcoming poll. The CSO boss disclosed that Ekiti’s cultural homogeneity and level of education should translate to the peaceful conduct of campaigns and elections. He, therefore, called on the security agencies especially the Police and Directorate of State Security Service to do more of violence prevention and proactive security response rather than a combative one. Specifically, the workshop is meant to strengthen civic education and efforts to counter hate speech, misinformation and disinformation in Nigeria during electioneering. According to the organisers, the intervention  is channelled  towards POLL leveraging the CSO platforms and engagement to mitigate hate speech and promote peace, More importantly, to encourage inclusive, credible, and participatory election processes to strengthen the engagement of Nigerian civil society in support of credible elections and democratic progress. The effort sought an inclusive electoral process where women, youth, persons with disabilities as well as internally displaced persons have equal access and opportunities to vote and be voted for in a peaceful environment is pivotal to the growth and development of the society particularly in Ekiti state. ” The activity was to ensure CSOs are adequately incorporating conflict-sensitivity and DNH principles within their respective and collective election-related programs as well as leveraging their platforms and engagement to mitigate hate speech, promote peace, and encourage inclusive, credible, and participatory election processes to further strengthen the engagement of Nigerian civil society in support of credible elections and democratic progress in Nigeria including strengthening civic education and efforts to counter hate speech, misinformation, and disinformation”. Using discussions, group activities, and presentations, Search for Common Ground facilitators strengthened the capacity of the participants by using conflict analysis tools as well as dividers and connectors (systems and institutions), and stakeholders mapping tools to analyze conflict trends, and mitigate hate speech and proffer tailored recommendations. Search for Common Ground is implementing the ‘Sustaining Electoral Engagement for Democracy’ project in Ekiti and Osun States preparatory to the Governorship Elections in June and July 2022 respectively. Meanwhile, the Coalition of Ekiti Civil Society Organizations condemned the political violence that occurred in Efon Alaaye on  6th April 2022 between political parties. The participants observed that it was a bad omen for peaceful, free and fair gubernatorial elections and all stakeholders especially community leaders, youth, parents and especially political parties to do everything possible to prevent violence among the citizens. The project’s off-cycle states also include Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo, Kogi, and Ondo States. Other implementing programs of the project are training for media stakeholders using the Common Ground Approach and Conflict Sensitive reporting, Peer to Peer Virtual Sessions on Hate Speech Education, Radio Drama on Inclusive Electoral Processes, and Hate Speech. Recall that a  leading non Governmental organisation ,New Generatiion Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGWAD) floated a far reaching anti- electoral violence campaign  in the build to the 2018 Governorship election in Ekiti tagged ” Vote Not Fight” Campaign” where political gladiators were pressed to adopt  decent campaign  strategies before, during and after the poll.