President Joe Biden and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met virtually on April 11 ahead of the 2+2 bilateral meeting between their foreign and defense ministers. The two leaders talked about “deeper and stronger” relationships and about together working to solve many persisting global problems. “We take the same concerns about the global challenges we face—from COVID-19, advancing health security, and tracking the climate crisis—and we share a strong and growing Major Defense Partnership,” said President Biden during remarks before the meeting. “At the root of our partnership is a deep connection between our people—ties of family, of friendship, and of shared values.” Biden said both the countries are going to keep closely consulting each other on the Ukraine situation and on how to manage the impact of the Russian invasion. “I want to welcome India’s humanitarian support for the people of Ukraine, who are suffering a horrific assault, including a tragic shelling in a train station last week that killed dozens of innocent children and women and civilians attempting to flee the violence,” said Biden. Modi said the situation in Ukraine is “worrying” and he pointed to India’s successful rescue operation of over 20,000 Indians stuck in Ukraine. He mentioned that extensive discussions on Ukraine happened in the Indian Parliament and hoped that the ongoing discussions between Russia and Ukraine will lead to peace. “During this entire process, I spoke several times on the phone to the presidents of both Ukraine and Russia. I not only appealed for peace but also suggested that there be direct talks between President Putin and the President of Ukraine,” he said. India is one of a few countries that has not publicly denounced Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. It has abstained from 10 UN votes on the issue, though it has called for an end to violence and offered humanitarian support to Ukraine. POLL India has resisted U.S. pressure to condemn Russia and when Biden last spoke with Modi with other leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue in March, India blocked U.S. attempts to put Russia-Ukraine on agenda. Later Biden described India’s stand on the issue as “somewhat shaky” leading to wider speculation that the issue will dent the India-US relationship. U.S. and Indian experts told The Epoch Times that Biden-Modi’s virtual meeting preceding the 2+2 ministerial dialogue indicates that the Russia issue won’t impact the wide-ranging and multifaceted Indo-U.S. partnership. “The Biden-Modi meeting before the ‘2 plus 2’ summit demonstrated the importance the Biden administration accords to ties with India. The statements issued also demonstrate that both sides managed to put forth their views on all issues, from Russia to the I