The traditional ruler of Ekpetiama Kingdom in the Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, King Bubaraye Dakolo, has started a mentorship programme to encourage the youths to embrace issues bordering on environmental consciousness and justice. The mentorship programme is in collaboration with the Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), a non-governmental organisation with focus on rights of Mother Earth and justice for the environment. The objective, according to the organisers, was to enlighten the youths and enable them draw inspiration from the accomplishments of the monarch and seek wisdom to prepare themselves for leadership roles in the future. Dakolo while interacting with selected youths for the mentorship scheme drawn from oil-producing communities across the state in his palace at Gbarantoru, urged them to always take seriously issues concerning oil, gas and the environment. Dakolo, an environmental rights activist and the new chairman of the Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers Council, noted that oil deposit was supposed to be a blessing to oil-bearing communities but massive pollution from oil production had brought about a bitter experience. “I challenge you to study and provide a solution to the challenges posed by oil and gas exploration and production. As young people, you must always endeavour to ask questions to be better than those old men, who never bothered to ask questions about their environment,”he said. The monarch appealed to young people to embrace education and also devote their time to learn something new everyday of their lives. He urged young people to always maximise their time in all they do and be orderly in their youthful age. POLL In his remarks, the Executive Director of HOMEF and renowned environmentalist, Nnimmo Bassey, described Dakolo as a man endowed with leadership qualities to transform the traditional institution in Bayelsa. Bassey said the interactive forum was designed to enlighten the young scholars and get them to tap wisdom and the right knowledge from the monarch that would help them go far in life. He noted that things were changing rapidly in the world today and so many people were seeking for knowledge and information from the media.