LAGOS – A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos has rejected a no case submission filed by a cosmetic surgeon, Dr. Anuoluwapo Adepoju, whose services allegedly resulted in the death of one Mrs. Nneka Onwuzulugbo. The court fixed May 26 for the Surgeon to open her defence following the rejection of the no case submission she filed. The Court ruled that “the evidence so far propounded, presented and articulated by the prosecution, and admitted by the court satisfy the elements of the criminal charges pending against Dr. Anuoluwapo Adepoju and as such, a prima facie case had been established which requires an appropriate defence. In July 2020, the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) had arraigned Dr. Adepoju and her hospital, Med Contour Services Ltd for allegedly obstructing an investigation by its officers into her case. In a five-count charge, the FCCPC accused the cosmetic surgeon of shunning its summons to appear and produce certain documents. She had, however, pleaded not guilty to all the counts. The FCCPC, on October 14, 2020 closed its case in court upon examination and cross-examination of the commission’s witnesses, and the defendant – Anuoluwapo Funmilayo Adepoju through her defence counsel then filed a No Case Submission claiming that the prosecution had not made a prima facie case against her to warrant a defence. Upon argument and adoption of the parties’ respective briefs and positions, the court reserved the case for a decision and ruling which it delivered on Thursday. The FCCPC says that “although this judicial process has experienced significant delays, during which allegations and or evidence of isolated or continuing violations of extant regulatory decisions or judicial conditions have arisen, the commission remains committed to ensuring compliance to the fullest extent of the law. “As the court has now returned to seating in and adjudicating this case, relevant applications seeking appropriate judicial orders to ensure or compel compliance with applicable regulatory interventions or release conditions by the Court will proceed from the Commission. “The commission welcomed any information or evidence of any activities or actions that can assist in ensuring obedience of the law in this regard, or retribution for disobedience.”