ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) New National Publicity Secretary, Barrister Felix Morka, has refuted social media reports on a date for the primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), declaring that no decision has been taken on the matter. He, however, admitted that the matter was discussed at the meeting of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC), held today at the APC National Secretariat. Social media reports had it that the party has fixed April 30 for APC Primaries. Barrister Morka, who gave insight into the NWC meeting, said the meeting focused on the program and schedule of activities of the party, including the Primary but pointed out that the discussion around the subject matter is ongoing and not concluded yet. “Today the 6th of April, 2022, the NWC of the APC have met and we just rose from that meeting. Among other topics covered as you would probably expected, we discussed the program for our party’s primaries looking at the schedule of activities that is to come. “I am unable to give you a rundown of the details of that schedule because that is is still in discussion and we are yet to conclude on a definite plan or timetable or schedule for our primaries. “But I can confirm that we did have that conversation today. We begin it today. But we have not concluded or made any decision. I am not aware of anything that is trending because we have not put out any information”. On the party’s readiness to abide by the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022 with regards to the resignation of intending on aspirants, Morka said he has no fears that members of the party who are desirous to vie for Political offices would do the needful at the appropriate time. POLL “The Ministers are members of the party. And the party is the party. Now, both the Ministers and other appointees and the party leadership have excellent counsel and guidance. I am sure everyone involved intends to comply fully with the intendment and letters of the Electoral Act,” he assured.