LAGOS  – The leadership of the Motor/Mechs and Technicians Association (MOMTAN) has dissociated itself from a new National Executive Council (NEC) which it alleges was secretly inaugurated. As conveyed in a Statement issued by the National President of the association, at a press conference held at its Secretariat in Lagos ,Engr. Dr. Oseni Suleiman, said: “Our attention has been called to a public notification said to have been released by some hoodlums parading themselves as the newly elected National Executives of our great association, as first above mentioned”. He explained that the splinter group that constituted the New NEC is been led by Alhaji Morufu Arowolo, and that the purported Council had held a secret national convention at Iwo, a suburb of Osun State in Nigeria on March 31, 2022. On its reaction to the newly inaugurated NEC, Suleiman said, “Our reaction as we first published on our public programme at our National Symposium held on October 15, 2021 at the Lagos Airport Hotel, Ikeja, is that Morufu Arowolo, Ismaila Alani, Adebayo Omotosho, Taiwo Phillips and others are dismissed former members of our association. Against the foregoing background, he advised the general public not to have anything to do with them. Ostensibly to buttress the strength of its warning that the general public should distance itself from the bogus NEC that was newly constituted by the splinter group Suleiman said: “We have again, taken them to a Federal High Court in Lagos since on March7, 2022 (Before their purported National Congress) and the next adjourned date is June27, 2022. He also asserted, “We hereby further advice the general public to ignore to ignore them as anybody dealing with them is doing so at his or her own risk. Ostensibly to unveil the authentic National Executives Council whose tenure would elapse on May26, 2024, Suleiman said he is the National President, Mr. Adegbola Oyedele, National Deputy President, Engr. Usman Aminu, National Secretary General, Mr. Paul Abayomi Olatunde, National Treasurer, Mr. Abdurasaq Yusuf, S.A. to the President on Administration and Mr. Moshood Olaniyan, Welfare Officer.