BENIN – The former governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the Edo State 2020 governorship election, Mabel Oboh, on Wednesday, urged the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, to rise up to the challenge and secure the lives and property of the people of Esan land from the incessant attacks of herdsmen. Oboh gave the charge while responding to a plea from concerned indigenes of Ubiaja and Ugboha communities, in Esan South East Local Government Area of the state who said they could no longer go to their farms and that they are dying of hunger as a result of the herdsmen attacks in their respective communities. He said, “It is a known fact that the predominant occupation of the people of Esan land is farming and following the present high level of insecurity in that region as a result of herdsmen’s menace, the people have ceased to go to their farms. “More worrisome is that this is the planting season where farmers ought to have been planting their crops, but for the fear of being killed or kidnapped, they have decided to stay in their houses,” the former governorship candidate said. She decried that with the way things are now if not tackled, it may lead to a serious food crisis in that entire area. She said the government should complement the little efforts of the people of Esan land who have put their resources together in setting up a security outfit code-named: “Atalakpa” to checkmate the activities of the Fulani herdsmen. She added that the governor, as the chief security officer and has been a proactive man who is making headways in infrastructure and every other sector should do his best to ensure the killer herdsmen are brought to book so that Esan people can have their dignity back. “Your Excellency, save my people. The Esans are dying; the unknown herdsmen are killing our farmers. They can’t go to their farms anymore for fear of being killed. POLL “Their livelihood is being taken away from them. They are crying, hungry, confused, and voiceless. I am pleading to the conscience of our state governor, Godwin Obaseki, to use his executive powers to protect our farmers from being slaughtered. “Our farmers need urgent protection. The police are not able to safeguard the people. Security agents must be sent to the farm borders before more death and famine cripple our people for good,” she decried.