JOY ANIGBOGU Nigeria is in a difficult state with inflation rate at 15.7%, increasing food insecurity, and the recent alert by United Nations (UN) agency for Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) report that 14.5 million Nigerians require urgent assistance to address the nutrition needs due to acute food shortage. The FAO projected that acute food shortage will hit 19.5 million Nigerians in a few months. The need for women inclusion in governance, synergy between various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), access to funding, support for land ownership for women farmers and proper monitoring and evaluation of women economic empowerment projects to get maximum productivity and enhance food production are apt to change the situation. Analysts are of the view that since women constitute 60% of the workforce in the agricultural sector, they should be actively involved in addressing the country’s food challenge. The Federal Government increased allocation to agriculture in the 2022 budget to N479 billion, an increase of 71 percent over the 2021 budget, and experts are still of the view that much needs to be done by the government in the area of actual release to the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) Prof. Halima Ben Umar, Executive Director Women In Media (WIM) and an advocate of Women Economic Empowerment (WEE), has noted that increase in women economic empowerment projects from 845 in 2021 to 938 in 2022 may need not yet call for celebration because the major issue is not increase in projects or allocation but with the release of funds. “I don’t think it is about the amount of projects but it is about the release. You can see a chunk amount in the budget but the actual amount released is the major problem. POLL “No matter the amount that is set aside, if the release is not adequate then, we will still go back to square one. If you look at the family planning allocation, you will see the huge amount allocated but the release is always a problem; so it is the same issue with WEE projects. “If you look across the states, how many governors are interested in economic empowerment of women? If they give N10,000 or N5,000 to each woman, they will say that they have empowered them. It is not true because they still have a long way to go. Our policy makers and executives need to know what women’s economic empowerment is all about? “Many people are not aware that if you empower a woman, a large chunk of poverty will be removed. I don’t know if the government is aware of that or if they know, they probably do not want to understand that.” While speaking on the report that only 13.2% of women in agriculture can access funds against 86.8% of their male counterparts when over 60% of the agriculture workforce are women, Umar said: “We have the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) grants and loans and they will tell you that about 60% of the loan goes to women but if you check, you will discover that it is not realistic. “I can even tell you that even 13% are not correct. Let me give you an example, during the agriculture grant, women came to apply for the grant and they did not get it. I thought they didn’t comply with the requirements. We worked with 20 or 30 women organisations who needed the agriculture loan. “We put a good proposal, followed all the requirements and one of the requirements was that we will have a piece of land up to 25 hectares. “We got the 25 hectares, they said they wanted 30 hectares and we got the 30 hectares. They came round and said they wanted 50 hectares and we got 25 hectares in two places and they said they wanted the 50 hectares at a stretch. “I wondered if they really wanted to give this grant to them. Sometimes the way the government operates, you will wonder if it really has interest in women. If you go to their office with the requirements, two days later they will tell you that the requirements have changed and meanwhile a man has gotten N10 million or N15 million. “If the government is really interested in empowering women by letting them have access to grants they can do it. I am more interested in giving women grants; I don’t believe in giving a woman loan particularly a grassroots woman. You can give grants and monitor how the grant is being used.For example, the government can identify women farmers in a particular community. “There are farmers that don’t require money from the government but those that are in need should be assisted. If you go to Kano for instance and you visit a farm, you will discover that it is the women that are doing most of the jobs. “They are being paid, but how much is the money? If you help her own land, give her all the resources, you will be amazed at what she will achieve because she will not look back. So, even if there are requirements, there should be concessions for women. Women can be very comfortable getting an interest free loan, unlike the men who can use the money to marry more wives. “If you give women interest free loans, and make sure that they are in groups of two or three, for example, rice farming, yam farming or cassava farming, you will see the harvest that Nigeria will have. “I think that if the government can empower women in the next couple of years we will be able to feed ourselves. Women are hardworking and committed, and if they tell you that they will do it, they will do it.” Barr Vera Ndanusa, the President National Association of Women Entrepreneur (NAWE) and national coordinator Development Research and Projects Centre (DRPC), while expressing concern that women don’t always benefit from WEE projects, harped on coordination and synergy between various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) “There should be synergy between the MDAs. You can hear that money is domiciled in some Ministries and Departments, and you see duplication of duties. There is no proper coordination. “The Ministry of Women Affairs can supervise these programmes, It can do it in collaboration with stakeholders like us. These funds should be monitored from the different Ministries so that women can access them. “We can also create a room to assess the impact it is having on women. It is because we don’t monitor and we don’t evaluate that we don’t know the impact such interventions are having on women. “There is no data, so we really need somebody that can maintain all these things warehoused in one ministry, maybe the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Women Affairs can supervise these funds. If we do that the women will be better for it and at the end of the day it will impact on the economy of the country. “If women are not included, the future of such an economy will not be sustainable. Empowerment of women will impact positively on the nation’s economy. “ Ndanusa thinks that engaging women to help their male counterparts in policy formulation can assist in addressing some of the challenges in the country. “Women are very active in the informal sector like the small businesses. Over 50% of female entrepreneurs are in the informal sector but policies to grow that sector are not done by women. “When you are in the formal sector you become a decision maker. How many women are decision makers? How many women have been promoted to that top level? In agriculture women represent only 13% of landowners, while over 60% of women are involved in agriculture, yet only 13% of them are landowners. “Women also suffer workforce discrimination. Some of these things are the things that have excluded us. There is an international report that says that if women are included economically, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will grow by 23 percent.” The Women Affairs Minister, Pauline Tallen, has called for fair participation, empowerment and inclusion of women in politics and economic development in the country. She made the call when a delegation from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), led by the Senior Political/Electoral Officer and Team Leader, Cluster 1, Serge Kubwimana, paid a special visit to her, to explore areas of possible support by the UN body. She particularly frowned at the setbacks to women participation in politics in recent times and the failure of the National Assembly to support women affirmation bills. Tallen used the opportunity of the coming of the UNDP Team to highlight areas of support. “We need men’s support for women’s participation in nation building and as gender-champions which tend to force the men to do more for the participation of women.”