ILORIN – Loyalists and associates of Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, on Saturday in Ilorin, defected from their All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in what may be the beginning of several political realignments in Kwara State. Until the defection, the group formed the central core faction of the ruling APC in Kwara State. Until Saturday, there had been strong speculations on this move, especially given the no love lost relationship between Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak of Kwara, on the one hand, and political heavy weights in the state like the minister, Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa (BOB), factional chairman of APC, Shuaibu Oba Abdulraheem, AkogunIyiola Oyedepo, and many more. Though these top politicians were not at the venue of the defection, which was at the former factional secretariat of the APC, now wearing the colours of SDP on Saturday, the hint was made by Rasak Alabi, Kwara South Senatorial Chairman of the factional APC while making a speech on the defection. “Seated here with us at this press briefing are all the 193 Ward chairmen, 16 Local Government chairmen and all the State Working Committee members, who have jointly decided with our numerous supporters, to announce to you today our official defection and mass movement of our supporters and party members from the APC to the Social Democratic Party, SDP,” Alabi said. He did not leave anybody in doubt as to the reasons for the defection. Citing differences with Governor Abdulrazak, the nonchalance of Governor Mai Mala Buni, who was the caretaker national chairman of the party, over alleged political marginalisation in the state and recent elevation of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu as new APC chairman, the defectors said they had no option, but to leave the APC. “Despite our endurance in the face of the inhuman treatment meted to us in the party, it will be correct to suggest that the Kwara State governor working in tandem with the former national caretaker committee chairman, Mallam Mai Mala Buni, has decided to edge us out of the party against our wish. “And to make matters worse, Senator Abdullai Adamu who once headed the party’s National Reconciliation Committee that denied us fair hearing but rather turned himself to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq ‘solicitor and advocate is now the party’s national chairman. “How then can we be hopeful of getting justice in this circumstance? “We do not think we have a future in this party any longer and it would be safer for us to look elsewhere where our democratic views and opinions would be respected,” Alabi said.