TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI With only Cross River as the only state it controls in the South-South region following the defection of Governor Ben Ayade from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is determined to win more states in the 2023 general elections. One of the state the party has been trying to make inroad is Akwa- Ibom state. In its quest to win the state, the APC lured Godswill Akpabio, former two-term governor of the state who is now the Minister of Niger Delta into its fold. Akpabio, an orator who prides himself as the ‘uncommon governor’ promised the APC heaven and earth. He promised to end the reign of PDP in the state and terminate Governor Udom Emmanuel’s reelection bid. At the end, it all turned out to be a pipe-dream as PDP not only won the governorship election, Akpabio who was then Akwa Ibom North-West District in the Senate also lost his bid to return to the National Assembly. It was later realized that many supporters of Akpabio, including his ward chairman did not follow him when he defected to the APC. Having realised that Akpabio lacked what it takes to deliver Akwa-Ibom to APC, the party then decided to look inward and give the structure of the party to those who are grassroots politicians with wide followership in the state. These crops of politicians were led by Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, a former Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory, (FCT) who was also the governorship candidate of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), one of the legacy parties that merged to form the APC. In appreciation of Akpanudoedehe’s role in the formation of the party and making it a viable opposition party in Akwa Ibom, President Muhammadu Buhari appointed him in 2020 as the National Secretary of the Caretaker Committee of the party, a position he held till March 2022 when the party elected a new set of executives to pilot the affairs of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Last weekend, Uyo, the Akwa Ibom state capital was agog when Akpanudoedehe declared interest to contest the 2023 governorship election on the platform of the APC. The declaration attracted bigwigs which include the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi who was represented by APC National Vice Chairman, South-south, Chief Victor Giadom; Chief Don Etiebet, former Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources and Mr. Umanah Okon Umanah, the Executive Officer, Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority. Addressing the gathering of the party chieftains at the event held at Ibom Hall in Uyo, the state capital, Akpanudoedehe said he had accepted the clarion call of his people to contest the governorship seat. “I want to accept your call to run. I want to thank the President who allowed me to serve as National Secretary of the party and stakeholders who didn’t reject my nomination. I want to thank most especially Amaechi who sponsored us to the national secretariat of the party. We don’t have the character of being ungrateful,” Speaking further, he said if given the APC ticket and ultimately earn the mandate of the people of the oil-rich state, his first priority would be poverty alleviation and urban renewal, adding that with the empowerment of the people, particularly the youth, crime rate would have been substantially reduced. POLL “My focus will be how to deliver my people from poverty. God has given me a special gift and the special gift is how to deliver you from poverty. For instance, we will give N1 million grants each to 1000 people per local government. It is time to empower the people not to depend on stipends. We will make Akwa Ibom the hub for technology.” He added that his government would also focus on urban renewal, while also refocusing the people of the global economy through science and technology and make the state the hub of science and technology in West Africa. “I need your support. I want you to trust me with your mandate to govern Akwa Ibom state. I hereby accept your call to run for the governor of Akwa Ibom state. God will use me to unlock the potential of Akwa Ibom. We will lift you out of poverty,” he assured. He said: “My focus will be how to deliver my people from poverty. God has given me a special gift and it is how to deliver you from poverty. We have been in this battle for a long and we have suffered. We have been battered with lies but we survived.” “It is time to empower the people not to depend on stipends. We will make Akwa-Ibom the hub for technology. We will give you urban renewal, particularly in Eket local government.” Speaking at the reception, Amaechi who commended Senator Akpanudoedehe for his diligence while in the saddle as national secretary said the APC was ready to take over the government house in Uyo, pleading with APC members in the state to give peace a chance. His words: “As Caretaker Committee national secretary, I do not need to emphasise that he was very visible. His visibility almost returned him to the national secretariat. But I told him he needed to go back home and reshape the party at home. “The crowd here today is clear proof that the APC here is viable and strong. Nobody can say we aren’t strong in Akwa Ibom. Let us keep working together. We are close to the election. This is not time for us to fight ourselves but work together for the actualisation of APC success in Akwa Ibom.” “From the leaders I have seen here today, the APC will bring victory to us. Let us come together, allow for give and take and face our common enemy. Let us work together so that we can bring victory.” He further revealed that it was the decision of stakeholders of the party in the South-south geopolitical zone that the former FCT Minister should contest for the exalted seat of governor of Akwa-Ibom State. Chairman of the APC in the state, Augustine Ekanem also called on the party faithful to work for the unity of the party ahead next general elections. “APC is one in Akwa-Ibom, it isn’t divided. Everyone is encouraged to go and campaign so that we can defeat PDP. The PDP is our enemy, we don’t have one within.There is no victory inside APC, the only victory we have is how to defeat PDP. God will take us to our destination. “We must show the world that the party is intact. As we go home, let us prepare to win. I won’t dwell on the court case. By the special grace of God, I am your chairman.” Former Secretary to State Government in Akwa-Ibom, Obong Umanah Umanah, who thanked Senator Akpanudoedehe for making the state proud as national secretary, also advised aspirants seeking the party ticket to remain focused engage in vigorous campaign and not be distracted by internal dissension in the state chapter of the APC. ” I believe that Akpanudoedehe made us proud because he served meritoriously. That’s the first time we have had our son at the highest level. We are proud of you. Our leader, Chief Etiebet has spoken well. I can only say on the status quo we stand.We will continue to recognize Augustine Ekanem as chairman of our party because that’s the decision of the Court. “I want to appeal to us to remain focused and avoid distraction so that we can take Government House in 2023. Some of these people came when the food was ready, they don’t know what we had suffered. But we are determined to reposition our party. These people won’t be worried if we don’t have candidate in 2023. We won’t allow them to hijack the structure, we will stand on the truth. We will abide by the position of law and respect the rule of law. I congratulate my brother, he is the caterpillar of Akwa-Ibom politics. They are afraid because they know you have the capacity.”