A group under the aegis of  Babban Saura Neighbourhood of Kaduna State has debunked a media report alleging that one army Captain Sahabi Mohammed had threatened and forced landlords in the community to sell their houses to him. The group described the report as false adding that such an incident did not occur and no individual by the name of Captain Sahabi Mohammed owns an inch of property in the community. A statement signed by Media Consultant, Magnus Unuakpor made available to journalists on Thursday in Abuja said the report is false, misleading, unsubstantiated and a clear case of fake news capable of giving wrong signals about peaceful coexistence in the community. The statement called on the public to disregard the report noting that is a case of unsubstantiated stories meant to entice the public by painting the military in a bad light. The statement read ^ It has come to our notice that Sahara Reporters for whatever reasons has published stories that are outright false about happenings in our community. ” In a report on its online platform, it made startling claims that a certain army Captain Sahabi Mohammed was threatening and forcing landlords in our community to sell their houses to him as well as parading 10 luxury cars.For a start, there is no individual by the name of Captain Sahabi Mohammed who owns an inch of property in our community, how much more to now threaten and use force to make landlords in our community to sell their houses to him. ” Neither have we seen any military personnel in our community parading 10 luxury cars!We note that Sahara Reporters could not even mention one landlord as victim of the said threat and forceful selling of their houses in its report that can be verified by any well-meaning media organization or any other authority at that. ” What bothers us is that many individuals and the media are suddenly coming around to our community to be asking questions about the false and misleading report on Sahara Reporters. Consequently, as law-abiding and peaceful people in the community, we want to put it on record that the said report about happenings in our community is false, misleading, unsubstantiated and a clear case of fake news that is capable of giving wrong signals about our peaceful community”. The statement cautioned against using false and misleading report in the community  to denigrate or settle personal scores withthe military. POLL The group, therefore, reiterated its support for the military in the fight against terrorism in Kaduna state just as it warned detractors and those behind the false report in the community. ” The media and other individuals have been coming to our community to ask questions about the false report by Sahara Reporters. The community head, Alhaji Dauda Hashimu, the Maigeri has time and again clarified that there is no grain of truth in the said report. We want these needless and time waiting visits by the people especially the media to stop hence this statement. ” So we hereby use this medium to call on the public to disregard the false report as it is a case of unsubstantiated stories meant to titillate the unwary public. It is a false and convoluted story. ” We are told that in journalism that facts are sacred, we therefore wish to call on Sahara Reporters to publish verified stories instead of peddling fake news or false claims as news on its platform” The statement added.