The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has issued a 72-hour ultimatum to cabinet ministers and other government appointees wishing to contest political positions in the 2023 general elections to resign or forfeit their chances. APC, in its primary elections guidelines, gave all appointees till Saturday, April 30 to relinquish their present appointment if they intend to participate in its forthcoming primary elections slated for May 30th and June 1st, 2022. The new guideline automatically leaves some of President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointees like Transportation Minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and his Labour counterpart, Chris Ngige, who are gunning for the 2023 presidency, with just three days to resign or forget their ambitions. While the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami is eyeing the governorship seat in Kebbi State. Section 3(i) of the APC Guidelines for the Nomination of Candidates bars political appointees at all levels from participating in the party’s primary either as delegates or as candidates at the party’s primary elections. The guideline directs “Any political office holder interested in contesting for an elective office” to resign 30 days to the date of the conduct of the party’s primary election for the office sought. By implication, the new guidelines have also put paid to the ambitions of other aspirants for different elective positions who have not resigned from their appointments as of yesterday (April 25). Governorship, Senate, federal and state Assembly primary elections to select APC candidates for the general elections, according to the party’s timetable, will hold between May 18 and 23, meaning that appointees for such positions who are yet to resign by today would have lost whatever was left of their chances to contest in the primaries. POLL An official of the party who asked not to be named, last night, confirmed the development, he said presidential aspirants still occupying various appointive positions have up till the 30th of this month to resign their positions. The official further explained that governorship aspirants occupying appointive positions who have not resigned before the 18th of this month are ineligible to vie for the governorship of their respective states. “For those aspiring for presidential primaries, they have just four days from today (Tuesday) to step down because the Electoral Act stipulates that they must do so 30 days to the presidential primary on May 30. “Those angling for the governorship who have not done so are out of it because the governorship primaries are scheduled to hold on the 18th of next month. This is in line with laid down rules and regulations,” he stated.