Every typical infertility diagnosis technique might occasionally fail to uncover the cause of infertility. Why can’t the doctor figure it out? This is a common question among expectant mothers.Unexplained infertility is also referred to as idiopathic infertility. Another way to explain it is the ‘doctors can’t figure it out’ group.About 20 percent of couples that visit a gynecology clinic do so for this reason. You have ‘unexplained infertility’ if you have attempted to get pregnant for a year or more and your doctor has detected no evident cause, such as blocked fallopian tubes. However, this does not rule out the possibility of conceiving.Another most frequently asked question is: since there is nothing wrong with me, I should just wait and conceive when the time comes.Unfortunately, the longer an unexplained infertile couple tries to conceive, the less probable it is to succeed without fertility treatment, especially if the female spouse is above 31 years old. The chances in this category are about 10 percent in a 36-month trying period.   So, in essence, visiting a fertility care provider upon basic laboratory investigations might be able to shorten the ordeal of waiting time to pregnancy. Unlike the conventional assisted reproductive techniques, appropriate timing of when to have sex for reproduction (Timed Sexual Intercourse) or intra uterine insemination (IUI/mild ovarian stimulation with sperm washing) will increase chances of conception by almost two folds. These two approaches are relatively affordable but might require a cycle to three attempts that is three months or so.Mild Endometriosis The exact nature of the link between infertility and endometriosis is unclear but the severity of the condition and location of the tissue appears to have an effect. For example, it is not fully known how a few spots of endometriosis may affect your chances of getting pregnant, but if you have severe endometriosis your chances are likely to be affected by the changes to your anatomy. However, even with severe endometriosis natural conception is possible.An estimated 70 percent of women with mild to moderate endometriosis will get pregnant without treatment.If you have endometriosis and are trying to get pregnant without success, it is important that you get help and support so speak to your doctor about being referred to a gynaecologist or a fertility specialist . Getting Pregnant With Endometriosis – Treatment There is no cure for endometriosis but there are treatments to help manage the condition. Getting pregnant when you have endometriosis can be more difficult than usual, but around seven in 10 women with mild to moderate endometriosis conceive without treatment.This is because a definitive cause and effect relationship between moderate endometriosis and reproductive issues has yet to be demonstrated.Infertility caused by mild endometriosis may also be classified as “unexplained” by certain physicians Infertility And Female Age Women over the age of 35 are more likely to be diagnosed with unexplained infertility, while women over the age of 38 are more likely to be diagnosed.The reason for this is that there are more likely to be egg quantity and quality problems as women age. Since we do not have a ‘standard category called egg factor infertility, these couples sometimes get lumped in to the “unexplained” infertility category.Most women over 40 who try to get pregnant will have difficulty, and fertility over age 44 is rare – even in women who are ovulating regularly every month. The point is that the older the female partner, the more likely that there is an egg related issue causing the fertility problem. Unfortunately, there is currently no specific test for ‘egg quality.’Meaning Of Standard Infertility TestingThe definition of what “standard testing” consists of is not agreed upon by all experts. Medical studies have reported that 0-26 percent of infertile couples have unexplained infertility. The most commonly reported figures are between 10 – 20 percent of infertile couples.However, those percentages are from studies in which all the women had laparoscopy surgery to investigate the pelvic cavity for pelvic scarring and endometriosis. Laparoscopy surgery is no longer done as part of the routine fertility workup. Therefore,  finding all of the causes of infertility is not achievable as before – leaving many more couples in the unexplained category.Treatment Unexplained infertility like many other health conditions can be treated successfully in the fertility clinic centres more. But, when couples have invested over six unproductive months in hands of a regular physician regardless of the female partners age, its about time they went to see a reproductive specialist before it become too late.Otherwise, it might become almost impossible waiting chances of spontaneous pregnancy. In modern practice, the literature will encourage couple to give artificial insemination shot a couple of times (3) before ruling it as ineffective to consider In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) as last resort. But, in an economically stricken country like Nigeria or the majority of African countries, IVF is the best to option to solve the puzzle without messing up with the client emotions and wallet. Why? Should IUI fail repeatedly, it might be daunting for couples to push further due to economic pressure. The success rate of IVF is a step above IUI. Also, IVF can be more engaging and trusting for couple as more drugs more activities are involved. The eggs of the woman is harvested and fertilisation (conception and development) is demonstrable to the couple in the visualization of the embryos (babies at the cellular level) and selection of best ones for intra-uterine transfer and the journey of life begins. All these processes are not available in IUI and they far more soothing to couples. Good enough none of these procedure lead to painful experience but perhaps a bit of discomforts depending on patient pain threshold. Finally getting pregnant at once with IUI is relative to maternal age, if a woman is less than 35 years, she is likely to succeed once or twice in ten attempts while older women will experience as low as five chances. But in any event IUI is a far better route to motherhood as against natural attempts in unexplained infertile couples. The question is how many are ready to take advantage of available assisted reproductive technology(ART)? Dr Olaleke Fasasi (PhD) is Director of Embryology Services, Omega Golden Fertility, Lagos. He is a seasoned Reproductive and  Translational Medicine    Scientist. He’s a Specialist in all Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). Visit: www.omegagoldenfertility.com for more details  Email: info@omegagoldenfertility.com 