Saudi Arabian actress Aseel Omran, in the company of award-winning Nigerian actress and UNHCR high profile supporter Judith Audu, have visited the Internally Displaced People (IDP) camps in Maiduguri, North Eastern State, in continuation of her work with the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR). Both actresses visited the Gubio IDP camp along Damasak road, which hosts over 4,000 households and more than 42,000 displaced persons and other vulnerable groups. According to Audu, UNHCR Nigeria and other local and international NGOs and partners are doing their best to help these IDPs get their lives back by engaging them in empowerment and livelihood programs, psychological evaluation, education for children, and provision of their daily needs. Omran, a UNHCR high-profile supporter, was on a mission to give hope to the IDPs while raising support to meet some of their needs. According to her, God has blessed us with good so that we can give from it. “Alhamdulillah for every blessing. Alhamdulillah for the ability to help and feel for people. I wish every able person donates what they can with all my heart because even a little gives them a lot. In these circumstances, food and water are their only need,” she said. Judith Audu noted that it was overwhelmingly sad to see a lot of orphan and vulnerable children that may and will never see their parents or family members again, a lot of elderly that have also lost their children and lost connection with their family members. She further called on well-meaning individuals to render support to provide for IDPs’ basic needs and engage them in empowerment and livelihood programs to be self-reliant and provide for their families again. The group also visited the Future Prowess Islamic Foundation in Maiduguri. Barrister Zannah Mustapha, a UNHCR NANSEN award winner in 2017 and top ten CNN Heroes of 2021, founded the school in 2007 to deal with the challenges brought about by the insurgency in the North East and to cater to orphans and less privileged children that can’t afford school. Since the school’s inception, he has provided education for more than 2,000 deprived children in Maiduguri. In 2020, the UNHCR, named Judith Audu, a high profile supporter of its ‘Telling the Real Story (TRS) project. She leveraged her platform to shed light on human trafficking and sexual and gender-based violence issues. She has since started working with UNHCR on Internally Displaced People and Refugees issues in Nigeria. As of January 2022, there are over three million internally displaced persons in Nigeria, out of which over two million need urgent relief and support. The conflict in Nigeria has become a protracted one. The socio-economic impact of COVID-19 has increased the needs of vulnerable families in the country while also making those needs more challenging to address, further disrupting the economic and social activities of the vulnerable internally displaced population.