The flagbearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on June 18, 2022, Governorship poll, Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji, has boasted that opposition political parties participating in the election will suffer scandalous defeats. Oyebanji, who spoke through the Director General of his Governorship Campaign Organisation, Cyril Fasuyi, said the margin of the results would be so wide to the extent that non of the defeated candidates would be able to approach the tribunal. Addressing APC leaders from the Ekiti South Senatorial District in Ikere-Ekiti on Wednesday, Oyebanji disclosed that even the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Engineer Segun Oni, who he claimed had penchant for court processes won’t be able to challenge the outcome of the poll. Oyebanji enjoined the leaders to brace up for the herculean task of retaining APC in power beyond 2022 in Ekiti. He stated that the party would work hard and leverage the existing APC structures in Ekiti to win the poll, coupled with the impressive performance put up by his benefactor, Governor Kayode Fayemi to win convincingly. “Segun Oni has the penchant for going to court to challenge elections. When he contested the governorship primary with Governor Fayemi in 2018, he went to court. When Fayemi won the appeal against him and became governor, he went to the Supreme Court trying to invalidate the Judicial decision. “But this election is going to be different. The margin of victory for Biodun Oyebanji will be so wide and convincing that he won’t be able to go to court,” he boasted. On the mobilisation and reconciliation being undertaken by party leaders, Oyebanji said: “The reconciliation committee headed by the Deputy Governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, had reached out to all aggrieved governorship aspirants and they are now with us working for Oyebanji’s victory. POLL “Hon Femi Bamisile, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele and other governorship aspirants are all with us, so we have nothing to fear. “No one can do it all alone and that is why we are pleading that we must be on the same page. If we are together, the SDP and PDP stand no chance of winning. APC is solidly on the ground across the 2,445 polling units in Ekiti.” In his submission, Ekiti State Commissioner for Trade and Investment, Mr Muyiwa Olumilua, described Ekiti South Senatorial district as APC’s natural habitat, boasting that the party would amass over 70 percent of the votes from the zone. “The Ekiti South has always been for APC, so we have no issue here. APC will win in all the six local governments, but we have to work hard. We have to be united, we have to mobilise and carry everybody along”. One of the leaders and Senatorial aspirants, Capt Sunday Adebomi, said the two governorship candidates from the Ekiti South pose no threat to APC in the poll. The ex-US military officer urged the party to give him the Ekiti South Senatorial ticket in order to make the task less cumbersome for the party. Adebomi, the immediate past Chairman of Ekiti State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) said he had commenced massive grassroots mobilisation for the party. He posited that the candidates of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Dr Wole Oluyede and Young Progressives Party(YPP), Debo Ranti Ajayi won’t pose any threat to APC in the zone. “We know that both Dr Oluyede of the ADC and Mr Debo Ajayi are from Ekiti South. But APC has a popular Deputy Governorship candidate, Mrs Monisade Afuye from Ikere Ekiti that will further garner votes for us, so we remain undaunted and well-positioned to win this district.”