LAGOS  – The present economic situation in the country is crippling the activities of small-scale bakers, and as well eroding their profit. The persistent rise in the prices of ingredients in the baking sub-sector of the economy has become a source of worry for the players in the confectionery and baking business. Loveth Farinto, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Eriwise Creations, who runs a small bakery in Alagbado area of Lagos, told Daily Independent that there has been a continuous rise in the cost of materials for baking. Reeling out the outrageous current prices, she asked the government to find a way to bring succour to the small business owners. “The economy is affecting us drastically in every area, most especially in the ingredients like flour, sugar, and butter we buy in the market. Right now we buy a bag of sugar for over N24,000:00; a bag of flour for N23, 000:00; the butter we bought for N9,000:00 before, now we are buying for 18,500; this is seriously weighing our business down. The nylon we use for packaging, at the cost of a thousand eight hundred naira is now over N3000:00,’’ she said. She said it would be killing if the growing cost of input were added to the lack of electricity and other infrastructure that is already plaguing the operations of small businesses especially in the suburbs. ‘’The flour that cost N23,000 today was sold for N15,800 six months ago. It is difficult to strive in this kind of situation. I learnt we import wheat from Ukraine and that is why these days the price of flour has gone up astronomically. “We cannot continue like this, our government must help us stem the tide. We are begging the government to help curb the hikes in prices of the ingredients,” Farinto said. POLL She also said that security too was another key factor the government should not toy with. ‘’During the pandemic, I personally had issues with EndSARS protesters and “One Million Boys”, who twice vandalised my shops. Government asked us to write, which we did and up till now nothing has come out of it,’’ she revealed. Also, she advocated empowerment of women in the rural areas. “Many women are ready to work and be independent through small scale businesses. That is why the government should go to the grassroots and embark on empowerment with actions for women. “It must ensure that the beneficiaries are doing what they were trained or empowered for. Empowerment with action, I give someone money to establish a business, I should see through it that the business is established, after the establishment I should be able to monitor that business for at least six months to see that it is actually doing well, and evaluate the impacts or effects the empowerment has created,’’ said Farinto.