EJIKEME OMENAZU The church is powered by ministers under what Bible Scholars term the Five-Fold Ministry. The ministers not only administer the church physically, they are expected to minister to the members spiritually. The ministers in the five-fold ministry – Apostles, Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors, Teachers – are meant to be involved in soul winning for the expansion of the kingdom of God and reduction of the kingdom of darkness and its influence or hold on mankind. To help them do this effectively, they appoint Deacons and Elders, to ensure that things are equitably done in an orderly manner and where necessary advise the leaders on how things should be properly done. However, for the ministers to be able to carry out their functions, they are expected to go for training, both spiritual and secular. Thus several institutions, like the Bible Schools and Seminaries are set up to ensure that those who will work in the vineyard of God are properly grounded in the word of God and ministerial ethics. Apart from institutions set up by some large churches, especially those of the Pentecostal fold, the Anglican and Catholic Churches, commonly regarded as Orthodox Churches, take their ministers through several years of ministerial training, some taking them as far as Rome. The essence of these training is to make the ministers to be well grounded to be able to do the work of God’s servants in the Body of Christ. They are also help in church growth and expansion. POLL Through preaching, teaching, counseling and other activities, the ministers help to produce a new and regenerated man in this sinful world, thereby preparing them for the second coming of Christ. But, the question may be asked: How are the ministers meant for this great task fulfilling the Great Commission recruited and trained? How good are such modes of recruitment and training? To what extent have they helped in church growth and expansion in Nigeria? In the search for answers to these salient questions, Sunday INDEPENDENT sought out seasoned ministers, some of whom have been involved in ministerial trainings. One of them is Rev. Dr. Andrews O. Okhirebhu, Senior Pastor, Wordhedge International Assembly, Lagos, and Senior Lecturer, Royal Light Institute of Biblical Studies (RLIBS), also in Lagos. He said: “The above question, if properly answered, will definitely give us the true core definition of Christ’s mission, mandate and agenda to his Church. “Most times, I am not very comfortable with the word ‘Churches’, knowing very well that there is only one indivisible Church of God. “However, I have the thinking that wherever the word ‘Churches’ is mentioned, it refers to the denominational local visible organisations as it relates to divisible individually corporate leadership and bishopric. “To be frankly, this is where we have defects in recruiting and training as to the degree of the minimum impact of driving the church’s growth and results in Nigeria. “Absolute loyalty and pledges are not adhering to given scriptural authority and the leadership of the Holy Spirit, rather to the heads of churches, thereby tactically undermining the scriptural principles that undergird the enforcement of the kingdom mandate and its influence on the individual believers first and foremost. “Otherwise, when you talk about the church’ growth, we are talking about the degree of the church’s governmental and colonial influence upon the people, environments and nations. “The church is to have a dominant influence and impact within a given sphere or territory; politics, media, education, business, sports, entertainment, medicine, etc. “We seem to have large churches everywhere in Nigeria but not kingdom possessed and driven. Why? Majority are loyal to denominational building and personality influences and affluence instead of the kingdom agenda and influence. “Otherwise, recruiting, training and equipping for Christ’s government, power and influence is the core and sole mandate of the Church of God we are. (Please see Matthew.11:29, 2 Corinthians 5: 19&20, Matt.28:19&20, Matt.4:19, Ephesians 4:12 &13, Acts 10:3) Another top cleric who contributed to the discourse is Missionary Apostle, Dr Kanayo Success Uchime, President, Kingdom Mission Outreach, with headquarters in Ebonyi State. He has over the years transverse parts of the universe, including Africa and Asia, on missionary works as well as training ministers for churches. Dr Uchime, also a journalist and publisher, maintained that indeed, ministerial training helps in church growth. He maintained that adequate training had been discovered to be a major tool to church growth and expansion among Nigerian churches. Hear him: “Training is key factor and, in fact, the strength of any organisation, including the church. Jesus took time to recruit and train His apostles. “Training here does not mean only formal training, but on-the-job training is also part of the training mechanism. “Jesus may not have had formal classroom training for His apostles, but He took them through hands-on. For three and half years, He mentored them through one-on-one training and we saw how His ministry grew from strength to strength. “Therefore, if our present day church must experience sustainable growth and expansion it needs, adequate attention needs to be given to training and retraining of ministers. “Infrastructure development and purchase of equipment are good, but they cannot take the place of training in relation to church growth. “This is the high time that our church leaders de-emphasised infrastructural development and key into human development. This is the only way our churches can experience the much needed growth.” According to Apostle Uchime, there is need for Nigerian ministers to focus on missions, spreading the word of God. According to him, “It is pity that the Nigerian church is deviating far away from its primary assignment. The primary assignment of the church is soul winning. The mission of the church, which is ensuring that the Kingdom of God is planted in the heart of the unbelieving world, is now being jettisoned. “The church has been overwhelmed by a quest for miracle and prosperity. The church of Jesus Christ, regrettably, has been into a commercial venture. “The fact remains that miracle seeking alone is not the New Testament pattern for church multiplication. The church as a living entity can only grow and multiply when its members obey the Great Commission of Jesus Christ as found in Matt. 28:18, ‘Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptising them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit’. “Soul winning, therefore, becomes the only panacea for church expansion, not merely miracles and prosperity preaching.” On his own, Apostle Dr. Peter Enesi, President, Royal Light Institute of Biblical Studies (RLIBS), Lagos said: “The Church in Nigeria has been falling short in the responsibility of recruiting and training of ministers. “They rely on the training by their General Overseers instead of broad based training in independent bible training institutions. “Just like in the secular world, one should not rely solely on training from one’s ministry alone. This is not enough. There is a need for ministers to be well grounded in ethics of the ministry to avoid errors. “As a minister, one has to be well trained in handling finance, administration, human management, and even music. It is biblical. For instance, the choir has to be properly trained to understand the rudiments of music and ministry. “There is a need for ministers to be trained in a broad spectrum of ministry to ensure church growth. Experience is good, but ministers should not base their work and service on experience alone. There is a need for them to undergo formal training in real Bible Schools or seminaries and not just the training acquired from one’s church or overseer.” Pastor Daniel Badru, Assistant Pastor, Living Faith Church, (LFC), Koye-Oke, Olambe, Ogun State, stressed: “Ministerial recruitment and training are necessary in the body of Christ as skills are necessary in the secular world. “According the wisdom of God, the harvest is ripe and there are few labourers. It is good to recruit ministers and train them. How will people know about God when there is no preacher? “In my church, the Living Faith Church Worldwide in 2020, the Lord instructed our Senior Pastor, Bishop David Oyedepo, to build 10,000 churches. This was in the midst of COVID-19 lockdown. God did it because it is God’s agenda to build His church as it’s written in Matthew 16:18. “Then several courses were organised to train the recruited ministers .This has led to Church growth and expansion in Nigeria. These 10,000 Churches are thriving today and it has led to the depopulation of the Kingdom of Satan.”