A presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi has said that he is not desperate to be president but desperate to make Nigeria work. Peter Obi stated this on Wednesday when he paid a courtesy visit to Governor Douye Diri at the Bayelsa State Government House in Yenagoa. Speaking at the government house, Obi said Nigeria was a great country with untapped potential, noting that he was desperate to move the nation away from a consumption economy to a productive one. He asserted that if elected Nigeria’s president, he would end the current oil revenue sharing formula and introduce a production formula, particularly in agriculture and ICT, stressing that Nigeria was not working because of its unproductive state, which, he said, was unacceptable to the nation’s young, intelligent and smart population. Speaking further, he added that the $18bn Nigeria oil monthly income could not be compared to Facebook or Twitter, which was just sold for $44bn. The presidential hopeful, while reeling out the statistics of the agricultural value chain to Nigeria’s economy as against oil revenue, decried the level of neglect of food production in the country. He said, “I am aspiring to lead this country. For me, it is not a desperate aspiration but I am desperate to see Nigeria work. “This is a great country and I have a simple thing to do. I want to move it from consumption to a productive country. It is not working because it is not a productive country. It is not working because it is not a productive country. We cannot see our children, millions of young people that are smart and intelligent stay at home doing nothing and we keep quiet. POLL “I was in Niger State with 76,363sq km of land, but the people cannot feed themselves and Nigeria. They are also exporting nothing. Whereas the Netherlands is 33,100sq km of land, they are exporting agricultural materials for $120bn while we earn only $18bn from oil. “All we do here is share formula. I want to stop it. We must have a production formula. Let the people produce the oil and keep it. There are so many things people can do.” Obi also promised to change the country’s debt profile and lambasted the government at the centre for making excuses why Nigeria cannot work. In his remarks, Diri said Obi proved his worth, while he served as governor of Anambra, especially when he saved and handed over N75bn to his successor. Diri said Nigeria needed well-equipped and knowledgeable people like Obi to rescue the country from those who have failed to fix it.