Who will tell Jimmy Cliff that when in 1969 he sang “It is plain to see we’re in a devil situation, Sufferin’ in the land, Nearly half of the world on the verge of starvation, sufferin’ in the land, And the children are crying for more education, sufferin’ in the land” (Suffering in the Land reggae track), it was too early, at least for Nigeria? He should have waited for Nigeria and the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in 2022. Which newspaper did you read on any given day, last week? You would have noticed that for Nigerians, life has become an unending disaster. Yet, the ruling APC political party doesn’t acknowledge that anything is amiss. Instead, it is filled with vain-glory.For instance, in the afternoon of Monday March 28, 2022, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Honourable Minister for Information and Communications addressed the press thus: “Good afternoon gentlemen and welcome to this press conference. As you know, the folks on the other side have been doing everything in recent times to overheat the polity, distort the achievements of our Administration and spread misinformation”. Paragraph seven: “We are proud that in our time, Nigerians are once again able to travel by rail, this time in total comfort and safety”. A few hours after his speechification, the entire country was in turmoil; an Abuja-Kaduna train had been bombed, bandits had attacked the passengers, killing and abducting them. Remember he said “in total comfort and safety”. Kaduna state Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, said in The Nation on Saturday that a full hour elapsed from when the train was attacked till the soldiers arrived to rescue them. So, the terrorists had an hour bazaar, at least, against the unfortunate Nigerians trapped in the train. Please note what follows: Paragraph three of Lai Mohammed’s Monday’s statement; “Gentlemen, there is nothing wrong in having a fiery and viable opposition in a democracy. We were there before and we remain the ones to beat in terms of a determined, viable and relentless opposition”. On that point, Lai Mohammed was right. Or where is the kind of outrage Nigerians expressed against Dr. Goodluck Jonathan’s administration over the failings of his administration now appears puzzling. Why have those who marched and screamed against that administration kept quiet now? There is this video, two minutes forty- three seconds long, of Nasir-el Rufai, excoriating the Jonathan administration in a Sahara TV interview.). Therein, a visibly agitated El-Rufai justified the condemnations they heaped on that administration, asking if Jonathan and his administration had become so incompetent and terrorism was happening and Jonathan was doing nothing, should they be praising them? He answered his own question: “Are we supposed to do that? We are in the opposition. Our job is to look at even the good things they are doing and say that they are not doing well. That is the job of the opposition. We have no apologies for pointing out to Nigerians that this government is incompetent and has failed and cannot provide security. Every Nigerian knows that this government has failed and cannot provide security. Are we politicizing it? Fine, fix the problem so that we stop politicising it. If you say that there is terrorism and we are politicizing it, fine fix the problem so that we stop politicizing it. Are we politicalising breathing of air? Every Nigerian can breathe, so we can’t politicise it because there is no problem there. But if you fail to supply petroleum products and you say we are politicising it, okay fix the problem so that we can’t politicise it. If there is terrorism ad you say we are politicizing it, eliminate terrorism. Five years ago, nobody (was) talking about terrorism in Nigeria; under Jonathan, it has become an industry. And you say we cannot take advantage of their failings to secure the votes of Nigerians in the next elections? There must be something wrong with them”. I had to stop the video halfway without even bringing in here the portion where El-Rufai said that the Jonathan administration would stop terrorism if it wanted because an unidentified “we” have given them documents detailing how to it. I know that the reader would wonder why I didn’t quote that part, after all, that would prove that the Buhari administration also failed to implement successfully the things detailed out years ago in a document an unknown “we” gave to Jonathan. Some would even wish I added that El-Rufai is Governor of Kaduna state, an epicentre of national insurgency. If you share the same thoughts, then you are among those I am asking today to change your agitation. Nigerians have been shouting to, at and sometimes even against, Buhari for almost eight years but nothing changed. Buhari was even re-elected in 2015. That is the wrong agitation; making jest of him, writing him off in the social media, etc. And that same wrong agitation is on now. The members of the different groups that rallied in the APC did not just mock Jonathan and the PDP, they dramatized Jonathan’s failures. They mobilised the populace, no not to march on the streets, or ascend to new heights on the social media, their message was as voluminous as it was insistent; that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had to be voted out and that the messiah was the APC. That movement had the likes of former University of Ife student leader, Yinka Odumakin and his dear wife to lead the activists and appeal to the “aluta continua” folks in the society. There were the likes of Pastor Tunde Bakare, too, leading the sheep out from the proverbial Egypt and into the APC-governed promised land. Respected anti-corruption lawyers were among the agitators. Human Rights groups were there aplenty and journalists made populist agitation to be a sign of remarkable journalism, as Premium news or whatever outlet showed. It was a well-conducted orchestra, adequately oiled. When Jonathan increased petrol pump price, the members of this new grouping marched – yes, they marched on the streets of Nigeria. No, not the riff riffs of the society; the leaders of the movement came out to march on behalf of the ordinary Nigerians. One retired Army General marched with them. Yes, last Monday’s audacious attack on an Abuja to Kaduna train was a national disgrace. By the weekend, the country did not know the number of the dead or the abducted. But to castigate the Buhari administration as some PDP leaders have been doing, is not the answer. To remove PDP from office, the powers behind APC, did more than talk, marching than marching on the streets, they sat down and strategised. They reached out to certain PDP members and drew them to the other side. So, PDP had no chance in that election. But how many enemies in the PDP have mended fences now? How many former enemies are now friends? If talking is all it would take to defeat APC, then the 2023 election is over and APC has lost it. Please listen to Senator Smart Adeyemi (APC, Kogi West) right inside the Senate: “Today Mr. President all of us are being threatened. Our families, our nations, our states. We need not run away from the fact that more than any other time in our nation, this is the worst instability we are facing. In fact, this is worse than the civil war. We cannot pretend that we are capable of handling the situation that is in our hands. A lot of billions have been voted (to tackle insecurity) nothing is coming out of it”. Then he added: “Our security system has collapsed. It has failed”. Adeyemi is a ranking APC member and the implication beyond what Buhari and APC could handle and foreign countries should be called in to help. Nasir el-Rufai was quoted in the Nation on Saturday that North-West states may hire mercenaries to fight terrorists. I hope none of those governors romancing that thought opposed the State Police concept, for that would be an audacious self-contradiction. Mercenaries are private armies and are often of foreigners. The publication date of this column is 3rd April 2022. Buhari will hand over power in May 2023. The administration has been in power since 2015. We should look beyond this administration and the APC. That is why Smart Adeyemi’s agitation and others directed to this administration to solve this problem is faulty. Gov. El-Rufai should be taken seriously for once. He said in The Nation, concerning those who attacked the train (he called them Boko Haram insurgents and not bandits): “We know who they are. We have the maps as the military know, the policemen know and everyone knows. DSS is giving us reports every time; see where Dogo Gide is, see what he is planning. Why is it that up till now, the security has not gone to kill them? Where are our soldiers? Why have they not done it? That is why I have come to see Mr. President”. Then he added: “And also, I have said that if these actions are not taken, it becomes a must for us as governors to take measures to protect our citizens, even if it means we will import mercenaries to do it. I swear to God, we will do that. This issue has gotten to an alarming state”. That was a rousing and fiery speech most fitting for the occasion. He was spitting fire, but he doused that fire all the same; “Mr. President assured me that he will take action and that this thing will be brought to an end within months”. What has this APC administration accomplished as promised? APC’s representatives declared that insecurity, poor economy, corruption, weak naira, petrol importation, petrol subsidy, health tourism, etc, will be checked, but have they been checked? For almost eight years APC has shown that it is incapable of solving the Boko Haram insurgency, then banditry burgeoned into another terror organization, and then the killer herders’ insurgency beclouded both. The job before the PDP is to champion this message, let it sink into the minds of Nigerians about APC and bad governance, that “you can’t be wrong and get right, no matter how hard you may try”. Jimmy Cliff sang that in 1975. More On Ade Ogidan’s Claims The Present MD may do well to instruct those who glean the classified adverts to get the advertisers to pay in money directly into the company accounts. The system he inherited from the person who praised himself to high heavens did not demand this. Under the past regime I told the Tzar of that era that Abuja was leaking and that direct reportorial lines should be followed. He refused, saying that “I know how I get my reports”. Such nonsense did not allow for transparency at all as a favoured staff would refuse to report to his direct sectional head and be making adequate RETURNS to Lagos. Well, recently, some expected a change of guards at the Headquarters. An editorial brass hat strolled down to the Accounts and directed that nothing (yes nothing) beyond salaries should be paid. He also waltzed to the Procurement section to check on available newsprint rolls. He was oozing importance. Looking back, that writing praising the ancient regime and deriding the present one was calculated to meet some other purposes. Well man proposes; God LAUGHS!!!