The governor of Bauchi State and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bala Mohammed has expressed suspicion over the insecurity ravaging the nation. Bala Mohammed, who said he suspected that the insecurity in the country is self-inflicted, added that the country should be restructured as there are too much distrust and suspicion which have touched the fabrics of the nation’s coexistence. Speaking when he met with the PDP House of Representatives Caucus in Abuja on his presidential ambition, the governor said, “the insecurity is there, I am suspecting may be that it is self-inflicted so that they will not transit. We should not give them the chance.” Speaking on the reality of things in the country, Mohammed said, “there is a very serious disconnect, hence the call for self-actualisation. “People are really disillusioned and disgruntled because they have been genuinely excluded in the act of governance, in the leadership recruitment, perceived exclusion which is genuine. We have to really close ranks. “People are looking for the restructuring of the country, we have to restructure. We are diverse. Distrust and suspicion have come in, touching our very fabrics of coexistence. Our security is threatened by the cluelessness of this administration. “The only thing they know is nepotism. The only thing they know is corruption and borrowing money from China. The country is bleeding, with all the resources we are generating, we are still owing the debt.” Responding, the Minority Leader in the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu said that the unity of all the aspirants will bring glory to the party. POLL He said: “I’m happy that you started the issue of unity by asking them to have a consensus where possible and let me commend all of you for having gone around to see all the governors and to see the possibility of ensuring just like what we did during the convention. “I think that all of you, our leaders must come together, united for the purpose of representing the interests of masses. So I want to appreciate your commitment and effort. From your team, I can see that you’re not just taking people from the North East but you have people from Southeast and all over Nigeria. “The unity of all the aspirants will at the end bring glory to our party.”