Magnus UgwubujorThe debilitating terror attack on the Kaduna bound train from Abuja, killing scores of people and injuring quite a number of passengers on board, is one out of many terrorists attacks in recent times. To be sure, every now and then, the media is inundated with the news of one attack or the other. People are no longer safe in their homes and communities.The truth is that the security situation is taking a dangerous dimensions which calls for an aggressive action with  sincerity of purpose on the part of the government, and by extension, the security agencies. It is sad that no where is safe anymore. The roads are not safe, the airports are not safe, as the Kaduna International Airport was recently under siege by terrorists; and now travelling by rail has become a nightmare.  It is even more worrisome that the security agencies seem to be overwhelmed by the security situation in the country. There is no doubt that there have been a lot of efforts to contain the security challenge in the country, but a lot more needs to be done. Yes, the kind of warfare that we are dealing with in the country is asymmetrical. Therefore, there has to be a new strategy to counter the the situation.Recall that in the run up to the 2015 elections, the then candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Muhammadu Buhari promised Nigerians that he was going to deal decisively with the insecurity, fix the economy and tackle systemic corruption. Unfortunately, the Buhari administration is winding down with no end in sight to the security challenge. In fact, the situation is getting out out hand as kidnapping, Banditry, terrorism are fast becoming part of our daily lives. If a country fails to secure the lives and property of its citizens, if citizens of a country cannot find jobs and are wallowing in poverty, then that country is certainly a failed state.It is unfortunate that all the indices of a failed state are now being associated with Nigeria. At the moment, the intractable insecurity challenge in the country is becoming an albatross to the socioeconomic development of the country. I am not sure that the government has done all it can to tackle this situation.  The truth is that the government should be proactive in its fight against terror. It should spare no resource to ensure that all security equipment, especially technological security innovations are deployed to ensure the country is secure. The recent attacks on the Abuja-Kaduna train is a reflection of that government’s failure to ensure that the security agencies are ahead of the terrorists. In the aftermath of the train attack in Kaduna, the Minister of Transportation, Hon. Rotimi Amechi, disclosed that the members of the Federal Executive Council, FEC, had shut down a N3 billion security equipment proposal to secure the railways tracks. Of course, this has underscored the kind of lack of proactivity, not just with the Buhari government, but successive administrations. We always wait until it happens before reacting to the situation. This is why the terrorists are always ahead of the security agencies.More so, there have been suggestions from different quarters for government to consider the engagement of mercenaries to help in the fight against insecurity. It is obvious that the government is not disposed to such suggestion. In fact, the governor of Kaduna State, whose state is currently under siege by bandits and terrorists has noted that he would engage mercenaries in his state if the Federal Government fails to take necessary steps to secure his state. There is no doubt that there is an element of frustration in El-Rufai’s statement. More so, as the state governors are constitutionally not in charge of the security apparatus in the country; even in their states. Also recall that the governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari, only recently suggested that people should defend themselves in face of the insecurity in his state. He is not alone in the call for self defense. T Y Danjuma, has also, not too long ago, called for self defense in the face of the government’s failure to secure the country. This should, certainly, be a source of worry to the government.For sure, the level of insecurity in the country is really an affront on the Buhari government, and questions his ability to govern. It is also an affront on the security agencies and questions their capacity to nip the menace in the bud.  Some times I wonder why these agents of darkness have been allowed to hold sway in the country for so long. I wonder why these criminals are allowed to operate in the Nigerian territory with little efforts to counter them. Nevertheless, with the recent terrorist attacks on the Abuja-Kaduna train, another one, just 24 hours later, at a train station also in Kaduna, the terror attacks in Kaduna Airport, and others across the country, the time has come for all hands to be on deck to nip this monster in the bud. This is not the time to score cheap political points.It is worrisome that rather than accepting the fact that the government has failed, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, is scoring the Buhari government high on security. He stated during a recent Media briefing that Nigeria is safer now than, perhaps, the time of the previous administration of PDP under President Goodluck Jonathan.I thought that that was petty and an obnoxious attempt to score political points. No doubt, the Buhari administration has done a lot in developing rail infrastructure and transportation; but it started during Goodluck Jonathan administration. Besides, rail infrastructure has nothing to do with containing the hydra headed monster of insecurity. However, under the prevailing security circumstances, partisanship should have no place. It will amount to dishonoring those who were killed in that train attack as well as other terror attacks to politicize the situation. If for anything, the situation calls for all Nigerians, APC/PDP and members of other parties to stick together, bracket politics and partisanship for a moment and work to save our country from the devastating insecurity inferno that is trying the burn it down.