An estimated $300 million of foreign airlines operating into Nigeria is being blocked from repatriation, Daily Independent investigation has revealed. Daily Independent also gathered that foreign airlines now sell higher classes fares in order to remain in business and profitable, while jettisoning the lower classes. Besides, it was learnt that foreign airlines can no longer access funds through their banks at official rate and have resorted to black market to source forex at N580 and N585 to a dollar. The official exchange rate to a dollar in Nigeria remains N416 and N418. Sources close to the foreign airlines operating into Nigeria over the weekend, however, attributed shortage of foreign exchange in the country to their inability to repatriate the blocked funds out of the country. The source also alleged that while the government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) consistently tells them to approach their banks for forex, their financial institutions in return kept sending them back to the CBN, claiming paucity of forex. Also, the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA) has warned that failure of the foreign airlines to repatriate their ticket sales was in flagrant contradiction to the Bilateral Air Service Agreement (BASA) arrangement the Federal Government reached with foreign countries. In line with BASA with countries, airline tickets are sold in naira, while the airlines repatriate the funds in dollars through the country’s central bank. No fewer than 25 foreign airlines operating into Nigeria are involved in the challenge of fund repatriation. POLL Some of the major carriers affected by the crisis are British Airways, Etihad, Emirates, Lufthansa, Air France/KLM, Delta Air Lines, Virgin Atlantic, United Airlines, RwandAir and Ethiopian Airlines. Though it was learnt that a few of the foreign airlines don’t encounter major challenge in repatriating their funds out of the country, but most are still faced with the difficulty. A source close to one of the continent’s airlines explained that a few weeks ago, the carrier was faced with the challenge of repatriation, but it has since resolved it with the interventions from different quarters and the activeness of its banks in Nigeria. Barely eight months ago, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) said that the total foreign airlines’ fund trapped in Nigeria was $147 million, but between then and now, the fund had grown by about 102 percent. Commenting on the development, Mr. Kingsley Nwokoma, President, Association of Foreign Airlines and Representatives in Nigeria (AFARN), decried that the issue had been a recurring decimal in recent years. Nwokoma told Daily Independent that the difficulty of the foreign airlines to repatriate their ticket sales was affecting their performance, especially aircraft maintenance, but noted that it is a global phenomenon. He, however, debunked the claim that the operators were planning to start selling air tickets in dollars in Nigeria, stressing that it negated the existing Federal Government’s law. The AFRAN president appealed to the Federal Government to intervene in the situation before it deteriorates further. He said: “This issue has been prevalent, unfortunately the government has not been able to address this. The airlines need to repatriate money to their home countries because they operate from their home countries. “Imagine if other countries are like Nigeria that doesn’t allow other countries to repatriate their money, it will lead to a total collapse of the airlines. So, it is something that the government has to look into and get it sorted out once and for all. “It won’t be nice to sell tickets in dollars. We can sort it out. It is a government thing and the government and its agencies should look into it.” Besides, Mrs. Susan Akporiaye, NANTA President, dismissed the report that the airlines were planning to sell tickets in dollars. NANTA president pointed out that as at the last weekend, the carriers were still selling tickets in naira, stressing that the earlier report, which allegedly emanated from the Aircraft Performance Group (APG) was false. She, however, explained that in order to remain in business and profitable, the airlines have begun to sell higher classes tickets to the travelling public. According to her, the lower classes fares by airlines are no longer available, reiterating that the foreign carriers approach alternative markets to source dollars. Also, Akporiaye stated that selling tickets in foreign currencies in Nigeria is in contravention of the country’s law. She said: “The only thing the airlines are doing right now to mitigate this situation is to sell higher classes. They have stopped inventory for the lower ones. They only sell higher classes. Just as you are aware, every cabin has the lowest and the highest fare. So, they are selling from the middle to the highest. “They claim they source for forex in the black market, which is almost N200 higher than what the ticket is being sold. So, for them to be able to break even and not operate at a loss, they are selling higher seats. For instance, all these cheapest fares of N300,000 to London are not available for sale. Those ones available for sale are from N400,000 to N500,000. So, that is what they do, but they don’t sell in dollars. “Tickets are priced in dollars and they are now sold in local currencies of each country. For instance, if a ticket is sold at $1,000, using the approved rate, is just about N400,000 or so. So, we sell it at N420,000 and the airlines go to buy at N580 per dollar or more. So, what they do is that they have stopped the $1,000 tickets and they start selling $2,000 to $2,500 tickets, which using the rate in the system is over N800,000. So, by the time they now go and buy at N580 to a dollar, they are able to break even and make profit.” Akporiaye challenged the government to open up on the current situation in the airline sub-sector, maintaining that the problem of blocked funds is solely the responsibility of the government. Dr. Samson Fatokun, the Regional Manager, South West Africa, IATA, in Africa could not be reached for comment. President Muhammadu Buhari had in 2018 cleared the over $700 million of trapped funds in Nigeria since October 2015. Just on March 22, 2022 in Lagos at the commissioning of the new international terminal, Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, had confirmed the new figure of $283 million as trapped funds in Nigeria. He had said: “Mr. President, the aviation business suffers from issues of access to foreign exchange by local and foreign airlines and the ability to repatriate blocked funds. “Nigeria currently holds $283 million of foreign airlines funds blocked in the country. I would like to humbly request the support of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), through the directive of Mr. President, to prioritise access to forex for all carriers both local and foreign and to workout a mechanism to clear the existing back log urgently and prevent subsequent build up.