In the pancreas, the buildup of mucus prevents the release of digestive enzymes that help the body absorb food and key nutrients, resulting in malnutrition and poor growth. In the liver, the thick mucus can block the bile duct, causing liver disease. This is termed Cystic Fibrosis (CF). In men, CF can affect their ability to have children. Today, because of improved medical treatments and care, more than half of people with CF are age 18 or older. Many people with CF can expect to live healthy, fulfilling lives into their 30s, 40s, and beyond. In people with CF, mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene cause the CFTR protein to become dysfunctional. When the protein is not working correctly, it’s unable to help move chloride – a component of salt – to the cell surface. Without the chloride to attract water to the cell surface, the mucus in various organs becomes thick and sticky. Does Everyone Have CFTR Gene? Every person has two copies of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. In the lungs, the mucus clogs the airways and traps germs, like bacteria, leading to infections, inflammation, respiratory failure, and other complications. For this reason, avoiding germs is a top concern for people with CF. In the pancreas, the buildup of mucus prevents the release of digestive enzymes that help the body absorb food and key nutrients, resulting in malnutrition and poor growth. In the liver, the thick mucus can block the bile duct, causing liver disease. As indicated earlier, CF could affect the fertility of men. Symptoms of CF People with CF can have a variety of symptoms, including: Very salty-tasting skin, persistent coughing, at times with phlegm, frequent lung infections including pneumonia or bronchitis and wheezing or shortness of breath. Others are poor growth or weight gain in spite of a good appetite, frequent greasy, bulky stools or difficulty with bowel movements and nasal polyps. The rest are chronic sinus infections, clubbing or enlargement of the fingertips and toes, rectal prolapse and male infertility. Genetics and Diagnosis Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease. People with CF have inherited two copies of the defective CF gene – one copy from each parent. Both parents must have at least one copy of the defective gene. People with only one copy of the defective CF gene are called carriers, but they do not have the disease. Each time two CF carriers have a child. The chances are: 25 percent (1 in 4) the child will have CF; 50 percent (1 in 2) the child will be a carrier but will not have CF and 25 percent (1 in 4) the child will not be a carrier and will not have CF. The defective CF gene contains a slight abnormality called a mutation. POLL There are more than 1,700 known mutations of the disease. Most genetic tests only screen for the most common CF mutations. Therefore, the test results may indicate a person who is a carrier of the CF gene is not a carrier. Diagnosing cystic fibrosis is a multistep process, and should include a newborn screening, sweat test, genetic or carrier test, clinical evaluation at a CF Foundation-accredited care centre. Although most people are diagnosed with CF by the age of 2, some are diagnosed as adults. A CF specialist can order a sweat test and recommend additional testing to confirm a CF diagnosis. What to Expect Cystic fibrosis is a complex disease. The types of symptoms and how severe they are can differ widely from person to person. Many different factors can affect a person’s health and the course the disease runs, including your age when you are diagnosed. Managing CF The types of CF symptoms and how severe they are can differ widely from person to person. Therefore, although treatment plans can contain many of the same elements, they are tailored to each person’s unique needs. Cystic Fibrosis Gene And Male Infertility What if only one parent is a CF carrier? To have a child with CF both you and your partner would need to carry the CF gene. Your child would need to receive the CF gene from each parent in order to be affected. If he received the gene from only one parent, he would be considered a carrier but he would not have CF. Since not all men who are carriers of CF have infertility issues, it is important that both partners get tested for the defective gene. Even if both of you are carriers, you can have healthy children. Causes: Chromosomal anomalies and microdeletions of the azoospermia factor (AZF) regions of the Y chromosome are the only commonly known genetic causes of spermatogenic failure. Genetic Factor: Genetic disorders cause infertility in men primarily by compromising the production of mature sperm, called spermatogenesis, and its transportation to the egg for fertilisation. How To Tell If Sperm Is Infertile? Signs and symptoms you may notice include: Problems with sexual function – for example, difficulty with ejaculation or small volumes of fluid ejaculated, reduced sexual desire, or difficulty maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction) Pain, swelling or a lump in the testicle area. Is Male Infertility Due To CF Curable? Men with CF who want to father children may be able to have their sperm extracted and used to fertilise an egg. There are different procedures used to take sperm. It is only in rare cases that male fertility problems cannot be treated, and one can say that it’s impossible for a man to father a child. Just a step-up investigation would reveal the realities. Again, the issue here is how many will take advantage of this technology that is available on this local scene? Dr Olaleke Fasasi (PhD) is Director of Embryology Services, Omega Golden Fertility, Lagos. He is a seasoned Reproductive and Translational Medicine Scientist. He’s a Specialist in all Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). Visit: www. omegagoldenfertility.com for more details Email: info@ omegagoldenfertility.com 