ABUJA – The wedding on Saturday between Mark Dassan Godhelp of Takka, Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau State and Lucy Chinwendu Godwin, of Umokoro, Ngor-Okpala Local Government Area, Imo state provided a platform to reemphasise the need for national unity. Revd. Fr. Jude Maigari, the officiating priest, described the wedding which was held at St. Rita Catholic Church, Unity Estate, Mararaba, Lafia Diocese, as a practical demonstration of the country’s unity, stressing that the event represents a mini Nigeria. Admonishing the couple on ways to make their marriage work and live happily ever after, Fr. Maigari, gave five principles including patience, counselling skills, forgiveness, wisdom and love for each other. “the couple must have the patience of a teacher, the skills of a counsellor, the forgiveness of a mother, wisdom of a salesman, and always demonstrate the love of Christ” stated Rev. Fr. Maigari. He said that Saturday’s wedding marks the 125th in St Rita this year, urging the couple to imbibe the habits of saying ‘I am sorry’ ‘Please I forgive me’ as these words have a way of growing their love and helping them live in harmony. The Preist anchored the first Bible reading on the book of Sirach 26:1-4 and 13+16 with the theme: ‘Like the sun rising in the beauty of a well-kept house’, while the second reading was anchored on the first letter of Saint Paul to the Ephesians 5, 22-33. Speaking during the occasion, the Rev. Dr. Victoria Ogechi Mirabelle, expressed excitement saying that it is a dream come true, stressing that the events that led to the realization of the wedding, show that it is ordained by God. “For some time, I have been praying for my daughter’s wedding and God asked me to choose a date. So I did choose a date and to confirm that this is ordained by God, the day the young man came to ask if Lucy could marry him, he named the date that coincided with the one I had earlier chosen’ she stated. POLL In his remarks, Mr. Matthew Gusen, the groom’s father, described the occasion as a happy one, noting that the wedding remains an event will be remembered for the rest of his life. “Today is my happiest day and a day I will remember till I die. The way the Igbo community are dancing shows me that truly they have given me their daughter, and I promise to take care of her the way God would like”. The occasion provided a uniting factor between the Plateau people of the North Central region and Igbo of the South Eastern region of Nigeria as it was signposted with different dance groups from both regions.