Liverpool are almost on a good news overload as they chase immortality and a historic quadruple but the announce­ment that manager Jurgen Klopp has extended his Anfield contract may just be the best yet. Klopp’s Liverpool are on course to reach their third Champions League final under his leadership after a con­trolled 2-0 win against Villarreal in the first leg of their last four-tie, and have already won the Carabao Cup this season. Add to this, they will play Chel­sea in the FA Cup final at Wembley in May and stand only one point be­hind leaders and reigning champions Manchester City in pursuit of their second Premier League title under the charismatic German. It is not stretching reality to sug­gest none of this would have been pos­sible without Klopp’s transformative impact since he succeeded sacked Brendan Rodgers in October 2015. Klopp’s decision to confirm his intention to stay at Liverpool to 2026, setting up the Premier League’s longest-serving manager for a de­cade-long tenure at Anfield, is even more of a cause for celebration be­cause only a few weeks ago he was talking once more about fulfilling his pledge to complete his current con­tract until 2024 and then walk away. He said in March: “The plan at the moment is to get to 2024 then, ‘thank you very much’.” Klopp has clearly thought again, no doubt helped by the world-class team he has assembled that is cur­rently trying to achieve a feat not even the great Liverpool teams of the past were able to complete, namely a stunning clean sweep of all four ma­jor trophies. Once Klopp indicated he might be open to altering his plans, Liverpool moved with lightning speed to ensure he put pen to paper. He is that import­ant. In fact, in the current Liverpool set-up he is irreplaceable. POLL It comes after Klopp was allowed time and patience to renew, taking Liverpool to the Champions League final in 2018, where they lost to Real Madrid, before winning it against Tottenham the following year, then adding the long-awaited first league title in 30 years in 2019-20. Liverpool’s current crop are draw­ing favourable comparisons with ev­ery Anfield team of the past, although they still need to confirm that status by adding to the League Cup won against Chelsea at Wembley. Klopp’s leadership and manage­ment, adored by the Kop and a source of inspiration to his players, means this four-trophy haul comes closer into view with every victory. Manchester City are the most like­ly obstacle in the league and Cham­pions League and while Chelsea will provide formidable opposition in the FA Cup final, Klopp has injected Liv­erpool’s players and fans with such belief and fervour that what was re­garded as an impossibility for so long is now possible. The question marks over Klopp’s long-term future beyond 2024 provid­ed the only cloud on Liverpool’s hori­zon but now this has been removed everyone connected with club will be overjoyed. Klopp looked tired at stages last season as football was played out be­hind closed doors amid the pandem­ic, the crowd involvement he loves at Anfield lost and perhaps reflected in the worst home run in the club’s his­tory in six successive Premier League defeats. This season, he has been re-en­ergised, helped by the return of the world’s best central defender, Virgil van Dijk, following the serious knee injury that ruled him out of almost all of last term. It is easy to see why Klopp will not be walking away any time soon. What he has built and put in place offers the prospect of a glorious future. In tandem with his trusted back-up team and the structures developed by owners FSG, Klopp not only has a team for now but has shrewdly built for years ahead. For so long, Liverpool’s attack­ing trio of Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah were the centrepiece of the intense, pressing, front-foot style that has always been Klopp’s modus operandi. They are still there, although Salah’s contract remains an issue, but Klopp has brought in the prolific Diogo Jota from Wolves. Liverpool also pulled off another masterstroke in January by signing the electrify­ing Colombian winger Luis Diaz from Porto under the noses of Spurs. Ibrahima Konate has been an out­standing defensive addition from RB Leipzig while Thiago Alcantara is now fit and at his best following an indifferent first season at Liverpool when issues of fitness and form trou­bled him. Firmino does not figure quite so often these days while 36-year-old James Milner has been a peripheral figure, albeit still hugely influential within the squad. Liverpool’s manager has pro­duced a phased evolution from one outstanding team into another. The familiar building blocks of goalkeeper Alisson, Van Dijk, tower­ing midfield man Fabinho and others such as captain Jordan Henderson and full-backs Trent Alexander-Ar­nold and Andy Robertson are locked in for the long haul. But the face and shape of the squad is also changing. Klopp can oversee golden days ahead with Liverpool’s younger generation, as Harvey Elliott has al­ready proved his class while Fulham’s brilliant teenager Fabio Carvalho is scheduled to arrive at the end of the season. Sporting director Michael Ed­wards has played a key role in put­ting the pieces together. He leaves in the summer but Julian Ward is being promoted from within and has a close relationship with Klopp. Klopp is now the next manager likely to build a dynasty at a club in the manner of Sir Alex Ferguson at Manchester United and Arsene Wenger at Arsenal. He, self-evidently, cannot match their trophy haul or anywhere near their longevity yet but Klopp’s extend­ed presence at Liverpool – to 2026 at least under the terms of his new con­tract – is as much of a guarantee of success as it gets. Klopp weighs contract decisions very carefully. He does not sign long-term deals unless he has the full intention of honouring them so the fact he is pretty much certain to be at Liverpool for another four years has resulted in understandable rejoicing from fans, players and everyone in­side Anfield. The logic is simple com­mon sense and beyond argument. Jurgen Klopp built it. Why walk away from it? By Phil McNulty, BBC Chief football writer