… As Present, Past State Speakers, Deputies Pledge SupportLAGOS – National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on Wednesday, said as much as he needed Nigeria to achieve his presidential ambition, Nigeria also needs him. Speaking as a guest of honour at a day event on Retrospecting Democratic Journey in Nigeria, with the theme: “The Legislature, Changing Times and Nigeria’s Democratic Journey”, Tinubu insisted that of all those running to contest the highest office with him, none is as qualified as him. The event, which had in attendance current and past state Houses of Assembly speakers/deputies of the APC, was organised by the Lagos State House of Assembly to mobilise support for the presidential aspiration of Tinubu. According to Tinubu, having successfully been a governor of Lagos State for eight years, he has the required experience to govern Nigeria and bring about the needed change. While noting that Nigeria is currently going through a challenging time, he pointed out that the country needs a courageous leader to effect drastic changes that will bring turn and build the nation. The former Lagos State Governor who described himself as the man Nigeria needs to take charge of the wheel of progress, explained that those trying to run for the exalted office with him don’t have all it takes to occupy the office. His words: “Nigeria needs me even as I need Nigeria. Nigeria needs drastic courageous changes that will bring revenue and I am that courageous one it needs. “I started my political career in the legislature as a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I am well educated, sound, brilliant and very courageous. I have struggled for democracy and lived in exile and while in exile, I was sponsoring various pro-democracy groups. POLL “I am a very passionate person and I have it better when it comes to women’s inclusion and participation in politics. At this critical time of our life, Nigeria needs someone who will change the fortune of this country. Who could do it? I say it is me. “Those who are running with me, how many of them fought for democracy? How many of them had been Senators? I was the first governor to grant the state legislature financial autonomy. So who among them can boast of being a governor of my calibre? “I was raised to be courageous and this has been working for me. With zero allocation from FAAC, I turned Lagos State around and today, the state has become the largest economy in Africa. I reserve the right to brag. “I want to bring the same to bear as president of Nigeria. Accelerated development of our nation is about thinking and doing, and I am ready to do that again because I am a thinker and doer. “I want to take over legitimately through the ballot and I need your support, I need you to do me the favour to become the next president of Nigeria so that I can do Nigeria a favour. “This is a very challenging time for us as a nation and we need to do it right this time. I have done it before in Lagos State and I can do it again in Nigeria. I promise that I will not let you down,” he added. Speaking on behalf of the past and present state Houses of Assembly Speakers/Deputies, Suleiman Abubakar described Tinubu as a great leader with character and sacrifices. Abubakar, who is the Chairman of the Conference of Speakers said, “Asiwaju places a premium on the welfare of members and followers if the party. We are aware of your aspiration and we are willing to work with you. We want to be part of this struggle. “There is no doubt that the country is currently in a trying time and we believe that with you as the next president, these challenges are surmountable.” Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa who is the host, described Tinubu as a true democrat and a talent hunter, recalling how the former governor stood for him in 2023 when he first contested to come to the Houses of Assembly. “I am standing here before you because he is a talent hunter. He is someone that would support you, raise you to a point of leadership and give you room to excel. “I can confirm that he is the brain behind the legislative autonomy that we enjoy today at the Lagos State House of Assembly and he did this far before the clamour for it by other states. “So we can see that he is a person that will support the legislative arm of government to remain strong. Dear colleagues, let us all stand with him and support him,” Obasa said.