P/HARCOURT – After several decades of lack of clean drinking water, the people of Andoni local government of Rivers state are in jubilation mode as the chairman of the Council, Barrister Erastus Awortu makes provision for portable water for them. The people said the Chairman of the Local Government area on assumption of office has been working assiduously to ensure communities in the area have portable water. According to them, Well water and streams had been the sources of water for the people leading to cholera outbreaks and other water related diseases in recent times. Such Communities in the Area prone to Cholera outbreaks have however, benefitted from the provision of Potable Water Facilities by the Council Chairman Erastus Awortu. Residents of Asuk-Ama and Asuk-Oyet communities recently benefited from the water projects of the council chairman with the provision of 10,000 Litres Capacity Potable Water Facilities, Water Treatment Plants and Standby Generators to guarantee regular water supply. Chief James Ata-Ije Asuk , the Chairman, Council of Chiefs of Asuk-Ama Community, and other stakeholders of the Community who spoke to newsmen expressed gratitude to the Council Chairman for addressing one of their most critical needs thereby stamping out cholera in the community. On his part, Chief Brown David, the Paramount Ruler of Asuk-Oyet Community, also commended the Andoni Council Chairman for the gesture and promised that the Community would protect the Facilities. Meanwhile, the Council Chairman Erastus Awortu has pledged to sustain the provision of Potable Water for the people to completely get rid of Cholera and other water borne diseases in the area. POLL The Andoni Council Boss, who made the pledge while inspecting some of the completed Water Projects in Asuk-Ama and Asuk-Oyet Communities provided by his administration said the project was in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Mr. Awortu called on interventionist agencies to support the current efforts of his administration in achieving its set goals. Awortu also assured that the projects would be extended to all communities in the area.