LAGOS  – CDC Group, the UK’s development finance institution and impact investor, has been formally renamed British International Investment (BII) The organisation will invest between £1.5 and £2 billion per year in green infrastructure, technology and other sectors to support countries in Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. Situated in seven locations across the Continent, BII has a portfolio value of over $4billion, with over 600 local businesses. Portfolio highlights include: Global Partnership for Ethiopia, FirstBank Nigeria, 14Trees, ETG, AfricInvest, Novastar, Zambeef, Equity Bank, Access Bank plc, Redstone Concentrated Solar Power Project among many more. Nick O’Donohoe, the Chief Executive of British International Investment, said: “This is an incredibly significant milestone in the history of our company. British International Investment will build on CDC’s legacy by inheriting its unparalleled experience of impact investing and deep-rooted knowledge of the markets in which it invests. We will continue to solve the biggest global development challenges by investing patient, flexible capital to support private sector growth and innovation. And, we will help to alleviate poverty by building productive, sustainable and inclusive economic outcomes for those that need fair and transparent investment the most.” Founded in 1948, the UK’s development finance institution (DFI) invests patient, flexible capital to support private-sector growth and innovation. In 2022, the DFI announced that it exceeded its pledge to invest £2 billion in Africa over the last two years. British International Investment has a portfolio value of $4.2bn in Africa, with over 600 businesses in the portfolio. British International Investment is at the heart of the UK Government’s international financing offer to Africa and other emerging economies. It builds on a 74-year track record of forming strong partnerships with thousands of ambitious businesses to create positive social and economic outcomes for the countries in which it operates. The impact investor will play a key role in the UK Government’s wider plans to mobilise up to £8 billion a year of public and private sector investment in international projects by 2025.