A pan-Nigeria group, One Nigeria Democratic Ini­tiative (ONDI), has faulted the on-going campaign by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State to under­mine the wisdom of the Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) to leave its pres­idential ticket open to the most popular candidate. The PDP had constitut­ed a 37-member commit­tee to work out the best option for the party with regard to zoning of its presidential candidate in the 2023 election. However, ahead of the submission of the final report of the committee, Governor Wike had been vocal in his condemnation of the inauguration of the committee, displaying an unfounded fear that it was done by the party leadership to favour Ati­ku Abubakar who is from the north. Wike himself had declared his intent to contest for the presiden­cy, insisting that the tick­et should be zoned to the south. But in a statement by its convener and co-con­vener, Alhaji Ahmed Dan­batta and Mr. Onome Olali respectively, the group be­rated Wike for choosing to work against the popular opinion within the party for his selfish ambition. Below is the statement inter alia: “We wish to re­mind Governor Wike that PDP is not his personal es­tate. We are aware of his judicial moves to scuttle the PDP primary by vicar­iously using one Mallam Isa Taidi to use the court to abort a purely demo­cratic process which the PDP had embarked on in the best interest of the party. “We are aware that Wike is behind a suit be­fore a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja in which the former Vice Presi­dent Atiku Abubakar was joined as second de­fendant. The said Taidi is seeking a relief among others that the presiden­tial ticket of the party be zoned to the south as stip­ulated in Chapter 1 Part 7(3C) of the party consti­tution. By joining only Atiku out of the other highly qualified northern candidates, it is obvious that Atiku is the target of Wike’s campaign of calumny. This raises the curious question: Is Wike working for the opposi­tion or for PDP? “Wike should be re­minded that if he ever respected the principle of zoning, he should have started from his Rivers State where he succeeded Rotimi Amaechi, both of whom are from the same senatorial zone. Wike can­not be preaching zoning when he has not practised it in his state. “Need we remind Gov­ernor Wike that out of 16 years of the PDP in pow­er, the south did 14 years, leaving the north with only two years. Wike did not shout equity and fair­ness during these years. POLL “Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, a southerner, ruled for 8 years (1999 – 2007), Umaru Yar’Adua (northerner) ruled for only two years before his demise. And when Good­luck Jonathan (southern­er) completed what was to be Yar’Adua’s term of 8 years by 2015, Wike did not scream zoning. Instead, he was all mute when Jonathan sought and got the party’s Presi­dential ticket to continue in office. “The 2023 Presidential election is crucial for the return of PDP to power. The ticket should therefore be thrown open to the most popular candidate. But if the likes of Wike and Taidi have any sense of justice and fairness, they should allow the north to take a shot again as they have only ruled for 14 years out of PDP’s i6 years in power.”