LAGOS  – MySol Nigeria, a solar homes systems brand in Nigeria has reached a new milestone of connecting 60,000 households to solar power, thereby impacting 300,000 lives across the country. A statement by the media consultant to the company stated that the launch of its newest experience centre, is aims to provide MySol customers with an exciting first-hand experience of the brand, as well as key aftersales services. The new experience centre replaces the former centre that had become too small for the type of growth the brand has experienced over the last year. With 36 MySol experience centres and point of sales outlets spread across Nigeria, MySol has the coverage to be close to its customers, which helps to resolve customer complaints fast. At the experience center launch, MySol rewarded select customers by making them MySol Ambassadors. These customers were chosen because they had been long-running advocates of the brand, keeping up with their monthly loan repayments and referring the brand to new customers. Bankole Cardoso, Managing Director, ENGIE Energy Access Nigeria, said the newly launched experience centre would ensure that the company continued to support the lives that it directly impacted. According to Cardoso, the company’s commitment is to ensure 90 per cent of customer complaints are resolved within 24 hours at the centre and others across the country, while the remaining 10 per cent would be addressed within a maximum of 48 hours. POLL Cardoso also noted that MySol has toll-free phone lines that customers can continue to take advantage of to resolve any issues that they might encounter. “We are aiming to cover all angles in our total commitment to the MySol customer,” he said. He also lauded his team for achieving the milestone of 60,000 customers. “That is 300,000 lives directly impacted by the work we do across individuals, households and businesses. With this achievement, our commitment to improving the livelihoods of people in rural communities through access to renewable energy solutions is renewed, and I cannot wait for when MySol will cross the 100,000 customer milestone, and 1 million customers landmark in Nigeria.”, he said.