The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will on Wednesday meet in Abuja to discuss amongst other things ratify the date of the presidential primaries ahead of the 2023 general election. Daily Independent gathered that credible sources at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja hinted Daily Trust on Tuesday that the meeting would ratify May 30 and 31 as dates for the presidential primaries as well as the governorship primaries slated for May 23, 2022. This will be the first NEC meeting since the emergence of the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party on March 26, 2022. the sources also hinted that apart from ratifying the dates for the primaries, the NEC would also discuss the general state of the party and welcome the new NWC into the party’s national secretariat among others. A calendar of political party primaries for 2023 presidential primaries designed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) sighted also indicates that APC would hold its presidential primaries on May 30 and 31, 2022, while the governorship primaries would be held on May 23. The leading opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would hold its presidential primaries on May 29, and its governorship on May 21, 2022. The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Labour Party (LP) have slated May 25-26 and June 3 for the presidential primaries and May 20 and June 1, 2022 for the governorship. The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has fixed June 1 for its presidential primaries and May 29 for governorship primaries. POLL However, our correspondent reports that of the 18 registered political parties in the country currently recognized by INEC, eight are yet to get into the INEC calendar for the 2023 primaries. Sources say the “small” parties which are yet to communicate to INEC their dates for the primaries, were scheming to become fall-back options for bigwigs who would be aggrieved over the outcome of the primaries in their parties, especially APC and PDP.