BENIN – In a bid to ensure food security in the country, the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has embarked on the training of Unemployed Persons on Sustainable Agricultural Development who will be resettled with loans after the training. This is aimed by the Directorate to improve its statutory mandate as a training and empowering organ of the Federal government, while the trained beneficiaries will be empowered with soft loans. Abubakar Fikpo, the Director General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) disclosed this while flagging off the training of no fewer than 100 unemployed persons in Edo State. The director-general who was represented by the Edo State Coordinator of NDE, Mr Solomon Edobor said the Directorate is expected to train 100 unemployed persons on Sustainable Agricultural Development and resettled 168 others with Loans on completion of the training. According to the DG, the Directorate has assigned the Rural Employment Promotion Department to implement the Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme [SADTS] and the Graduate Agricultural Empowerment Scheme [GAES] across the country. “These schemes have over the years recorded huge success through rural Economic growth, reduction of urban-rural migration, employment opportunities for graduates of tertiary institutions, wealth creation among others,” he said. He noted that the SADES and GAES will target graduates of Tertiary Institutions who have a strong passion for agriculture, while local farmers are not exempted and as such will receive soft loans of One Hundred Thousand Naira {N100,000} to enable them to start their own business. While applauding the Minister of Labour, Employment and Productivities for initiating these laudable schemes, Fikpo also added that both schemes will be implemented in the 36 States and FCT. POLL He further stated that in the Sustainable Agricultural Development and Empowerment Schemes (SADES) and the Graduate Agricultural Empowerment Schemes (GAES), 69 persons, made up of 38 and 31 graduates respectively will be recruited. “They must be people with a strong passion for agricultural production in livestock and crop production, within the value chain of production, processing, packaging, marketing and consumption. He said these graduands upon completion of their documentation and receipts of the loan, have a moratorium of six months, while the repayment of the loans is within a period of three {3} years which, he described as a revolving loan. “Some of the loan schemes within the Rural Employment Promotion are Sustainable Agricultural Development Enhancement Scheme, [SADES]; Graduate Agricultural Enhancement Schemes, [GAES]; AgriculturalEnhancement Schemes [AES] and Community Base Agricultural Enhancement Schemes (CBAES)” he declared.