EJIKEME OMENAZU As Nigerians strategise on the 2023 general elections, a cross section of citizens are worried that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the National Orientation Agency (NOA) and the political parties have not been engaging in voter education to make the election hitch-free. However, the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), as a positive activist group, has commenced its voter education in Lagos and Osun states to ensure that Nigerians understand their roles before, during and after the elections. Apart from taking its activists across some areas in Lagos on voter education programmes, it has also held some programmes to educate media practitioners on how to conduct corrupt-free general elections. At a recent press briefing titled ‘Prioritising Anti-Corruption And Social Inclusion In The 2023 Political Agenda: Imperatives and Components’ held recently in its secretariat in Lagos, CACOL recognised the level of corruption in the nation’s electoral system and the need to restore sanity for the overall good of the society. Speaking at the event, CACOL Chairman, Debo Adeniran, maintained that “Corruption, if left unchecked, poses a grave threat to our democratic values and our dream of being an ethical and truly developing state.” He stressed that some Community-Based Organisation (CBOs), Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and Faith-Based Organisations (FBOs) had been consulted on how to check corruption in the nation’s electoral system. According to him, all the groups expressed happiness and appreciation of the fact that such a meeting had been organised to involve them in the roles expected of them prior to 2023 elections and that they were assured of their continued cooperation and support. POLL He stressed: “We would therefore make the following recommendations based on the unanimous opinion from our consultative meetings with the CSOs and FBOs in Lagos State.” Adeniran stated that based on its findings on the field CACOL recommended that there is an urgent need to overhaul the whole gamut of election architecture in Nigeria through aggressive and comprehensive reforms. He said: “Firstly, there is need to strengthen the administrative, financial and institutional autonomy of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to regulate the use of hate speech during electioneering. “In most cases, the Electoral Management Body (EMB) lacked the capacity to punish highly placed public officials who violate extant electoral rules and guidelines mainly due to institutional incapacitation. The institutional weakness no doubt, has hindered effective coordination of the electoral processes by the EMB. “Secondly, INEC should be empowered to punish any candidates found to have violated the new electoral law by disqualifying and banning them from participating in elections for a minimum of eight years.” Adeniran said it is the view of CACOL that the statutory functions of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) should be expanded to undertake the democratic role of political education and enlightenment of the electorate on the borderline between conventional campaign promises and political. “In carrying out this function, the agency must prioritise use of indigenous languages in order to get a wider audience not conversant in English language. By so doing, the electorate would be well-informed on what constitutes a realistic campaign promise and a mere slanderous propaganda targeted at discrediting an opponent unjustly and scoring cheap political popularity. “The NOA should also insist that Nigerians deserve the truth and should be told the truth and nothing more, no matter how unpalatable it may appear,” he stressed. He also opined that the media must be regulated by law to disseminate objective messages during electioneering. Specifically, he explained, “it must be restrained from being an appendage of a given political party, showing preference for any candidate and serving as tool to disseminate disinformation and hate speeches.” As Adeniran maintained, “The Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) drawn from academia, trade unions, media and social research institutes, should jointly conduct background checks on contestants and manifestoes of political parties, and subsequently, educate voters on the qualification of candidates and feasibility of their programs. “Most importantly, CSOs should organise and insist on compulsory participation of all candidates in a televised debate. In most cases, presidential candidates abscond from debates and only educate the electorate on the policy direction of their parties during campaign tours. “In Nigeria, political campaign tours are inappropriate means of educating voters since actors utilise the platform to showcase their dancing skills, engage in names calling, and reel out questionable campaign promises. “Equivalent media fact-checking tools such as the Politifacts which finds out when politicians are making false claims; Truth-O-Meter that tells the voters whether the politician is saying the truth or not, and Flip-O-Meter that tells when politicians are flip-flopping promises during campaign, should be established in Nigeria. “As a corollary, fact-checkers would help political actors to articulate issue-based campaign programmes reflecting the peculiar challenges of the Nigerian state rather than relying on disinformation as viable means of accessing political power. “The utilisation of the fact-checking tools in Nigeria could help to limit hate speeches and spread of questionable campaign messages. “Again, it will serve as a viable instrument for deepening democracy in Nigeria. However, the absence of these tools suggests that political parties and candidates are unhindered from coining and spreading controversial electoral promises.” CACOL also maintained that financial flow of political parties in terms of their income and expenditures should be closely monitored and the political actors should be compelled to give blow-by-blow account with verifiable evidence in terms of bank statements, payment receipts, etc. to ensure that they don’t overspend and they should not receive cash donations from their patrons or members. According to it, “All contributions and payments to their service providers, consultants, etc., should be made through financial institutional transfers. Moreover, no politician should be allowed to distribute cash to electorates or people at the campaign grounds. “The distribution of palliatives like food, household items and the rest should be limited to electorates at ward level and it should be tied to the needs of the people. The cost of the palliatives and the expenses incurred to distribute it should be manifestly accounted for. Politicians who have emerged as candidate of political parties should not distribute palliatives at all while aspirants at their ward level can do that in order to ameliorate some of the sufferings of their constituents but as soon as they emerge as candidate of their political party they should not indulge themselves in such things. “We would also lend our voice to the call for speedy determination of so many high profile corruption cases dotting the various temples of justice across the country. The cases involving Stella Oduah, former Minister of aviation, Orji Uzor Kalu, former Abia State Governor, Rochas Okorocha former Imo State Governor, Theodore Orji, former Abia State Governor and many other serving Senators still having corruption cases hanging on their necks should be dispensed with as soon as possible so as to serve as deterrents to others. “It is generally believed that corruption is responsible for the perpetual underdevelopment of our country and this had been enabled directly and indirectly by the custodian of the governing instrument which in most cases were not freely given by the citizens through their periodic voting exercises. “We believe that this can be corrected if all the available legal instruments are diligently implemented by the wielders of political power imbued by the persistent demand of the citizenry. The citizenry can force the hands of the government officials backward from making corruption a state policy by perpetual monitoring of their activities in and outside of their places of official engagements and questioning them on issues of probity, accountability as well as insisting on the observation of all democratic principles and ethos. “This is what CACOL has taken upon itself in collaboration with willing hands in the civil society and the populace to engender with a view to ensuring that corrupt elected officials are not welcome back into their ancestral communities. “We believe this will deter others who flaunt ill-gotten wealth from continuing in that trade and ensuring that the innocents of their communities are not polluted to the extent that upcoming political elements will not see corruption as a dignifying career that they could adopt just like internet fraudulent practices is gaining ground among the younger generation.”