LOKOJA – As the 2023 general election draws closer, Dr Abdullahi Sanni Ozomata, a stakeholder in the All Progressive Congress (APC), has described the public declaration by Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello as timely and strategic for the success of his ambition. Dr. Ozomata, who stated this on Saturday while speaking with newsmen in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital, described Governor Bello as the hope of a new and prosperous Nigeria. Ozomata, who is also an APC aspirant seeking to represent Okene/Ogori Magongo Federal Constituency, said Nigerians deserve a President like Governor Bello based on his developmental strides in the State. Ozomata noted that Governor Bello is not just a young leader with experience but dynamic, straight forward and a goal-getter which according to him are the qualities the next Nigerian President must possess. He pointed out that Kogi State is regarded as the safest in Nigeria despite sharing boundaries with about 10 states is due to the security architecture put in place by the Governor. The House of Representatives Aspirant stated that all sectors of the State have been transformed with every senatorial district benefitting from the legacy projects of the Governor. Ozomata expressed hope and belief that Governor Bello will transform Nigeria if given the mandate to serve by replicating his feat at the State level. “Nigerians have always desired to be led by youths especially the seat of the President which Governor Bello perfectly fit. POLL “Governor Bello has demonstrated capacity through the inclusion of productive youths and women in his government which makes him stand out and also endeared him to many,” he said. Also speaking the Chairman, Central Working Committee of Dr. Abdullahi Sanni Ozomata Campaign Team, Alhaji Abdulrahman Aziz Obini commended Governor Bello for yielding to the call of Nigerians to contest for the seat of the President. Alhaji Abdulrahman also said there is no better time than now, describing the Governor as the hope of a new and prosperous Nigeria. He expressed optimism that Governor Bello will transform the country within the shortest possible time if Nigerians give him their support.