Some chieftains of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the Ibadan North East/ Ibadan South East Federal Constituency have kicked against an automatic ticket for the member of the House of Representatives representing the constituency, Hon. Abbas Adigun. The party stalwarts made this disclosure on Sunday in a meeting attended by Chief Bayo Lawal, Mr Muyiwa Makinde, Mr Dare Adeleke, Mogaji Abass Oloko, Mrs Funmi Arulogun, Alhaji Akeem Azeez, Hon. Kunmi Adesina, Hon. Gbenga Adewusi, Alhaji Abidikugu, Hon. Emmanuel Alawode and Hon. Ibrahim Akintayo, Daily Independent gathered that some leaders of the party had on Sunday met at the House of the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in Oyo State, Barrister Bayo Lawal. The leaders met in order to reach a consensus to adopt a candidate that will represent PDP in the Ibadan South East/ Ibadan North-East Federal constituency during the 2023 general elections. Others in attendance were;  Muhammadu Inakoju, Mogaji Wale Oladoja, Hon. Fatai Adesina, Alhaji Hazzan, Hon. Remi Yusuff, Hon. Abiodun Adedoja, Alhaji Dauda Yusuff, Hon. Akeem Ademola Ige and Hon. Abass Adigun. It was gathered that the leaders from Ibadan South East Local Government appealed to their counterparts from Ibadan North East to concede the ticket to Ibadan South East where the incumbent came from on the ground that the Ibadan North East are currently enjoying and holding juicy positions both elected and appointed in this current dispensation. It was learned that Mr Adeleke pleaded with those present at the meeting to give automatic ticket to Adigun who currently represent the constituency. It was at this time that the chieftains of the party rejected the suggestion. POLL It was gathered that the majority of the stakeholders and leaders from Ibadan North East vehemently rejected the nomination of Adigun Agboworin. They alleged that Adigun neglected the party leaders immediately after he assumed office in 2019. They warned leaders from Ibadan South East Local Government not to repeat such a mistake in 2023. The leaders added that the party should present a candidate that will not be taken for granted. It was gathered that some of those who spoke included Arulogun, who was supported by Mogaji Wale Oladoja, Hon. Muhammadu Inakoju, Alhaji Abidikugu, Kunmi Adesina. They all rejected the proposed automatic ticket for Adigun as suggested by Adeleke. They warned that any attempt to impose Adigun on the party may spell doom and result in anarchy for the party The leaders who opposed Adeleke’s plea for an automatic ticket for Adigun called on the State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde and Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja to respect the majority decision of the stakeholders for a popular candidate who will respect the leaders and the party to emerge from the Ibadan South East Local Government. They promised to bring this development to the notice of Governor Seyi Makinde and Ambassador Arapaja at the enlarged stakeholders meeting slated for today at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan.