The Ogun Traffic Compliance Agency (TRACE) and the National Emergency Management (NEMA), has confirmed an early morning crash involving a tanker truck loaded with PMS which occurred at Ajegunle, Lagos, on the Lagos-Abeokuta expressway. The inferno resulting from the crash has been put off by the combined efforts of the Lagos state and Ogun state fire services. However, traffic outbound Lagos was affected as a result of the burnt tanker lying across the highway. To ensure free flow of traffic, TRACE in collaboration with LASTMA, FRSC and Papa Oscar, diverted traffic to the Lagos inbound lane, between Ajegunle and Sango-Tollgate axis of the highway. Speaking to reporters about the incident, Ibrahim Farinloye,NEMA, and Adekunle Ajibade, Area Commander, TRACE Ogun West, confirmed the death of one Oluwatobi Lawal, a teenager, preparing for Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and West African Examination Council (WAEC), while about 42 make shift shops beside the road were torched. According to Farinloye, the teenager was found afar from the site of the incident, and could not exactly ascertain what led to his death. He disclosed however that some people were trying to scoop fuel from spilled gasoline before the explosion occured. POLL He said, “Only one person died, with the name Oluwatobi Lawal. A 15 year old teenager who has all his details on him. He died far away from the scene and we could not exactly say if he was also trying to scoop fuel or not. “All we know is that after the fire was extinguished, his body was found and recovered. The buffer zone between the road and residential houses saved the residential houses from being affected.” He added. He also revealed that the team will transfer the remaining content in the truck to the underground tank of the filling station. CDR.Seni Ogunyemi, TRACE Corps’ Commander/CEO, who spoke from the Agency’s headquarters in Abeokuta, advised the motoring public to obey the traffic officers on ground as traffic has been diverted to the other lane inbound Lagos to ease the flow of traffic, and stressed that every road user, especially truck drivers should comply with all traffic regulations for the avoidance of needless crashes.