LAGOS  – The Alumni of the Ilupeju Secondary School (ILUSEC) have sworn in their first elected executives. The event took place at the school complex and was attended by various sets of students. ILUSEC Alumni chairman, Idowu Oyebanjo, who spoke on the benefits of the association, said “as the caretaker of this committee, I will lead the team to establish in all the village sets of the alumni that were not in existence at the time and also welcom e yearly members of the outgoing certificate class to join the alumni. “My able vice president in charge of members of the alumni in the Diaspora will handle the goodwill, knowledge, exposure and financial strength of members. We will use this to develop our alma mater in a manner that has never been seen before and we have many more plans for this association. “With this benefit and more we will ensure that the current students in ILUSEC receive the form of education we missed,” he said. The association’s Election Committee Chairman, Sunday Olotu, who spoke on the success of the election, said “I want to give kudos to the team, for the past six years. Elections have not been fruitful when it comes to ILUSEC but this particular one has been the most fruitful election we have done and I hope this will continue. “The keywords are that we should love one another no matter how. I want to thank everyone that participated in this election; we all brought unity, which I pray will never cease amongst us.’ “This election is the best thing that has ever happened to ILUSEC because since between the 1980s to the 2000s nothing like this has ever come up. “Being a member of this great team, I want to state that no one is more important than the other as they would be carrying along with the whole 34 sets. No one is a loser or winner as we would all be working together for the right cause. We will make sure this tenure will be a successful one.” Also speaking, the Board of Trustee (BOT) representative, Otunba Olanrewaju Lawal said “We have 12 qualified people who are to play a major role in this evolution. POLL “Their duties are to carry out the dreams in our hearts thereby helping ourselves to lift up one another. We would also use this opportunity to also give back to our Alma-Ata. “However, we are here inaugurating our first ever elected officials. A vision we have all carried in our hearts for so long. We are a people of history, despite all odds, we have conducted ourselves and finally had an election. “This election shows we are all ready to move forward and we are a people of vision. It is time to rise and shine. To the executives of ILUSEC, we believe you all have the capacity to lay a solid foundation for our future generations. Stay focused and do your best as we have a lot to do in this organisation,” Otunba Lawal stated.