In Indiana’s Hamilton County, companies are raising pay, improving benefits, and hiring inmates from the local jail. SHAWN DONNAN In his 26 years as mayor of Carmel, Ind., the largest city in a county with deep Republican roots, Jim Brainard has overseen its transformation from a sleepy Indianapolis suburb into one of the fastest-growing communities in the country. The population has quintupled, to a little over 100,000, spurred by the relocation of corporate headquarters to the area and a residential construction boom that shows few signs of ending. Ask the staunch conservative what he thinks the top economic priorities should be nationally and you’ll get answers that are strikingly at odds with the GOP’s current agenda. The U.S., argues Brainard, needs looser immigration laws to attract more migrants and higher wages for low-income service workers. “Those are the two biggest challenges” for the American economy, he says. Brainard’s views reflect Carmel’s circumstances. Inflation running at 40-year highs may be the economic issue dominating the conversation in government offices and C-suites across much of the country, but in this city, along with the rest of Hamilton County, the chatter among businesses and local officials is more often about a labor market that Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell recently called “tight to an unhealthy level.” With an unemployment rate more than 2 percentage points below the national figure, Hamilton County’s employers are engaged in a furious recruiting drive to fill positions ranging from chief technology officers to supermarket cake decorators. Job applicants are so scarce that manufacturers are turning to inmates on work-release from the local jail. By many measures, Hamilton County is a charmed corner of the U.S. economy. It’s home to advanced manufacturing companies, pharmaceutical startups, insurers, and IT businesses. With a median household income of $98,880, it rates as one of the most affluent counties in the country. Residents of Carmel brag about their excellent public schools, walkable neighborhoods, and exciting new restaurants. Hamilton County also is an example of what happens when an economic boom runs up against a labor crunch that’s been years in the making and is likely to get worse, with demographic trends becoming an increasing constraint on growth. At the SMC Corp. of America, the Indiana-based division of a Japanese industrial pneumatic components giant, president and Chief Executive Officer Kelley Stacy has seen white-collar recruits quit in the first week because they didn’t like their desk or job title. “You’ll hire people, and then they just don’t show up,” she says. “We’ve never experienced these types of situations ever.” POLL To retain staff and draw applicants to its facility in Noblesville, the Hamilton County seat, SMC has been raising wages and improving benefits for its 1,600 employees. On top of free health care, tuition reimbursement, and a subsidized cafeteria where $2.50 will buy you breakfast, the company rolled out a new leave policy on April 1 that removed any cap on vacation time or personal days. Down the road at Metro Plastics, a family-owned injection molding company that makes parts for companies such as Firestone and Tesla, Carole Krol is struggling to fill four vacancies on the overnight shift. The company raised its starting wage from $10 an hour last year to $15 an hour. But temp agencies tell Krol she’ll need to offer at least $17 an hour to get anyone to bite. “It is constraining our growth,” says Krol, whose parents started the business. Metro Plastics is in a great position to benefit from the reshoring of industrial supply chains brought about by pandemic snags. The 130-person company produces the sort of plastic products that typically come from China: from bright yellow shovels destined for the food manufacturing industry to screw-on caps. But to win orders that might otherwise have gone to factories in the Pearl River Delta, the company can’t just rely on humans. On a recent Thursday, a machine nicknamed “Doc Holliday” by employees was turning out black plastic caps for a Tesla suspension assembly without any visible human involvement. An electronic eye and robot were doing initial quality checks, rejecting what looked like every other cap by pushing them into a discard box. Occasionally a human operator would come over to pack some parts and hand the box off to an autonomous vehicle that would carry it across the factory floor to shipping. The experiment in automation “is not necessarily by choice,” Krol says. “It’s by force. Because we can’t find the workers.” Next door, at Gaylor Electric, which designs, assembles, and installs electrical systems for big commercial projects such as Amazon distribution centers, a search for talent that predates the pandemic is now paying dividends. A few years ago the company embedded a charter school into its production floor to train high school students as electricians. Students spend half the day in the classroom and the other half working on the floor alongside regular employees, including inmates from the local county jail. When they graduate there’ll be well-paying jobs waiting for them: Journeyman electricians can start at $60,000 a year. Although Chuck Goodrich, the company’s president and CEO, says that of the 40 to 50 students who pass through each year, half or less will stay at Gaylor. “We talk more about recruiting today than I ever have,” he says. “We need people” and “there’s five jobs for every person.” At Vibenomics, a streaming audio advertising company in Fishers, co-founder and CEO Brent Oakley says he’s done away with late-night work marathons, embraced flexible working hours and remote work, and raised salaries. He’s also expanded the pool of candidates he’s willing to consider. “We wouldn’t even look at somebody if they didn’t have a college degree,” he says. “That no longer happens.” Is Hamilton County’s worker deficit a pandemic blip or the harbinger of a new normal for the U.S. economy? Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius recently declared that by the bank’s own gauge the U.S. labor market is “the most overheated” it has been since the 1940s. The coronavirus has supercharged America’s demographic challenges, accelerating the exit from the workforce of baby boomers while pushing down birth rates. It doesn’t help that the U.S. has been allowing fewer foreigners to settle in the country: 740,000 were granted permanent residency status in the latest fiscal year, according to data compiled by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, compared with 1.2 million in 2016, the year Donald Trump won the presidency and began making good on his pledge to restrict immigration. Hamilton County is no bastion of diversity: 83% of its population is white, compared with 58% nationally. In Carmel, Brainard pairs his embrace of looser immigration rules with calls for inclusivity. For the area’s prosperity to endure, he says, Hamilton County needs to become a place where service workers can afford to live— rather than a place where they just go to work. “Cities need to be a lot of things. But they need—to be successful—to be great places for everybody,” he says. Rachel Firestone Mohammad and Samir Mohammad landed in Noblesville from Colorado in 2020, ready to open a restaurant that would cater to foodies like them. Instead they confronted pandemic lockdowns and a lack of staff that caused them to enlist friends so they could open once restrictions lifted. The newcomers now have seven employees, all but one part-time, but are still struggling to find a dishwasher and prep cook even offering $15/hour plus a share of tips. The tough labor market has shaped their workweek: They’re open for dinner only four nights a week and offer a takeout dinner service on Sunday—a pandemic innovation—that features dishes like an artichoke risotto and their house-made burrata cheese. “We’re maybe different from other businesses,” says Firestone, who grew up in nearby Lafayette and returned to be close to family. “We aren’t motivated by getting that extra night open, getting that extra income.” The couple says they’d like to open another restaurant in town one day. But that will have to wait until the red-hot labor market cools a bit. (Culled from Bloomberg Businessweek, April 7, 2022)