ABUJA – The Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom-led 37-man zoning committee has thrown open the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 election. A source at the meeting disclosed this to our correspondent on Tuesday. The Tuesday meeting was the third by the committee, which was inaugurated on the 24th of March and was given two week to conclude its assignment. Addressing newsmen after the meeting that lasted for more three hours, the Chairman of the Committee, Governor Ortom said that the committee has adopted a position, which will be sent to the party National Executive Committee (NEC). Ortom said: “We have just finished our meeting, after we rose from our meeting last week, today, we decided that we would meet and by the Grace of God we have unanimously adopted a position that will be sent to the NEC of our party that appointed us. “The good news for our teaming supporters of the PDP and Nigerians is that we have resolved and everyone of us, the 37 members unanimously adopted the position that we are going to present to NEC.” Disclosing what transpired at the meeting, a source closer to the Committee said, “the presidential ticket has been thrown open.” The recommendation of the zoning committee, according to another source, was that “Zoning, as in our party constitution, is affirmed. POLL “In spite of (1) above, Ticket is thrown Open, this time around due to exigency of the time. “Our Party is encouraged to always make the issue of zoning very clear at least 6 months before sales of forms. “Our Party should commend the efforts of some of our contestants on the issue of Consensus candidacy; the efforts should be seen to a peaceful and logical conclusion.” Recall that shortly after the PDP lost the 2019 election, a committee led by Bala Mohammed was set up to review the election. Part of the resolution of the committee was to throw open the presidential ticket. Also recalled that zoning of the presidential ticket had been a controversial issue in the party since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) released its calendar for the 2023 election activities. While the Southern governors had severally said that the ticket should be zoned to the South, other party members from the North including the governors said it is either the ticket zoned to the North or thrown open. Those canvassing that the ticket should be thrown open seem to have carried the day, as a source at the meeting of the zoning committee, which was held on Tuesday, said that the decision of the committee, which will be communicated to the part NEC, is to throw the ticket open for every interested party member to participate. However, loyalists of Atiku Abubakar, Aminu Tambuwal, Bala Mohammed and others, who were at the meeting were seen jubilating over the decision of the zoning committee to throw the presidential ticket open. The Southern governors, like Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Okezie Victor (Abia) and others, who were canvassing for the ticket to go to the South, appeared to have lost out in the agitation for the ticket. Meanwhile, the former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose has withdrawn his membership of the party zoning committee over his presidential ambition. Fayose withdrew his membership before the committee concluded its meeting, where the final decision on zoning was taken. Fayose in a letter dated 5th April 2022 addressed to Chairman PDP zoning committee, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom thanked the committee members for their patriotism to the party. Fayose also commended the way the 37 members zoning committee handled and comported themselves in deliberations regarding this sensitive issue. He expressed hope that the outcome will bring understanding, peace and stability to the party and the country at large. The statement partly read: “Having hinted during our last meeting at my intention to run for the office the President in the coming primary election and by God’s grace; the general election. it will not be morally right to continue to participate in the zoning debate being an aspirant myself. ”Therefore, my state has nominated the bearer of this letter Dr Gbenga Faseluko to replace me.”