The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) has appealed to the Yobe State government to increase the amount being monthly paid for the settlement of retirees’ gratuity and pension which it described as inadequate. Comrade Muktar Musa Tarbutu, Chairman of NLC Yobe State Council revealed this during a press briefing to mark the May Day 2022 Celebration in Damaturu, the state capital. According to him “the monthly amount of N100 million naira disbursed for the payment of retirees gratuity is inadequate and will lead to spill over on monthly basis. More so the monthly take home pension is inadequate as it is on the record that we have pensionaires that collect only N4,000. In view of the above, on behalf of the entire pensionaires of Yobe State, the congress enjoined government to implement the harmonized 33 percent increase in the state as well as upward review of hazard allowances for fire fighters in the state “. Speaking on housing quarters, the NLC Chair said “for effective service delivery, Teachers, Health workers and many workers among others reside in government residential quarters during service and end up homeless after retirement. Let me again appreciate the state government for it’s efforts in the housing issue in the state, however government need to device another way of distribution process so that civil servants in the state will benefit more”. The NLC Chairman appreciated Yobe State Government under the leadership of Mai Mala Buni for the execution of numerous projects accross the state. Responding on behalf of Governor Mai Mala Buni, the Head of the Civil Service of Yobe State, Alhaji Garba Bilal enjoined the workers to justify the confidence reposed on them while urging them to imbibe the culture of productivity, good service delivery pointing out that most of the projects being embarked were in line with the needs of the labour union. He informed that his first engagement with Governor Mai Mala Buni dueled on discussing labour issues. “I have briefed His Excellency on the need to train the labour union leaders on digital working, this will enable them to step down the knowledge to their members accordingly, the government will continue to support training of workers”. On the problems highlighted by the NLC Chairman, the Head of Service assured to present them to the Governor for consideration “I call on the NLC to please not relent in their efforts of leading by example. He expressed concern over the attitudes of some workers of not being punctual.