LAGOS – A Lagos State Special Offenc­es Court sitting in Ikeja on Monday ordered the remand of a fake Army General, Bo­larinwa Oluwasegun Abio­dun, for alleged fraud. The defendant was docked before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commis­sion (EFCC) on a 13-count charge, alleging that the de­fendant falsely represented himself as a General in the Nigerian Army, and obtained the sum of N 266,500,000 from Kodef Clearing Resources Limited. He was said to have carried out the acts under the pre­tence that the sum represent­ed part of the amount expend­ed to “press and process” his appointment by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, as the Chief of Army Staff of the Nigerian Army. He however pleaded not guilty to all the charges. The charge against the de­fendant reads in part, “Bolar­inwa Oluwasegun Abiodun between 17th August, 2017 and 12th December, 2018 in Lagos, with intent to defraud and whilst holding yourself out as a General in the Nige­rian Army obtained the sum of N 23,300,000 from Kodef Clearing Resources Limited, under the pretence that the sum represented part of the amount expended to “press and process” your incoming appointment by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, as the Chief of Army Staff of the Ni­gerian Army, which pretence you knew to be false.” “Bolarinwa Oluwasegun Abiodun sometime in April, 2018, in Lagos had in your possession a document con­taining false pretence titled: Letter of Recommendation purportedly signed by Chief Olusegun Obasanjo recom­mended one Adebayo Rasaq Adebola with recruitment No. 77RRI/OG/S56/0032555 and Adeogun Emmanuel Adesola with recruitment No: 77RRI/ OG/352/0123751 for employ­ment into the Nigeria Army, which document you knew to be false.” Upon his not guilty plea, the EFCC Counsel, Abbas Omeiza Muhammed Esq., urged the court to remand him. Counsel to the defendant, Mr. Kayode Lawal, argued otherwise at the proceeding, informing the court of sum­mon for bail. POLL However, the EFCC noted, ”We were recently served and we need time.” The defence counsel, La­wal, informed the court that the defendant has been in the commission’s detention since 12th January, 2022 and was brought from there. “We have made several at­tempts to make the defendant get administrative bail. “We have also been told by the Commission to bring sure­ty which we have complied with their term but to no avail. “We will be praying the court for a short possible date. “Because this is the only option for the defendant to salvage his fundamental and constituional right, Sir.” The judge adjourned till April 14, 2022 for further hearing.