For decades, evacuating cargoes from Nigeria’s busiest seaports in Apapa area of Lagos was nightmarish, contributing to the dwindling economic fortunes of the country, partly due to the long delay suffered by those using the facility to import and export valuable goods and materials that sometimes are of critical economic value, but trapped regardless. And for many years that the ugly trend prevailed, the government appeared to be bereft of real time solution to decongesting the port despite the tumultuous cry of the general public to change the status quo. The situation degenerated from natural to man-made, as some powerful cliques appeared to be sabotaging efforts to bring the gridlock to an end. The heavy traffic congestion persisted resonating from the ports to adjoining roads, making them inaccessible, as trucks and tankers spent weeks and months on the queue before getting to the port. To tackle the seeming intractable traffic bottleneck associated with port area, the Sanwo-Olu led government was pragmatic by coming up with a special Traffic Management Team, who took over from the wobbly Presidential Task Team, over a year ago. The Special Traffic Management & Enforcement Compliance Team which was headed by Hon. Toyin Fayinka, Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, was saddled with the responsibility of ensuring zero tolerance of traffic offenders and a seamless traffic management system specifically designed to restore sanity in and around Apapa and create a cohesive system that would aid the resurgence of business activities and ensure that residents live in a conducive environment devoid of traffic-induced stress. In February 2021, the committee working with the Nigerian Port Authority launched an electronic call-up system (ETO app) to reduce traffic at ports. Five months after the launch of the e- call up system, the long queues at the Apapa Ports did not disappear, making Mohammed Bello-Koko, Managing Director of the NPA, to reveal that it is not possible for the call up system dubbed the ‘Eto’ app to work without the corporation of relevant stakeholders. POLL Bello-Koko said: “The e-call up system is hinged on three components namely; Physical Infrastructure, Information Technology and Stakeholders collaboration. “There are also hindrances to accelerating the implementation. The e-call up system like any other novel project has its teething problems and the problems faced daily by truckers require the intervention of Lagos State Government.” Now after a full year of the introduction of the ETO, the Port M.D, reiterated that, “We are ready to effectively tackle all concerns raised by port stakeholders; having operated the novel electronic call-up system for about a year, it should be expected that some of the teething issues should give way. “All lingering issues will require a bit of time to resolve. The important thing is that we are committed to resolving them.” He said. “In particular, managing the transition from a manual to an electronic call-up system for cargo trucks can be tough, so we have implored the system operator to up its game, given the frustrations being expressed by users of the system. “Meaning that a year after, the same stakeholders who lauded and appreciated the Eto at inception are now accusing it of festering the same ills and chaos that pervaded the ports’ access roads prior to its introduction”. The appearance and disappearance of illegal checkpoints along the Tin-Can stretch of the port’s access roads have made a mockery of the NPA’s e-call-up system, thereby leading to calls by some stakeholders that it should be unbundled. In a letter written to the Managing Director of the NPA by legal counsel to the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA), Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, (SAN), the group labeled the Eto initiative of being fraught with discrepancies, raising many abnormally. Part of their complaints reads, “On the other hand, the involvement and activities of the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) and the Lagos State Committee on Abandoned and Disused Vehicles headed by the Special Adviser to the Lagos State Government on Transport, Mr Toyin Fayinka is regrettably inimical to the legitimate activities of the truck drivers. “That there have been cases of extortion; creation of illegal garages; indiscriminate and illegal tagging of vehicles as abandoned vehicles; compromise and selective enforcement of the law against perceived enemies and truck drivers are being extorted on a daily basis without issuance of receipts. Hon. Oluwatoyin Fayinka, Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Transportation, in response to some of these issues, at a stakeholders meeting held last week, said that checkpoints at Apapa and Tin Can axis have been assigned to specific agencies as part of the state government’s effort to eliminate gridlock and curb illegal extortion. Fayinka added that the state government had reached an agreement with the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) to streamline checkpoints along the corridor and feeder routes. Fayinka also explained that in doing that, illegal extortion points would be disbanded. He explained that some checkpoints would be manned by the NPA alone while others would be assigned to the NPA and the Lagos State Government. In the same vein, the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) will manage some points independently without interference from other agencies. He added. The special adviser promised that the state government would enforce zero tolerance on illegal extortions and activities of miscreants along the corridor through special mobile courts. He said the agencies charged with the role of managing traffic flow along the axis have been clearly defined and assigned to prevent any illegal activity that would hinder smooth port operations. The Transport Special Adviser further stated that trucks would no longer be stopped for ETO at Ijora Badia (LPC axis), Mile 2 under and over the bridge and UBA (TCIPC corridor). He added that truck movement would not be interfered with at NAGAFF, Area B, RRS Marine Bridge, 7up, Fidelity Roundabout, Etisalat Roundabout (LPC axis) and RRS (TCIPC corridor). Reacting to the government’s new guidelines, the Council of Maritime Truck Unions and Association (COMTUA), said the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Road Transport Employee Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) are responsible for extortion and creating of illegal checkpoints on the port access road. the reaction which was contained in a press statement and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, by Adeyinka Aroyewun, the national president, COMTUA, Com. said the Lagos state government cannot ban millitary checkpoints already dismantled by the Presidential Task Team (PTT). Aroyewun said since the dissolution of the PTT, there has been no Military checkpoints on any part of the areas mentioned by the Special Adviser to The Governor on Transportation, Hon Toyin Fayinka till now, rather, checkpoints created by LASTMA, RTEAN among others. He said: “That the extortion point on the mentioned corridor is mainly operated by LASTMA, RTEAN, Area boys, NPA and other proxies of the Lagos state committee on Apapa headed by Hon Toyin Fayinka. “That the usurpation of powers and authority by the Hon Toyin Fayinka on the corridor is also a source of extortion through the Agency on Abandoned vehicles’ illegal operation and that the said stakeholders meeting held at the instance of Hon Toyin Fayinka, on Easter Monday is a charade aimed at misleading the general public and to cover up for his atrocities against truckers.” He, however, disclosed that the Lagos state government and its transportation ministry have failed in returning sanity to the port access road. “I want to draw the attention of government and the general public to the failure of the Lagos State on Apapa/ Tincan corridor that, Hon Toyin Fayinka and his committee members has failed to produce a white paper to the police and the general public on the ban on collection by unions on the road as directed by the governor. “That the imposition of substandard garages on truckers by the Lagos state ministry of Transport in connivance with NPA is an extortion part on its own. The activities of the agency on Abandoned vehicles without any avenue for redress is more of extortion than any other. A case where driven vehicles are fined for towing and moving vehicles hijacked and called Abandoned. “ Mr. Sola Giwa, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Central Business District, who doubles as head of operations, Apapa Traffic Management and Enforcement Committee on the implementation of the call up system, in a counter reaction, said: “The introduction of the electronic call-up system has helped a great deal in controlling truck traffic into Apapa ports, adding that the people, who were formerly benefiting from the Apapa gridlock, are now fighting back.