P/HARCOURT – A frontline governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers State, Prince Tonye Princewill has called on his fellow contenders for the sole ticket of the party to make unity and peace their watchwords as they brace up for the forthcoming primaries. Princewill who was one of the ten aspirants that signed an agreement to abide by the tenet of peace and fair play a fortnight ago said unity among the aspirants was not only important to the party but to the entire Rivers State. He reiterated his resolve and the willingness of other aspirants to give the necessary support to any person that eventually emerges as the sole candidate of the party for the 2013 governorship election, adding that it is only on the platform of unity that APC could thrive in the state. Speaking during a meeting with the Rivers Ijaw Fathers, Kings, Chiefs and Gubernatorial Aspirants at the Ijaw National Congress, INC, Eastern Zone Secretariat, Hostcom House, Abuloma Road, in Port Harcourt, Rivers state on Tuesday, Princewill said the call for unity among the aspirants was a necessity. “We the Aspirants in the APC have resolved to support whosoever that will emerge at the primaries or by consensus, if my brother Ebenezer emerges, I will wholeheartedly support him, and I also believe that he will support me if I emerge.” Princewill disclosed that his intention to contest for the governorship of the state is to give the Rivers people good governance. “I decided to contest not because I wanted to be Governor but because I wanted my People to be governed. I couldn’t understand why our Fathers were disrespected and our youths disregarded”, he said. The former governorship candidate also used the opportunity of the meeting to charge the elders to interface with the two leaders of the two major political parties in the state as they traverse the country in consultations with various stakeholders in Nigeria for their 2023 presidential ambitions. “Unity is important, but Strategy is also important. Today, we have two leaders in the APC and PDP, one is led by Chief Barr (Nyesom) Wike, and the other is led by Rt. Hon Chibuike Amaechi in Rivers State, are our Ijaw kings, chiefs and elders talking to them? Are they interfacing? Princewill asked. POLL The meeting which was well attended by the aspirants and some prominent Ijaw personalities also had in attendance the INC President worldwide, Prof. Benjamin Okaba, as one of the major discussants.