In the wake of the accusations of domestic violence levelled at the husband of late gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, popular singer, Nathaniel Bassey has opined that although death is inevitable, we don’t pray for it before time. According to him, it has been very annoying hearing the circumstances surrounding the death of the late Osinachi whose voice, he said, thundered and reverberated powerfully in worship. “I remember how she’d come to me with a smile and humility saying hello when we had to minister at worship events. But she’s with our Lord now. But I can’thelpbutsay, alittleearly. Let me pray this again my friends, ‘MAYYOUNOTMARRYYOUR ENEMY’, andthatyoualsodon’t become an ENEMY to someone else,” he wrote. According to the singer who marked his ninth wedding anniversary during the week, although marriage is good and Honourable, it is not by force. “To those about to marry, shine your eyes. Love is not blind. Because God is love. And God is not blind. Don’t ignore red flags. Even when you say, or they said, ‘God said’ but you identify some traits very inconsistent with godly character, pray and check again. And to those in horrible marital situations, both men and women, I pray for you today, May God give you the wisdom to make the right decisions before it is too late. In Jesus’ name. Amen,” he added. Lending his voice to the debate, Obiora Obiwon called out those who opine that the late Osinachi died for the gospel, stating that she was a victim of hate and spousal abuse. According to him, Martyrdomdoesnotinvolve a Christian being murdered by another Christian or a spouse being murdered by their spouse. “To be martyred is to be killed for your belief and confession of faith in Christ, by others who resist the gospel, not to die because of oppression and hate from another believer or a spouse. Marriage didn’t save us, marriage isn’t even a fundamental basis of our salvation. Nobodyshoulddieformarriage. Martyrs died to preserve and authenticate their faith in the gospel and salvation of Jesus Christ. Nobody should die to preserve marriage. Please let’s not twist scriptures and let us not evoke God’s wrath through error,” he wrote.