LAGOS – Former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi and presidential hopeful on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 elections has warned that Nigerians should not allow the mistake of the past in 2023, stressing that the country is passing through a very difficult time and should not be allowed to continue, otherwise, everyone will suffer. Obi, who said that during a courtesy call to the leaders of the PDP in Lagos State, who gathered to receive him and his entourage at the office of Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman of the party. Obi said that people must ensure that the candidate with the capacity, competence and commitment to change the trajectory of Nigeria is elected in the primaries as the candidate of the party. “I came here to meet with our leaders and as a family member of the PDP and to continue to explain to people that there is a need to ensure that we don’t make the mistake of the past in 2023. This county is passing through a very difficult time and we must not allow it to continue otherwise all of us will pay for the consequences,” he said. When asked why he thinks he is the best among other aspirants, he said, “It is for you to verify, compare me with other people and look at my past. As journalists you have the opportunity to interrogate and ask people and know if there are some things that you can believe, then you work with it. “Find out where I was yesterday and pass your judgement. It is not for me to tell you. People have told you stories and made promises in the past that they were not able to full. It is now your responsibility to investigate.” On the issue of insecurity, Obi said, “Our leader, Chief Bode George has told you that I have mentioned that there are two types of security, natural and defensive security. “You have to make sure that people have means of livelihood, because if people don’t know where the next meal will come from, they will go into crime. When you pull people out of poverty you will reduce insecurity. POLL “It is true for every part of the world. I have followed it in South America, Asia etcetera. The more you pull people out of poverty, the more you reduce criminality, banditry and other forms of crime. The defensive one is what I can also do. I did it in Anambra State and if given the opportunity to lead Nigeria, I will do it,” he said. Chief Bode  George, who was the host stated that people can attest to the fact that PDP is different because when you get into the position of power, you are always held accountable because the party will always remind you that when you came to them you told them how much you could do and now you want to renege on your promises. He said, “We are different from the All Progressives Congress (APC). They told us that they would fight corruption and insecurity and you can see the level of insecurity in the country now. What is the number one responsibility of any government? Security of lives and property of citizens.  If you cannot guarantee that, what are you doing as a government? “Peter Obi has told you that there are two levels of insecurity caused by unemployment, no money in your pocket. The other one is the safety of your lives,” Bode George said. The Atona Odua of Yorubaland, who refused to say his position on the candidacy of Obi compared with other aspirants in the PDP, but maintained that as a leader in the party he would not openly mention any name as his preferred candidate. He maintained that all the candidates are responsible and have the capacity, stressing that at this level it is still a family thing. He reiterated his position on the zoning of the presidency to the South, pointing out that anything less than that will be catastrophic. “Since 1999 it has been the culture of the party to announce where the presidency will be zoned to, but to keep quiet now, what kind of message are we sending to the electorate? When the APC came on board they said that they didn’t believe in zoning.  Who is the one talking about zoning now? “It was a gift from the founding fathers of our great party to this nation. Now it is going round and for us to keep quiet, something is not right. We are known for that and so we must retain and sustain the culture,” he said.