Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has approved free nomination forms for all women aspirants desirous to run on the ticket of the party, setting the pace for political parties in the build up to the 2023 general elections. The party said its nomination forms for women running on its ticket will be at no cost to them and invited women from all the political parties to take advantage of the gesture to move to the party. Deaconess Beta Edu, the APC National Women Leader, disclosed this on Thursday at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, declaring that the party is not only mouthing affirmative action but has gone ahead to implement it. According to the APC women leader, the zero nomination fee has the endorsement and approval of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC National Working Committee (NWC) led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Mrs. Edu, therefore, asked Nigerian women to move in en mass into the APC and run for different elective positions without intimidation, assuring them of victory at the polls. “Our president has done a lot on mainstreaming women supported by his dear wife, Her Excellency, Hajia Aisha Buhari, a mother with conscience, a mother who has performed exceptionally well. And to further buttress that point that we belong to the ruling party, the largest party in Africa and we want to make strong statement that we stand by inclusion, mainstreaming for women. “The party has gone ahead to approve that women will be running on a free nomination form in our party. Before we jump, they have thrown the ball to our court. Before now we heard women say we cannot afford the form, we are vulnerable, we are unable, but now you have been given the platform with the greatest chance of emerging as a winner of an election because you will be running on the ticket of the ruling party. “Not just the ruling party but the party that has performed, a party that is gender sensitive. A party that has provided welfare for Nigerians. A party that is ready to mainstream women. You will be running on this platform. The ball is now in our court, women we must rise up. We are going into series of processes that will lead up to the 2023 elections”, she charged. The APC women leader also challenged women to take full advantage of the gesture of the ruling party to register and get their PVC ready to vote fellow women as well get ready for the door to door mobilisation of Nigerians to support the party in the coming election cycle. “We must come out, we must be actively involved. Go from door to door and sensitise women on the INEC voters’ registration that is going on. We must go from door to door at the grassroots level, at every level to remind every single woman that they should register. “We must also ask them, where is your PVC? They must dust it and keep it ready because that is our power. That is the power of the APC women, that is the power of the Nigerian women and that is the power to mainstream women as our party APC is already doing. “Beyond that, we are going to do a lot of work, from lobbying to sensitisation, to financial mobilisation for the grassroots women. From the polling units all the way up, welfare packages, mega medical health outreaches, skill acquisition and all other interventions that will begin almost immediately. “Please, tell your sisters, brothers and tell the next woman it is time to join APC. It is time to join the mega train. It is time to be mainstreamed and we must come all out with dedication to deliver”.