Veteran actors come in diverse packages. Some old and grey, some ageing gracefully with hints of white hair here and there. But there are those ageless ones whose appearance is reminiscent of their early days in the film industry. Bimbo Akintola falls into this category of veterans, one who could be mistaken for a fresh face in the industry. While on location for Ivie, a soon-to-be-released movie, TOMI FALADE had an exclusive sit-down with the talent where she revealed who she is off-camera and what drives her passion in Nollywood. You maintain a relationship with veterans like yourself and those who are still up and coming. Is this based on your nature or you are fulfilling the needs of your profession? I think it’s both. First and foremost, as a person, I believe that you owe the people who are coming behind you something. Even if it is just to share what you have learned along the way, to make it easier for them. Also, to encourage. We cannot play the same roles forever. I can’t play a 16-year-old role forever. I can’t play a 20-year-old role forever. Somebody else has got to do that. I remember when I started; I had women that were there for me. The likes of Sola Sobowale, and Joke Silva; are women that were there. We followed that example because we believe that you must always learn to give a hand to pull the next woman up. You are not dragging yourself down, you pull the next woman up because you are not doing the same thing. We need to support each other as women. Do you think your skills as a stage actor impacts your abilities as a screen actor, especially in terms of speaking and a fantastic command of language? To a certain extent, yes. This is because I started from the theatre, and I studied Theatre Arts at the University of Ibadan. My major in school was acting mime and speech. So when people talk about speech, I let them know I studied it. ‘No be say I tiff am; I study am’. I believe that we are communicators, visual communicators. I also think that it’s important we speak properly because people learn from us. If your character says you speak a particular way, maybe an upper class or whatever, you need to speak in that manner. As an actor, you should be able to swing from the ‘proper’ to whatever dialect the character demands. I can do an Igbo accent, a Hausa accent or Yoruba accent. In fact, there was a film I did and the producer just came from Tanzania and they taught me some of their words and I spoke it. So, you have to be versatile as an actor. Also, you have to be able to teach people. As a communicator you should speak right, that’s what it’s all about. In recent times some have pointed fingers at Nollywood as being responsible for a lot of the vices in society. What is your take? Of course not. We are a reflection of society. We are not the society. We reflect on what’s happening. Our work is to put a spotlight on all the good and the bad so that people can change it as needed. You know we are very biased in Nigeria. If you watch Nigerian films, 99% of them end well. Good wins, light wins. In reality, that doesn’t always happen. So you can say that because of the society that we live in, they’ve corrupted us not to be able to give our proper reflection of the society. If we were reflecting the reality, we won’t end all films with ‘to God be the glory’. In the sense that, God has won. 90 per cent of our films end well because the Nigerian audience would not take it if it does not end well. They would not be happy; they want to see happiness. POLL You mean a resolution? Yes, but not just a resolution. A positive resolution. I would say it’s the other way round in the society that we live in. How many horror movies do you see? When you talk about box office and all the movies that are selling how many have been action or any other genre? It’s always a comedy. Society dictates what we do. A lot of people are going on and saying, ‘oh you know they reflect the society in a bad way’. But that’s not true. We reflect society, period! These are things that are happening that we feel we need to shine the light on so that Nigeria as a whole can stand up and say: ‘oh! we’ve got to change this, we’ve got to welcome this’. We did a film for UNFPA. The title is ‘Freedom In Chains’. It was propaganda. We were doing it from place to place to talk to people and it brought about so much change. Because of that one film, so many things changed. We had Obas, traditional rulers, who said: ‘okay, we need to sit up and the girl child must be treated better. They must be educated. Okay, now we are understanding that women need to go to school. It’s not just the boy’. That’s because of what has been happening in Nigeria. Is this because of our industry? Definitely not. I think we are all ourselves as a society. Someone was saying that we always paint the churches badly. No! We do not. We reflect what we see. In terms of that, they say we are the ones that said that there are fake pastors. No! There are fake pastors, we are just showing them in our films. We are not saying all pastors are fake, we are saying beware. In our moments of vulnerability, anybody can make us do anything and time has proven that. For example, women are most vulnerable at certain points, especially when they need something. Whether it’s a child or something else, you can get them to do almost anything. We’ve seen that so what we are doing is that we are fighting against it continuing. Our job is to make sure we are passing across these messages to change lives. Would you describe yourself as a feminist? I am a humanist. I don’t like this feminist idea because I think there’s focus on this wing of feminism that is really extreme. It’s toxic. I don’t want to be part of that. I want us to realise that if you say you are a humanist, you care about humans. That means every individual: boy, girl, woman, man; everybody. My niche is the women and the girl child because there is so much to be done concerning this issue in Nigeria. I’m not saying that the boy child is not important, I’m saying that they are lucky that they get more opportunities. In some areas in the northeast, girls don’t go to school because they are going to get married. Same thing in the east, even in the west. It’s crazy. To think that it still happens today when every hand matters in raising a home. It’s not our parents’ time where you could be a housewife and you can proudly stay at home and just take care of the kids and make sure they have the best of the best. Now, you have to work! He has to work. Both of you are working to make sure that children have the best. In doing that there’s also so much danger. We just reflect on all those dangers. So I’m not a feminist, I’m a humanist. You’ve been doing this for decades now. Every time you accept a script, do you still feel that adrenalin rush and excitement? Yes, but only for some scripts. You know, because of the situation in our country, some stories are just alright but you take it because you have to work. If you don’t work how would you eat? But then you have some stories that come your way and you know as soon as you read it that it is an excellent story. Your adrenaline begins to pump, and then you have butterflies. For me, that happens when I feel like we are going to shine a light on something. I mean, can you imagine that in today’s Nigeria, it’s still difficult to talk about rape? If you come out and say that you’ve been raped, you instantly become stigmatised. So many things are happening to women. Even men are being abused. Let’s say the truth. Some men are being abused and are too scared to come out and say it because of what society would think about them.