PORT HARCOURT – The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has been urged to stop foot-dragging and immediately declare his intention to contest for presidency on the platform of the All progressives Congress (APC). Dr Dakuku Peterside, former Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) urged the Minister to, without “further hesitation”, make his intention known so that his teeming supporters can swing into action early enough. Peterside, who made the call during his visit to the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Igwuruta, Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, venue for the APC scheduled Thanksgiving Service in honour of the Honourable Minister, next Saturday, said Amaechi was “eminently qualified” to preside over the affairs of Nigeria. Giving reasons for his call, Peterside said that Amaechi had shown sufficient capacity and will to take the best decisions for the overall interest of Nigeria as far as this Federal Government was concerned. He declared that Amaechi had performed excellently as a Minister and passed every credible test to prove his love, loyalty and dedication to Nigeria and the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Amaechi has left no one in doubt as to his fabulous large heart to score infrastructure goals for the country. Not even his dyed-in-the-wool enemies would deny that Amaechi has performed excellently as Minister of Transportation. “Today, Nigerians call him “Mr Connect-Nigeria” due to his drive to re-build, re-brand, re-position and revive the nation’s railway infrastructure, connecting the East to the West, North to the South through modern rail lines and subways. “He has connected seaports to railway stations for the smooth freighting of goods to the necessary markets. Amaechi has also worked to secure Nigeria’s waterways, protect Nigeria’s critical maritime infrastructure for the growth of the economy and wellbeing of our citizens”, he explained. POLL Peterside, a former governorship candidate in the state said as Minister in the administration of President Buhari, Rotimi Amaechi had pursued and delivered on the President’s Railway Development Plans which fulcrum has been to connect every part of the country. The APC chieftain said it was clear to every Nigerian that the Honourable Minister possessed the mental strength to hold together the various diverse nationalities in the country. “Amaechi has shown sufficient mental strength to manage a country as diverse as Nigeria as well as her nationalities. De-tribalised to a fault, Amaechi sees the East, West, North and South as Nigeria and not regions or states, and treats Nigerians first and last as Nigerians. He showed that much off as governor of Rivers State when he appointed Nigerians of other states of origin as Commissioners in his cabinet.”