We are today returning to the nev­er-ending question of escalating insecurity in Nigeria in view of the overwhelming evidence that the siege being laid against defenseless citi­zens by armed terrorists, Fulani herdsmen and the motley crowd of bloodthirsty ban­dits who are freely roaming across the na­tion have increased exponentially and with greater bravado while the government is un­fortunately proving increasingly helpless in the face of the national tragedy. These ubiquitous gun-toting terrorists have demonstrated insatiable appetites for unimaginable barbaric acts and antediluvi­an criminality. Our argument in the circum­stance is, and has always been, that these anarchists are finding it so easy to attack innocent people simply because they know that they are law-abiding citizens who have been administratively disarmed by the State through the various Firearms Laws and Regulations in the country thereby making them extremely vulnerable. If anyone was in doubt about the seri­ousness of our plea for the right to citizens’ self-defense, the recent dastardly attacks on the Abuja-Kaduna train coupled with the open demonstration of ANIMUS BELLI or show of force at the Kaduna International Airport and elsewhere; the numerous at­tacks at different strategic locations across the country as well their routine killing and kidnapping of innocent citizens should now be enough to convince the most incurable optimist that Nigeria is under an invasion calculated to inflict the most debilitating of causalities. The only reason why these crim­inals could so easily mount these evil sieges and safely walk away with some swagger is the deadly weapons that they possess which the rest of the innocent population of Nige­ria do not have. Nothing more. The duty to protect lives and property in the country is constitutionally that of the State represented by the Government and it is for that singular reason that the State is generally conferred with the monopoly over the instruments of violence including abso­lute custody of the nation’s armoury. Any other potential bearer of arms would have to first obtain a license from the Government but terrorists illegally arm themselves to their teeth in direct competition with the government over the possession of the in­struments of violence and it now seems as if the balance of firepower has indeed shift­ed significantly in their favour as they now fiendishly roam the nation without much of a meaningful challenge. “The only way to change the unfortunate situation is to proceed on a wholesale arm­ing of the victim population. It is inevitable that some of the arms could also find their ways to the terrorists because they are also members of our society but there will, at least, arise some ‘balance of terror’ as the criminals now know that their neighbours are also armed. Presently, the terrorists have unfair fighting advantages over their defenseless victims. Admittedly, some people are going to think of this claim of right to bear arms as likely to compound the problems of insecu­rity in the country but the reality, especially in the light of the failure of the government to effectively discharge its own constitution­al duty of securing the nation, recommends some form of organised self-help for the peo­ple in order to meaningfully protect their lives and properties. Even ex-President, Olusegun Obasanjo also said recently, that this administration has been overwhelmed in their fight against the marauding terror­ists. That damming assessment came about largely because the government initially preposterously or naively dilly-dallied and procrastinated over the matter, almost giv­ing it a distractive political cum ethnic col­oration by choosing to call these anarchists regular “bandits” instead of “terrorists” with verifiable international connections and operational playbook. Now that they have grown into a hydra-headed fighting machine capable of routinely outgunning and outsmarting government’s forces, the time has surely come for us to think and act differently. We have noted in the past that “The only reason why criminal bands like Boko Haram have been able to terrorize and annihilate so many innocent citizens across the nation is the fact that their victims have been largely unarmed and defenseless. Idiots and drug addicts recklessly totting AK-47 rifles and other assortment of arms and ammunition have been gleefully wiping out villages and towns without much of a systematic resis­tance from the attacked communities nor reliable protective interventions from the government. Their only option is to run away from their homes and become refugees in our scandalously overcrowded and poorly maintained IDPs or be cheaply slaughtered like chickens!” “This has created a clearly unequal bat­tlefield in which the terrorists always enjoy unfair material and psychological advan­tages. This unjust and unimpeded criminal advantage which they have been allowed to enjoy over innocent Nigerians must stop. A man’s home is supposed to be his Castle and he ought to be able to defend it against all manner of malevolent intruders, but such a lofty expectation can only be realised if the attacked house owner has the means to defend himself and his property. At a time of widespread insecurity like this, a man’s home ought to be his garrison especially when there is no official protection avail­able”. POLL “The Constitution of Nigeria and, indeed, the Law of Nature, recognize the instinctive human right to self-defense. So, all that we are calling on the authorities to do is sim­ply to give effect to this natural predilection. The right to life is meaningless if the holder has no means of defending it against an as­sailant whose only reason to want to waste it is that he has a gun while the potential victim is unarmed and defenseless. In the specific case of these bandits, their cow­ardly unprovoked attacks and audacious pillaging are usually followed by rantings of “Allahu ‘kuba! (God is great)” is hypocrit­ical. In reality, it is their guns, and nothing more, that have proved to be “great” in the circumstance”. This is why we think it is high time that Nigeria started rethinking her overall secu­rity architecture and institutional monop­olistic philosophy over arms and ammu­nition with a view to accommodating the population within a militia-like public-cen­tered self-defense scheme to supplement the present arrangements. I recognise that there are legitimate fears that such an approach may unduly ‘militarise’ the society but the answer to that is that the awareness that the other man is equally armed would provide a big deterrence to these terrorists which is a million times more effective than what the official security forces can provide presently. In the face of the unrelenting attacks by criminal gangs camouflaging as jihadists, it is only common sense that we rethink our present security arrangement which presently restrict the right to bear arms to only government forces that are proving in­stitutionally inadequate in the face of the unconventional military challenge they now face. The right to self-defense is a divine right which every responsible constitutional society subscribes to”. It however becomes meaningless when there are no means for effective personal self-defense. We are by no means suggesting that weap­ons should be indiscriminately distributed to every Dick and Harry. Instead, the peo­ple who unusually suffer from these relent­less attacks should be empowered to resist those who come to their homes to kill them. Communities should be organised around a well-controlled vigilante system wherein the official issuance of arms and ammunition as well as their usages are done within a strict bookkeeping regime and for strictly defensive purposes. This can be done at the Local Government level and closely super­vised by State governments. In the absence of a credible official protection for the beleaguered citizens of Nigeria, common sense dictates that they should be enabled to assume the natural re­sponsibility of self-preservation. To dismiss this urgent call for citizens self-defense in Nigeria’s present circumstances would be a deliberate communal suicide in the face of an ominously clear and present danger.