AWKA – Rulers from Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra have urged Governor Charles Soludo to disregard the petition written against their son, Chief Chikodi Anarah. The community leaders comprising traditional rulers Presidents-General and stakeholders in the ten communities in Awka North also sent their resolution to the Speaker of Anambra State House of Assembly, Mr Uchenna Okorafor. Anarah is among the 20 Commissioner nominees whose names were forwarded to the state assembly for screening and confirmation as Commissioners by Soludo last week. But a faceless group in a petition in social media asked Soludo and the state lawmakers to drop Anarah designated as the Commissioner for Homeland Affairs upon confirmation on grounds of alleged bad records. It would be recalled that Anarah served as Senior Special Adviser to the immediate past Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano. In a swift reaction, traditional rulers and Presidents-General and stakeholders from Awka North local government described the petition as frivolous, unfounded and misleading and appealed that it be jettisoned. A communique jointly signed by 54 leaders among them: HRM Igwe B. Nweke(Urum), HRM Igwe Christopher Nnaegbuna (Ebenebe), HRM Igwe Ezekwesili Maduagwu (Awba-Ofemili) and made available to journalists on Wednesday in Awka stated that Anarah has clean record and is well known in the area. Urum Development Union and Isuaniocha Development Union in two separate statements condemned the development where individuals resort to damaging the reputation of others through blackmail. POLL They maintained that such action breeds bad blood and retrogress development in all ramifications. Mr Aloysius Tabansi, President General of Urum noted that his community has perfected arrangements to drag the person who falsely used the community’s name to court to serve as a deterrent to others. “Urum community holds Chief Chikodi Anarah in high esteem and cannot descend to petition against him. “The said petitioner from our source is not from Urum and has no link with Urum and cannot use the community’s name in such devilish job, we hereby wash our hands off the said petition, while wishing Anarah well”, he said#