In ensuring better health delivery by bridging the gap between students and health personnel at the campus clinics, the student’s union government of the University of Ibadan has entered into a partnership with an online health company OHealth. While signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the firm, the Student Union President, Adewole Adeyinka expressed his delight because the online firm will ease the stress students usually pass through before seeing physicians at the campus’ clinic (Jaja). He added that the students union is glad to welcome the package into the campus which they believe will be a bridge between students and doctors and the scheme is also going to increase health viability within the student community. According to him, “Having our students standing for so long to see a physician in ‘Jaja’ the campus clinic has always been an issue for us, not that our doctors are not working, but they are always overwhelmed with a lot of work because there is no proper scheduled, but if O health can come in between the students and the doctors, it will give students opportunity to schedule their appointments with ease. “It was in my manifesto when campaigning to be SUG President that I have a blueprint for the University, which is to ease the suffering of students in securing good medics. Students do not need to reach the clinic (Jaja) before securing a medical appointment through a dedicated mobile application; students should be able to fix appointments without leaving the hall of residence”. While reacting, the initiator of a new health digital app, Ohealth, Dr Temitope Farombi, a consultant neurologist said the idea of her firm is to bring health closer to people by continuing to support health initiatives among students on the campuses hence having some of the student union’s executives of the University of Ibadan as ambassadors of O Health. “Today we have come to the University of Ibadan to partner with the student union government, and we have the student union’s executives as ambassadors of O Health. Now we are bringing health to the hands of the students and changing the course of health issues even among the students. “We have a mobile app called ‘O Health’. This is a Telehealth application that allows students and everybody to come close to doctors through their mobile phones in the comfort of their homes anytime, anywhere. Not only access to doctors, but they can also have access to buy medications on the platform and also have access to book laboratory bookings on the platform. POLL “This is the time we need to make the health of our students and our youths the priority, we have seen lots of vices happening and health is the least of their priorities, especially at this age group that they feel they’re strong and that they can do all kinds of things but beyond that, we know what you do today will affect how your health will be tomorrow. “We want to spread that crusade to ensure that they live a good and healthy lifestyle even at their youthful age so they won’t go into the middle age and behaving health crises. That is what O health stands for and that is the partnership we are bringing to the students”.