Prof (Mrs.) Halima Ben Umar, Executive Director, Women In Media (WIM), and a strong advocate of Women Economic Empowerment (WEE), in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about how women can impact the economy positively if adequately empowered, challenges of land ownership, among other issues. Excerpts: You are passionate about advancing the cause of women economically; do you think that the increase in Women Economic Empowerment (WEE) projects in the national budget from 645 in 2021 to 938 in 2022 is a good development? I don’t think it is about the amount of projects but it is about the release. You can see a chunk amount in the budget but the actual amount released is the major problem. No matter the amount that is set aside if the release is not adequate then, we will still go back to square one. If you look at the family planning allocation, you will see the huge amount allocated but the release is always a problem so it is the same issue with WEE projects. If you look across the states, how many governors are interested in economic empowerment of women? If they give N10,000 or N5,000 to each woman they will say that they have empowered them. It is not true because they still have a long way to go. Our policy makers and executives need to know what women’s economic empowerment is all about. Many people are not aware that if you empower a woman a large chunk of poverty will be removed. I don’t know if the government is aware of that or if they know they probably do not want to understand that. POLL An analysis carried out across the six geo-political zones in the country showed that five out of the seven states assessed, do not even have up to 1% of their budgets allocated to WEE projects. What do you think can be done to address that? I think we have some organisations that are working on budget tracking. Budget tracking is one thing that people should begin to look at especially the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) so we need to start tracking those budgets. Like I said earlier they will set aside this amount of money in the budget but there is no structure on ground. They will just bring their own people and share N10,000 to women and it will be celebrated all over the media that the government has empowered people. No matter the amount of money set aside, if they don’t do the actual WEE projects, there won’t be progress. Like I said, if government wants to empower women economically there are lots of things that they can put in place. For example we have the Ministry of Women Affairs, how many of them know that women are really empowered. If you are empowering a woman it is not just about giving her money but about giving an adequate amount that will really be helpful to her. If the government wants to empower a woman it should try to find out how much will be adequate for what she wants to do. If you give a woman N20,000 within two days the money is finished because most men have passed their responsibilities to women. No matter how much money you give to them, particularly the women at the grassroots because they are the ones at the receiving end, Government needs to put up a structure, work with the civil society groups and determine what they need to do. It is not just to bring women to a big hall and begin to distribute N10,000 to them, that is not empowerment. When you see how they are giving the N10,000 it is very absurd, if someone brings 10 women they can even share the N10,000 into N2,000 each to them. Where is economic empowerment? These are some of the challenges that we have, so the government must begin to put up structures so that we can begin to address these problems. Report has it that only 13.2% of women in agriculture can access funds against 86.8% of their male counterparts, meanwhile over 60% of the agriculture workforce are women, What are your thoughts on how this gap can be closed? We have the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) grants and loans and they will tell you that about 60% of the loan goes to women but if you check you will discover that it is not realistic. I can even tell you that 13% is not correct. Let me give you an example, during the agriculture grant, women came to apply for the grant and they did not get it. I thought that women were not meeting the requirements and you know that if you don’t meet the requirements you will not get it. We worked with 20 or 30 women organisations that were looking for the agriculture loan. We put a good proposal, followed all the requirements and one of the requirements was that we will have a piece of land up to 25 hectares. We got the 25 hectares, they said they wanted 30 hectares and we got the 30 hectares. They came round and said they wanted 50 hectares and we got 25 hectares in two places and they said they wanted the 50 hectares at a stretch. These are a group of women, and I wondered if they really want to give this grant to them. Sometimes the way the government operates, you will wonder if it really has interest in women. If you go to their office with the requirements, two days later they will tell you that the requirements have changed and meanwhile a man has gotten N10 million or N15 million. If the government is really interested in empowering women by letting them have access to grants they can do it. I am more interested in giving women grants, I don’t believe in giving a woman loan particularly a grassroots woman. You can give grants and monitor how the grant is being used. For example the government can identify women farmers in a particular community because if you go to states many of them have cooperative societies. There are farmers that don’t require money from the government but those that are in need should be assisted. If you go to Kano for instance and you visit a farm, you will discover that it is the women that are doing most of the jobs. They are being paid, but how much is the money? If you help her own land, give her all the resources, you will be amazed at what she will achieve, because she will not look back. So, even if there are requirements there should be concessions for women. If they can give interest free loans women can be very comfortable to get the interest free loan, unlike the men, who don’t like interest free loans because they can use the money to marry more wives. If you give the women interest free loans, and you make sure that they are in groups of two or three women, for example, rice farming, yam farming or cassava farming, you will see the harvest that Nigeria will have. I think that if the government can empower women in the next two or three years we will be able to feed ourselves. Women are hardworking and committed, and if they tell you that they will do it, they will do it. How can the issue of land ownership for women be tackled especially through traditional rulers? Land ownership differs from state to state. If you come to the North, women are entitled to land ownership but we realized that most of the properties, especially land, are not in their names. They have them in the names of their husbands or sons. We started working on the project to ensure that women begin to own land so that they can achieve more. We help women acquire certificates of occupancy and this project was done in Kano, Jigawa, Zamfara, Katsina and women are beginning to own land and you know how culture works, sometimes women are overridden in certain things. We have so many challenges in that area.