Following the defection of the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Abubakar Y Suleiman to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi State, the Majority Leader of the Assembly, Tijjani Mohammed Aliyu has debunked the rumours making the rounds in the state that he will soon join other members to defect to the PDP. Tijjani Aliyu while debunking the news said that he was not consulting with stakeholders in preparation for his purported defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Majority leader who is representing Azare/Madangala in the Assembly, while reacting to stories in the newspapers and social media, said that he was not leaving the APC for any other party, stressing that he is loyal to his party. “I am a true party man (APC) and I am not consulting anyone. People that are close to me know me better. I’m categorically debunking this story by the press because there is no iota of truth in it” “ “I am not a coward and I am old enough to make any decision without being economical with morality and truth. If I am consulting, I will be bold enough to say it because it’s my prerogative and within my right. I laugh in Spanish!” he said The development followed the defection of the Speaker, Abubakar Sulaiman on Saturday night, which was announced during the breaking of the Ramadan fast held at the Government House Bauchi, with Governor Bala Mohammed alongside PDP stakeholders. About three years after his emergence, Abubakar Sulaiman said his decision to pitch tent with the PDP was a result of his good understanding and working relationship with the governor and promised to work together for the best interest of the state. The Speaker was quoted as saying, “I want to use this opportunity today to officially announce to His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed and other stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of my formal defection to the State ruling party”. POLL “One of my reasons to be a member of the PDP is in recognition of the exemplary leadership style of our Governor and his commitment to transforming the state,” he said.