The Federal Government and other African countries have been urged to desist from creating obstacles that can militate against the flow of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) agreement they have signed. In his address, the founder of Africa Economic Summit Group, Dr Brian Reuben, said that the summit intends to facilitate new investments, encourage business development, share best practices, guarantee peer-to-peer networking, offer new industry insight, showcase excellence and promote in-depth and expert knowledge sharing. Making this position known, at the one day 2022 Africa Economic Summit held at the BWC Hotels, Victoria  Island on Tuesday, the Director-General, African Centre for Supply Chain (ACSC), Dr Obiora Madu maintained that selfishness and ethnicism have been a major impediment to trade growth. Speaking on the topic, “The future of Trade in Africa: Examining Policies, Infrastructure and Technology”  Madu expressed worry that it has been so difficult for Africans to trade among themselves, even with its population that has not translated to economic gains. “Africa is about 80 per cent of the world population, in spite of all the natural resources,  Africa’s contribution to global trade is approximately four per cent. “We need policies in place to enable collaboration, which can only strive when we see ourselves as collaborators, not competitors.” The closure of the Nigerian border principally on account of smuggling greatly clogged the wheels in realizing the letters of the agreement, “Nigeria accepted to sign the AFCFTA  but has refused to remove the obstacles obstructing the free flow of trade. According to him, the youths have what it takes to change the narratives but economic power and unity of purpose have been their undoing. POLL Madu who is the Chief Executive Officer, of Multimix Group recounted how the lack of infrastructures has slowed down trade in Africa and will continue to. He said, “Transport and Logistics infrastructure is one of the things that is impeding AFCFTA. The Prime Minister of Malaysia said in a conference that the day they put a highway from the northern part of Malaysia to the southern part of Malaysia their economy exploded. “If you look at the quantity of foodstuff that parishes in Africa yearly for not being moved from the farms to the areas where they are needed, you will marvel. “Some people have continental highways,  we don’t even have coastal shipping lines to take goods along the coast. We don’t see AFCFTA striving without these infrastructures. Speaking, Dominic Oduro-Antwi, President and Founder, Global Africa Trade Advisory Chamber(GATAC), based in Accra, Ghana harped on the need for a collaborative effort among Africans and charged governments in Africa to create a conducive environment for private sector growth. In creating an environment for youths to excel, Antwi reeled out the giant strides of his organization in imbuing self-confidence in the youths. “We launched what I called “Knowledge Bank” where we encouraged the students/youths to conceive an idea they bring to the bank. My notion is that you can’t come out of the university and say you are looking for job. There are few jobs being chased by thousands of people so you may not be able to compete “If you have a concept or idea, bring it, we keep it in the bank. Like We will go to the bank to put our savings. We at the foundation will save your concept, get an investor that will invest in that concept, that will enable us to create jób for youths. Contact data he further said is very important in international trade, especially in this age of technology. Speaking also, the Chairman, Domak Group, Dr Kingsley Azonobi advised Nigerians in particular and Africans in General to show consistency in whatever they’re doing to leverage on AFCFTA which has provided a wider market. Azonobi decried the role tribalism has played in choking up competency and growth in Nigeria which ended up enthroning mediocrity. He used the opportunity to commend the founder/Organizer of the programme. “Nigeria is blessed in Africa to be the solution of the world. They are everywhere making waves, tribalism has been the bane of the Nigerian problem. Dominic and his team created an idea that was adopted in Ghana. If it were in Nigeria, his idea may have not seen the light of the day if he is not from a particular tribe or religion that is the problem. “The founder of this project has come all the way from the UK to organize this forum, he is looking for a solution; he is looking for a way forward to see how the African economy can be turned around, secondly, let’s dìscourage our governments from mortgaging our future into the hands of China. “If we can be able to stop that, the future will be bright and Africa and Nigeria will be a great continent.” A participant at the forum, Emmanuel frowned at a situation where data banks of African countries are stored overseas. “A lot of success has been made in digital penetration in Ghana, infrastructures that this digital penetration is centred on is always the data centres. In Africa, most of our data are stored overseas. Imagine if all Ukrainian data are stored in Russian now, imagine what they could have done with it. We should as well be thinking about infrastructures that will help secure our data in Africa,”