A foremost Self-Determina­tion Organization under the aegis of Yoruba Global Al­liance, has condemned the proposed census exercise in Nigeria, describing it as self-serving political miscal­culation and mis-adventure. Yoruba Global Alliance said, it is inconceivable that any serious-minded govern­ment should ever consider human population enumer­ation amidst an atmosphere of unprecedented insecurity, mistrust, unbridled corrup­tion, and pervasive economic woes, saying; it would be like a similar exercise conducted in 1974 which the subsequent Murtala Muhammed Military junta immediately jettisoned on assumption of office in 1975. The group in a statement jointly signed by its Presi­dent, Dr Amos Arogundade Akingba and the Chairman of the Council, High Chief Tola Adeniyi further stated asked what could be the ra­tionale for seeking to do a na­tional headcount at this point in time, especially amidst ru­mours and permutations that the Unitary government in Abuja may have other tricks up its sleeves regarding hold­ing national elections slated for March next year? Part of the statement reads: “The programmed Census is an ignominious mischief towards a predeter­mined end of imposing false demographics on Nigeria to the advantage of the Fulani hegemony. Nigerians cannot be deceived any longer. Human population Census requires meticulous plan­ning, including but not limit­ed to cartographic capturing, enumeration of houses and other dwelling places, com­prehensive physical count­ing of human heads all over the country and, of course, a huge man-power outlay. In a situation where guardians and parents have stopped allowing their chil­dren and wards to proceed to mandatory Youths Service Corps outside their immedi­ate environment, and hun­dreds of thousands have fled their homesteads because of pampered marauding human butchers, euphemistically tagged bandits, where will the government import enu­merators from? We should admit the obvi­ous fact that Nigeria is at war with itself. Census exercises are never conducted in a war situation. More than 4 million Ni­gerians are scattered in In­ternally Displaced Persons camps all over the country most especially in the far Northern states of the coun­try and Niger state. Who is going to count people who have been sentenced to hu­mongous suffering by their own people in a country where suspicious terrorism holds sway?