This column should be the last in the series on Super Eagles 2022 FIFA World Cup miss, which I believe was a blessing in disguise. But it is only those with discerning minds that will know that this failure is a blessing in disguise. Discernment is the ability to judge well. Many times people make a poor judgment, not because of ignorance, but because of the lack of insight and discernment. This, therefore, means a more discerning individual is better equipped to make sound judgements. A more discerning individual will see great opportunities in the midst of fail­ure. It therefore presupposes that fools will not even recognize these blessings talk less of seeing it. The reaction of Nigeria Football Federation officials to this monumen­tal failure can be likened to late Reggae star, Bob Marley, lyrics in his album Rat Race, “In the abundance of water, the fool is thirsty.” We are behaving like the fool that Bob Marley described in this rat race. Our behaviour can best be described like that of a child, who when he fell just looked upfront to see who saw him. We are not acting like the elderly man who when he fell not only looked back to know why he fell, but to also ensure not to be a victim of the same mistake the second time. But, surprisingly, we are carrying on as if the failure to qualify for the World Cup is just one of those things. It is as if failing to qualify for the World Cup is not a big deal. We are acting as if the solution to the failure is just to hire another foreign coach for the Su­per Eagles, a coach who will be ready to stay in the country, get one or two indigenous players into the Super Ea­gles and all is well. We’ve forgotten that there was a time Super Eagles were ranked the fifth best team in the world prior to Nigeria’s maiden World Cup appear­ance in the United States in 1994. We fail to understand that that rise was just a manifestation of the growth of Nigerian football and not that it has developed. We fail to acknowledge that, that growth was externally influenced, as almost 99 per cent of the Super Ea­gles players were product of European leagues. Because of this our ignorance, the structure needed to sustain this growth was overlooked, hence we could not sustain that growth the mo­ment the Super Eagles descent began. POLL The structure needed to sustain that growth is having a well-devel­oped league that can be compared to any football league in the world; a football league that will be domestic players first point of call, where their welfare is top priority; a reservoir of top grade coaches that can hold their own, coaches that can be called upon at anytime to manage the Super Ea­gles and not recourse to Europeans all the time whenever we need manag­ers for our national teams; world class facilities doting the nook and cranny of the country; and top of it all savvy administrators that can manage these resources effectively devoid of crisis. The kernel of my last three col­umns is that Nigerian football is not only in doldrums, but a disaster wait­ing to happen. I concluded that qual­ifying for the World Cup would have masked the unenviable, palatable and deplorable state of Nigerian football, vis-à-vis the Nigeria Professional Football League and the other foot­ball leagues in the country, the women leagues inclusive. My conclusion stems not only from the parlous state of the league, but also due to the grossly inadequate facilities and with the available ones in deplor­able state. Issues also highlighted were the preference for the European based players. This preference is why the NFF now combs the nook and cran­ny of Europe in search of players of Nigeria descent to play for the Super Eagles. I also pointed out that the er­roneous belief that whether the Super Eagles played well or not, they would always qualify for the World Cup also bolstered the nonchalant attitude to the league. It is now we realize that the World Cup is a big tournament that de­serves proper planning and execution. Honestly, as I stated, No foot­ball-playing nation that wants to suc­ceed abandons its domestic league the way we abandon the Nigeria Profes­sional Football League. This failure provides us a great opportunity to look into the league and plan for its develop­ment. We need to come up with a plan that will lead to the league becoming a business concern and be able to em­ploy thousands of our youths, coaches, medical practitioners and the like. I almost laughed into a state of stu­por when I learnt penultimate week that the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development has given the NFF the tall order to develop the league. Specifically, the Sports Ministry asked the NFF to come up with an “up­graded plan” to bring the league up to the standard seen in South Africa, En­gland, Spain, and also that the league must be able to produce players good enough to play in the Super Eagles. The Sports Ministry also demand­ed an overhaul of the Super Eagles and also expressed its determination to overhaul the Nigerian football eco­system. The Sports Ministry, am sure is only playing to the gallery with this directive. How will the ministry car­ry out the reforms that the Nigerian football requires without the sitting president personally supervising the process? Can the Sports Ministry ei­ther compel or cajole the various state governors to hands-off the ownership of these football clubs when in essence these clubs serve not only as a means of settling some political jobbers but also the siphoning of scarce resources. What of the presidency that are neck deep in the corruption in the NFF that stinks to high heavens? What of the stakeholders in the various states that are ready to do anything so as to be named General Manager of any of the state owned football clubs? Solving problem of Nigerian foot­ball, is dependent on the answer to the question, what does Nigeria intends to achieve with football? Do we want football to continue as a recreational sport as it is now, or we want it to be a business concern that will employ thousands of footballers, hundreds of coaches, medical personnel’s like phy­sician, physiotherapists, nutritionist, psychologists, media officers, among others? Do we want football to become an income generating institution as we have in England, Germany, Spain, Italy just to mention a few? Do we want football to take several thousands of youth off the streets and by extension crime? If we want football to become a multi billion-dollar business concern and not a recreational activity, then it requires a long term planning taking into cognizance that it must be profes­sionally managed, provide facilities, invest in indigenous coaches, research into sports medicine must become a priority of the government and more importantly the government must provide an enabling environment for football to thrive and not choking life out of it.