LAGOS – A prosecution witness, Mr. Bamidele Olusegun Safiriyu, on Tuesday told a Lagos State Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, how a fake army general, Bolarinwa Oluwase­gun Abiodun, used the name of former President Olusegun Obasanjo to defraud him to the tune of N266.5 million. The witness, a business­man, told the court presided by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo that the defendant falsely rep­resented himself as a general in the Nigerian Army, and ob­tained the sum of N266,500,000 from Kodef Clearing Resourc­es Limited, which is a regis­tered freight forwarding busi­ness owned by him since 28th April, 2008. Narrating the circumstanc­es that connected him and the defendant while being led in evidence by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo, the businessman said he knew Mr. Abiodun Olusegun Bo­larinwa in 2017. According to him, “One of the trucks I load­ed going on its way with a 2006 Honda Accord was detained, he detained the truck because he moved with soldiers.” He said that he, however, got a call from the defendant on Sat­urday that some soldiers had hijacked the container. He added, “The defendant called me and introduced him­self as a son to OBJ. He told me that my truck was with him at Abule Egba.” The witness said he asked the defendant how he got his number, but he told him that he was going to release his truck. He added that he told his brother, they called him and traced him to where he was and that was how they began relating. The witness went on to say, “One of the cars he drove in had a Baba OBJ banner at the back. People even asked me, is that Baba’s son? POLL He said the defendant later sent him a message that he was going to be appointed as the Chief of Army Staff, and would be needing his assistance because he was going to buy all the things that he needed in the army. Speaking further, the victim said he once asked himself, ‘He claimed he is Baba’s son, why does he need my help, I thought being Baba’s son, it is just a call to him.”