A member representing Barkin-Ladi/Riyom Federal Constituency of Plateau State at the National Assembly, Hon. Simon Mwadkwon has expressed gratitude to God for delivering him from ghastly car accidents that almost claimed his life. Mwadkwon disclosed this on Sunday during a Thanksgiving service to appreciate God Almighty for preserving his life at ECWA Gospel 2 Jenta Jos, Plateau State. Speaking, he explained that an auto crash he had at Gonto village in Kaduna State left him unconscious with multiple fractures and kept him in a hospital bed for more than two months. Mwadkwon who expressed gratitude for the free air given by God free of charge said that he was on oxygen for close to two months which cost him N3,070 per hour. “For me, despite the challenges we have in this country and the incessant killings in Plateau State, we still have to thank God because it is an injunction that God has given us to always thank Him in all situations. “I usually trapped myself with a seatbelt each time I am in a vehicle but that day, I don’t know why I wasn’t on a seatbelt. When the tire of the vehicle burst, the glass beside my seat broke and they throw me out through the window and I sustained fractures. “Surprisingly, the roof of the car got smashed with my seat, meaning that if I were on a seatbelt. This could only be God’s plan to deliver me from death.” Mwadkwon explained that he had another fatal accident last Month along Miango Junction in Jos, where his car was badly damaged but expressed gratitude to God for saving his life unhurt. POLL He narrated another chilling story of how he survived a plane crash with former Speaker, House of Representatives and Governor of Sokoto State, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on their way to Calabar but God spared their lives. The Minister in charge of the Church, Rev James Igbohwho took his reading from the book of I Corinthians 2:12-17, saying no matter the situation, nothing should stop believers from showing gratitude to God. Rev. James, who tagged his sermon, “Gratitude to God in hard times” lamented that several persons have committed suicide because of hard times but admonished believers that instead of taking a wrong decision, they should give thanks to God. Senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang, Member representing Langtang North/South, Member representing Jos South/Jos East, Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Chris Hassan and Barr. Caleb Mutfwang among several governorship aspirants attended the Thanksgiving Service.