LAGOS – Disturbing widowhood practices have continued in Nigeria and other parts of Africa in spite of the laws put in place to stop them. Widows are still being humiliated, dehumanised and abused through terrible customs, rites and rituals that make one question whether government and society care about women. In many parts of the country, society strips widows of dignity and some have provisions for levirate inheritance, which is the “takeover” of the widow by any of her deceased husband’s male sibling or relative. Some cultures deprive women who decline the right of place as members of the deceased’s extended family. Some families take over the children or force the widow to return the bride price and some families exploit, debase and abuse widows, rob them of their prized possessions and drive them to the streets. It was in the quest to make society a better place for widows that Lion Ayo Yemisi Jaiyeola established the Serendipity House Widows’ Foundation, a non-governmental organization that caters to and protects the interest of widows. She founded the organization in 1995 with husband. She also runs God’s Wives’ International Widows’ Ministry, which she founded 14 years ago in 2008, the same month of the demise of her husband. She spoke with Daily Independent on the activities of the organization, stating that Serendipity House is the mother body that cares for widows and protects them from adverse culture and customs and God’s Wives International is the fellowship of widows in and around Nigeria and other countries. POLL She disclosed that the organization has inaugurated widows’ camp meetings in different part of Africa. According to her, “My husband and I decided to look for how to support the less privileged people in 1993. We both experienced poverty before and after we got married and as soon as God provided him with a stable job in 1992, as a Levite/ clergy family, we were inspired by scriptures in James 1:27 to extend care to widows. On the challenges she faces in running the organization; she stated that she does not always get enough from support individuals, corporate organizations and governments, adding that she became a beggar for widows when her husband died and she was left to run the organization alone. On why she is still running the organization and supporting widows in spite of the challenges, Jaiyeola, who is a member of the Lions Clubs International, said, “I had to because I became a widow too. Where will I turn to for friendship if not the ones who already are widows like me? Relationships change when marital status changes.” She, however, told Daily Independent that the only help she got was the in a stretch of four years when Asiwaju Bola Hammed Tinubu was Governor in Lagos State. “My grandpa, Rev Emmanuel Alayande, called him to support me. And he did. Since then we have not got further government support,” she stated. The humanitarian, however, said she sometimes receives support from individuals who are few in number. She disclosed that the individuals are called “seeders”. She added that one or two companies visit the Widows’ Centre at Maryland to bless widows during the end of year seasons and festivals. On how government can support widows in the country, she said that Nigeria has over four million widows and the government unfortunately has no plan to visit their needs. Speaking on the plight of widows in the country, she stated that traditions and customs choke some of them to death after the death of their husbands. Jaiyeola argued that churches, which “are supposed to be the husbands to widows as God said that He will be the husband of widows, have not really made widows’ ministries a big one.” She added that it is not about food and fabrics at Christmas, adding that the church is the first representative of God in the life of a widow. The founder of Serendipity House Widows’ Foundation argued that widows should not be discriminated against at widowhood, adding that widowhood is a daily life situation widows should be taken care of. She asserted that widows are not very supported in the African world, stating that in many cases, widows are not allowed to inherit their husbands’ property. She posited that the widow owns the residence she shared with her husband, though he might be dead, adding that, “the law supports this and there should be no debate about this. The proper thing to do is to encourage the widows to take up such encroachment legally.” On what the government should do to make the life of widows better, Jaiyeola said, “Let the government make plans to be involved with the records of women who lost their husbands, first from the local government, state level, then the federal level. On what should society do to make their lives better, the philanthropist said some widows are lazy, and want to live off people who can pity them. However, she asserted that many are willing to work and want to learn trades or skills. She stated that society from able families, able individuals, organisations should choose a widow’s group and adopt them as a body. According to her, “Every day, widows visit our office to register that they are new widows. Every Tuesday, we have counseling hours. The fourth day of every month, on the third Saturday of every month, we have breakfast fellowships. “Serendipity has been holding a widow’s day every February before the United Nations chose June 23rd a few years ago. “We have joined the UN now and have been celebrating widows together. Most of our activities are sponsored by kind and interested families, individuals, companies, and some churches. We also visit new and older widows.” On what widows need, she said they need to breathe peace. “Let in-laws leave them alone to live normally like wives that they were. Let the government support widow training projects. She argued that as churches support bride and grooms and celebrate marriages, they should also support widows or widowers who now live alone. Jaiyeola disclosed that Serendipity House Widows’ Foundation has a plan to build a Widows’ Shelter, adding that it took the organization over five years to save for the land purchase. She called on individuals, organizations and corporate entities to donate to the good cause. “We need donors to help build the shelter, one level to another,” she stated.