ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised alarm over yet another crash of a military plane belonging to the Nigerian Airforce (NAF) in Kaduna on Tuesday, April 19, 2022 with officers reportedly killed in the incident. The PDP pointed to the growing public apprehension of possible security compromises and complicity in the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration, leading to incessant unexplained military aircraft crashes in the country in the last seven years. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Honourable Debo Ologunagba, said that the disturbing trend is the fact that after each crash, the APC government comes up with a public announcement to investigate the circumstances surrounding the mishap but typical of the administration, such investigation went cold. “This pattern gives credence to the strong suspicion among Nigerians that there is complicity or sabotage in our national security architecture including the Airforce, which is very critical to any meaningful fight against terrorism. “In May last year, just eleven months ago, a NAF aircraft crashed around Kaduna International Airport, killing the then Chief of Army Staff, Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other officers. “It is instructive to note that our nation has experienced no fewer than 11 unexplained military air crashes since the Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government took over power in 2015,” the party said. The PDP demanded for a system-wide independent judicial enquiry to conduct an investigation into the remote and immediate causes of these incessant crashes of the military aircraft, especially in the face of worsening terrorism attacks in the country. “This demand is imperative and consistent with the demands by Nigerians who have lost faith in the ability of the APC government to conduct a transparent and credible investigation into any matter, particularly those relating to our national security. POLL “Our party is saddened with this trend of event and hereby condoles with the Nigerian Airforce, the families of the officers involved in the air crash and prays for the repose of the souls of the departed officers. “The PDP salutes our courageous military officers and charges them not to be deterred by this very sad and unfortunate incident but to remain vigilant and focused in their constitutional duty of protecting our nation especially at this critical point in our national life,” the party said.