LAGOS  – Nigerian household spending could fall by a total USD$335.1 billion if the nation has to self-fund its journey to net-zero, a new study by Standard Chartered has revealed. According to Just in Time, which looks at the transition financing gap for emerging markets and how to close it, Nigeria will require USD$283.3 billion to transition to net-zero, but will need assistance from developed markets to meet its goals. According to the study, “If the finance Nigeria needs to transition to net zero is provided by developed markets, Nigerian household spending could increase by USD$216.7 billion compared to self-financing “If emerging markets fund their own transition, without help from developed markets, household consumption in these markets could fall by 5 per cent on average each year On the transition finance gap report, “While Nigeria needs investment of USD$283.3 billion to transition to net zero, Just in Time reveals that emerging markets as a whole need to invest an additional USD$94.8 trillion – a sum higher than annual global GDP – to transition in time to meet long-term global warming targets. “This is on top of the capital already allocated by governments under their current climate policies”. The report noted that the private investors can contribute USD$83 trillion of the USD$94.8 trillion that is required – underscoringtheurgentneed for financial institutions to fulfil green and transition finance pledges. However, as shown in our previous report, the USD$50 Trillion Question, encouraging investment in emerging markets is a difficult task. POLL Bill Winters, Group Chief Executive, Standard Chartered, said: “Emerging markets need a great deal of investment to transition to net zero and the stakes have never been higher. Without help from developed markets, improvement in emerging market prosperity could be halted or reversed, which would not only be unjust but would have a hugely negative impact on the world economy. “However, even more crucially, failure to deliver emerging market transition finance could mean climate goals are missed, triggering an environmental catastrophe. Governments and the financial sector need to come together to help facilitate the flow of investment into emerging markets urgently. Developed market funding could help prevent the worst of global warming, as well as stimulating global GDP.” “Standard Chartered has committed to reaching net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, with interim targets for the most carbon-intensive sectors by 2030. “We plan to mobilise USD$300 billion in green and transition finance by 2030 to support the transition to net zero in the markets we can home, supported by our own Transition Finance Framework. “We are accelerating new solutions, including through a new dedicated Transition Acceleration Team to support clients in high-emitting sectors.” Dayo Aderugbo Head, Corporate Affairs, Brand and Marketing, Nigeria Standard Chartered, said: “We are a leading international banking group, with a presence in 59 of the world’s most dynamic markets and serving clients in a further 85. Our purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity, and our heritage and values are expressed in our brand promise, here for good”. The world’s top 300 investment firms with total assets under management of more than USD$50 trillion, have just 2 per cent, 3 per cent and 5 per cent of their investments in the Middle East, Africa and South America, respectively. Just in Time argues that to transition in the fairest way possible, greater collaboration is required in strategy, policy, and financing. More importantly, banks need to live up to the pledges made during COP26 if ordinary households are to avoid bearing the costs of their market’s transition to net-zero.