ABUJA – The Coalition of Civil Society Groups(CCSG) has cautioned the All Progressives Congress (APC) Youths and Solidarity Forum to desist from calling on the resignation of the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN), Godwin Emefiele, and Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation in view of their purported interests to vie for political positions come 2023 general elections. This was contained in a statement jointly signed by the President of CCSG, Etuk Bassey Williams, and Secretary General, CCSG, Abubakar Ibrahim. It would be recalled that APC Youths and Solidarity Forum led by its Convener, Tobias Ogbeh, had on Wednesday in Abuja, embarked on a protest as well as called for the resignation of the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) over their interests to seek elective positions in the 2023 elections. Williams therefore, strongly condemned the group calling for the resignation of Emefiele and Malami, describing them as being disgruntled and faceless. The statement pointed that Emefiele and Malami are two noble appointees of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government and should not be dragged into dirty politics going into the 2023 general elections, as they are yet to decide despite receiving calls from different groups to contest. The statement reads in part, “We condemn in strong terms the barbaric manner some disgruntled and faceless group, APC Youths and Solidarity Forum, which is unknown to the All Progressive Congress, went on to stage comic protest and called on the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN), Godwin Emefiele and Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, to resign their positions, saying it is their choices to contest or not to contest in elections come 2023. “This group is not even registered with the APC but is sponsored by some terrible politicians who want to tear the party apart. “They have gone out to sponsor these youths who are persons of easy virtues, who are readily available to be used by these politicians who are seeking relevance. POLL “We want the group that is hired and used by these politicians who don’t mean well for Nigerians to desist from the act because their action is libellous and we cannot sit and watch Tobias Ogbeh and his co-travellers continue with this unwholesome attitude. “We urge them to desist from such acts and embrace democratic norms and values.” The statement also added that “Ogbeh and his paid group are being misled and misguided to call on Emefiele and Malami to resign. “Henceforth, we advise him not to mention the names of Emefiele and Malami in any of their protests. “They should rather channel their energy into understanding the workings and success stories of Emefiele and Malami in office,” Williams said.