Flop Paul Pogba has left the Manchester United WhatsApp group as he weighs up two offers from clubs. The Mirror reports that the midfielder has now left the side’s social media group as he entertains offers from Real Madrid and Bayern Munich. It is thought that Barcelona are also interested in Pogba, having recently been boosted by a £236million sponsorship deal with Spotify to soothe their financial problems. Ralf Rangnick confirmed that Pogba, who joined the club in 2016 from Juventus, is out for the rest of the season after the Frenchman was injured during the club’s 4-0 defeat at Liverpool last Tuesday. His contract is up in the summer and the 29-year-old is not expected to sign a new one, meaning his days at Old Trafford are almost certainly over. During his time at United, Pogba and his agent, Mino Raiola, have often spoken to the media about the possibility of moving on. Such talk married with inconsistent displays has soured the supporter’s relationship with the player. He walked off sarcastically cupping his ear as the home support jeered him when United beat Norwich 3-2 in earlier in the month. Pogba also spoke about his frustrations with his positioning under interim manager Rangnick compared to his role at the international level for France. He said: “It’s simple with France: I play and I play in my position; I know my role and I feel the confidence of the coach and the players. “It’s normal to feel a difference at Manchester United because it’s hard to be consistent when you often have a change to your position, or the team system, or your partners… do I really have a role? I ask the question but I don’t have an answer.” POLL Rangnick reacted to the comments by stressing that all United squad members need to be adaptable: “He [Pogba] was quite like a few other players struggling to get his best performance sustainably on the pitch for a team like Man United. This has not only been the case this season or in the last couple of weeks. As far as I remember it was also the case in earlier years. “It’s difficult to say [why]. If myself or other coaches knew it would be easier to change that but I don’t know… as it seems right now he will not renew his contract and I don’t know, maybe the club or Erik [ten Hag] will not want to renew his contract, I don’t know. It’s most likely he won’t be here anymore next season.” United have won only once in their last five games, most recently losing to Arsenal 3-1 at the Emirates. It means their top-four ambitions are all but over.