Ciro Immobile is one of the best forwards of his generation, who has repeatedly won the Serie A scoring race and even won the Golden Boot. For the first time, he won the individual award when he was a player of Torino. By the way, football todays matches involving this club are covered in detail on the sports statistics website. You can follow each confrontation. For the first time, Immobile won the title of top scorer in Serie A in the season 2013/14. At that time nobody would have guessed that the young “Torino” striker would be ahead of strong competitors like Icardi, Toni, Tevez and others. But Immobile managed to score 22 times in the opponents’ goal and immediately became one of the main stars of Italian soccer. In the summer of that year Ciro moved to “Borussia”, but his performances in Germany and then in Spain were not successful. But here in Italy, he was always quoted as a top scorer. In the 2013/14 season, Immobile impressed everyone with his consistency. He not only showed a series of brilliant matches but regularly hit the goals of all his opponents. He was good both against the recognized giants of Italian soccer and the outsiders of the league. In Italy, there is always serious competition for the title of the best shooter. That’s why the victory of Immobile, who until that season was practically unknown to the wide public, is a real sensation. You can watch all the football matches with “Torino” in a convenient format today. So, Immobile’s victory in the scoring race in the 2013/14 season was unexpected because of such factors: POLL Thus, in that season not only the whole of Italy but also Europe learned about the striker, who would become one of the best forwards of the 2010s. In the future, Immobile will spend many great seasons in “Lazio”, where he managed to win the scoring race in Serie A several more times. But the 2013/14 season, when he had a spectacular season in “Torino”, will be forever remembered by the fans. And it’s easy to follow the current confrontations with the club on the sports statistics website.