Dr. Dele Oluwatade, a Benin-based Medical practitioner and Chairman, God and People Prayer Parliament, has called on President Buhari to discard the present Presidential System of government and opt for a Parliamentary system that will reduce the cost of governance which the presidential system has inadvertently placed on the country. Oluwatade also called for the split of the country into eight regions, with President Muhammadu Buhari transmuting to Prime Minister, to end his tenure in 2023, stressing that the option would save the country from imminent Pentecost of violence. Oluwatade who is also the leader of City Gate Elders of Nigeria, Benin City made the declaration in Benin while examining the state of the nation described the presidential system of government as being practiced by the present government of President Buhari as. “Functional confusion per excellence”. According to the medical practicioner who spoke to journalists in Benin City, “I am advocating for a Parliamentary system of Government and a split of the country to eight regions, with President Muhammadu Buhari transmuting to Prime Minister, because it is the only option that would save the country from imminent Penticost of violence”. Dr. Oluwatade who is the Coordinator of the non-partisan group named the proposed regions as North West, North East, Midwest, South West, South East, South South East, Middle Belt East and West regions, warned that no ethnic group will own Nigeria if the violence breaks out as the country will end up in pieces. “I wish to restate my views that PMB should transmute to a prime minister with immediate effect; constitute a Parliamentary government Committee. Create an 8-parliamentary regional government”. While outlining the advantages of Parliamentary system of government, Dr. Oluwatade said Nigeria, a borrowing nation that has nothing to export has no business in running a Presidential system of government. “If not that the United States of America is a producing nation, that Country would have been reduced to nothing. POLL “By American standard, Nigeria should not have more than twelve states, a twelve regions arrangement is good for Nigeria saving the twenty four insolvent states and waste “A massive borrowing nation is warming up for awareness on Presidential style of campaigns and elections, meanwhile, youths are out of school due to ASSU strike and JAMB is conducting another exam to admit another set of youth into a locked system, and government is sourcing four trillion. Functional confusion per excellence. “In view of this, I am calling on the Retired Generals Association of Nigeria to advise their colleague in power in a way that should engender security of lives and properties in the country”, he said. Dr. Oluwatade said there is still time for President Buhari to restore his name and restructure the country, and warned that if he doesn’t do it another person will do it and take the glory. “I know the President will redeem his public image by restructuring Nigeria and thereby kill many birds with this one wise political stone”, Oluwatade added.