UMUAHIA – In an enormous decision on who replaces the incumbent Senator for Abia Central, Senator TA Orji, the traditional rulers from Isiala Ngwa South LGA on Friday endorsed the candidature of Colonel Austin Akobundu (retired) as the next Senator for Abia Central Senatorial district come 2023. The traditional rulers who spoke in the Palace of HRH Eze Godwin Nwankpa, the Chairman, Isiala Ngwa South Traditional Rulers Council, described Akobundu as a seasoned administrator and credible personality who is qualified for the job, saying that they were putting him forward to take over from Senator Orji because of his track record in office as a public servant. The over 40 royal fathers spoke when retired Col Akobundu visited Isiala Ngwa South to inform the traditional rulers, stakeholders, leaders and officials of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of his decision to vie for the Abia Central Senatorial district in the 2023 general elections. In an emotion-laden prayer said by HRH Eze Evang Solomon Nwafor Ogudoro, the royal fathers blessed the PDP aspirant and thereafter endorsed him to represent the district in the Red Chambers. Addressing Ndi Eze Isiala Ngwa South at the Palace of Eze Nwankpa in Omoba as part of his consultation of critical stakeholders of the district, Akobundu stated that he knows the significance of according respect to the traditional institution hence the essence of the visit, adding that he will not neglect the traditional institution if elected as Senator in 2023. Akobundu who is the immediate past National Organizing Secretary of the PDP assured that if elected as Senator for Abia Central Senatorial District, he will not disappoint Ndi Eze Isiala Ngwa South and the entire people of Abia Central, adding that he will always call upon them for advice from time to time. The PDP aspirant, a former Minister of Defence (State), explained that as a trained ex army personnel, with strong military discipline, he will be accountable to his constituents, stressing that service to the people will remain his watchword if given the opportunity to represent Abia Central at the Senate come 2023. He therefore appreciated the traditional rulers for their contributions in the maintenance of peace and security in their domains. POLL Contributing, the Chairman of Isiala Ngwa South Local Government Council, Comrade Ike Anyatonwu and the Director General, Col. Akobundu Campaign Council, Pastor Emeka Inyama, described the aspirant as an acclaimed international administrator and asked the monarchs and the people of Isiala Ngwa South to cast their votes en masse for him in 2023. Earlier, Eze Nwankpa, Eze Nelson Nmerengwa of Isieka Ancient Kingdom and his Nneise Nvosi counterpart, Eze Prof B.O Dike had lauded Col Akobundu for his notable roles in peace and security of the nation as well as the growth of the PDP, while assuring him of their continued prayers.