UYO – On May 28, 2015, the then Governor of Akwa Ibom State,  Godswill Akpabio  commissioned a $1.5million worth of Rotary Press as parting gift to the state owned Pioneer Newspaper Corporation, but without the privilege of test-running the facility. That was so because the Press, which consist of a Supra Setter A105 otherwise known as Computer To Plate (CTP) machine and a Goss Community Press with a web offset press, was said to have been wrongly installed, with certain critical components missing. Despite its huge capacity to print 17 colour pages, 32 black and white pages of newspaper, run 500,000 impression per hour, while the CTP runs a resolution of 2,400 DPI, the press on its day of commissioning had no printing ink, rolling papers and printing plate needed to print for the Governor to see, an indication that its supervising ministry had failed to carry out due diligence. The Press was meant to serve both as printing press and a revenue generating venture for AkwaIbom Newspaper Corporation (AKNC), publishers of the Pioneer Newspapers. On becoming aware of the capacity of the Pioneer press, no fewer than five national dailies were said to have indicated interest to print their newspapers at the press especially as it would enhance circulation and early arrival of the papers in South-South region to Uyo, the state capital. Regrettably, the machines which were installed and commissioned on May 28, 2015 are yet to roll out a single copy of the Pioneer as it has been in fallow state, while the complex housing machines have remained under lock. Although the initial claims attributed the delay to government’s inability to officially hand over the press to the  management of AKNC,  however, further investigations revealed a frosty relationship between the then supervising Ministry and the consultants. Former General Manager of Pioneer Newspaper, Mr Silas Udo, who was in office when the press was installed, said the machines were not used by the Pioneer to print any paper, neither, was any member of staff trained on how to operate the machines. POLL Silas stated that the AkwaIbom Newspaper Corporation did not officially receive the printing press as it was never handed over to the Corporation by the supervising ministry, Ministry of Information and Strategy. Udo said the procedural process of receiving the machines was not done because the necessary checklist to ascertain what the state government paid for, and what was sent by the manufacturers was not done. “The press was never used to print the Pioneer in my time. No Pioneer staff under my watch went for training anywhere to master the workings of the Press. “Yes, we did not receive the press. It was a deliberate decision not to receive it as the procedural processes were not done or seen to be done. For example, the checklist to ascertain that what the government paid for, are what were sent by the manufacturers was not done. “It would therefore have been against civil service procedure to sign a Stores Receipt Voucher (SRV). So unless this was done after I left service, the Press remained under the administration of the supervising ministry,” he said Corroborating Udo’s position, Mr. IdorenyinUmoren, the then  Production Manager of AKNC said he was one of the committee members of AKNC Rotary Press Pre-shipment Inspection Committee announced by state government to visit Goss Community Press Company in Germany. Umoren however stated that the committee was not inaugurated, and the inspection to the Goss Community Press Company in Germany, Hieldelberg, never happened. He said they were only informed that the machines have arrived Uyo through Onne in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and they were expected to receive them, saying no production staff of AKNC was trained on how to operate the machines. On his part, Mr. Patrick Usen, the Consultant in charge of the project blamed the failure of the project on the then leadership of the Ministry of Information and called for a probe into the abandonment of the printing press. Usen explained that the machines failed to work due to improper installation, saying the managers of the project did not follow the procedures necessary to set up a press. He said the most proper thing would have been for the representatives of Hieldelberg, Goss Graphics and himself, who facilitated the process from the purchase and shipment of the machines to have been available at the installation and commissioning of the machines. Usen therefore queried the manner in which the machines were received, saying there was no confirmation of what was received vis-a-vis what was sent, adding that the auxiliary equipment which came with the machines such as forklift, rollers etc. which are among major equipment for the smooth running of the machines were missing. “Governor GodswillAkpabio had excellent intentions for the State and Pioneer Newspaper in particular. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Information truncated that project. They should be held responsible. I don’t know where this enquiry will end, but I think that a Commission of Enquiry should be set up to probe the issue. “That web offset press has not been received till today by Pioneer that is, it has not been officially handed over by Goss Graphics to Pioneer because of the haphazard installation procedures. There was no adherence to good engineering practice of installation. They hurriedly put that up together and called the Governor, and I think the machine collapsed and failed there. “There was no ink, no rolling papers, no printing plate needed to print for the Governor to see. All those things were not there, and the machine collapsed that day,” he stated. The Consultant called for a technical audit of what was supplied, what was installed, and how it was installed, as well as possible errors with the installation processes so as to correct the abnormality that has kept the machines from working. He lamented that the state government was yet to pay him his contract fee for the project, adding that he was willing to return for a proper installation of the machines if the government was willing. He however warned that the Supra Setter A105 (Computer To Plate) machine may have to be upgraded as it may have outlived its lifespan of six years while laying idle. “There must be a technical audit of what was supplied, what was installed, how it was installed and also find out if there were errors with the procedures of installation and realign the machine to start all over again. “The lifespan of the Goss Graphics could be up to 50 years, but the Computer to Plate would last, let’s say for between five to six years. All you need is to change parts and upgrade,” he advised. Unfortunately, efforts to speak with Mr. AniekanUmanah, who was then the Commissioner for Information who supervised the whole process of purchasing, installing and commissioning the press was not successful as he did not pick up his calls, nor respond to text messages sent to his phone. When contacted, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade IniEmemobong hinted that the state government, upon his visit to the facility has commissioned an inquiry into the case and had further opened up the press for investors. “When I came into the office, I visited the facility and commissioned an inquiry into issues surrounding the Press, we are working to reconcile all grey areas. In line with the Governor’s determination to continue to achieve result in a most cost effective way, we had to open up the business to investors who would come and manage the press. “Many have indicated interest and we are still considering the options. I assure you that before the exit of this administration, the Press will be taken over for proper management”, he assured.