ABUJA – Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that any country that makes dishonesty, corruption, lack of transparency and bureaucracy the norm has chosen backwardness and poverty of the majority of its citizens. Osinbajo stated this at the weekend in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, during the 21st Joint Planning Board and National Council on Development Planning (JPB/NCDP) Meeting. He noted that the effect of poor governance would result in the ineffective delivery of public services whether it is in the collection of taxes, or delivery of social investment programme, public education, health services, and delivery of performance, among others. He, therefore, underscored the need for synergy and cooperation between the Federal Government and States, to ensure better coordination of economic policies for poverty reduction and sustainable development. He further stressed the need for synergy among all tiers of government as it remained paramount ”at this critical time when we continue to face the challenges of recovery from the onslaught of the COVID-19 now compounded by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war.” Osinbajo further pointed out that the Council had remained a very important platform for setting the tone of national economic discourses, adding that ”it provides a good opportunity for Federal and State Governments to maintain their active collaboration for the well being of their people.” He commended the efforts of stakeholders from the private sector and civil servants in articulating the National Development Plan (NDP)2021-2025, stating that the strategic objectives of the NDP included establishing a strong foundation for a diversified economy, investing in critical infrastructure, enabling human capital development and improving governance, and strengthening security which would certainly contribute to achieving national development aspirations. Addressing Commissioners drawn from the various States of the Federation during the technical session of the NCDP earlier, the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, appreciated the participation of delegates, stating that the theme of this year’s conference, “Good Governance and Institutional Capacity: Pathways to Sustainable National Development” was crafted to reflect the current efforts of the Federal Government in ensuring the effective implementation of the NDP 2021 – 2025. POLL Agba stated that the conceptualisation and effectiveness of good governance for sustainable development particularly in the context of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals had come into focus in recent years. He added that recognising the role of the government in the management of the economy wherein the joint participation of state and non-state actors, civil society organisations and the private sector was essential in the process of public governance. According to him, “Emerging trends point to good governance as a panacea towards accelerated development in economic, political and social sectors of nations, making it imperative for any country wishing to realise, promote or maintain economic, political and social strides to strive to embrace good governance. Efficient political and economic strands promote social order’’. He stressed the need for achieving good governance, as well as, institutional capacity as very important objectives of the NDP, which was launched by President Muhammadu Buhari, as a holistic plan to engender a positive and brighter outlook for the Nigerian economy in the medium term in spite of the COVID-19 challenges and also the commitment of Mr President to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years remained unchanged and was being doggedly pursued. The minister urged all hands to be on deck to attain that height seamlessly. According to him: ‘’I have always posited that good governance lies in the mindset of people. “As long as the people do not remain a stumbling block to the ease of doing business, the people of Nigeria will reap a lot of benefits from the National Development Plan 2021 – 2025. “We must remove all encumbrances to doing business, the biggest of which is the human factor linked to an unacceptable attitudinal disposition and the lack of a sense of urgency.’ “In overcoming these impediments to national development, the plan has a volume (3) which captures the binding constraints and legislative imperatives to the ease of doing business’’ the minister explained. Agba said he agreed that the 21st JPB/NCDP event was a huge success, due to the tireless efforts of the Permanent Secretary, Directors and the entire management and staff members of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning (the National Planning Arm). He assured all that the outcome of the event would be given due attention.