Women from all walks of life have called on Nigerians to give women enough support to enable them participate in leadership positions in the country. Convener, Hangout With Tee, Titi Oyemade, alongside other women, made the call in Lagos during the seventh edition of “Hangout With Tee,” themed: ‘Unwrap Am,” organised for friends, families, loved ones and women of like-minds. Oyemade, who believes that women are capable but are not getting enough support, advocated that, “Women should be given support because they are more compassionate while the men are more rigid in their roles. If women are given the right push, they will do very well.” She sated that the objective of the programme was to “bring women together, let them network and learn from the wealth of experience of guest speakers and also have fun.” She said: “I am passionate about women. I observed that a lot of women don’t have time for themselves because they are so occupied with work and taking care of everyone around them. So, I felt the need to organise this event for them to unwind and enjoy themselves. “This programme aims to promote self confidence, positivity and self love.”While corroborating Oyemade, Nollywood star, Marcy Dolapo Oni, said that women should get themselves more involved in governance, urging them to put their best foot forward to run. “Women should strive to be the best and work extra to excel, especially when they find themselves in a male-dominated environment. I also think that women should go out there and do what they need to do.” She, however,charged women never to stop learning because knowledge is power. POLL “Women should unwrap their skills and talents. They should think about what comes to them naturally and nurture it. Women should put themselves out there and keep pushing,” she added. Ace broadcaster and author, Bimbo Oloyede, while lending her support,called on women to financially empower themselves and be self-reliant. “Women should strive to have different streams of income. Women should be natural and stop limiting themselves. We have different talents embedded in us that could be used in a variety of ways,” Oloyede said. Oloyede added: “Life is made up of challenges but it is not the challenge you face but the way you fought that challenge that will determine how far you can go and how successful you are going to become. “What we should focus on is turning those challenges into strengths or learning from the mistakes so that it won’t keep happening again.” Compère and Communication Representative, Mojibade Sosanya, say that women have been disadvantaged in society for so long. According to Sosanya, “So, in times like this, they need to be reminded of their worth and the need to always stand out. There are so many biases against women in our world today, especially in Nigeria. “So, it is more like a call for women to break the bias, remind them of who they are and what they can become.”