Presidential aspirants on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi and Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel have said that the party’s decision on zoning is supreme. The aspirants who stated this while speaking with newsmen in Abuja immediately after their screening by the party Presidential Screening Committee, chaired by former Senate President David Mark said that the decision on the zoning of political offices would be obeyed by all aspirants, once it is announced. Fielding question on the recent decision of the Southern governors that the presidency should be zoned to the South while it seemed the party was saying otherwise, Emmanuel said that “party is supreme.” “Party is supreme, if the party has spoken we will all abide by what the party says,” adding that the delegates to the party’s national convention would determine who would emerge as the party’s presidential candidate for the 2023 elections. The governor also said that he did not foresee any problem arising at the party primaries for presidential elections because of the 17 aspirants contesting the party’s ticket. “If there were not many aspirants, I would have been worried. Honestly, that is where it would have been boring. “You see this as a new spirit, a new wave of PDP, where everybody is allowed to express himself or herself. So allow us to express ourselves on that day wherever the venue will be. “I think the delegates will determine who will rescue and restore this country. POLL “But trust me, whoever they will bring up as the candidate of the party will be one of the best that this country has ever produced, because look at the people that we are parading, who are aspirants. “All around, I think so many factors are in my favour and that will be decided by the electorate on the primaries,” he said. Correspondingly, Peter Obi said that the party had the final say on the issue of zoning but should care about what Nigerians are saying or looking for. Obi said that the party should be concerned about how to create a future for the teeming unemployed Nigerian youth and pull Nigerians out of hunger. “We cannot go on around things that are yesterday. Let’s think about tomorrow. How come a great nation such as Nigeria is not doing well? Simple: Changing from consumption to production.” Obi, who also commended the screening process, said the delegates would be the ones to determine who emerged as the party’s candidate. “My chance is just for the delegates to decide. I’m not going to impose myself on them. “My chance is for the delegates to reflect on the nation and decide what we should do to guarantee a future for our young ones.”