IBADAN – Former Nigeria Ambas­sador to Philippines, Dr. Yemi Farounbi has lend his voice on what need to be done to expand the current economic situation of the country. The veteran broadcaster, who was a guest speaker at the Unveiling Of the 2nd South West Local Government Ag­ricultural Development and Mineral Resources Trade Fair 2022, themed ‘Ajelawa 2022’ maintained that “if we really want to grow our economy we have to do what other de­veloped countries have done.” The event that was held on Thursday at the historical Premier Hotel, Ibadan had in attendance the state commis­sioner of Agriculture as well as representatives from Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ogun States and it was co-chaired by Engr. Dotun Sanusi, the Managing Director of Ilaji Farms and Resorts and Baale of Ekotedo, Chief Taye Ayorinde and oth­er stakeholders. Dr. Farounbi, in his speech decried Nigeria over depen­dent on crude oil, saying, Ni­geria economy can only grow through industrialisation at the grassroots level. He noted that Nigeria needs to emulate the developed coun­try like China and Japan who relied on the small medium scale industry to grow their Gross Domestic Product and expand their economy. He said, “What I think we really need at a time like this is what I call mass industriali­sation at the grassroots so that people won’t have to migrate from the rural areas to urban centers in search of job oppor­tunities. We have to find a way of redirecting our industrial grow. Many years ago, if you went to Acme Road in Ikeja you will find textile factories and others but today all these factories have become church­es. So we have to re-direct the growth and development of our economy to make sure that almost each local government can become industrial unit. “It’s not only China that have developed at the micro level, also as at last year, Ja­pan relied on the small me­dium scale industry. They embarked on small scale in­dustry that will employ 3 to 5 person from 57% of the Gross Domestic Product. America last year relied on these small scale businesses to 54% of its GDP. So what we are saying is that all the resources that we have, not only in agriculture there is no local government out of the 117 that is putting in the constitution that is tapping into the mineral resources. “As a matter of fact, bulk of the gemstones that we import are carried away as laterites from Oyo North, so all we need to do for our economy to grow is to expand. We need to look at these mineral resources we have in each of the local gov­ernment areas and instead of exporting them as raw ma­terials, we should be refined and process them so that we can market them as finished products. POLL “I’m aware that we have a serious problem that we that produce the crude oil, number 8 to 9 in the world, the four re­fineries we have are not work­ing and we are importing so much petroleum that we are still talking about price subsi­dy. A country like Venezuela that produces crude oil like us have 57 refineries. They en­sured that none of the crude oil leaves Venezuela without being refined and it’s sad be­cause I know most of the refin­eries in Venezuela are owned by Nigerians. I know that the one in Burkina Faso is owned by a Nigerian. “So we have to reorientate ourselves and this cannot be done by government alone because government have no business in business. What they need to do is providing an enabling environment. The individuals, the entrepreneurs, the people that have the busi­ness with business are the ones that can do it. All government needs to do is to provide en­abling environment. The good roads will enable us to trans­port the products from farm to the city,” Dr. Farounbi said. In his contributions, Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde said “Our goals as government is to accelerate the development of all the various constituency and all the sectors of the Oyo State economy. We are particularly desire of facilitating and even develop across all our local gov­ernments.” Makinde, who was ably represented by his Executive Assistant on Administration, Reverend Idowu Ogedengbe stressed that the presence of all the local government chairmen affirmed the state government commitment on agricultural development even at grassroots level.