It was a carnival as people thronged out in their numbers to witness the ward declaration of the Founder of the HOG Foundation, Arc. (Dr.) Hassan Olawale Giwa, who is aspiring to represent Lagelu/Akinyele Federal Constituency in the Federal House of Representatives under the platform of the All Progressives Congress in the 2023 general election. The declaration event, which was held at Lagun witnessed a large turnout of party faithful from Apatere, Oore, Ejioku, Lalupon and other adjoining towns in the Lagelu Local Government area of Oyo State. It was a testimony of the popularity and acceptability of the personality of the Otunba of Lagun, Arc Giwa, who the majority of the party leaders attested as the aspirant without a stained character, good antecedents and intellectually balanced to represent the constituency. Some of the leaders in attendance include former House of Representatives member, Hon. Aderemi Adebayo, Hon. Jide Adeniran, Chief Wale Akanmu, Hon. Yakub Olumide Ali, who represented Hon. Olu Akintola and APC Ward 6 Chairman, Hon. Yahyah Abeeb. Others are traditional rulers and religious leaders in the community, Chief Imam of Lagun, Sheik Toliat Hamed, Onilagun of Lagun, Chief Najeemdeen Bello, who was represented by Chief Bashir, Baale Olalere, Chief Segun Ogunyemi, Pastor and Lady Evangelist Ogunkanmi, Alhaji M. A. Liadi and Hon. Akeem Arowomole, who is the Chairman of the HOG Committee. Declaring his ambition before the leaders, teeming members of the APC, as well as his humongous followers, Arc Giwa, said that his sojourn in the political arena is not a coincidence; rather it is a planned and calculated action to change the political narrative, especially in the local government. He disclosed that his objective is to be a representative that will make a positive impact in the lives of the people of Lagelu/Akinyele Federal Constituency. According to Arc Giwa, “My vision in politics is not to bargain your right or to mortgage the future of our people, our youths and coming generations, my vision is to come up with motions and bills that will change the lives our farmers, our traders, our artisans and our youths and students to better. POLL “My plan is to support farmers, support government to improve primary healthcare centers across my constituency with drugs and other necessary equipment and facilities that will ensure quality healthcare services delivery, and continue on my vision to raise the bar of education in my constituency. “I will continue with my school renovation policy, continue to provide chairs and tables, continue to distribute free exercise books and other writing materials, continue to provide uniforms and payment of WAEC fees of the best students across the constituency, as we all give out free UTME forms and support the best students with scholarships. “I will continue to engage youths male and female invocation of their choice and support them after graduation with necessary equipment and tools, as well as financial assistance to enable them to stand on their own and become independent persons. I will continue to provide support for traders, widows and aged people in my capacity to enjoy a good life. “I will not forget our traditional institution, our fathers, our traditional rulers, I will carry them along, all our community leaders, Community Development Councils (CDCs), Community Development Areas (CDAs), and religious leaders irrespective of lineages to find a common front that will guarantee peaceful coexistence of the people and development of communities within the constituency,” Arc Giwa said. He said that all these he has been doing through his foundation over 17 years ago without holding any elective position, saying that the situation in the country called for the participation of professionals to join politics. Arc Giwa, who also used the occasion to give out the sum of N10,000 each to aged people in his ward, distributed bags of rice and cash for the people in celebration of Ramadan, said that this declaration is just the beginning because charity begins from home. He added that the dates for the local and constituency declaration will soon be announced. In their remarks, Hon. Aderemi Adebayo, Hon. Jide Adeniran and Hon. Olumide Ali described Hon. Giwa as a round peg in a round hole. They said that his antecedents, his qualifications and exposure are enough to earn the ticket to fly the APC House of Representatives party flag in the 2023 general election. Hon. Adebayo explained that politics in the National Assembly is different from local or state politics, saying that it required a person like Arc Giwa, who is endowed with intellectual prowess, good antecedents and good communication skill to facilitate good projects and lots of goodies to develop his constituency. Hon. Adeniran and Hon. Ali, therefore, charged all members of the APC in ward 6 and by extension in the local government to support Arc. Giwa in his aspiration.