Over 500 Houses were destroyed by rainstorms in Ise- Ekiti and Orun- Ekiti after a heavy downpour in the two communities on Thursday. Amongst the buildings affected are Ansar-ul-Deen Central Mosque, Ise- Ekiti and Saint Stephen’s Primary School as well as part of the Palace of the traditional ruler of Orun-Ekiti, Oba Zaccheus Adewumi.. Many residents were rendered homeless in the communities as  Shops, bakeries, and Viewing centres as well as residential buildings’ roofing was completely blown off by the storm. Daily Independent gathered from the locals that the heavy downpour which lasted for about one hour was accompanied by a devastating whirlwind that blew off rooftops and also destroyed some farmlands. The Chairman, Ise -Orun Local Governments, Hon Ayo Akinluyi who led the  Chairman, Ekiti State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Captain Sunday Adebomi and officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA)   on the spot assessment of the affected areas described the damage as massive. The NEMA team was led by the Director of Operations, Mr Abdulkadir Olanrewaju Expressing sadness over the incident, the Arinjale of Ise-Ekiti, Oba Ayodele Ajayi lamented that he had never witnessed such magnitude of disaster since he ascended the throne of his forefathers. Oba Ajayi, therefore, enjoined the disaster management officials to assist the two communities by presenting their case to the appropriate authorities. The monarch also promised to seek assistance from some well to do sons and daughters of the town in providing temporary support for the victims. POLL ” I am saddened by the level of carnage in the two communities. In fact, I want to tell you that I have never witnessed such in my life. I had to personally go round to see the extent of the damage. Though, we thanked God Almighty  that there was no casualty in spite of huge damage except that the victims would be subjected to another round of social pressure .” In his remarks, Captain Adebomi who incidentally is from Ise-Ekiti disclosed that he was inundated with a barrage of distress calls from the affected households. Adebomi, a retired United State Army officer, who sympathised with the monarchs and the people of the two communities also promised to everything within his powers to get assistance from the government. The SEMA boss urged the victims to come forward with proper documentation of affected properties in order to secure Relief Materials from the government. Adebomi also urged the victims to liaise with the council officials as well as their elected representatives for prompt documentation. However, Hon Akinluyi disclosed that the extent of damage was beyond the council’s capacity to bear. He also explained that part of the steps taken so far was to assist victims to relocate their family houses. Also speaking, Elder Tunji Falana who is the  Chairman Ise Development Council described the incident as very unfortunate. Elder ‘Tunji Falana appealed to the Federal, State, and Local governments to come to assistance by carrying out an immediate assessment of the damages done in the town and Villages without delay and provide relief materials in cash and kind.