The world’s wealthiest countries are rapidly boosting spending on clean energy, but lower-income nations are struggling to do the same, with higher food and fuel prices bearing down on their already limited finances. The widening gap could challenge the global goal of zeroing out planet-warming emissions by 2050, the target needed to prevent the worst impacts of climate change, according to a new report from the International Energy Agency. Countries have allocated a total of $710 billion to clean energy through their Covid-19 stimulus packages, a 50 percent increase since last October, according to the IEA’s Sustainable Recovery Tracker. Those measures include support for solar, wind and other renewable power projects; prevention of methane leaks and investment in carbon capture technology; financing for electric vehicle chargers or the electrification of bus fleets; just transition funds to support a shift away from fossil fuels; and energy efficiency improvements for schools. More than half of the total amount, $370 billion, is earmarked by developed economies for use by the end of 2023. In contrast, lower-income countries are planning to spend around $52 billion on sustainable recovery measures. The total is roughly 40 percent more than was spent on green investments in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis. But it still accounts for just 4 percent of the $18.2 trillion governments have agreed to put toward Covid-19 economic recovery measures since the start of the pandemic, the IEA report says. A separate study on the Group of 20 — the European Union and 19 countries that contribute the most to climate pollution — found that just 6 percent of the spending in their Covid-19 recovery plans since 2020 went to green investments (Climatewire, March 8). In a June 2020 report, the IEA said that $1 trillion in annual clean energy spending would be needed by 2023 to put the world on track for net-zero emissions by 2050. Emerging and developing countries will need to account for two-thirds of that investment by the end of this decade, according to the agency.