As 2 Abia Billionaires Vow To Buy Nomination Form For Him, Orji Kalu ABUJA – President of the Nigerian Senate, Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan has come under intense pressure from some political elites in the north to run for President in 2023, findings by Daily Independent have revealed. This is coming on the heels of the ruling All Progressives Congress, (APC) announcement of the cost of its nomination forms, whilst its leadership plays hide and seek on the very vital issue of zoning of the presidential slot. The party whose first presidential candidate is the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari (northwest) and who has just a little over a year to the end of his eight-year tenure, is expected albeit naturally by observers, to zone the Presidency to another region (the south). Though there are a couple of aspirants from the party in the south, it’s still not very clear as to whether it would eventually zone the slot to the south or throw it open just like the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has reportedly done. Details emerging from a very reliable source within the APC are to the effect that based on the current permutations, many northern elites are now mounting pressure on the Senate President, Lawan to join the race. “Yes, he is under intense pressure to run for President. Some northern elites are making the moves, asking him to run. It’s so serious. But it is not certain yet. It’s an option he’s still considering”, the source said. Meanwhile, barely 24hours after the national leadership APC announced the costs of its nomination and expression of interest forms, two businessmen from Igbere, Bende Local Government Area of Abia State have shown readiness to write an N200 million cheque for the Senate President. POLL The cheque is also inclusive of the presidential form for the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. The businessmen, Ukaegbu James and Nnanna Kalu, made the announcement on Wednesday evening in Abuja. According to them, both Lawan and Kalu were competent hands to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari to drive the economy. They added that the party needed a unifier with a deep knowledge of the country’s multi-ethnic, lingual and religious settings. “If we must get it right in 2023, we need result-oriented leaders like Kalu and Lawan to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. It is time to present our best hands because they won’t be any room for the writing of fake results. “We are ready to make N200 million available by the weekend to purchase their nomination forms. “We are convinced by their track records, managerial skills, experience and leadership acumen”, they said.