….AEDC May Be Owing us-Niger Govt RetortsMINNA – Niger state government has reacted to claims by the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), that the company commenced the disconnection of state government facilities because of unpaid N1.8 billion owed over a period of time. Niger state government reaction is coming on the heels of Tuesday’s disconnection of some government properties, including the State secretariat and Water Board because of un-cleared outstanding debts running into billions of Naira. Regional Head, AEDC Public Relations unit, Mohammed Adamu told our correspondent yesterday (Wednesday) that the Niger state government is indebted to the company to the tune of N1.8 billion over a period of between three to four years now. “I can confirm that what you heard about the ongoing disconnection of some government establishments is true”, Adamu had said, giving the reasons behind the disconnection that a new management came on board and are on an aggressive revenue drive to recover debts being owed AEDC. In a swift reaction, however, the Niger State government said the N1.8b AEDC claims is being verified because some high tech facilities, including different types and sizes of transformers were provided to support the company in electricity distribution across the state. Secretary to State Government (SSG), Alhaji Ibrahim Matane who confirmed the Tuesday disconnection of the State Secretariat and Water Board however so far told our correspondent, “We also have claims to make running into billions in facilities to the AEDC”. “I think I can conveniently and confidently say that the AEDC may, in the long run, be the ones owing us by the time we come up with our own claims”, adding that the Governor has directed for an audit of all facilities to support the company be carried out immediately. The monthly bill and the N1.8 billion debts as claimed by the AEDC are just too outrageous, the state government scribe insists, arguing, “The N46 million billing per month for the state Water Board cannot be realistic”. Matane also told our correspondent that the state government already engaged a Consultant to go around Minna the state capital for on-the-spot physical verification of all state government facilities disconnected before deciding on the next line of action. The state government, according to Matane has been doing its best to support the AEDC through procurement of equipment, running into billions of Naira for electricity distribution across the state and therefore wondered if it were proper for the company to have taken steps that jeopardize the existing cordial relationship between them. Meanwhile, some customers who spoke on the developments have lamented the outrageous billings notwithstanding unstable power supply by the AEDC in recent times and therefore want the state government to step in and call the company to order. The situation these days is getting worst, a technician who would not want his name printed laments, adding that, ‘it is unfortunate that both the government and the company they engage to supply or distribute electricity are culpable in the sufferings of the masses.