LAGOS – Following last Monday’s terror attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train during which about eight people were killed and many others were either injured or abducted, some Nigerians have taken the Federal Government and security agencies to task over the unabating wave of insecurity and acts of terrorism in the country. One of the critics, Chief Martin Onovo, the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), while lamenting the level of insecurity in the country, maintained that the acclaimed efforts in tackling it had been cosmetic and deceitful. Onovo, an engineer and currently Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC), while pointing finger at the political elite as being behind the failure of security agents to tackle terrorism in the country, stated that there had not been real efforts to end terror. He stated: “Even the Governors’ Forum has stated that it is a failure of governance. The following facts must be noted particularly; the terrorists are Fulani and Buhari is Fulani. “The terrorists were brought in from Mali, Sierra Leone, etc. by the ruling party and Buhari is the leader of the ruling party. “The terrorists are land grabbing and the Buhari presidency has repeatedly requested for lands for the terrorists. “The terrorists are well funded from diverse sources, including from ransoms paid by the Buhari regime, Gov. El-Rufai, and many victims.” According to him, the Armed Forces had been conniving with the terrorists that are killing citizens. “Terrorists that were arrested and some that surrendered are being rehabilitated by the government, but their victims are abandoned at subhuman and overcrowded IDP camps,” he said. He maintained that Brig. Sani Usman (rtd) had confirmed on national television that the Armed Forces had the capacity to overwhelm the terrorists. He also added that Gov. El-Rufai and Sheik Gumi, had both confirmed publicly and independently that the terrorist camps were known to security forces. Onovo stated: “We can simply ask our Armed Forces why they have not surrounded the camps to force the terrorists to surrender. We can also ask our Air Force why it has not bombed all the known camps of these terrorists. “We must remember that many victims and Gen Danjuma (rtd) have confirmed that the Armed Forces are conniving with these terrorists that some prefer to call bandits. “Please remember that Buhari is the Commander- in-Chief of these Armed Forces. “We must remember that the Nigeria Police in Plateau State recovered a Nigerian military rifle no. HC2614 from a herdsman that was arrested. “Also, Nigerian military rifles were recovered from the terrorist Fulani that were repelled when they attacked communities in Ogoja. We must ask ourselves how these Fulani terrorist acquire weapons from the Nigerian Army. “As confirmed by Brig. Sani Usman (rtd), Commodore Olawuni (rtd), and many other military experts, our military has the capacity but there is no sincerity of purpose. “Therefore, it is very clear that there is no real effort to end terror in the country. On the contrary, there is great effort to secure lands for the terrorists and rehabilitate them.” Dr. Tunde Moses Elebute, a human rights promoter and Deputy Director, Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIVIFON), Lagos State chapter, maintained that Nigerians had become tired of all the failures of the administration. He lamented: “Every day, it is one disaster or another. These people lack what it takes to govern. “We are tired of this administration. It is time for them to quit or be booted out in the coming election since they cannot administer the country.” Bishop Basil Bernard, a cleric and General Overseer, Faith Unlimited Christian Centre Worldwide, in his reaction, stated that the recent terror attack on Abuja-Kaduna train and attempt on the Kaduna airport showed that the Federal Government and security agents had been playing hanky-panky with the terrorists. According to him, “Gov El-Rufai, the Chief Security Officer of Kaduna State, said the security agents know where the terrorists are and they can crush them by bombing their hideout. “Buhari government is playing politics with the bandits. They opened our borders for them to flood into our nation and they are causing havoc everywhere. “And instead of showing them the way out, or force them out, they are telling us they are repenting, and spending millions of naira to keep them after they have committed deadly atrocities, while innocent Nigerians are hungry and in difficulty everywhere.” On his own, Adebisi Abayomi, a seasoned journalist, said: “The attack was simply one too many. “My strongest opinion about it is that the attack is shocking and government should do something to stop the problem of insecurity because it is getting too much and nobody feels secure anymore.” Also speaking, Shakirudeen Olofin, the General Secretary, New Nigerian Peoples Party, South West Zone, the war against terrorism requires a lot of tactics, strategy and adequate information. According to him, “There’s hardly anywhere in the world where such battles is won. Nigerians need to cooperate with the security personnel to make their job easy, so that we have a sigh of relief and stop these incessant killings of innocent souls. “The security personnel need to double their activities and ensure maximum protection of lives and properties.” While reacting, Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CREMA Initiative), maintained that what had been happening in the war against terrorism amounted to gross incompetence. According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari’s record as a former Army General, showed a man who had no grasp of what has been happening and how to go about it. He said: “The security agents’ inability to proactively gather intelligence information about these attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train and attempt on Kaduna airport, speaks of gross incompetence, deliberate complicity, lack of capacity to protect its citizens.”