 Social Democratic Party, (SDP) presidential aspirant, Prince Adebayo Adewole, has said that he would pay the country’s debt in six months if given the opportunity to become president in the 2023 general election.According to him,  corruption and incompetence are the bane of the country’s present precarious situation, adding that mismanagement and greed on the part of Nigerian leadership brought the country to a debtor nation.Prince Adewole States this while speaking as a guest speaker of the Pastor Ituah Ighodalo led Africa leadership group lecture series titled, Nigeria: Hope in positive action.Also, he debunked the claim that his party is divided into factions. He said Nigeria is even more divided than his party, which fortunately, has closed ranks.“Our disagreement in SDP is not fundamental, just about administrative injustice. We are more united now than we were some months back. Nigeria has more divisions than the party. That is behind us now”.While taking questions from the audience on the sincerity of the much criticized 1999 constitution,  Prince Adewole said there was really not much problem with the constitution. The problem, according to him, lies with the people. “Our constitution isn’t our problem. Our problem is lack of simple obedience to simple law as simple as traffic and sanitation laws. We are in a culture of disobedience and our leaders lead in that. It does not matter how faulty the constitution is, if you have people who are in the habit of disobedience, nothing works. So if you lack character, there is no way the constitution can work. Yes the constitution isn’t perfect but that isn’t the root cause of misgovernance. Our misgovernance is traceable to our character. Some would prefer the parliamentary system of government which works and is still working in England. But it never worked here. There over 3000 things I can improve upon in the Nigerian constitution presently. But that isn’t the issue. We have been unlucky in the driver’s we have. Mercedes is Mercedes. Toyota is a Toyota. It’s not the car that is the issue. We just need to change the driver. We have an opportunity to change the driver’s in the coming election. We have never had people oriented president emerging from the people. The constitution didn’t envisaged some people would sit in their conclave and begin to recycle themselves around. The constitution isn’t the problem, we are.” Furthermore, he said that he is not disturbed being described as greenhorn, stating that this is the era of the greenhorns. “When God wants to change the history of people, he brings in fresh leaders. For him, what matters is the courage to mean well. It’s not by might, but the truth. God cannot be ascribed with callousness that he would assemble over  200m of his own being and he would lead them to perpetual slavery and backwardness . Even the captivity of the Zion ended at a time. This must be the time. We must have the spirit of Joshua to fall the Jericho,” he stated .On criminality, Prince Adewole argued, that it is in the state house. He said there is no criminality in Nigeria as the highest criminality takes place in the state house. “If there is no criminality in the state house, there won’t be criminality outside. Once it can be stopped, everybody will follow suit. You cannot put a call to the  state house today to say you want to see someone, nobody will answer you. But give someone 10,000 dollars, they will book an appointment for you. If the people in charge of the law are now perpetrating crime, then we are not qualified to call them to come and solve criminality outside. The character, spirit and person who becomes president is very important. If such a person is given executive power, his fears, ignorance, prejudices automatically becomes ours. If he has weakness for money, we all becomes thieves. If he is prejudicial, that’s what we all becomes”.He also said the insecurity in the land is feeding fat on corruption and incompetence, and until a true leader and president emerges from the people, it would be business as usual.  “What is happening in Nigeria today is both corruption and incompetence such that insecurity in Nigeria has now become a business. Check the lifestyle of those involve with the issue of insecurity, a leitenant general is ten times richer than a major general. A govt that cannot do simple things like mail delivery, how do you think they prosecute a war successfully. So incompetence is enjoying a space with us. Our leadership lack character and integrity,” he concluded.