LAGOS  – Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), has stated that no fewer than 30 more bank accounts operated by illegal money lenders, called loan sharks, in the country with no standalone, clear, accessible, well publicised resolution platforms has been frozen. Mr Babatunde Irukera, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, made the disclosure at a media chat in Lagos at the weekend. He said: “We have blocked bank accounts with respect to loan-Sharks. The day we conducted the raid, we had some limited information about the bank of accounts, that some of them operated. So, by the time we raided we had already obtained Search and Seizure order form the High Court. “All the bank accounts that were provided were immediately blocked. As you probably know these people operate through multiple bank accounts. Between when we raided and now we have discovered additional over 30 bank accounts and all 30 have been frozen. We will continue to freeze new accounts as we discover them.” Irukera specifically said that the commission had engaged Google and Apple Stores to take down some loan applications from their stores, but said that there were certain processes required for that to happen. According to him, ”We also had interim orders to Google Play Store, Apple play store to take down some applications that were being used by the loan- Sharks. We are engaging with Google and Apple and we are sure very soon it would yield results.” He emphasised that he was considering a regulation that would penalise companies without a standalone, clear and accessible consumer complaints resolution platforms. He frowned at the inability of most companies to effectively resolve consumer complaints, as according to him, the development had increased the number of complaints received by the Commission daily. POLL According to him, “Our complaint resolution team has become a multi-company customer service desk. The reason why people are coming to us more is that they can’t find the people who sold stuffs to them. There is no standalone, clear, accessible, well publicised resolution platforms by these companies for people to reach them. What we are doing is that we are going to write regulations, if you do not have that, there will be a penalty” He noted that the Commission was also developing a complaint resolution platform that would allow companies to plug in through a subscription and receive any consumer complaint relating to them. “With your plugging in, as the system is, as complaint comes against you, it pushes it down to you and it is now your obligation to resolve it and we are seeing it. The FCCPC boss called for improved partnership with the media to educate members of the public on their consumer rights in order to achieve the objectives of the FCCPC.