Considering the level of irregularities displayed during the Local Government elections in Katsina State and other challenges confronting the nation, a former Governor of the state, Barrister Ibrahim Shehu Shema has described the local Council elections as a monumental fraud, saying “the country is in a sorry state”. Shema who expressed shock over alleged acts of illegality displayed in the conduct of the exercise, said he cannot understand why materials which reportedly left the Central Bank of Nigeria premise in Katsina between 8 am and 10 am on Sunday and escorted to their various destinations in the 34 LGAs by party representatives could have been diverted supposedly by those in government. He said, for instance at places like Kankara, Bakori and a number of other places. Shema who expressed his displeasure over the conduct of the election in the state while speaking with some journalists at his Dutsin-ma country home said he was totally disappointed in the APC administration in the state. “I am totally disappointed in the APC administration in Katsina State. Indeed in President Muhammadu Buhari’s state, it will be a shame if the Local Government election cannot be conducted correctly, freely, fairly, giving equal opportunity to all Nigerians and Katsina people”. “In a lot of the polling units, I have discovered that, like in Mashi LGA, the returning officer is a card-carrying member of APC and on top of that they took ballot papers to the different units but without result sheets”. “They are holding the result sheet to return to government house to meet Aminu Bello Masari and his cohorts to fill these forms and tell Nigerians that election has been conducted”. “This is not an election. This is a sham. it’s a shame on APC nationwide and a shame internationally that they can’t hold a common local government election”. POLL Shema recalled that, the same Aminu Bello Masari, dissolved a duly elected local government council of the PDP extraction under his administration before the supreme court of Nigeria declared the action as illegal, unconstitutional, null and void, compelling him to pay them their due entitlement for the time they were supposed to be in office. “This kind of action should not go unpunished in this country.Nigeria belongs to Nigerians. It doesn’t belong to any small group of people who think they can manipulate and mess around the life of this country”,the former Governor maintained. “For the country to make any meaningful progress, there must be a change from this kind of leadership, Shema said, saying, are we going to continue like this? How can democracy, rule of law, and our economy grow under this kind of activity that does not even respect the people of this country? “I am hugely disappointed at the government of Aminu Bello Masari and those who are behind him to carry on with this unlimited illegality. It doesn’t make sense”. Nevertheless, on their next line of action on the April 11 local government election, the former Governor said “our people are there and will insist on the election being conducted. They will insist on results being entered into the venue. That’s what the law says. “The Chairman of the electoral commission has told Nigerians and Katsina people indeed that elections will be announced at each polling unit and wards for the Councillorship and the local government headquarters for the chairmanship”. “But that is not what is happening today. APC people are carrying result sheets, in some places like Danmusa, I saw pictures of young boys brought from the bush supposedly by the secretary to the state government, Mustapha Muhammad Inuwa. They are brought to come and thumbprint and announced the result in the Local Government Secretariat”. “So in essence, Nigeria is in a sorry state on top of the rising insecurity on a daily basis, hunger, poverty, despair and destructions happening to every institution in Nigeria that has been thriving”, he concluded.q Reacting to the allegations, the Secretary to the Katsina State Government, Alhaji Mustapha Muhammad Inuwa, at a press briefing said such allegations are not new, those making such accusations knew what they did while in government which accounts for why they are levelling such allegations. “As far as I am concerned, the state independent electoral commission (KTSIEC) did all they could do in terms of preparation to ensure that election materials and personnel were discharged early enough to reach their destinations”. “However, what actually brought the delay is that the PDP organized thugs in most of these places to ensure that election materials from the local government headquarters do not reach these wards on time”. “We decided to work with the security agencies to ensure that they were able to disperse these thugs brought into these local governments to ensure electoral materials and personnel move to the various polling units and so on”.