Innocent Oweh; Sulaiman Fasasi Abuja / Abeokuta – The Central Working Committee of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has threatened to embark on a three day warning strike, if the Federal Government failed to accede to the demands raised by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). They issued the threat at the end of their meeting which held at the headquarters of the NLC, where they also slammed a 21-day ultimatum on the government to meet the demands raised by the university union. Recall that ASUU and other sister unions with in the university system like the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities and Allied Institutions( NASU), Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), among others, have been on strike over grievances related to revitalisation funds and the implementation of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). President of the NLC, Ayuba Wabba, who presided over the meeting, said it is regrettable that while the children of the poor were idling away at home, those from rich homes are busy with their studies. The CWC meeting resolved, “On the ongoing strike action by unions in Nigerian universities, the CWC resolved as follows: all affiliates of the NLC are to issue public statements condemning the intermittent strike actions in Nigeria’s universities particularly the current one which has gone on for about two months. “Within the span of the subsisting 21 days ultimatum given by congress, the NLC will hold national protests against the current strike action affecting students of Nigeria’s public universities and occasioned by government’s failure to honour agreement reached with trade unions in our universities. The protest is to draw the attention of government to the inherent catastrophe in the emerging culture of social apartheid in our society especially as marked by prolonged lockout of students from working class and poor homes from our public universities while the children of the rich continue their academic pursuits uninterrupted. POLL “At the end of the national protest and the 21 days ultimatum, the Federal Government still fails to resolve the industrial crises in Nigeria’s universities, the congress would be left with no other option than to embark on a three-day nationwide warning strike action in solidarity with our affiliates in the universities and with Nigerian students whose future and wellbeing are being robbed”. ASUP Threatens To Resume Suspended Strike Next Week Meanwhile, the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) has threatened to resume suspended industrial action by shutting down all polytechnics in Nigeria if the Federal Government failed to meet up with its demands. This is just as the one month ultimatum the union gave to the government elapses next Wednesday. The National Executive Council (NEC) of the union had in March at the end of the union’s 102 National Executive Council meeting in Yola, Adamawa State, gave the one month ultimatum. Arising from its emergency congress on Thursday, ASUP Zonal C at the Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic, Ijebu Igbo, Ogun State, the union insisted that the Federal Government must meet up with its demands before expiration of the one month ultimatum. According to the Zonal Coordinator of the Union, Yekini Asafe, some of the items under the union’s demands include the non-release of the revitalisation funds for the sector, non-release of arrears of the new minimum wage, and non-release of the reviewed nomination instruments for institutions and managements as well as programmes accreditation, among others. Asafe said ASUP had suspended its 61-day long industrial action on June 10, 2021, following the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the government. Asafe, who was flanked by other branch chairmen from the zone, said due to the failure of the government to meet their demands, the union may be forced to resume the suspended industrial strike action. He revealed that the NEC meeting scheduled for Abuja on May 4 will take the decision. The zonal coordinator also said there has been delay in appointment of substantive rectors at Federal Polytechnics, Mubi, Offa and Ekowe, in Adamawa, Kwara and Bayelsa states, respectively. He noted that Kaduna Polytechnic, Kaduna and Moshood Abiola Polytechnic in Abeokuta have also been operating without substantive rectors despite the conclusion of the process for appointment in the affected institutions. Asafe called on the government to address the demands of the union to avoid shutting down of the polytechnics nationwide. “We are deploying this medium to equally appeal to members of the public to prevail on the government to do the needful and avoid a shutdown of the sector. “In choosing to extend the long expired three months suspension period of our industrial action, we are convinced that the extra window of one month typifies our level of restraint and consideration for our students and other members of the public even as we hope that the government will take advantage of this opportunity to avoid a shutdown of the sector,” Asafe said.