Former Ekiti State governor, Segun Oni, is the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the June 18 election. In this interview, he speaks on why he wants to return to Government House and his plans for the people of the state if elected. Excerpts: As a former governor, former party leader and now, elderstatesman, what did you forget in Ekiti Government House that you want to go and take? Well, I forgot nothing. But there are a lot things to be done; that we are hoping to be accomplished. I believe that whoever wants the best for this system would want competent people should run it, and that issues bothering on the future of Nigeria should not be left in the hand of those who have proven that they don’t know what to do or people who are new to such assignment. Are you trying to insinuate that your opponents in the forthcoming election lack composite experience and exposure to run the affairs of Ekiti State? Give that to the people of Ekiti to say. I am not going to be talking about my opponents. But I know the experience I have got. I know I have been there once as governor and I did what make people to continue to say that, without being immodest, that was the golden era. What we delivered is yet to be paralleled or equaled. What are your plans for the people of the state? Most of the things we are going to be doing we have started in our first round. We will only extend them. When we were in government, our emphasis was not just infrastructure, because people are still remembering our road revolution. We constructed many roads than anyone. Water was almost getting to a point where people were to be going to Ekiti to learn what to do with water, to get water right. We were almost there. Water was already flowing and we had done the basic water infrastructure of pipe laying and booster stations. We constructed six booster stations. Just to pump water and so on. This is not just what we believe government should do. We were investing in the future of the young ones. Solid education. Not just education that will make them to pass WAEC. Yes. We took Ekiti from Number 32 to Number Eight in WAEC. And not the kind of gimmick that people play by asking teachers to assist students. Nobody was assisting me when I was young. There will be no way I will encourage the assisting of students. That is euphemism for cheating. We didn’t do it. Despite that, our record was good. I am sure if we were there for a considerably longer time, Ekiti would have been undisputed number one. We did not just ask people to go to school. We were also catering for other interests. It may sound strange to you that in our time, every boarding student, as you entered boarding school, you were supposed to be given a laptop. Then, we were deciding what do with them; sell it for peanut. You pay the money or sign an undertaking; this is the value of the money and you pay back when you can. POLL The reason why we did that then, we knew that the people of this era are going yo make a lot of wealth through understanding what they can do in a digital space. We encouraged them to buy into the idea. We wanted a situation where people, when they are so familiar with the computer, can create apps that will become assets, not just to them, but to the world itself. And that was why we said this is a laptop for you, make friend with it. Let us see how you proceed. And it was already going on. Such innovation, you never know where it can land. In the school system too, we brought the former national coach of the Super Eagles; we brought Amelia Edet, former chief coach, Atheletes. We brought Wonkle Jabby from the US, the certified development coach. We wanted them to introduce their sports into the school system in a pervasive way so that teachers can double as coaches for football and athletes, so that they will also be empowered to identify potentials. And once we identify them, they can be encouraged to be the best in sports. These are some of the things, we were surprised, were not understood by subsequent people, since it was not their idea. They were our ideas and people are still craving for them. What is your reaction to the recent attack on your campaign train? We were going round. We had gone round 10 local governments now. It was the tenth, Efon. We were not attacked in any other place, except in one place. They went after us. They attacked us. They didn’t even allow us to hold the town hall meeting that we came for. They were hoodlums, known hoodlums. We are hoping that the police will do their job. Known hoodlums who reside in Efon-Alaaye. Let me go memory lane. In 2007, I contested the governorship of Ekiti State. In that election, there was no result; you can go and check; there was no result from Efon in that election. I would have taken Efon by 75 or 80 percent. Hoodlums were on rampage. They were burning polling boxes massacring people. That was how they disrupted election in Efon. I can say comfortably it was the creation of the then ACN. How would you tackle unemployment? When I was governor, there was unemployment, but it was not terrible like this. We created the road revolution. And that was one of the reasons we created the road revolution. A lot of road contract was issued to different contractors, not one contractor. Different contractors so that all of them were operating according to their capacities in different parts of Ekiti State. We compelled them to use local sub-contractors where necessary. We created that scheme. We also compelled anybody who wanted to get any contract in Ekiti to ensure they had offices and employ one or two people. We did not impose the people they were to employ. All those created employment opportunities. So, it was not magic that Ekiti State was not under the harsh unemployment situation. Yes, it was not everybody that had jobs. But a vast majority were engaged. We created hope. It is not about sitting down and expecting manna to fall from heaven. No. We were thinking. We thought our way through. That was why they said it was their golden era and that is what they want back. We looked at every problem. We applied out thinking. We applied our education. We applied our experience to get those problems solved. We were not waiting for solution from nowhere. And that’s what we will still do. The economy is bad. How would you get money to run Ekiti? How would you boost the internally generated revenue? The economy was not better when we were coming in. First, we believe all these are products of thinking, good thinking. Good thinking will bring good product. We have s strategic blueprint that touches on every relevant department. We improved the IGR tremendously to the extent that Ekiti State that was Number 34 in monthly statutory allocation was rated by the United Nations Development Programme as Number 24 in income per capital, GDP, out if the 36 states then; in the Human Development Report that was published in 2009. If Number 34 in allocation was Number 24 in GDP, per capital, there must have been additional income coming to the state. Still talking on human development report, it rated Ekiti Number 10 overall in human development index. Part of the highlights then was that we had the highest life expectancy. Ekiti was where people were living long, which was a product of health care and other factors. Why is your disposition towards violence during elections? My disposition is simple. If government and security agencies do their work, incidents of violence and malpractices during election will be brought down to the minimum. I believe the security agencies need to do a neat work to get things right. We are fortunate in Ekiti that our election is one-off. So, if Nigerian government is serious, it has an opportunity to show that it is serious. They can test their measures. They can use the opportunity to test their processes, in security the election. Ekiti is a compact terrain. No election is happening off-shore. No terrible terrain. So, if the government is serious, it can ensure that they have a perfect election. We are waiting for them. How would you tackle the challenge of vote buying during the election? We know that vote buying is prevalent. We are trying to sensitise the people to know that the man or woman who sells votes always sell at a loss. They will only give you maximum of four-day meals and take from you the mandate of four years. We are trying to educate them, to let them that it is so disproportionate; four days to four years. The man who took money four years ago is worse off now. If he takes money on June 18, he would still be worse off. Nothing positive will happen to his life. We are trying to explain to them that the business of selling your votes is the business of incurring more and more loses. I hope our orientation will yield result.