LAGOS  – The ongoing global campaign for energy transition aimed at deemphasizing patronage of fossil fuel will be a game changer in energy mix. Promoters of energy transition believed that its adoption has immeasurable benefits for global environment and economy. Nigeria and other African countries see no reason for the rat race to dump fossil fuel when there are incontrovertible evidences that it would continue to be relevant among energy mix. Timipre Sylva, the country’s Minister of state for Petroleum Resources and like minds in other continents have said that gas is indeed a good source of energy transition, and emphasized the need for caution against use of fossil fuel. The country’s Decade of Gas initiative is expected to boost domestic use of gas, provides new thinking on gas revolution and some buys in into the global energy transition. Nigeria’s current gas reserves of 209.5trillion cubic feet and its enviable position among gas producing countries in the world has not added desirable value to the country’s industrialization. Little wonder, stakeholders have lamented gas infrastructure hitches preventing investors from reaping robust benefits in the nation’s gas sector. They identified dearth of investment in exploration and production activities, POLL inadequate gas distribution/ transportation infrastructure, pipeline vandalism and insecurity, low human and technical capacity, low consumer awareness and pricing as some barriers to the growth of the natural gas industry in the country. Besides, stakeholders said the key infrastructure deficit in the sector is primarily on the gas transmission network. To address the infrastructural challenges in the natural gas industry, especially the huge capital outlay necessary for transporting natural gas from the producing fields to consumers, stakeholders said, a key focus of the federal government and some players in the industry is on expanding the transportation infrastructure, adoption of enabling policies by government to make the sector more attractive for investors. Perhaps, one of the ambitious gas projects which would deepen domestic gas use in Nigeria is the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline Project . Already, the Board of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) has expressed optimism that the first Quarter 2023 targets for delivering Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline Project will be met. Mallam Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director of NNPC, said that due to the activities around the AKK project, the country will see over eight billion standard cubic feet (scf) of gas injected into the domestic pipeline which will improve power generation, facilitate industrial development, create thousands of job opportunities and deepen domestic gas utilisation. Kyari, who described the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano Pipeline as “a signature project of this administration”, said that it was time for Nigeria to take advantage of having the highest gas reserves in Africa. NIPCO Gas and other players in the country’s gas sector, said some of the initiatives have begun yielding fruits for the nation and its stakeholders, but advised that there is still so much room for growth and so much work to be done. The gas company, has therefore, given suggestions on improving access to gas as energy fuel by users – industries A senior official of NIPCO Gas emphasized that government’s policies, including tax policies, should be geared towards encouraging investments in gas development. The ongoing AKK project being handled by Federal Government and several others by private sector operators like NiPCO Gas Limited have laid hundreds of kilometers of gas pipelines to improve access to gas to would be users . He expressed optimism that the Ajaokuta – Kaduna – Kano gas pipeline project will be a major game changer in the area of access to natural gas as energy fuel in the country . He said this will not only drive down cost of production, but also improve employment opportunities as many moribund industries that were closed down due to high operating cost will be revived. He added that more policies government policies should be put in place to make natural gas more attractive especially for industrial concerns in the country. These policies include granting tax waiver for the importation of equipments and machinery for the deployment of natural gas in Nigeria. He said: “The Nigerian Government has declared this decade as the decade of Gas. The intention is to make the Natural Gas business in Nigeria viable and sustainable by expanding the domestic market. However, if government were to go a step further by reducing or waiving import duties on equipment, gas-powered generators, and parts, this will go a long way in attracting investors”. He urged the Federal Government to invest in and increase gas pipeline network as create a proper pricing system that makes Compressed Natural Gas a very attractive alternative compared to other hydrocarbon He emphasised the need for the government to encourage the local production of CNG kits for automobile use , and also subsidize same so it can be affordable to the greater number of motorist. According to him, government should formulate policy towards the use of CNG as such that will attract private sector investment. There was need for government to lock up the price of sale of natural gas for local use over a long period of time say 20 to 30 years, he added He noted that a robust pipeline network will enable more connectivity, growing demand, and lower the cost of gas in Nigeria He said: “NiPCO with its gas subsidiary NiPCO Gas Ltd has on several fronts boosted Infrastructure in the gas realm through imagination of retail outlets, biggest gas compression plant in West Africa to compress gas and transport in cascades to industrial set ups , laid hundreds of kilometers of pipelines to service several firms to power their machines . “Today it has converted over 5,000 vehicles using gas as auto fuel aside from connecting several industries to us se gas. We are also boosting investment in gas Infrastructure for transporting of gas to end users, creating more booster stations for effective gas distribution in view of paucity of pipeline network around the country. “Our continued subsidy payment may not be necessary if viable alternative are in place for both domestic energy needs and industrial for a country that is often referred to as gas heaven. Government just need to intensify plans for deliberate use of gas to meet her energy demands”