No fewer than 150 beggars and destitute were removed from the major streets of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), for allegedly causing a nuisance and disrupting the city’s serenity. The officials from the Social Development Secretariat (SDS) worked with the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Directorate of Road Traffic Services, FCT Security Department, and the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement to evacuate beggars, who were mostly women and children, including elderly men, over the weekend. This was on the heels of FCTA’s renewed clampdown on the street begging in the nation’s capital, following receipt of complaints about the menace. It was observed that the team picked up the beggars from streets having shopping malls, supermarkets, Mosques and other notorious spots for alms begging within Maitama, Wuse II and Garki and other areas of the city. After profiling them, they were later given Iftar meal to break their Ramadan fast in the evening, by the FCT administration. The Secretary of Social Development Secretariat (SDS), Hadiza Mohammed Kabir, hinted that the FCTA is targeting to evacuate between 400 to 1,000 beggars from the city, said the FCT Minister of state had embarked on removing beggars from the streets and cleaning the environs of Abuja. She noted that by the time they finished evacuating beggars and camping them in some of the FCTA centres, for proper documentation, the Minister will liaise with all the governors of their states of origin, and thereafter, they will be repatriated back to their respective states. According to her, “As you are seeing today, the Minister has just sent a strong and sound warning through me as the leader of this team to them that they should go off the streets because we are coming out massively for them. “The minister has already sent them food and drinks to eat and breakfast in the evening, but we are coming for them if they don’t leave the streets, as they stop begging on the streets of Abuja”, the SDS Boss reaffirmed. POLL She also announced a ministerial pardon by the Minister of State for those evacuated during the weekend with a strong warning that they should not return back to the street. Similarly, the Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister, on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, Comrade Ikharo Attah, noted that what the FCTA did was to evacuate the beggars from the streets and take them to a safe place, profile and ensure that they are that most of them are well catered for and subsequently repatriated. He said, “During the month of Ramadan where most Muslim brothers and sisters are devoting themselves to the service of Almighty Allah, we saw excessive beggars who from across the country flooding into FCT so we had to move them off the streets, sensitive areas where they gather in large numbers to beg for alms, and in the process, they disturb people, and the complaints came in, and we moved in and cleared them in a friendly manner that most of them very happy about. “We are promising that we will take them back to their respective states so that they would actually leave the streets. But with the pardon by the Honourable Minister of state, it is now left for them to vacate the streets.”