Former Governor of Anambra State and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential front runner, Peter Obi has dismissed speculations that he allegedly blasted the Northern Elders and also rejected the party’s idea of a consensus candidate for the 2023 presidential election. a statement from Obi’s Media Office, signed by his Media Adviser, Valentine Objenyem, Peter Obi said such speculation was not only false but cheap propaganda. He said, “Anyone who has followed Peter Obi”s political journey will agree that he sticks to issue-based politics. He does not go around criticizing people, organisations or institutions blindly.  He invests his focus, energy and time on proferring solutions to the myriads of challenges burdening our nation, Nigeria. “As a loyal party member, Peter Obi has always abided by the rules, regulations and decisions of the party. He cannot possibly criticize the party’s decision in public,” the statement said. Reacting to a viral video in which Obi was alleged to have rejected the consensus candidate position of the party, Obieyem said: “I just read through it and they claimed ‘Peter Obi addressed reporters after paying a visit to AIT office’, but they failed to provide the where and when which are fundamental elements of verifying any credible news report. If the medium based their report on what Obi said after one of his consultations, then they might have, out of mischief or incompetence or both, deliberately misrepresented Obi by reporting him out of context. “Obi simply stated that Nigerians care less about whether a consensus candidate emerges or not, but they desire a competent, credible and capable leader who will rescue the nation from all around decadence and position it on the path of progress. “Therefore, as a party faithful, Peter Obi will neither stand against nor publicly criticize any progressive decision taken by the Peoples Democratic Party. POLL “Beyond party politics, he desires a candidate willing and capable of serving Nigeria at the highest level and piloting the nation out of its present deplorable state. That is what he desires, whether the candidate emerges through consensus arrangement or not,” Obienyem concluded.