The Coordinator, South-South Nigeria geopolitical zone, National Patriotic Base (NPB), Comrade Emeka Ubido has said that the group is fully in support of the aspirations of the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi’s presidential aspirations come 2023. Comrade Emeka Ubido made this remark in a press conference by the leadership of the National Patriotic Base (NPB) held on Saturday, 30th of April, 2022 at the group’s secretariat in Asaba. The group endorsed Rotimi Amaechi’s presidential ambition ahead of this year’s primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the 2023 general polls. The group stated that the Former Governor of Rivers State is qualified and that his achievements as Nigeria’s Minister of Transportation are in the public domain and that, being the turn of the Southern Nigeria, Rotimi Amaechi remains the only detribalised Nigeria to take over from President Buhari, and that Former Rivers State Governor is capable of promoting unity, oneness, justice and equity as well as Sustainable development in the country if given the opportunity to govern Nigeria. Recall that Rotimi Amechi, a Chieftain, Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State Previously served in the oil-rich State as Speaker of Rivers State House of Assembly (1999-2008) and Governor of Rivers State (2007-2015) and was two-time Director-General, Buhari’s 2015 and 2019 Presidential Campaign Organization of All Progressives Congress (APC) and Minister of Transportation in Buhari’s regime. NPB leadership stated that their Principal, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has provided an alternative to Nigeria’s Economic diversification in the Transport sector where their Presidential aspirant has demonstrated competence; which according to the group, makes him qualified to function effectively as Nigeria’s President come 2023, that Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi who was recently crowned DAN AMANAR DAURA as he believes in the destiny of Nigeria that can only be actualised in the context of one indivisible and United Nation; which doors are open to all citizens irrespective of ethnicity, Creed, class or circumstance. In the words of Comrade Emeka Ubido, Delta born South-South NPB Boss: ” Our Principal, Rotimi Amaechi believes in giving meaning to democracy so that every Nigerian can find a place and a voice in the land of free men and women”. “Our principal, Rotimi Amaechi, has sterling qualities of good leadership style, young, synergetic, selfless in nature, track record of performance, a Nationalist, patriotic personality and first Among equals. He is deep and well experienced in governance”. POLL “We, therefore, call on President Mohammed Buhari, party leaders, the leadership, delegates of the party of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 36 States and FCT, critical stakeholders and Nigerians to give our Principal, Rotimi Amaechi the needed support to win the Party’s primary to win the general election to emerge Nigeria’s next president come 2023”.