The idea that stress can mess with a person’s fertility has been around for millennia and has made its way into popular culture.It is estimated that as much as 30 percent of all infertility cases may be controlled by stress factors.The emergence of so-called Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) in the 1980s, which could manipulate sperm and eggs, turned everyone’s attention away from the potential impact of emotions on fertility. However, it is generally recognised that relaxation techniques help women, who were previously experiencing conception difficulties, get pregnant. Stress hormones, such as cortisol and epinephrine, rise during trying situations, and may affect one’s fertility in a negative way. Reducing stress may be a great way to increase blood flow to the reproductive organs, and thereby increase the supply of nutrients in those regions.Anxiety, Depression And Infertility Research has shown that women with history of depression are twice as likely to experience infertility. Anxiety can also have a negative effect by prolonging the time needed to achieve pregnancy. A 2018 study by the Boston University School of Public Health, for example, found that women who had high levels of perceived stress experienced lower levels of fertility than those with less stress.Stress And OvulationThat is because stress can affect the functioning of the hypothalamus – the gland in the brain that regulates your appetite and emotions, as well as the hormones that tell your ovaries to release eggs. If you are stressed out, you may ovulate later in your cycle or not at all.Infertile women tend to be more depressed than women who don’t experience fertility challenges. In addition, the processes of fertility treatment itself could add on to the stress experienced by couples wanting to conceive. Stress And Egg QualityThe increased level of stress hormone such as cortisol reduces estradiol production possibly by affecting the granulosa cell functions within the follicle, which results deterioration in oocyte quality.Stress And Infertility In MalesStudies found that men who feel stressed are more likely to experience decreased testosterone, lower sperm count, abnormal sperm production, and decreased sperm motility, the function that allows sperm to move. And all of this can negatively affect overall fertility.The point is that the time and season have changed. The era of barrenness has long gone. There was a time when people lived their whole life not having any option but to go to Church or native doctors looking for the fruit of the womb.  Meanwhile, I’m of the opinion, spiritual matters are handled by spiritual homes. But medical issues should be addressed by health professionals. So, when they go to health professionals, what they do not know and was not told in the Church or mosque is unveiled through medical investigations and treatment – that this is actually the problem. And the next is, what can we do? As the saying goes, when you know the problem, it is half solved. It’s another thing if you cannot afford the treatment, you can go build your account to afford it.  However, when you know what the problem is, the next thing is to take advantage of the technological advances in the world, and invariably, you get a smile. Another reason for fertility services is time and season have changed as I said earlier. Women don’t leave University at the right time again. They look for jobs; the stress in the society is on a high level. This stress predisposes couples to infertility. That is the inability to get pregnant under twelve months when they have unprotected sex regularly, three to four times a week as a couple. So, when the stress level is high, the sperm quality of a man goes down, the sperm count goes down. When the stress level is high, as you can see the economy is hard now everybody’s pulling left and right to put the resources together. So, the woman is playing her role in the family to meet up financially. So, at the end of the day, there’s so much stress on the woman already. The stress can predispose her to hormonal imbalance; despite that the man is still very active in bed and his sperm is supposedly okay. So, they have sex, but about four years into the marriage, there is still no child. They have attended vigils, they drunk olive oil, they’ve taken holy water; no pregnancy and child. So when this happens, the next is to go to the hospital, not just going to just a regular hospital or General Hospital, they should go to the specialist that can address their interest that are of concern to them, which is the fertility clinics. So, when they go to fertility clinics, they are furnished in training than the regular General or Teaching Medical Centre.  In terms of their specialty, they are specialised to handle issues of reproduction. So, what is not told conventionally in the regular laboratory and General Hospital is brought to the fore. The next thing the knowledge of the couple is illuminated. Now, they can ask the fertility experts, what do we do? The doctor would tell them, you need to do this, you need to do that and they take advantage of services.  Two months down the line, the story is concluded and changed forever. And they are doing scans and having what we call EDD – expected date of delivery. So that’s why I think approaching the fertility clinics in the country is of importance at this age and time for the couples trusting God for an addition of a child in their home. Dr Olaleke Fasasi (PhD) is Director of Embryology Services, Omega Golden Fertility, Lagos. He is a seasoned Reproductive and  Translational Medicine    Scientist. He’s a Specialist in all Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). Visit: www.omegagoldenfertility.com for more details  Email: info@omegagoldenfertility.com