Dr Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor has implored religious leaders to infuse morals and values into their teachings and enhance their sermons on the need for proper training and nurturing of the children for a better Nigeria in order to curb the ever-challenging situations of the country. He made the call while speaking at the 2nd Memorial Ramadan Lecture of Late Oba Muftau Olatunji Hamzat in Ogba area of the state, stating that parents should raise their children in a Godly way and teach them morals to make them good for themselves and the country at large. He further stressed the need for Nigerians to take good care of their homes as the family remains an integral unit of the nation and the way they train and bring up their children goes a long way in determining what they become in life. He also charged parents on proper upbringing and training of their children as one of the solutions to the myriads of challenges facing the country. “How good are we in training our children, what are we teaching them at home and note that the foundation of any successful country is the family”, he said. Dr. Hamzat further admonished parents not to neglect their children and divine roles but devote more time to discuss life and consequences of criminal activities with their children as they will be asked how well they took care and tutored the children/wards put in their care. “The problem we are facing today is as a result of neglect by some parents who failed in their responsibilities to do the right thing and bring up their children in a godly way,” he said. While berating some men for neglecting their homes and responsibilities as a father, the Deputy Governor described such as morally and spiritually wrong. POLL Sheikh Muh’awwal Shuaib Atata in his lecture, titled “Educational Reforms for National Development: Islamic Perspective”, stressed the need for bold and revolutionary reforms in the country’s education sector as the current system is not meeting the needs of Nigerians. He added that reforms in the education sector will lead to a faster-growing national schooling system, which will benefit all levels of education, the labour market and the nation’s economy at large. He stressed the importance of education in national development and that Islam as a religion, supports education for all as it would prompt a considerably remarkable impact and leave an indelible imprint in the national development in all aspect of the country as a whole. Alhaji Lateef Ayodeji Sunmonu, President Ifako-Ijaiye Muslim Community in his welcome address, described the late Oba Muftau Olatunji Hamzat as a committed Muslim who contributed a lot to the growth of Muslim Community in the Area in his life time. He further implored all to have faith in the country believing that all things will be good and the country will be a better place to live for all.