LOKOJA – A foremost aspirant for Ogori Magongo/Okene House of Representatives on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Abdullahi Sanni Ozomata, has promised to keep faith with stakeholders who work for his emergence and vow not to dump them after success at the poll. The House of Representatives hopeful gave the assurance during his recent campaign tour to wards in Ogori-Magongo Local Government Area of the state. The Reps aspirant, who made a brief stopover at the All Progressive Congress(APC) Local Government Secretariat and was received by the Local Government APC Executives. Dr Ozomata while seeking their support, assured them of his resolve at involving the people of the area in the scheme of things if given the opportunity to serve. He said: “At the end of this contest, God’s willing, with your support, we hope to bring to an end “use and dump syndrome in this constituency. We will do this by carrying all party executives along in whatever project we intend to execute in the local government area. “A lot of Projects had been brought to the community but most times do not pass through the right channel. In executing any project if you do not carry the people along you will not achieve the required results,” he noted. He promise to involve all stakeholders, sons and daughters of the LGA in conceptualising and execution of people’s oriented The APC Aspirant noted that empowerment will be based on thorough needs assessment, hence he will keep interfacing with the people in order to address their challenges. POLL “I have come here today to seek a relationship with the good people of Ogori-Magongo because it is only through friendship and partnership that we can build the community together. I can not work in isolation” he reiterated. Dr. Ozomata called on the ward Executives to assess him as well as other aspirants before making their decisions, he however cautioned them to be careful in order to avoid mistakes that will last for another four years. Earlier, Ogori-Magongo APC Chairman, Hon Ojo Aturu appreciated Dr Ozomata and his team for the good works he has started especially in the purchase of JAMB forms for students of the area among other projects, assuring him of total support from the area. Hon. Aturu while assuring the Aspirant of the peoples’ support pleaded with party leadership to allow a level playing field for all contestants in order to come out with the best. Chairman of the Central Working Committee, Alhaji Abdulrahman Aziz Obini thanked the people for their show of love by coming out in numbers to receive Dr Ozomata. Alhaji Obini noted that Dr Ozomata is a detribalized personality whose principle is premised on equity, fairness and justice. He assured the people that the empowerment scheme embarked upon by the aspirant is just the tip of the iceberg, urging them to support Dr Ozomata’s ambition in order to enjoy more of his empowerment=. Meanwhile the day two and the concluding part of the ward tour started off with the visit to Ukpogoro/Odenku ward where the team was well received by the ward chairman, Khasim Ododo who pledged his team’s support. Abuga/Ozuja ward was next on the tour, with the executives led by the Ward Chairman, Hon. Abdulkareem Salamat Sadiq also pledged their support. Also captured in the conclusive tour was Obehira Uvete and Obehira Ebeba which featured Eziere Women in their numbers trooped in to offer prayers of support for Dr Ozomata and the success of the project.