Mr. Rotimi Fashakin, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was the National Publicity Secretary of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC). He spoke in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI on issues arising from the declaration of the Vice- President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) to contest the 2023 presidential election and other matters of national interests. Excerpts: The Vice- President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo last week formally announced his interest to contest the 2023 presidential election. Given the fact that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the party’s national leader is also interested in the race as well as other Southern leaders, what do you think Nigerians should expect in the days ahead? These are two important personalities who are eminently qualified to contest. The vice-president has served for about seven years and he has played a very significant role in this government. I strongly believe that his declaration to contest the 2023 presidential election is a welcome development. The more, the merrier. We need more people come into the space as this will allow the electorates to have wide range of choice. That is what democracy is all about. Some are already accusing the Vice- President of betrayal and calling him names such as ‘Judas’ and Akintola. They claimed that it is immoral for him to come out to contest when his benefactor Asiwaju Tinubu had earlier indicated interest in the same position. What do you make of that? That conversation has been going on in certain quarters and I don’t think that is something anybody should countenance or advance. I believe, the Vice-President has gone to Asiwaju himself to seek his blessing and support to contest the 2023 presidential election. That for me ends it all. Having done that, he has decided to throw his hat into the ring. He has not denied the leadership of Asiwaju and how he gave him the opportunity to serve as his Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice which was very vital for him and the government of Lagos state. He really proved his mettle and it was because of his pedigree that he was identified in the first place. So, anyone describing him as a betrayer should just be ignored. That shouldn’t be a serious conversation that we should be having at this point in time. What we should be concerned about at this point in time is, who has the capacity and ability to transform Nigeria. We have had a very strong transitional president. I tell people that President Muhammadu Buhari had been a very transitional president. He had laid the foundation that should be built upon. Before now, right from 1999, all the presidents have been enmeshed in one scandal or the other except for the late Umaru Yar’Adua who died in office. We even had one president who had the audacity to build a world-class private university and school for himself while still in office. But President Buhari came to provide stability for the office of the presidency and to make the nation better. No contractor can walk up to him and strike a deal at the expense of Nigerians. He has provided stability for the next leader who will come in and do the real work of transformation. So, the person who will be president in 2023 is very critical to the transformational development of the Nigerian state. Already there is a sharp division between some leaders loyal to both men on this issue of the 2023 presidency. If not urgently addressed, don’t you think this may lead to crisis in the South-West as we head to the general elections? Many Nigerians get into needless speculation. The two gentlemen, both Asiwaju Tinubu and the Vice-President have tremendous respect for each other. So, if you have people breaking heads on their behalf, that is their problem. Asiwaju and Osinbajo did not send anybody to attack others because of politics. Yorubas have a saying that ‘ the sky is wide enough for birds to fly without touching each other’. We have a large space enough to accommodate everybody. So, the issue of crisis shouldn’t arise. Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello is the only aspirant in the North who has come out to declare despite a strong inclination that the party might zone the ticket to the South. Do you think he stands a chance? POLL I admire his courage as a young man to even aspire to come out for presidency. However, it is the electorate who will ultimately decide whether that courage is misplaced or not. He is going to the field with all the other aspirants. Let’s just see how things go. Your party adopted the consensus method in selecting the new leadership of the party at its just concluded national convention. Already, there is anxiety in some quarters on whether the same method will be used during the presidential primaries slated for next month. As a stakeholder in the party, which method do you think is the best ? The reason you have leadership in an organisation is to set direction. As we speak, there are three clear ways of choosing candidates which is acceptable to the Nigerian constitution. The first is direct primary, the second is indirect primary and the third is through consensus option. Whichever one the party leadership adopt is based on their understanding and their appreciation of the various issues around the party. We now have a substantive leadership in place in APC led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu and his executives. All of them together with the National Executive Committee (NEC) will decide for us which mode of primaries to adopt. Whatever their choice is, we will all accept as loyal party members.