The National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) have rebutted claims in the press that the Federal Government gave the directive for the appointment of an interim management team for the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) in the heat of the crisis in the DisCo. According to the NERC and BPE, the action to appoint an interim team to manage AEDC was informed by the legal processes arising from the failure of the core investor in AEDC, KANN Utility Company Limited, to meet its obligations to a lender. This explanation was given in a joint statement by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission and the Bureau of Public enterprises on Saturday and signed by Sanusi Garba (Chairman), Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission, and Alex A. Okoh (Director-General), Bureau of Public Enterprises. AEDC is the licenced utility that serves end-use customers in Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger, and the FCT. Part of the statement read: “Facts are that arising from KANN’s inability to service its acquisition loan and the ensuing dispute over the servicing of the loan from UBA Plc, the lender exercised its rights by appointing a Receiver/Manager over KANN. “Stakeholders, including NERC, CBN, and BPE, had on several times worked to broker an amicable resolution between the contending parties. “The protracted resolution of the dispute exacerbated the state of affairs at AEDC, resulting in an industrial action and a total blackout in the service area for over 14 hours. “It then became apparent that decisive steps were required to address the matter and BPE agreed with the lender’s request to exercise its powers as Receiver/Manager over KANN by exercising its powers over the 60% equity in AEDC as a means to recovering its obligations to a lender. “The action to appoint an interim team to manage AEDC was not done on the basis of a directive from the FG as being falsely reported in the press but on the basis of legal processes arising from the failure of the core investor in AEDC to meet its obligations to a lender. “The Receiver/Manager has agreed to the appointment of an interim management team in conjunction with BPE as part of measures designed to address business failure events and ensure continuity of service to end-use customers in the service area.”