AKURE – A former Governor of Anambra State and presidential aspi­rant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Peter Obi, on Sunday said the country needed a pres­ident that could fix the current socio-economic challenges. He emphasised that the re­gion where the president came from was irrelevant, but the personality who could fix the economy, insecurity and other problems faced by the nation. Lamenting the economic alleged quagmire the All Pro­gressives Congress-led Feder­al Government had plunged the nation into, Obi said the country was in debt because President Muhammadu Bu­hari had been borrowing for consumption. Obi stated this at PDP sec­retariat, Alagbaka, Akure, the Ondo State capital, where he went to canvas for the support of the state delegates ahead of PDP national convention. Accompanied by former spokesman to President Oluse­gun Obasanjo, Dr. Doyin Ok­upe, Obi charged the delegates to vote in line of who’s capable of turning the country to a pro­ductive economy. He said the President Bu­hari government had nothing to show for the huge amount of money it borrowed. According to Obi, “The country is collapsing. There is banditry everywhere; people get burnt while scooping fuel just because there’s no food to eat. “This is caused by the fail­ure of the government over the years. We have the highest number of people living in pov­erty. People living in poverty in Nigeria are more than those in Indian and China combined,” he posited. POLL Last year, the country used 98 percent of the revenue gen­erated to service debt. Among chieftains of PDP, who attended to Obi were for­mer Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, the par­ty’s candidate in the last gover­norship election in the state, Eyitayo Jegede, member PDP’s elders committee, Dr. Dayo Dai­ro, Senator Ayo Akinyelure and all delegates in the state. Mimiko and Jegede com­mended the performance of Obi while in charge of Anam­bra State. Mimiko said: “I can attest to his (Obi) character. I can assure you that what you see is what you get.” The party’s chairman, Fatai Adams assured that the state’s delegates would adhere to the advice of electing a candidate that could rescue the nation from the current economic challenges.