Manchester United are considering making a shock move to secure the signing of former Real Madrid captain Sergio Ramos from PSG in the upcoming transfer window. One of the greatest defenders of the modern era, Ramos enjoyed a stellar career at Real Madrid before leaving the club last summer on a free transfer. The Spaniard left the Merengues after his contract ran out and signed for PSG on a Bosman deal. However, the move to Paris has been a disastrous one so far. Ramos has spent a major chunk of the campaign out on the sidelines with various injury and fitness problems. It has restricted the 36-year-old to just eight appearances across all competitions in his debut campaign in France. And, with the club eyeing a revamp in the summer, there is a feeling that the Real Madrid legend’s time at Parc des Princes could be cut short after just one year. And Fichajes is now reporting that Ramos might not be short on suitors if his departure from PSG becomes a reality, with Manchester United emerging as an interested party to secure his signing. Manchester United have endured a torrid campaign during which they have struggled at both ends of the pitch. Defence, especially, has been a major issue with Victor Lindelof and Harry Maguire failing to perform convincingly. Raphael Varane was signed last summer from Real Madrid but he has had a stop-start campaign in England. Furthermore, questions marks are lingering over the future of Maguire. Eric Bailly is also expected to be on his way out at the end of the season. It would leave Manchester United light in the defensive department, leading to links with several centre-backs, including AFC Ajax’s Jurrien Timber. However, as per the report, Ramos has also popped up on the radars of Manchester United. It is claimed that the Red Devils are planning to recreate the partnership between Varane and Ramos that enjoyed great success at Real Madrid over the past decade. But, the Premier League giants might face competition from MLS outfit Inter Miami, while the possibility of him staying at PSG is not ruled out either. A legend in his own right, Ramos would add value to the squad with his experience. However, considering that he has hardly played over the past year and the wages that he would command, a move for the Spaniard would be ill-advised for Manchester United. The faltering English giants would be better off investing in younger options.