Devakumar Edwin, the Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects and Portfolio Development, Dangote Industries, in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks about the completion of Dangote petroleum refinery, and how it is of a strategic national importance as it will solve the perennial challenge of fuel scarcity, and boost massive employment for Nigerians. Excerpts: Nigerians are hopefully looking up to when Dangote Refinery will become operational as they are optimistic that it will be a huge relief in multi-dimensional way. Can you tell us categorically when it would be ready? The refinery will be ready for commissioning before the end of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. By the grace of God, Mr. President will come and commission it before the end of his tenure. Efforts to complete the refinery for it to become operational are in top gear, particularly as it would create jobs and generate more tax money, which would be used by government to develop the country further. Again, in the near future, through the refinery, more employment opportunities would be created while we keep doing new things and good things and also keep paying our taxes, which will complement government’s effort in providing education, good health and the rest. Do you export fertilizer from your jetty to any other country? By the grace of God, we have completed the fertilizer plant and have gone into production. We have commenced export to the United States of America, Mexico, and Brazil. Now, this ship is going to Argentina. POLL We also send it to India. In addition, each ship can handle about 32,000 tonnes. What does the Nigerian economy stand to gain from this massive investment? Dangote refinery is a huge opportunity for the country to gain foreign exchange. The whole idea is to focus on natural gas. We are trying to export gas and add value to the country, generate employment and create huge opportunities. Applauses are by each passing day been showered on Dangote Group over this project. What can you say about the capacity of the refinery, particularly on its rating from global economy perspective? What I can say is that the refinery is the world’s largest single train petroleum refinery and was designed to maximise production of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) with a capacity of about 53 per cent compared to 20 per cent by other refineries. The petroleum refinery can meet 100 per cent of the requirements of Nigeria, of all the liquid products – Gasoline (PMS), Diesel (AGO), Kerosene (DPK) and Aviation Jet Fuel (Jet A-1). While 60 per cent of the production of this petroleum refinery can meet the entire requirement of Nigeria, the rest 40 per cent will go for export, generating huge amount of foreign exchange. In fact, the refinery is of a strategic national importance as it will solve the perennial challenge of fuel scarcity, and boost massive employment for Nigerians. Are you not worried about potash scarcity as a result of the Russian/Ukrainian conflict? Not at all, there is no need for worry as only 26% of the world’s potash supply comes from the two countries. There are some few other countries that have it, it is not only Ukraine that has it. Yes, Ukraine and Russia have about 26% of the world’s potash. That means it can be sourced from elsewhere. So, I am not really very concerned, the concern is just about price. From the perspective of facts and figure, what is the state of preparedness of the refinery? To your question, let me say 75% hydraulic testing of the refinery as well as 70% of electrical cable fitting have been completed preparatory to the completion in the fourth quarter of this year as I earlier assured. The refinery, which boasts of 4.742 billion litres storage capacity, will serve as a strategic reserve for the country. Again, 75% of the products of the refinery (petrol, kerosene, aviation fuel and diesel) will be dispatched through the sea, by which products could be transported to Calabar, Warri, Lagos and Port Harcourt. The refinery is being built at a cost of $19 billion while the fertilizer plant costs $2.5 Billion. Recently, Dangote Industries Limited was in the news on a good note for sponsoring the International Trade Fairs that were respectively held in Abeokuta and Enugu. What was the motivation behind the company’s sponsorship of both fairs? First and foremost let me say the need to help in revving up commerce, industry and economic activities in the country was the motivation behind the sponsorships. As you are aware, the trade fair in Abeokuta was organised by the Ogun Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture while Enugu Trade Fair was powered by Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture. Besides these fairs, Dangote Group also was the major sponsor of the recently concluded Kaduna Trade Fair. Was it because five of Dangote Group’s subsidiaries participated in both fairs that such magnanimous supports were rendered? Not at all. The supports were altruistic. It is in our nature to always support any activity we considered to be of benefits to the nation’s economy. As you are aware, Dangote Industries is a good corporate citizen. Evidences are there. The subsidiaries that participated in the both fairs cut across Dangote Cement, Dangote Sugar, NASCON, Dangote Oil Refinery and Dangote Fertilizer. Their participations were necessitated by the fact that trade fairs have become a veritable avenue for our subsidiaries to bond with their customers. In fact, the fairs afforded our officials from Dangote fertilizer that was recently commissioned to operate a special helpdesk for customers and farmers who want information on distribution and application of fertilizer. The desk was manned by well-trained officers who were groomed to answer all questions and inquiries regarding the use of fertilizer. NASCON, at the fair, gave its customers a good treat at the fair even as it added to the richness of products like Danq seasoning and stew/soup mixes and also embarked on an expansion of its distribution network to make the product more readily accessible to consumers. Dangote Sugar Refinery took all its product ranges to the fair, while its Sales/Marketing team was fully on ground to attend to customers and prospective new distributors. Customers were encouraged to visit the stand and buy products at Trade Fair prices. Dangote Cement, which is a regular participant at both fairs, operated an office at the Dangote Group Pavilion where customers and users of its cement products were encouraged to visit the office during the event for consultations with the team which was on ground. The fair offered opportunities to customers and other visitors to the fairs who intend becoming distributors of any of the products from Dangote Group subsidiaries the opportunity to be well informed by staff of the companies who were on hand to put the customers through on how to go about it. The board of directors and the President of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, were recently in Abuja to see the president at the Presidential Villa. Was the visit about intimating him ahead of the inauguration of the refinery within the year? No, we went to pay him a courtesy call and also on a ‘thank you visit’, to thank him for personally coming to commission our fertilizer plant on the 22nd of March, that is about four weeks ago. So, we went to see him to show gratitude to Mr. President and we were well received.