LAGOS  – Nigerian Fintech start-ups raised almost $800 million in 2021 which was 120 per cent higher than what fintechs raised in the last three years combined ($360.7 million). As usual, it took the lion’s share of funding across sectors. African fintechs raised up to $1.4 billion, between January and September 2021,signalling an increasing investor appetite for Africa’s growing Fintech space, and Nigeria has taken centre stage. When Paystack and Flutterwave launched in 2016, it was a massive game-changer for Nigeria’s financial sector, enabling thousands of other businesses to receive payments for their services. Since then, each year has presented an interesting trend as people look to plug different perceived gaps in Nigeria’s financial sector. According to Tellimer Research, fintechs in Brazil, Nigeria and Egypt are growing the fastest. These populous countries suffer from restricted access to traditional financial services providers. In contrast, Saudi Arabia, Russia and Kenya Fintech growth is lagging. “Our findings also supports the importance of scale in the Fintech world – the fastest-growing firms tend to become profitable sooner”, analysts at Tellimer said. Growth in technology companies is often accompanied by higher marketing, technology and customer acquisition expenses; investors may worry whether there will be any payback from these investments. POLL “Our survey results provide some comfort to investors; fintechs that have delivered faster growth in the past are now more likely to be profitable than those firms experiencing slower growth. “This may reflect scale effects as well as better product-need fit in the case of the faster-growing fintechs. The size of the user base is one of the key performance indicators for most fintechs and hence growing this is a major area of focus. “On average, emerging market fintechs’ user base has grown at a CAGR of 33 per cent over the past three years. Brazil and Mexico (the two LatAm countries in our sample) are some of the faster-growing markets for this measure; there seems to be a strong acceptance of Fintech products in the region. “For example, consider Nubank, one of the most successful digital banks in emerging markets with a user base of 48 million. Nigeria ranks at the top, reflecting the country’s large unbanked population; VC fund flows have been strong, supporting aggressive customer acquisition strategies, analysts added. Significantly, emerging market fintechs’ operating profits have grown at a 26 per cent CAGR, with Brazil seeing the fastest growth. South Africa and China are also growing strongly despite fintechs in both these countries seeing below-average user growth; they seem to have a greater focus on cost control than many of their peers. This is reflected in operating margins, with fintechs in China and South Africa experiencing the largest expansion in operating profit margin within our survey universe. In contrast, fintechs in Kenya, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia are seeing a contraction in their operating margins. However, the sector is still relatively young. As Africa’s largest economy and with a population of 200 million—40 percent of which is financially excluded—Nigeria offers significant opportunities for fintechs across the consumer spectrum, notably within the small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) and affluent segments and, increasingly, in the mass-market segment. Digitally savvy, middle-aged and young affluent individuals face poor user experience on products and find the value-add from using financial products underwhelming. They expect speed and simplicity in their dealings with their financial service provider: “I want my online shopping to be seamless. I don’t want to stare at my screen waiting for a one-time password (OTP),” one respondent complained to us. The product value proposition for this segment is similarly limited. Returns on savings are low and there is limited access to investment opportunities, both domestic and international. With savings interest rates ranging between 4 and 5 percent per annum and inflation at 11 to 12 percent pre-COVID-19, traditional savings accounts have proven to be ineffective in achieving financial goals. Fintech activity in lending is picking up, thanks to the fact that fintechs are able to leverage payment data to determine lending risk more easily and utilize smartphones as a distribution channel. For example, Fintech start-ups such as Carbon and Renmoney have successfully leveraged alternative credit-scoring algorithms to provide instant, unsecured, short-term loans to individuals. A few fintechs, such as Migo, have also stepped up to offer unsecured working-capital loans to SMEs with minimal documentation. Banking fintech solutions have been fast followers here with leading banks launching digital lending platforms like Quick Credit by GTBank and Quickbucks by Access Bank.