AKINWUNMI KING One of the major obstacles the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) must overcome ahead of the 2023 polls is the zoning controversy. This single issue has dominated almost all political calculations in the party before and after its last convention. As the party prepares for the critical primary election for all positions, especially for the presidential slot, zoning has become booby-trap. The controversy stems from the zoning of positions in the party at the turn of every election in order to ensure fairness and avoid feelings of domination by some sections, and this is achieved mainly through the principle of rotation between the Northern and Southern parts of the country. This year, as parties prepare to fill positions in view of the general elections next year, the agitation for zoning in the PDP has been rather tumultuous. Southern PDP governors were the first to light the fire of controversy when in July 2021, they joined their colleagues from the other parties in the Southern Governors’ Forum to demand that President Buhari’s successor should come from their region. This agitation has been picked up by socio-political groups from the regions, such as Ohanaeze Ndigbo of the South East, Afenifere of the South West and PANDEF of the South South, with the Middle Belt Forum also lending a shrill voice of support from the North. Recently, it was reported that the PDP 37-man zoning committee, penultimate week, had flung open the contest for its presidential ticket. The decision was said to have been taken at a meeting of the zoning committee held on Tuesday, April 5, at the Benue State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja. As it was gathered, the committee threw open the ticket due to the exigency of time. Though the committee was said to have acknowledged the fact that zoning was an integral part of the party’s Constitution, it clarified that the exigency of time would not allow the party to go with zoning this time around. POLL Addressing journalists at the end of the meeting, Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, said: “By the Grace of God, we have unanimously adopted a position that will be sent to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of our party that appointed us. “The good news for the teeming supporters of the PDP and Nigerians is that we have resolved and every one of us – the 37 members – unanimously adopted the position that we are going to present to NEC.” Although Ortom was discreet about the zoning formula, sources claimed that the committee would urge NEC to throw open the presidential race to all aspirants, irrespective of their zones. However, Ortom, while appearing on the ‘Morning Show’ programme of Arise TV the following day, angrily denied the report and insisted that the committee was “quoted on what it did not say”. The governor said: “I want to clear the insinuation that the zoning committee has thrown open the presidential ticket. I did inform the media yesterday (Tuesday, April 5, 2022) that the committee has adopted a unanimous position to be presented to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party. Where did I say that the committee has thrown open the presidential ticket?” he quipped. He continued: “As the chairman of the committee, we did not say that. So it is very wrong for anyone to insinuate that we have thrown the presidential ticket open. I am still repeating that, whatever we did, we have submitted our report to NEC. So, it is wrong for the media to come out with a position despite the fact that they were not members of the committee.” He then stressed, “It is the NEC of the party that has the final authority on the zoning of positions.” According to the governor, “There were arguments that the presidential candidate should come from the South, while some said it should go to the northern part of the country. There were others who were of the opinion that it should be thrown open for the best candidate who will be able to deliver good governance and make Nigerians feel like human beings again.” While inaugurating the zoning committee, the National Chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu, had reiterated that the principle of zoning stands, insisting that the PDP would maintain its custom of rotating political offices among the geopolitical zones in the country, and asked interested aspirants who the rotation arrangement may not favour this time around to wait for their time. “PDP has a history of rotating our offices. Anybody who does not get it this time should wait after the tenure of whoever will be our next president. There should be no rancour whatsoever. Remain focused on the bigger picture. Because that is what we want. I believe that by the time we have the big prize in our hands, we will share it, and we will rotate it the way we want. If we had not been interrupted on this journey, about six years ago, we would have started the same process. “We believe PDP is going to produce the next president once we start this journey. This time, we will ensure it goes round. And it will go round with justice, fairness, and the interests of Nigeria,” Ayu had said. But the comment had not gone down well with many party leaders. Two of the presidential aspirants: Atiku Abubakar and the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, who later advised the committee and the party to focus on producing a credible and worthy candidate rather than focusing on the zoning principle. According to Atiku, there is no provision for zoning political offices in Nigeria’s constitution, adding that the country’s challenges make him wonder if to contest or not. While maintaining that there is nothing in the constitution that prohibits anyone from any region from running for president, the presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections, said, “Fundamentally, the constitution says all of us can run.” He added: “The constitution has not barred any one of us. There is no zoning in the constitution; there is none. I was a member of the constituent assembly that drafted the current constitution and there was nothing like that.” Tambuwal, on his part, called on the PDP to give its presidential ticket to a candidate that can win the election, not minding what part of the country the candidate comes from. “I’m appealing to my party that we should be talking about how to win the election not just the zone of where the president is coming from. The president can come from wherever provided he has the capacity and competence to fix Nigeria of the moment. The Nigeria of 1998 is different from the Nigeria of 2023. “As I said before, APC, in 2015, deliberately, out of strategy, sorted out President Muhammadu Buhari from Katsina state. Meanwhile, the last president from the Northern part of Nigeria was Umaru Musa Yar’Adua from the same Katsina State. “Because they believe they can win the election with him. It is now the APC is talking about zoning. When they were looking for the Presidency and power, they didn’t talk about zoning. They got someone they believed could check the box at that moment and deliver,” Tambuwal said. While the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) seems to have reached a conclusion on the zone that would produce its presidential candidate, the main opposition PDP is still dilly-dallying on the issue. The claim in some quarters is that regardless of wherever the APC zones its ticket, the PDP will, without hesitation, pick a northerner as its presidential candidate. This move, as some have argued, is specifically aimed at favouring the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who is believed to have the popularity and financial capability to confront any candidate presented by the ruling APC. While the debate was on, governors of southern states elected on the platform of PDP, on Friday, April 5, met at the Akwa-Ibom Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja, where they insisted that the party must zone its presidential ticket to the southern part of Nigeria for equity and fairness. The governors expressed their position on the issue of zoning while briefing journalists after their meeting. The governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu, who spoke on behalf of the governors, said they had watched with keen interest developments in PDP regarding zoning, but they had no reason to change their earlier stand. He said: “Our position is that first, we are committed to the unity of our party and we have worked hard to make sure that this party remains a strong and viable vehicle to ‘rescue’ Nigeria come 2023. “Be that as it may, we want to draw your attention to the fact that we have agreed as Southern Governors in Lagos and also in Delta that this party has to respect the zoning principle as enshrined in our Constitution. “And to that effect, we feel that the best thing to do is zone the presidency to the South, and we stand on that position. We have not seen any reason to change our position, because the party was founded on the basis of equity and justice. “We also think that equity and justice are important pillars that will ultimately stabilise our politics towards our journey in rescuing Nigeria.” On arguments that the PDP ticket was made open because of the number of aspirants that had purchased forms or the need to retain the ticket in the north, Ikpeazu said that the party must be firm in its decision and do whatever is seen to be true and fair. “Let me tell you something: if you want to take a position of policy, you don’t look at the problems in their face and take a decision. You take a decision and remain firm on that decision. “We think that what this country is lacking today is our ability to dispense equity and justice. It may be difficult, it may be a bitter pill but we need to stand with the truth.” However, while PDP’s doublespeak over zoning continues to draw flak from a cross section of Nigerians, some stalwarts of the party argue that the politics of zoning is merely to keep the governing APC guessing in the erroneous belief that a northern candidate will be fielded by PDP in 2023. Former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Bode George, last weekend, warned that any attempt to jettison the zoning arrangement would affect the PDP’s chances in 2023. George, who gave the warning when he met with selected journalists in Lagos, insisted that the PDP would lose the trust of Nigerians if it goes against zoning. Citing Section 7, sub-section 3(c) of the party’s Constitution, he noted that in the spirit of equity, fairness and justice, the PDP must zone the presidential ticket of the party to the South East. Recalling how the founding fathers of the PDP came up with the idea of zoning, he said the leaders took the decision to ensure equity and fairness, just as he urged the National Working Committee of the party not to ignore it. His words: “So no zone, whether you are minority or majority, will go home without something to show to their people. But when you look at it like that, after eight years, all positions in the South will go to the North and all the positions in the North will come to the South. “But they never envisaged a situation where you will have another political party that can produce the president. It wasn’t in their political equation. And you know we were always boasting that we would remain in power for the next 60 years. But the APC produced a Northern President in 2015.” George, who was a member of the PDP zoning committee, said the zoning committee had only made a recommendation by saying the presidential ticket should be thrown open, urging the National Executive Committee, NEC, of the PDP “to listen and feel the pulse of the people on the issue.” He said: “When the National hears all the voices coming from the country, and they see that this can break or make Nigeria, maybe some sense will come into the discussion. “Some people are arguing that President Muhammadu Buhari is not from our party and I laughed and told them that he may not be a member of our party but he is from the North. “Personally, my view is that the PDP should make a definitive statement that this thing is zoned to the South, so that we will be seen as not only obeying the law of our party, we will also appear before that lady of justice blindfolded with the sword and the scale. She doesn’t care who you are, the truth will come out and I am saying this for posterity’s sake. “If we start counting from 1960, together with the military era, how many people have occupied this position from the north and how many from the south? We should stop counting from 1999; it is half-measured counting. The party must come out, be honest, and say that this thing must go to the South.” Meanwhile, sources claim that some power brokers within the party are of the view that choosing a possible candidate among the southern aspirants that have indicated interest in the ticket so far is a delicate issue because of the electoral implications. These sources said that the thinking in a section of the northern establishment was that the party should be cautious in taking a decision on zoning the presidency to the South because of the disposition of the average northern voter. PDP leaders from the South that have obtained nomination and expression of interest forms include a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation and one-time president of the Senate, Anyim Pius Anyim; business guru, Chief Sam Ohuabunwa; Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze, and a former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, all from the South-East. Others are Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and his Akwa Ibom State counterpart, Emmanuel Udom, from the South-South geo-political zone, and a former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, from the South-West. According to one of the sources, there is the need for proper background checks on the aspirants to guarantee that the PDP does not play into the hands of pro-government elements as preparations for the election progress. The source added that the top notch of the PDP were careful on the role of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the 2023 elections, notwithstanding the assurances by the commission to be neutral and fair. In spite of all these issues, the source explained that those involved in the ongoing power game in the PDP might resolve the jigsaw over zoning of the presidential ticket of the party in the coming weeks. “Who can they present that can mobilise people across the entire country? Look at Peter Obi, he will need Atiku Abubakar, Saraki, and the governors from the North to accompany him if he is made the standard-bearer of the PDP. That is part of the dilemma. “Those concerned in the PDP will sit down and sort out their differences as time goes on. It will not make sense for them to say they can’t zone it to the South. “But their dilemma is that if they should zone it to the South, it will be difficult for them to get good votes for a southern candidate. Some leaders can work on the people to be circumspect before giving their mandate to a particular candidate,” the source added. Another source told our correspondent that, “The truth of the matter is that of all those who have indicated interest, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is the only one that can win the election for our party. When you talk of structure, he has it all over the country and when you talk of popularity, I don’t think there is anyone of them who is as popular as Atiku. “Another issue is that when it is time for election, how many votes can the whole of the south produce? From 1999, the northern region has always produced the largest chunk of votes during general elections. And if you still want to get those votes, you have to present a candidate from their region. “PDP leaders are being strategic in their thinking. If we bring our candidate from the North and APC produces a southern candidate, then it is game over for them (the APC). No southern candidate will be able to defeat Atiku in the North even if the APC tries to rig the election.”  