LAGOS – Ahead of the political party primaries, the Presidential primaries the Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDP Coalition), a vibrant group in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said that for fairness and equity, the party’s presidential ticket should be zoned to the South-East geo-political zone. Speaking through a statement in Lagos, Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, the group’s National Coordinator maintained that no South Easterner under any given political party had been given a chance to be elected and inaugurated the nation’s president. He said: “It is disheartening and undemocratic that in a heterogeneous society like Nigeria, the presidency seat continues to be rotated between two ethnic blocs, Western and Northern regions, without giving the Eastern region a slot to produce the number one leader of the country. “Despite the six geo-political zones arrangement, we have three major ethnic  regions in Nigeria as carved out by the colonial masters, but back to the cabinet system of government, before the emergence of republicanism in 1963, no person of Igbo origin had been elected the president of Nigeria. “During parliamentarian days, Tafawa Balewa was made the Prime Minister, who served as the Head of the government, while Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe’s services were just mere ceremonial ones without strong statutory recognition. “In 1999, a South Easterner was to be the next president in the name of Dr Alex Ekwueme, but the same power manipulation was used to deny him the opportunity. “That dispensation produced Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar into the corridors of power. “The government of Chief Obasanjo lasted for eight years and handed over power to the North in 2007 that produced late Alhaji Musa Yar’Adua and Dr Goodluck Jonathan into Aso Rock. POLL “As death remains inevitable, Yar’Adua died and Jonathan climbed to the overall presidential seat, while Alhaji Namadi Sambo from the North was selected to deputise him till leadership exhausted in 2011. “A fresh election was conducted and Dr Goodluck and Sambo won election into the office of the president and vice president respectively. “In 2015, the same Dr Jonathan and Sambo   were nominated under the banner of PDP to run  for the number one seat in the land, but failed to get re-elected as the All Progressives Co gress (APC)  successfully took the field day by winning the presidential election that produced President Muhammadu Buhari from the North.” Kalu, therefore, maintained that as the PDP’s presidential primary was being planned, the party should zone its 2023 presidential ticket to the South East for equity, justice and fair play to allow the region to produce the next leader of the country.