By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba), first published in December 2017 Last week, this column re­published “Fuel Imports: The Real Cabal”. The article sheds light on controver­sies concerning why Nigeria goes through repetitive periods of fuel scarcity, and weighs in on the ad­verse effects these issues have on the welfare of Nigerians. The republica­tion can be found by accessing the link below. (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) Today’s article holds the same theme as the previous articles re­published in March, because it is in­deed a never-ending cycle of scarce resources that the nation is forced to endure. Forced, because should those in the seats of power listen to voices of reason, or even have the best interest of the Nigerian people at heart, the nation should not be plagued with the same ailments for years. Today’s republication discuss­es the issue of fuel scarcity, and the contributing factors of CBN and the government. Kindly read on. As you read through the below article taking note of the events and rates, keep in mind its initial publi­cation (2017). ………………………………………….. The severe social anguish induced by inadequate fuel supply, has sadly become a recurring decimal in our journey as a nation. Regrettably, a sustainable solution to inadequate fuel supply seems to have remained elusive despite the horrendous dis­location to our work plans, produc­tivity, and the biting pain suffered in the precious hours lost in endless queues at petrol stations every year; consequently, our nation’s tapestry has become irreverently distorted and debased by the heavy blotches from the routine careless strokes of fuel scarcity. Nonetheless, Nigerians are obvi­ously outraged by allegations of a de­liberate arrangement by marketers to foster fuel scarcity, during major public holidays, especially the year end festivities. Indeed, low and stable pricing and the elimination of scar­city were campaign platforms of the current administration. Inexplicably however, fuel price has not only al­most doubled from N87 to N145/litre, but worse still, intermittent scarcity remains untamed while government appears flippant to the related signif­icant loss in productivity and the so­cial pain induced by serious supply shortages. POLL Ironically, petrol marketers are the usual ‘fall guys’ for screening off the culpability of government agen­cies, related to fuel importation and distribution. Unfortunately, market­ers are often painted as saboteurs of government’s plans to ensure readily available and competitively priced fuel nationwide. Surprisingly, the rejection of this odious label by petroleum marketers, has always been feeble, uncoordinat­ed and often unconvincing. The ram­pant subsidy scam through which marketers, allegedly looted trillions of Naira from the treasury, clearly bruised the image of the subsector. Sadly, despite the disturbing antiso­cial and economic consequences of this widely reported fraud, investi­gation and successful prosecution of suspects has not been impressive. Nonetheless, weak monitoring, control and financial audit systems facilitated such humongous theft of public funds; arguably, the scam may not have thrived, so brazenly, without insider co-operation across diverse Ministries and Agencies, including Finance and the CBN; surprisingly, however, no public servant has been investigated, and successfully pros­ecuted for their role in the subsidy rip off! Nonetheless, in view of the inven­tive minds of a subset of the Nigeri­an ‘elite’, it is not unlikely that a new version of subsidy fraud may now be operational. Invariably, so long as a petrol subsidy program exists, opportunities for treasury looting will abound with public servants ready and willing to facilitate such nefarious ‘trade’. Instructively, therefore, ‘subsidy fraud’ may be completely eliminated when government ceases to regulate fuel price. However, since petrol price significantly dictates cost of trans­portation and ultimately food pric­es, a relatively low and stable petrol price has become a pivotal political issue, even when such lower prices are out of tune with real time market dynamics. Arguably, no political party would win popular votes presently, with a campaign promise to increase fuel prices! Curiously, there is no official report on net subsidy payments for 2016 or indeed for 2017! It is undeni­able however, that the present subsi­dy component on N145/litre petrol will rise, if crude oil price increases above $45/barrel while the naira ex­change rate still remains so weak. Happily, crude price has stead­ied above $50/barrel recently, and this should ordinarily be welcome news, as it would supplement gov­ernment’s depleted dollar reserves; conversely however, higher crude prices will also, unexpectedly insti­gate higher petrol price, if Naira exchange rate stagnates or further depreciates. It is inexplicable, nonetheless, that Naira exchange responds very stiffly whenever higher crude prices substantially increase CBN’s foreign reserves. For example, even when reserves increased by almost 25 per­cent from about $32bn to about $40bn lately, the Naira rate has remained static at N305 = $1. Conversely, when crude prices fall, petrol cost will also fall, and this should be welcome news to motor­ists; unfortunately however, lower crude price, also means dwindling dollar reserves, which could lead to a weaker Naira rate which will also invariably compel higher domestic petrol price. Regrettably, therefore, it seems that neither a rise nor fall in price and output of crude oil, is ulti­mately good for us; in other words, heads we lose, tails we lose in the business of fuel pricing! This price dilemma has confront­ed governments since the devastat­ing Naira devaluation during the Structural Adjustment Programme in the 1980s. The cumulative product of this dilemma is deepening pover­ty, even when crude prices spiraled, and engendered extremely buoyant reserves above $60bn in the recent past. Nigerians should, similarly won­der why the Naira rate has remained relatively static around N305=$1, de­spite production output increasing to about 2 million barrels daily with crude prices also fortuitously, well above $50/barrel recently. Meanwhile, marketers have re­portedly stopped fuel importation because of over $2bn debt, govern­ment, allegedly owes them from earlier imports; besides, petrol mar­keters Associations have also insist­ed lately, that the current regulated price of N145/litre, ultimately leaves them with a negative income. Consequently, NNPC has become compelled to supply almost 100 per­cent of petrol distributed. Thus, if petrol is sold, for example for N145 with subsidy, instead of, say, N165/ litre real market price, this would translate to a subsidy of N20/litre on the estimated 30-40 million litres consumed daily, i.e. well over N600m of public money down the drain ev­ery day! Indeed, NNPC has never will­ingly publicly declared such losses sustained in its fuel importation and distribution business. Arguably, nonetheless, the financial and logis­tics burden of supplying 100 percent of Nigeria’s fuel imports, has prob­ably overwhelmed the capacity of Nigeria’s oil Corporation. Although, some critics may argue that NNPC should not be short of cash (forex) since the Corporation sells its daily allocation of 450,000 barrels to fund its imports. Indeed, the NNPC may not be broke, but it would ultimately become bankrupt with a business plan that sustains a N600m daily loss. Inadvertently, the National As­sembly and the Federal Executive have also failed to summon the cour­age to seriously interrogate NNPCs true financial status; although, the present fuel scarcity has been at­tributed to different factors, notable however, amongst these factors, must be NNPCs’ dwindling capacity to sustain 100 percent importation of petrol with a N600m daily loss trap. The Vice President’s recent sug­gestion that cyclical year end fuel shortages are instigated, by higher energy demand in the colder north­ern hemisphere in December, may not really hold water. Indeed any ef­ficient and responsible organization would be expected to recognize cy­clical market factors in its planning and operations. Osinbajo’s state­ment is therefore an inadvertent in­dictment of NNPC’s management, while his photoshoot, as a pump at­tendant may be good propaganda but was certainly not indicative of best practice Executive Management in such times of crisis. Conversely, the oil Corporation’s indictment of marketers for hoard­ing and black marketeering of pet­rol, must also be seen as a deflection of its culpability in this matter of scarcity. Ordinarily, petrol market­ers are in the business of selling fuel to make money; since the business operates on very low margins, fuel scarcity is VERY bad business for marketers, as it requires quick turn­over of significant volumes to make a modest profit. The clandestine and risky en­terprise of petrol hoarding may not also be attractive to majority of marketers; so the real dilemma is that NNPC cannot successfully do it alone, but major marketers are conversely unwilling to engage in importation, unless subsidy is elim­inated to allow a more competitive market space that guarantees a fair return rather than a loss on invest­ment. Conversely, price deregulation would be a dangerous gamble for any government as petrol prices would invariably spiral, when prices are strictly defined by market factors; for example, any increase in crude oil price will, also inflate pump price, while a further slide in Naira rate (a very likely possibility) will also propel higher fuel prices. Ironical­ly, in the above context, it may be counterproductive to pray for higher crude prices (despite the collateral of increasing reserves) because of the fear of the consequences of higher petrol prices. SAVE THE NAIRA! SAVE NI­GERIANS!!