 An Ebonyi Central Senatorial aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Kelvin Chukwu has been endorsed by his kinsmen. Chukwu’s kinsmen that comprised of the major stakeholders and Youths in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State made the declaration on Monday when he returned from Abuja after purchasing his interest and nomination forms. The stakeholders said the endorsement of Chukwu was a reward of his numerous empowerment of the Youths of Ikwo clan, as well as the infrastructural facilities he had brought to the community and people of the council area. One of the stakeholders, Chief Maxwell Nwali, a former council chairman of Ikwo LGA, who spoke to journalists in Abakaliki, during the adoption of Chukwu as the preferred candidate to run for Ebonyi Central senatorial zone, described him as a man of great vision, with the capacity and ability to attract greater development for the zone, if supported to become a senator in 2023. Nwali who was also a special assistant to Ebonyi governor on Youths Development said: “Absolutely, Chukwu has what it takes to be a senator. I have always contributed my quota in making whoever becomes the senatorial candidate of Ebonyi Central. “Somebody at my age should give chance for the youths because I know youths are more energetic and vibrant to move on, knowing full well that it is all about lobbying. “It’s all about coming out with great innovations, it’s all about being proactive and age is always a dwindling factor to all these. I therefore believe that a vibrant young man, who has a comparative advantage to move on, should be given a chance. POLL “From what you can see, if Chukwu is allowed to become a Senator, you can stop him on the road and embarrass him where he didn’t do well but for those other elders who are contesting, you will feel uncomfortable to do so. “If I didn’t endorse Chukwu as our sole candidate, I can’t be here. I endorse him as a youth to move on, because I know he will bring greater development for the people of the zone” he stated. Similarly, elder Okpara Ndubuisi, a leader of the rescue mission support group in Ikwo LGA, who spoke on behalf of the youths, said: “we know Chukwu as a philanthropist, someone who protects and speaks for his people. “The youths have been begging him (Chukwu) to come out and contest and he has been saying no, not because he does not want, but because he wanted to prepare very well, so that he will do his best to bring development to the people. “We have decided that we will retire the old politicians in Ikwo LGA to pave way for the younger ones to come on board and represent the people at the national assembly,” he noted.