LAGOS –  All is now set as the Methodist Church of Nigeria (MCN), Archdiocese of Lagos Mainland to play host to the Prelate, His Eminence, Dr. Samuel Kanu Uche (JP) and his wife, Nneoma Florence Uche. The reception for the Prelate by the Archdiocese of Lagos Mainland forms part of his farewell tour as he rounds off his tenure as the head of the Church in Nigeria. A statement signed by Rev. Cessy Ogunaike, Chairperson, Publicity Committee, Archdiocese of Lagos Mainland, Methodist Church Nigeria and made available to Daily Independent explained that the week-long event will start from Tuesday 26th April to Sunday 1st May, 2022. The release stated that the tour will take him round all the four federating Dioceses that make up the entire Archdiocese namely Diocese of Lagos Mainland, Diocese of Lagos Central, Diocese of Lagos West and Diocese of Lagos North respectively. According to the Chief host, the Archbishop of Lagos Mainland, His Grace, Most Rev. Obafemi Adeleye, the Prelate and his entourage will kick start his farewell tour on Tuesday 26th April with a Eucharist Church service at Hoare’s Memorial Methodist Cathedral, Yaba by 12noon. In his words, “We are delighted to welcome our spiritual leader, His Eminence, Dr. Kanu Uche to our great Archdiocese of Lagos Mainland as he gradually counts down to the end of his stewardship as the Prelate of Methodist Church Nigeria. “During this week-long visit, His Eminence will be celebrating some landmark achievements of the Archdiocese with us like the commissioning of the new Science Laboratory and block of classrooms at Methodist Girls’ High School, Yaba, Lagos amongst other memorable events”.Besides, the Archdiocesan Lay President in the person of Sir Benjamin Oshadiya, said, “The entire members of our dear Archdiocese are excitedly prepared to give our Prelate a befitting send forth going by series of activity lined up by the Archdiocese together with the various Dioceses during this farewell tour. He explained that the outing will be rounded off with a thanksgiving service at Hoare’s Memorial Methodist Cathedral, Yaba by 10.00 am on Sunday 1st May 2022”.