LAGOS – Honourable Moshood Salvador, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Sunday, cautioned Nigerians against voting for hypocrites and those with shady characters, who seek their votes, in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. Salvador made the call during the annual Ramadan Lecture/Zakat event, which took place at Salvador Towers in Lagos where thousands of people benefited from the philanthropic gesture of the politician. The former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State decried the rising poverty and hardship in the land, saying that politicians are not concerned about the wellbeing of the people hence the increasing hardship. He pointed out that Nigeria was too richly endowed to cater for its citizens, with nobody expected to suffer poverty and hardship but lamented that politicians had not benefited the masses. As the 2023 election approaches, the APC leader enjoined his followers and the electorate to think twice before voting anybody that seeks their votes. According to him, voting hypocrites and people of shady character would be tantamount to mortgaging their future and misusing the opportunity to make Nigeria a better place. “This country is not where people should be suffering because we have resources in abundance. The lack of fear of God by our leaders is the cause of the problems facing the country. “Don’t allow politicians to buy your votes, if you do, the repercussions would be on your future and that of your children,” he warned. “Don’t be moved by money or political position to vote. The fact that somebody was a former President, former Governor, a former Minister doesn’t mean he will do well. He was probably a Governor for his family because we can’t see what he did. They will budget N10 billion and only N2 billion will be spent and N500,000 million utilized,” he said. Salvador, who used the opportunity to distribute food items and clothes to thousands of people who gathered at the annual event said, “I have done this for 24 years. I saw my father do this and I decided to follow his footsteps. People are hungry and if God has been kind to me, why can’t I help others,” Salvador said.