LAGOS – Stakeholders/elders of the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have threatened legal action over the ratification of the State Congress by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. It will be recalled that the party held its state Congress on the 26th of February but after that Congress, there had been contentions as some aspirants and stakeholders alleged that the Congress was manipulated and demanded that the national leadership should not ratify it. The elders and stakeholders in a press statement on Friday jointly signed by,  Dr Remi  Akitoye, Senator Kofo Akerele-Bucknor and Chief Mrs Onikepo-Oshodi expressed displeasure with the NWC of the party and stated their resolve to challenge the grave injustice with all legitimate legal means. “We have ascertained and convinced that there is a well planned, premeditated attempt to hand over our state to fifth columnists whose mission is unknown, whose purpose is shrouded in an ultimate goal that appears to be an attempt to weaken the party. “We will never roll over and fade away. We will fight this injustice with temperance and sure-footedness. We reject outrightly this failed attempt to impose on the majority of our members a botched, inconclusive Congress that has no legality in law and no iota of legitimacy in the moral sense,” the statement reads. According to them, the injustice done to Lagos seems to be aligned with a very dangerous pattern to elbow out the people of the South-west from the high table at the PDP conclave. “We don’t and we won’t recognize the shambolic contraption they are trying to rig up in Lagos.  We will continue this struggle until the wrongs are rectified and until Justice eventually prevails,” the statement added. Expressing their dissatisfaction with the role played by the national chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, the elders said that the national chairman acted like a sole administrator, contemptuous of the sobering voices of the South-west representatives. POLL According to them, Ayu hardly demonstrated the requisite gravitas and the innate democratic accommodation of a good leader as he hastily ignored everyone and purportedly “ratified” what has been universally condemned as a flawed Congress. “Despite various petitions emanating from the aspirants, the Board of Trustees (BOT) members, the Caretaker Committee and the concerned individuals which substantiated the fact that the congress was a brazen sham, he still disregarded the various voices of reason. The statement further reads, “The elders, the leaders and the stakeholders of the PDP in Lagos State met on Thursday, March 31st to deliberate on the purported ratification of the February 26th botched state Congress by Dr Iyorchia Ayu, PDP National Chairman. “Having deliberated exhaustively on the issue, the elders, the leaders and the stakeholders unanimously resolved that they are shocked and disappointed with the national chairman of the party, Senator Oyorcha, dismissing the collective essence of the National Working Committee, capriciously disregarded any attempt at plural contributions appropriating what ought to be a collective decision in a brazen proprietary authority,” it added. According to the statement, the reports from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Appeal Committee, the BOT Elders, the Caretaker Committee and other quarters were all unanimous about the untidy, flawed and inconclusive nature of the botched Congress. “Dr Ayu in his wisdom cast aside this cumulative weight of evidence, hastened in contemptuous indifference to the truth, jettisoned what is right and just, flung away the constitutional pivot of our party which is anchored on justice and fairness doctrine. “We are dismayed, sickened and sad that there is a desperate attempt to destabilize Lagos State and render the  Yoruba race inconsequential in the scheme of things.  Lagos state alone has the largest electoral figures in the nation. This should not be happening very close to an election year,” the statement further reads.