Arsenal star Martin Odegaard has joked that Erling Haaland should make a move to the Emirates Stadium in the summer after a photo emerged of the Norwegian hitman donning a Gunners’ strip as a child. The Borussia Dortmund striker is already at the centre of quite the transfer furore heading into the upcoming window. Chelsea have long been linked with the 21-year-old, whilst Manchester City appear to be edging towards a big-money summer deal as Pep Guardiola looks to bolster his attack ahead of the 2022/23 campaign. An old photo of Haaland donning a yellow Arsenal kit from the 2010/11 season as a child has sent fans into a frenzy on social media. His international teammate – and current Arsenal star – Odegaard has now given his say on the prospect of the striker arriving at the Emirates Stadium in the future. Speaking with Stadium Astro, Odegaard said: “He’s a funny guy, a good guy and he’s a good friend of mine a great players as well of course so we will see what he will do I don’t know. If he comes to England he needs to come to us of course but I don’t know what he will do but he is a great guy. “To be honest we haven’t talked too much about it, I know he has so many people trying to ask him and to tell him what to do and I don’t want to do that. He’s a beast he’s strong, he’s fast, I think he has everything I think he can play in every league in every country to be honest.” Ahead of potentially moving this summer, Haaland is fresh off the back of another highly impressive season at the Westfalenstadion. He has scored another 25 goals in all competitions for Dortmund this term despite having missed large swaths of the campaign through injury. That form follows seasons where he had plundered 57 goals over his first 18 months in Germany since a switch from Austrian outfit Red Bull Salzburg. Meanwhile, he has also netted 15 goals in just 17 international appearances. Odegaard’s recent comments are not the first hints that he has dropped on his Norway teammate’s future. Speaking earlier this year, the Arsenal man suggested that the pair have been discussing Real Madrid – the Spanish giants having also been linked with a future swoop. POLL “We are good friends so we talk about lots of things, like when I was there. So yeah we talked about it but it’s not anything special,” he said. According to betastic.com, Haaland has just over two years left to run on his contract with Borussia Dortmund and appears likely to leave for a discounted fee this summer. According to Bild, a release clause of £63m is set to become active this summer but any interested clubs reportedly have to indicate their desire to sign the striker before April 30.