Comfort Olu Eyitayo, 57th President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has said that the Institute understands the rapidly changing dynamics in its profession and remains committed to updating members’ skills and competencies. She stated this while speaking virtually at the Faculties induction ceremony, stating that the Institute’s value proposition is to produce future-ready Chartered Accountants who would continue to add value to the profession and the economy. She said it is worth reiterating that ICAN Faculties were launched 21 years ago to provide technical support to members based on their peculiar professional needs and that the Faculties are Centres of Excellence for building core competencies in seven different areas of specialization. “The objectives of the Faculties are broadly to identify members’ unique needs, provide timely and relevant professional information in the seven areas of specialization as well as train and certify the specialist skills of members. Since their establishments, according to Eyitayo the seven Faculties have contributed to raising the bar of professionalism in the country, and that members of the various Faculties are sought-after in the unraveling of various financial crimes as forensic auditors, tax experts in the fiscal sector of the economy, consultants in accounting technologies, insolvency practitioners among others. “The inductees, after the programme today, would have the unique privilege to be called specialists in their respective Faculties. To ensure adherence of Faculties’ members to high ethical and professional conduct, we educate them on their peculiar statutory duties and responsibilities such that a culture of best practice is evolved in each specialist area. “This would not only assist our members to always assume a professional disposition and conduct, but it would also assist in promoting a society where ethics and professionalism are enshrined as the norm rather than the exception. Speaking further she said the inductees into the various Faculties have been tested and the Governing Council of the Institute has found them worthy to be awarded the prestigious ICAN certificates as specialists in one of the seven areas of specialization. POLL “With this certification, you have all distinguished yourselves from the masses in these specialised areas. The stakes are now high for you as the society looks up to you for indisputable professional advice and guidance in these technical areas. “You should always remember that the quality of services you render your clients do not only give credence to your competence but would also be opportunities for subsequent job offers. She further charged the inductees to always remember that they represent the Institute and thus they have the responsibilities to guard their professional relevance in the keenly competitive market as well as be worthy ambassadors of ICAN. “I want to reiterate to you that the world has a way of creating rooms at the top for those who are fully committed to the culture of excellence, probity, accuracy and integrity,” she added.