Manchester United will give their new coach, Erik Ten Hag £200m budget this summer to bring in players. This has become inevitable with re-build at the club. Ten Hag is facing a radical overhaul of the dismal squad he will inherit, with up to 12 players needing to go to facilitate the rebuild. Paul Pogba, Nemanja Matic, Jesse Lingard, Edinson Cavani, Juan Mata and Lee Grant are all out of contract this summer and will be on their way. These players, who will be out of contract this summer will leave and will free up a substantial amount of the club’s wages and thus giving the club opportunities for several new arrivals. But at least six other players – Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Eric Bailly, Phil Jones, Alex Telles, Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford – could also go to allow Ten Hag to begin his overhaul. One player who is likely to get a reprieve with the arrival of Ten Hag is Donny van Beek, currently on loan at Everton, who played under United’s new boss at Ajax. Van de Beek has endured two years in the wilderness at United, but Ten Hag knows how to get the best out of the attacking midfielder and sees a key role going forward for the 25-year-old. However, the new boss wants former England coach and Sir Alex Ferguson’s old assistant Steve McClaren to work with him at Old Trafford. POLL McClaren worked with Ten Hag at FC Twente and it is understood he feels he can provide invaluable insight into both the workings of United and English football in general. Declan Rice and Harry Kane are two names, who have been linked to Man Utd, although the duo would take up all of the Ten Hag’s budget. After his announcement on Thursday, the Dutch tactician told the Red Devils’ official website of his short and long-term ambition: “It is a great honour to be appointed manager of Manchester United and I am hugely excited by the challenge ahead. I know the history of this great club and the passion of the fans, and I am absolutely determined to develop a team capable of delivering the success they deserve.”