Dr. Jeff Nnamani of Agbani in Nkanu West Local Government Area of Enugu State is in the race for the state’s 2023 Governorship Election as an aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). In this interview, he speaks on issues of importance to both the state and the nation in general. Generally, you are perceived as a new player in the Enugu State political field. How correct is that perception and what does it imply for your current aspiration? Really, I doubt if there is any political player of note in the State since 1999 to date that will tell you that Jeff Nnamani is an unknown quantity though I have, as a matter of principle, deliberately refrained from partisan politics until now. My coming on to the field now to vie for public office is equally deliberate. For so long, the state has been badly run. And I have come to the realisation that most of those we have trusted in the past to lead our state have wrongly construed the meaning and implementation of what public service entails. You said most of the leaders the state has had since 1999 have the wrong impression of what Public Service entails. Could you explain this opinion of yours better? For more than 30 years, I was fortunate to have served in a world-class organisation that thrives on service. I have also been fortunate to sit on the board of a few public institutions across the country where my personal belief of what public service really means has been nurtured and perfected. Unfortunately, Enugu State, in the last 23 years, has not been led well along this modern ethos of public service. How you serve people is different from people serving you; so that’s exactly why I decided to come and serve. We want to bring in a new era of governance, not the old way. The old way is personal wealth acquisition using the instrument and facilities of state, and this old way is selfish. It is why our state has had arrested development while a callous and selfish set of government-facilitated power mongers have been holding the state down and keeping the people poor and subjugated. Succinctly, what is your mission? This journey is not about an ambition but in pursuit of a mission to reject and put an end to the old way and to protect the future of our State. I need to let ‘Ndi Enugu’ understand that power belongs to them, that everybody that occupies the government house, the Senate, House of Representatives, state assembly, local government offices everywhere, power is not their birth-right. It is by the power or grace of the people that elect them; it is because you choose them and these chosen leaders have to serve the people and not constitute themselves into overlords. My mission is to liberate Enugu State from the hands of people who believe that politics or power belongs to them because power truly belongs to the electorates, not the elected. Butwhyisittakingyouthislongtocomeout with this liberation agenda? POLL I would like to believe that we are coming at the right time after watching the players on the scene over an appreciable length of time and realising that none of them has the capacity to bring anything new and progressive to bear on the state. It is about my personal character. I believe in concentration, I believe in commitment, giving the best in any particular service I see myself. I am not coming into politics because I need power, no. I am coming into politics to replicate what service is. What major ills of the government of the day have you identified that require urgent corrections? For me, this is the best time to let Enugu people know that there’s a better way to serve them. You can’t for instance be flying business class when you can’t pay salaries, you can’t be using private jets when you cannot pay people their gratuities; that is wrong. Whatever you’re doing, you have to show example because leadership is by example. Thereisagrowingcallinthestatethatzoning shouldberespectedinthechoiceofthenext governor in 2023. What is your take on the idea of zoning? To be truthful, zoning has been okay for Enugu people and anybody who is saying there should be no zoning is just trying to project a selfish idea. In Enugu, the generally accepted belief is this person has gone from this side, let another person come up from the other side. It has contributed tremendously to making the state relatively peaceful. Thereis alsotheviewbysomeoftheleaders in the state that the sitting governor has the right to pick his successor. How true is that and what’s your take on this view? For me, it is a sign of impunity taken too far, and it’s because of the ruling party’s disrespect for the people, especially their democratic rights. We are not doing politics and democracy the way it’s supposed to be. If you’re a political party and you have your internal arrangement to impose candidates on your party members, it’s fine by you. But remember, when it comes to the polity itself, where you have other parties, where you have people who are independent-minded, where you have people who want to vote for a very good candidate, you don’t tell them that the governor has a right to pick his successor. It is in bad taste. Why did you pitch your tent with APGA and not with the PDP or APC? The decision was very simple and easy for me to make. When you try to change the mindset of some people towards public service, towards sacrifice, and the best way to rule people, but you find out that it is highly impossible to do so on certain popular platforms based on some people using succession plans, based on expectations on a succession plan, you can’t play in that field. In some of the so-called political parties, everybody believes money is the most important thing needed to become a leader. These leaders with money whose source of money cannot be cleanly explained are the same people who call themselves core politicians but they disregard the power of the people. You can be very rich, you can acquire all you want to acquire personally but in the long run, it’s not service. And there’s no way I can get involved with those people, given my orientation and personal character. Even if PDP says okay Jeff come and run, I’ll give you a ticket, come and represent us. The problem is not representing them, the problem is will they allow you to do what exactly constitutes good governance? So, you are saying APGA is better? Sincerely, I believe that APGA resonates with what governance is supposed to be; because after reading APGA’s constitution, I felt that this party can listen to the grassroots. They can govern very well; there will be accountability in this party; there will be integrity in this party; this party has a character of saying no, this is our pride, this is how we want to do this, and this party is starting from bottom to top. Taking all the foregoing together, I had no hesitation registering to be an APGA member. You came out ahead of other people in your party as the first person that the people of Enugu heard to be interested in the governorship race on the platform of APGA. But after you, your party seems to be having an influx. What stands you out amongst all the APGA aspirants today? The good thing about the scenario you mentioned is that it is a very good revelation sometimes. I mean the revelation that in any political dispensation, there will always be political jobbers and genuine people who share the aspirations and yearnings of the masses. The field welcomes all, including those looking for opportunities to play politics to see what they can get personally and not to serve the people. I joined the APGA party before the local government election because I knew it was the right time to join the party. I am a disciplined, committed, and focused person with a great capacity to remain on track once I am convinced it is the right way to go. I don’t allow distractions into my life. The project I am pursuing is about the people and the future of a state I love dearly. It is not about my person. For the presidency, there are also agitations that it is the turn of the southeast. What’s your take on that? The idea of a rotational presidency as it is today is not in the constitution of the country but a product of agreement within the parties. If everyone is saying it is the turn of the southeast, we actually merit it. But the problem is, are the political parties sincere with keeping to the terms of agreements? For the sake of the peace, unity, and progress of the country, the political parties should please maintain that agreement they freely entered into. So, if the parties are very sincere that it is the turn of the Igbos to bring a president, then let PDP, APC and APGA have presidential candidates from the Eastern part of the country and then let the candidates now campaign in Yorubaland, campaign in Hausaland, campaign everywhere. Finally, whatothermessagedoyouhavefor your followers, for your party people, and for Enugu citizens in general? I wish the youths, the women, and the eligible voters, especially all Ndi Enugu who are above the age of 18 years could imagine the future and what we have in mind for them. I wish the retirees and people in the villages could see what we have in mind for them.