ISAAC ASABOR Since private universities and polytechnics began to proliferate in the country, the argument on whether students and their parents or guardians can be classified as consumers or not has seemingly been put to rest as higher institutions of learning are increasingly operating under market forces which demand competitiveness, efficiency and consumer satisfaction. The foregoing observation can be buttressed with the seeming predilection which parents and guardians alike have for private universities despite the exorbitant tuition fees that are charged by them thereby reinforcing the right to choose and have access to variety of quality products and services at competitive prices that characterise consumer rights. It is therefore, not surprising that most parents and guardians who are financially capable of sponsoring their children or relations through private university education have found the Unique Selling Points (USPs) which non-government owned universities are characterised with to be irresistible. Some of the USPs cut across the absence of industrial strikes, minimal incidences of cultism, prioritised security services, timely academic calendar, modern facilities, homely and neat hostels, as well as the cachet which both the sponsors and the students are imbued with. However, as monitored on Channels Television’s Politics Today on Thursday, the body language exhibited and utterances made by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, who featured in the programme speaks volume. Having watched the programme there is every indication to believe that the impasse between the minister and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), was yet to be over to the detriment of parents and guardians who have been literarily coughing out huge amount of money, despite the austere state of the economy, in ensuring that their children and wards become graduates as scheduled. Ngige, who throughout the programme urged the varsity lecturers to be considerate, said, “It depends on ASUU. The ball is in their court. They should go and meet the Benimi Briggs Committee and look at what the committee is doing and make further inputs so that the work can be accelerated,” he said during the current affairs show. POLL The former Anambra governor, who reiterated that he cannot make a commitment on when the impasse will be resolved, called on the lecturers to do their part. According to him, ASUU should stop threatening government officials and agencies. “ASUU has to come down from their high horse. You cannot go and start intimidating people in NITDA and threatening the Minister of Digital Economy and Communication with revocation of his professorship that he is a fake professor. You go to ABU and say you are going to withdraw the certificate of the director of NITDA. That’s bullying. It is not allowed in the labour negotiations,” Ngige said He said he is worried by the incessant strikes in public universities in Nigeria, stressing that “he has not slept” in a bid to see that the schools are reopened. “The ASUU issue is a recurring decimal,” he said, recalling that the union has gone on many strikes in the last two decades. “It is a very sad situation. I am a product of the public school,” the former lawmaker added. The minister noted that there would be a meeting of all stakeholders this week as part of moves to resolve the lingering strike. Asked what will happen if the situation remains the same after his intervention, he said the Federal Government might consider resolving the issue in court if reconciliation fails. “What is happening now is we have given the Nimi Briggs committee six weeks,” he explained. “We are waiting for their report. The minister of education has to transmit it and say this is what we have agreed. “He will also transmit to the presidential committee on salaries. The six-week period ends this Friday and I’m calling everybody up by next week. The law says we can go to the industrial arbitration panel, which is where I’m supposed to refer this matter if reconciliation fails, or the national industrial court if reconciliation fails. “It is a double-barrel thing. I will choose the one I want. I will refer. The law says once conciliation has started at my level, you call off the strike.” Before Ngige’s latest remarks, ASUU had accused the Federal Government of being unserious in meeting their demands. President of the union, Emmanuel Osodeke, faulted the government’s budgeting of money for the payment of fuel subsidy and wondered why it is difficult settling the lecturers. More than two months since lecturers downed tools, the ASUU president alleged that the government has been insensitive to the union’s demands. “A government that cannot raise N200 billion to revamp all Nigerian universities and bring them to world standard, doesn’t have money to do that but that same government can raise N4 trillion for fuel subsidy; fuel subsidy and university education, which is more important to any country that wants to move forward?” he queried at the media parley. “You can raise N4 trillion for fuel subsidy in a year, but you cannot raise N200 billion to fund your education because you don’t have money; it is a priority. You can spend N228 billion to feed children in primary and secondary schools, but you cannot raise N200.” It would be recalled in this context that ASUU embarked on strike over two months ago to press for increased funding of universities among other issues. According to Mr. Dave Ekoh, a teacher in a private secondary school, “With the huge number of federal and state universities coupled with 111 private universities as listed by the National University Commission (NUC) on its website, there is no denying the fact that market forces are now playing out in the sector, and it is left for parents and guardians to always go for the best; no matter what it would cost as long as quality education is involved”. He explained that market in that sector is by each passing day becoming stiffly competitive, and opined that choosing universities to be subscribed under the ongoing dispensation that there is need for students, have consumer rights to quality education”. He explained that those Universities and other higher education providers that do not meet the obligations of undergraduate who subscribed to their tutorials after paying required fees, and who are invariably consumers of their services, may be in breach of consumer protection law. He added that in a situation where a student that ought to study for a particular 4-year course duration spends 5 or 6 years in the university as a result of incessant strikes embarked upon by members of ASUU tantamounts to a disservice to both the students and their sponsors, and added that such service is an infringement on the rights of the students to quality education. Mr. Obed Ngene, an Insurance broker, said: “The issue of consumer rights equally applies to Nigerian higher education as stakeholders, particularly parents, deserve quality of education provided by universities and polytechnics to the citizens of the country. Concerns about the quality of education students receive from universities, the quality of lecturers employed to teach undergraduates, the quality of infrastructures and instructional facilities have always been of upmost interest. “ Additionally, university education stakeholders are interested in the quality of health facilities for students/staff health services, quality of students’ hostels, quality of the overall institution environment, quality teaching and learning as well as quality support services from non-academic staff. All these call for the implementation of consumer rights in tertiary institutions”.