Hon. Olayinka Segelu, a leading aspirant for the seat of Akinyele/ Lagelu Federal Constituency of Oyo State in the House of Representatives, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was born in the ancient city of Ibadan on August 4, 1982. Olayinka Segelu, a young consummate businessman, son of the slain Hon. Olusegun Oladimeji Segelu, attended Army Children’s School 3, Ibadan, between 1988 and 1993, where he obtained his First School Leaving Certificate. He had his secondary education at Lagelu Grammar School, Agugu-Ibadan and later Unity School, Ejigbo from 1993 to 1999. Before proceeding to The Polytechnic, Ibadan, where he had an Ordinary National Diploma (OND) from the Department of Geology in 2005, Olayinka, in the year 2000, obtained a Diploma in Computer Engineering at the Information Technology Institute then in Ibadan. He holds a B.Sc. in Political Science and International Relations from the University of Abuja. He is currently undergoing an MSc programme in Political Analysis in the same University. Upon travelling to Germany in 2017 to study and explore business opportunities in the country, Olayinka registered to study German Language and German Politics at ZIB Leverkusen, Germany from 2017 to 2018. Knowing that we live in a digital world and determined to expand his knowledge in digitalization, he went to the Digital Career Institute, Düsseldorf, Germany in 2018 to do a course on web development after acquainting himself with the German language. He also undertook a programme at Sicherheitsakademie NRW, Köln, Germany on laws, Rights and Security techniques in 2019. Olayinka began full participation in politics in 2000, shortly after he left secondary school. He was the Coordinator for Ladoja/Adedibu Vanguard, Student Chapter at The Polytechnic, Ibadan, in the year 2002. He was elected the PRO of Nigerian Association of Geology and Mining Students (NAGAMS) now Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society (NMGS) at The Polytechnic, Ibadan from 2002 to 2003. The House of Reps hopeful worked in the House of Representatives, the Lower Chamber of the National Assembly as a Legislative Assistant in 2007 to his late dad, a popular politician well loved by his people but killed in a politically motivated assassination at his Constituency office on September 14, 2007. Almost immediately, the then newly elected Speaker of the House of Reps, Rt. Hon. Dimeji Bankole, OFR, deemed it fit to appoint him as a Personal Assistant, a position he held from 2007 to 2011. When Distinguished Senator Nurudeen Abatemi-Usman, his colleague in the Office of the Speaker got elected into the Senate (2011 – 2015), he appointed Olayinka as a Personal Assistant giving him the opportunity to work in both Chambers of the Federal Legislature. The UNIABUJA political science graduate took part in various training sessions that enhanced his knowledge and understanding of the workings of the legislature. Some of such trainings include: Constituency Office Management – November 2007; Effective Parliamentary Assistance – June 2008; Personality Management for Legislators – Nov 2008; The use of ICT Tools for the Enhancement of Legislative Efficiency – July 2009; Building Capacity and Performance for the legislative Aides of the National Assembly – May 2012; Refresher Training and Security Awareness for the legislative Aides of the National Assembly – August 2012; Training Workshop for Personal Assistants – November 2012; A workshop for Legislative Aides – May 2013. POLL Honoured in December 2010 as the Most Distinguished Personality by Abuja Varsity Consult, he also attended the training on Communication Skills and Personal Impact organized by the Protocol School of West Africa in September 2011. Olayinka Segelu was the Managing Director YSEG International Nigeria Limited (2008-2016). He is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of YSEG International Digital Photo Lab and Studio, Abuja. He is the proprietor of YSEG International School and Chairman YSEG Hotels and Suites, both located in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Olayinka, an employer of labour, who was also an aspirant for the House of Reps Akinleye/ Lagelu Federal Constituency in 2015 under the umbrella of PDP, is no doubt better positioned and well equipped to offer the best of representation to the good people Akinyele/Lagelu Federal Constituency come 2023 if given the mandate. With over ten years of experience in the National Assembly, he already knows how to go about ensuring the attraction and delivery of true dividends of democracy to the people. Giving an insight into his mission and vision, Olayinka said: “I’m a committed and passionate politician whose mission is to leverage on my wealth of experience and contacts locally, nationally and internationally, to promote and uplift the people. I have worked hard to shape issues, deliver valuable projects and stimulate development through legislation. “My vision is to help build an environment that fosters innovation, grooms talent, rewards performance and builds stronger community, political and governance structures while still opening myself to further learning and skills that will continue to shape me.”