LAGOS – A member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Bolaji Ayinla, has said that a good legislator must not only be seen speaking big grammar on the floor of the House but attracts meaningful infrastructural projects to his constituency. Ayinla, who stated this in a chat with Daily Independent, explained that representing the people in the legislature, has gone beyond being an orator to dishing out heavy grammar, adding that what the people want to see today are the number of projects facilitated through their representatives both at the states and national Assembly. He noted that the major duties of any lawmaker are to represent and be the voice of his constituents; lobby for projects for the constituency he represents; perform oversight functions through Committees to ensure accountability and effective and judicious use of public funds; and hold the executives accountable to the people. He, however, explained that many representatives of the people prefer to be “star boy” on the pages of newspapers, dishing out heavy grammar without anything concrete on the ground to show for it. Speaking on how he has been able to perform his legislative responsibilities diligently, the lawmaker said, “I have been able to represent my constituency effectively and serve as their voice at the national Assembly “Be that as it may, I will quickly want to emphasize that representing the people has gone beyond being an orator to dish out heavy grammar. “My duties in the chamber is not to be a star boy on the pages of newspapers dishing out heavy grammar without anything concrete on the ground to show for it. “My community, Mushin, is lagging behind in infrastructural development. Therefore, I made a choice between being a television and newspaper star boy and attracting monumental projects to Mushin constituency II. POLL “As a legislator, you must possess the ability such as ingenuity, exceptional skills and acumen to attract gigantic projects to your constituency. “My in-depth skills in lobbying have attracted an 80-bed space hospital, roads, transformers, hospital equipment, schools, street lights and borehole to my constituency. “I have also performed oversight functions via committee to ensure judicious use of public funds and the government do the needful. I believe these are the things expected of a good lawmaker.”