Beware! When fortune will elect to trick a man, she plots his overthrow/by such a means as he would least expect. Geoffrey Chaucer, 1342-1400. While Tinubu and Osinbajo were busy and distracted by their presidential ambitions, Buhari has shaved their heads clean behind their backs. He has swindled them and handed the APC to their political enemies. I pity both of them. They have been stabbed in the back; and they are forced to suffer and smile. Bola Tinubu has lost more. He was one of the two founding fathers of the political conspiracy called All Progressives Congress, APC. His original partner in the conspiracy was Buhari. Without Tinubu’s money and media clout, Buhari could never have won the election on his own; even if he tries a thousand times. Without Buhari, Tinubu might not have been able to be a leader in the ruling party. They struck an agreement. Buhari would go first; Tinubu would follow. They forgot that all power belongs to God. The Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, led by Tinubu, was the biggest faction of all the legacy groups which formed the APC  which included a small group from the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  the enemy then and, presumably, now. But, if Tinubu and Osinbajo should care to take a look at the top officials of the APC recently imposed by Buhari, their hearts should break. Senator Abdulahi Adamu is Chairman. That is bad enough. Senator Nnamani is Deputy Chairman (South), Senator Iyilola Omisore is National Secretary, Hon Victor Giadom is Vice Chairman (South South)  all former members of the PDP. The  list of current APC party officials includes no single former member of the ACN. It has been a total clean out of the landlords by the tenants. Tinubu should have known that the game was over when he and Chief Bisi Akande tried, unsuccessfully, to dissuade Buhari from endorsing Omisore as the National Secretary. The message to the National Leader was Get lost. It is difficult to know how Tinubu interpreted that rebuff before the party machinery was handed to the long term  adversaries of the progressive elements. To me, it was the final proof that the Jagaban has been handed to his political antagonists. They cannot forget how his associates and the media he controlled held them to contempt, though sometimes deserved.  Now, he is at their mercy. Who would ever have thought that Omisore will be collecting nomination form from Tinubu and assessing his eligibility for elective office? A political earthquake occurred. An honest politician is one who, once bought, stays bought. Simeon Cameron, VBQ p 190. I was not surprised by the open hostility which greeted Osinbajo’s announcement by Asiwaju’s supporters and Tinubu himself. The fights  verbal and physical  have just begun. Nigerians can expect an avalanche of calumny from both sides. Individuals and groups wanting to be on the right side of each of them will unleash endless secrets in their bid to gain upper hand in the court of public opinion. It will be interesting; but, it will also amount to a bloody waste of everybody’s time. The main issue remains the presidency. And, as far as that goes, unless there is Divine intervention, the race is over for both of them. Let me provide a few reasons for now. Everybody is aware that Tinubu made Osinbajo. I have no idea how he plucked him out of academia to make him the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of Lagos State  despite the fact that the man is from Ogun State and Lagos has competent indigenes who can fill the position. Being LASG AG immediately propels one into the legal limelight in Nigeria; because the lucky person handles more top level cases, especially corporate, than any other AG in Nigeria. It is a springboard to great wealth  even if the individual was as poor as a church rat before the appointment. So, even before he became Vice President, Tinubu had already fattened Osinbajo’s pocket. POLL It is also no longer a secret that the Jagaban of Borgu nominated Osinbajo for VP. That, more than doubles the sense of gratitude Tinubu should ordinarily expect from his former subordinate. I don’t know if Tinubu made it clear to Osinbajo in 2014 that he had reserved exclusively for himself the right of first refusal to succeed Buhari in 2023. If not, the man, generally acclaimed as a great political strategist, committed a blunder. It is impossible to spend even one month, never mind seven years, as VP without wanting to be President. Tinubu exposed Osinbajo to temptation too strong to resist; now he is confronted with the consequences. Like every Napoleon or Hitler, Asiwaju must now fight on three fronts in order to clinch the ticket. He has an uphill task. Gratitude is not an active sentiment in politics. It is a mistake to take account of it. Prince Clemens von Metternich, 1773-1859. March 18, 1841. Osinbajo, meanwhile, is not totally without his own self-defence against the serious accusations of being an ingrate. He saved Tinubu from being ousted as Lagos State Governor when he was accused of falsifying his qualifications in 1998. He claimed to, but, never attended Government College, Ibadan, GCI, and University of Chicago. Late Chief Gani Fawehinmi pursued him all the way to the Supreme Court and obtained a judgment. But, it was Osinbajo who kept him in office. Otherwise, Tinubu might have been forgotten by now. So, Tinubu also owes Osinbajo a debt of gratitude. Furthermore, it has become axiomatic in politics that there are no permanent friends or enemies  only permanent interests. Asiwaju has been a great practitioner of that approach to politics. The way he handled the betrayal of progressives in Lagos state by Musliu Obanikoro and Sewa Ogunlewe, elected Senators by progressives in Lagos, who decamped to the PDP with our mandate revealed his contempt for us  the electorate. We can stand all day in rain or hot sun to vote for someone who turns out to be a worthless individual and Tinubu alone reserves for himself the right to forgive the political miscreant. To me that is not leadership; that assumes that his own political self-interest is all that counts. Osinbajo’s entry into the presidential race has at least sent an unmistakable message to Asiwaju that other people have interests too; and, more than ever there is an urgent need for him to start negotiating his way out of the present predicament. Unfortunately, he has no advisers in the true sense of the word. All he has are Yes-men, the real enemy of a leader in crisis period. South West APC Now A House Divided A house divided against itself cannot stand. That is wisdom as old as the hills and valleys on earth. Those wedded to the two competing camps might want to pretend that there is no division; that theirs represents the mainstream. But, that is deadly wishful thinking. As far as I am concerned, Tinubu betrayed the Babas who brought him to prominence through the Alliance for Democracy, AD, by using people like Osinbajo. Whether he likes it or not, he has a grown son, called Yemi Osinbajo, vying for the presidency. He will be well-advised to take the fellow seriously. I will give him some reasons. But, not now. How Igbo Presidrncy Might Still Become A Reality The triumph of imagination over reality is one of the humours of history. Will and Ariel Durant, in ROUSSEAU AND REVOLUTION, VBQ p 100. Will and Ariel Durant were the most famous married couple in history. They wrote nearly ten huge history books plus a summary  which are absolutely delightful to read. They were also packed full of surprises of history and philosophical insights. It is that particular statement, quoted above, in a book over 600 pages long, which forms the anchor to my article today. Believe me, history is full of ironies and Nigeria might be heading for one. However, before proceeding, permit me to answer a question which has been asked of me several times. It comes in various forms. But, it comes down to this: Dele, why are you a Yoruba stubbornly advocating for an Igbo President for 2023, when your own brothers are in the race? In answering the question, I will be forced to repeat myself  for the sake of those who did not read my explanations before. My position is entirely principle-based; and was taken long before now. I actually believed that the consideration given to the Yoruba people in 1999, resulting in a contest between two Yoruba candidates  Obasanjo and Falae should have been given to the Igbo with Alex Ekwueme going against an Igbo opponent. So, here we go. There comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe nor politic, nor popular, but we must take it because conscience tells him it is right. Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr, 1929-1968. Unknown to many people, I am a serial canvasser for causes big and small, national and local. Invariably, I line up behind the aggrieved party being treated unjustly. I was in the US when the Nigerian Civil War started in 1967 and ended in 1970. Then, and now, like Professor Soyinka, I regard Nigeria as the aggressor  despite the blunder committed by Ojukwu when his troops advanced into Edo/Delta (then Mid-West) and went as far as Ore in the old Western Region. I will not want to re-open old wounds now. Instead, let me jump to the conclusion of the war and the statement by General Yakubu Gowon. No victor; no vanquished. General Gowon, 1970. Neither Gowon nor any of the Military Heads of State followed up on Gowon’s magnanimous declaration. The political parties are following the same course  Igbo exclusion. But, recent developments in Nigerian politics give me the hope that Igbo presidency is possible  now more than ever.