Comrade Idris Shonuga Oluwaseun, the National Coordinator of Professional E-Hailing Drivers and Private Owners Association of Nigeria, PEDPAN and Chairman/CEO of Kalidola Limited, in this interview with OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA, shared the trajectory of E-hailing business in the country, his efforts at galvanizing operators for better return on investments and how the Lagos Ride recently launched has come to give a cutting edge solution to the waning cab transport system in the state. Excerpts: Please introduce yourself, your designation, and what you do apart from your executive position in this association? My name is Comrade Idris Shonuga Oluwaseun, I am the national president Professional E Hailing Drivers and Private Owners Association of Nigeria, PEDPAN. I am a consultant for E Hailing App Companies as well as a Fleet Manager. We render transportation services to App company platforms, so we are the face of e-hailing transportation service providers. App companies deploy technology to facilitate the link between us and the customers. We are the ones providing the vehicles, we are the ones maintaining the vehicles, and we are the one driving passengers from one point to another, we render five star services to any customer we come across. Our core value is to maintain professionalism in every circumstance. You appear to handle an aspect of the entire e-hailing business, which is providing fleets and maintenance also, when was the association created? We started the conversation in 2017 but eventually we gave birth to the association by registering with the Corporate Affairs Commission in 2019 as Professional E-Hailing Drivers and Private Owners Association of Nigeria, PEDPAN. So does that implies there are other stakeholders in the E-hailing business? POLL Actually there are, that is why we have executive members, these are people involved with the business who came along with me, but as a veteran in the industry who have done mini taxis, who have driven corporate taxis such as red cabs and metro taxis then we graduated into owning our own vehicles, which we operated under a registered company, known as Kalidola Limited, buying fleet of cars that I gave to drivers who drove to own the vehicles. I’m one of the few e-hailing drivers and leading partners that UBER consulted before starting their UBER Nigeria in Lagos State. From what you just said, how many numbers of people are in this kind of business you are talking about? The e-hailing business is what everybody can join, but because of our administrative portal we are able to track the members, we are not entirely in control of all the e-hailing drivers in Nigeria, but we control at least 40 to 50% drivers through the administrative portal because these admin portal gives an opportunity for our members in different zone state, local government to register online through www.betpart.org and click to join us, it will take you to your state, region in Nigeria where you belong to because e-hailing is currently operating about 25 states in Nigeria as I am speaking right now. We have south-south region, we have southwest region, we have southeast region, and North-central and we have northwest which include Kano, Kaduna, so these are the states the e-hailing are operating. We also created what we call WhatsApp group, so upon completion of your registration on the website, the portal will link you to a WhatsApp group of your local government of residence where your fellow colleagues who operate the e-hailing in the same vicinity. Statistically, we have over 46,000 members, so if we are saying that we are controlling around 40 – 50%, you definitely understand e-hailing in Nigeria is having close to 100,000 in capacity as members. You said you are controlling about 40 – 50%, what happens to the rest? Who is controlling and managing their operations? You see, the association in Nigeria is free will, nobody can force you to join an association or union. Majority are freelancers who are running their business on their own but some see the need for them to join the union of ours. They feel they can benefit from welfare packages and our mission of organising drivers and advocating for their welfare. Our members are solving the problem of mobility in Nigeria, which is also a responsibility of the government. As an informal sector without adequate welfare packages provided for them, the association takes the role of advocating for their welfare and inclusion into social services HMO, pension scheme, cooperatives and mortgage programmes to own houses. What step are you taking to actualize these things or actualize them for your members or what are the challenges confronting you? The challenges are funding but we have some charitable Nigerians like our legal unit headed by barrister Tunji Abdul Hamid who are progressive, who have potential, and for you to bring out the potentials you need to work on people, build their capacity and let them build their potential so some good Nigerians have been supporting financially, but it is not adequate enough. When you are talking of pension, I think it should be by your own initiative from your earnings, you make certain contribution towards your pensions, the HMO is also part of your contribution, even the estate you are talking about is part of your contribution, are you now looking forward to external persons to come and do that? No, before we can put all this mechanism together, it takes a lot of resources before you can do it. I develop a proposal to organise e-Hailing association, but people, asked, why are you bringing people together to sell something interesting for them to buy into the Union, we call it 5% commission for e-hailing drivers, from their earnings you know the APP companies process their businesses 100% and they take some certain commission from each transaction done on their platforms, then we said if 5% of this commission can be set aside for their welfare, where 1% can go for health management scheme, 1% can be accrued into their pension wallet, then 3% goes into their cooperatives so through the cooperatives we can approach Federal Mortgage bank for us to venture into real estate plans for drivers to have self-contain apartment or 2/3 bedroom flat to be owned in 15 – 20 years, all these things is visible because average E – haling drivers make an average of N100,000 in a week on a gross income. What is the level of success to this laudable step? First of all, we have been able to have what we call a certificate of cooperation from Lagos State cooperation Board and we also deployed what we call an application for savings to make savings for drivers easier. So we created what we call a driver’s corporative wallet, so on their device so they can easily save, the APP Company can easily drop their savings into a cooperative account. It can easily drop a certain percentage into a drivers’ cooperative account. It is done to make it easier for them to save and profile their savings. We used to hear about Uber, what is the difference between Uber and other e-hailing Riding companies, and as you said you control a certain percentage of riders, are other riders aware of your association? e-hailing is a general term used for companies using APP ride sharing applications. Uber is just one of the companies using the APP sharing application. Like the one coming up called the ‘Lagos ride’ introduced by the Lagos state government and powered by Ibile Holdings is another ride sharing application. We have many of them like readers and drivers. e-hailing is a general term and a generic language used for all of them using an online approach to receive transportation service. As a customer, you can sit at your comfort zone and request the services of e-hailing drivers. He would receive your request through his device and he or she will drive to your location to pick you up for a destination. The app companies deploy technology to facilitate the link between customers and drivers. So your Association now is registered to now galvanize all these e- hailing riders? We are registered with CAC, Affiliated With Trade Union Congress of Nigeria TUC to galvanise e-hailing drivers and lease partners. We are not only drivers but we also have those who drive and have vehicles they lease out. There are those who do not drive at all but lease out vehicles. There are some well-meaning Nigerians who think that this industry is vital, who invested heavily into it. There are other associations, but none of them have been able to achieve what we achieved for members and our track record. What do you have to say about the Lagos Ride recently launched? I want to appeal to the commuters to keep away from fake news, in respect to the Lagos ride taxis recently introduced. I’m saying this, because I heard some negative news about the scheme. The tag or the unfortunate information that drivers involved with the scheme will be enslaved is not fair and it is a projection of those who are bereft of the facts. Through the Lagos ride we will be experiencing for the first time true ride sharing application. I see Lagos ride as a cutting edge solution as a pacesetter application that will change the ugly status quo of the Lagos transportation system, especially in the area of taxi business. What we are experiencing with Uber and Bolt is not ride sharing but car hiring, because one person hires the vehicle to take him or her from place to place with a factory fitted A/C at a ridiculous low price, only for drivers to complain seriously on our platforms. But, the LagosRide is coming with 2022 model vehicles, with the introduction of what they call the classification of Customers called (riders), where two or three riders going to the same destination can ride together, giving the customers opportunity to pay less, unlike when you are going from Island to Mainland and foot the bill of N3500 alone, but in the Lagos ride you end up paying less, say N2000 and the other passengers also paying same amount making the driver to earn more.