ABUJA – The Defence Headquarters (DHQ), Abuja has said, own troops have arrested 22 terror­ists spies and killed scores in the last two weeks as a total of 51,114 Boko Haram Terrorist (BH) and their families sur­rendered. The Director, Defence Me­dia Operations (DDMO), Ma­jor General Bernard Onyeuko stated this on Thursday, at the Defence Headquarters during a bi-weekly press briefing on troops activities in the theatre of operations currently ongo­ing in parts of the nation. General Onyeuko, who reit­erated the military High Com­mand’s commitment towards ensuring peace and security of Nigerians said, despite recent setbacks “troops would not re­lent on the arduous task of pro­tecting the lives and property of Nigerians.” According to him, “The last few days was characterized by some operational setbacks orchestrated by terrorists and criminals in North Central. “This, however, has not dimmed the light on the huge gains and success achieved by own troops in other theatres of operation especially in the North East, North West and South South.” He disclosed that, the mili­tary high command under the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor wishes to use this opportunity to assure Nigeri­ans on the determination of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, the Nigerian Police and other security agencies to deal with all terrorists and other crimi­nal elements in the country. “The events of the last few days should not bring despair to the populace. The Armed Forces of Nigeria committed in its resolve to bring peace back to the country as we are stepping up our operations in all the theatres.” While highlighting the op­erational activities of Armed Forces in the various theatre of operations between 25th March to 7th April 2022, Onyeuko said, “Operations Hadin Kai land component with the support of the air component conducted offensive operations at different locations of the theatre such as Ukuba/Camp Zairo, Sabil Huda, Ba Masaa, Wulgo, Marta,­fulatari village, Uraha Crossing Point, Mbalala, Gamboru town all in Borno State. POLL “Notably among the exploits of own troops was the capture of the terrorist’s stronghold by Ukba/Camp Zairo in the Sambisa Forest where some artillery guns, Armored Per­sonnel Carrier, trailers, and large cache of arms and am­munition were captured.”