BENIN  – Two suspects, alleged to have murdered a domes­tic worker at a lawmaker’s residence in Uromi, Esan North-East local govern­ment, have been arrested. The police gave the names of the two suspects as Atiku Yohanna and Obed Sai. Atiku Yohanna and Obed Sai, according to the police, killed a domestic worker identified as ‘Aunty Mary’ at the residence of a former member of the Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. M.D. Igbas. It was gathered that ear­lier this year, Atiku, a Kano state indigene, worked for the lawmaker who repre­sented Esan North-East constituencies. Reports had it that Atiku left the job and went into Uromi Town for other odd jobs. However, he had kept watch at the former law­maker’s house and ar­ranged with his accom­plice, Obed Sai, to burgle the house. The burglars turned murderers, it was learnt, stormed the house a week ago when they learned that Hon. Igbas was out of town. It was also gathered that the suspects who rode on a motorcycle to the house forced their way into the various rooms and ran­sacked all parts, looking for valuables. POLL “Aunty Mary” walked in on them and immediately identified Atiku and raised the alarm. Unfortunately, the duo attacked Mary with a ma­chete killing her on the spot, then dragged her life­less body inside a cupboard before fleeing the scene. The incident led to an outrage in the locality as many accused Hon. Igbas of complicity, which led to his arrest a few days ago. According to findings, Igbas was detained at the state Police headquarters in Benin for four days as the police continued their investigations. Luck came to Hon. Ig­bas way a few days ago af­ter police intercepted and arrested Atiku Yohanna and Obed Sai in Uromi on suspicion of killing the do­mestic worker. The arrest of the sus­pects who later confessed how they allegedly mur­dered the woman led to the release of Hon Igbas, who has since rejoined his family. The suspects narrate how they carried out the al­leged murder. According to Yohanna, “I worked in the house as a security guard for some months and left to ride a motorcycle. “I needed money and told my friend to join me to at­tack the house so we could get money to send to my people in my state, Kano.” He added, “After we fin­ished from the house, we saw Mary who shouted my name. I told my other col­league that we should just kill her. “We used cutlass to cut her neck and head three times before she died. I am ashamed now after my ar­rest”. Contacted, Edo State Po­lice Public Relations Offi­cer, SP Bello Kontongs, said the two suspects would be thoroughly investigated to ascertain if they have car­ried out a similar crime in other parts of Edo state. The Police PPRO said, “I can assure you that the two suspects will be charged to court for murder.”