If you are among those who feel that just one word, terrible, would have subsisted appreciably for adjectives in the title, you are not alone. You even have my vote on that. In fact, there is no way a former student of Chinua Achebe’s (yes, he taught me African Fiction at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, in the 1980-81 session) would ever forget that word, “TERRIBLE”. It was Achebe’s favourite word to describe something appalling, awful, dreadful, abysmal, pitiful, frightful, disturbing, offensive, disappointing, hurtful and truly offensive. Unfortunately, all those adjectives and many more others that convey the sense of something actually horrible all apply to the state Nigeria is in now. I pray that Professors Olatunji Dare and Adidi Uyo (who taught me Journalistic Writing and Interviewing and Mass Comm Theory at the University of Lagos, will forgive me for piling up those adjectives. Less is more, they preached and prefer the simple to the complicated, they advised. So, to the soul of Achebe, if that remarkably sensitive soul would suspend its rest on the other side to worry about Nigeria; a country he described as a “sorry story”, and to Dare and Uyo, I say that present day Nigerians are so unshockable that I needed to pile it up to make them take the slightest notice. Which tragedy that could ever befall a nation would be more than the twin messes Nigeria is into now? The first is an uncommon failure that only a country as totally devoid of any good as Nigeria could have fallen into? That is the failure of Nigeria’s refusal to have any functional petrol refinery, such that this country which nothing but God’s blessings have imbued its soil with crude oil, imports every litre of petrol that powers its cars and every litre of diesel that drives its heavy-duty machinery and trucks and tankers. And this is a country that owns four refineries. And very often, millions of dollars are approved for the refineries’ maintenance. And year in and year out the country meets the monthly wages of those who work in those unproductive refineries, yes, those workers who produce nothing, and whom their employer (Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation) knows will produce nothing, are among the most highly paid in the country. Oh, they work in the oil industry and so their wages must accord with what obtains in the global oil industry. So, too, it is with the NNPC executives. The organisation they run has for years been unable to make a single refinery productive, yet they are full of self- congratulations that they are doing a good business. POLL They have even, despite their failure, yes, abject failure, begun to dabble into road construction for a hapless and luckless Nigeria.  Related to this tragedy of unproductivity and total failure to meet a country’s need is the silence of the graveyard which once fire-spitting critics have now embraced. So, everything appears normal. Has Nigeria been suffering from crippling scarcity of petrol, diesel and aviation fuel? Nigerian critics have gone comatose. That is why, almost a month after the importation of toxic petrol into the nation, nobody but nobody has been punished for that calamity. And nobody but nobody remembers it, let alone asks the needed questions about why nobody has been punished for it. One question sticks out from one of the children’s novels Achebe wrote: “why would someone stand by the banks of the River Niger and yet wash his hands with spittle”? That came from Chike and the River novelette. Yet, that absurdity is what Nigeria is living through now. Or, how else would one explain Nigeria’s terrible failure, her inability to meet the crude oil production quota the Organisation of Oil Producing Countries (OPEC) has allocated to it? See it this way; Nigeria failed to meet its crude oil production quota for January this year. It pumped out just 1.48 million barrels into the world market instead of 1.683 million barrels. Now, in March, crude petrol price has risen from about $50 to well above $100 and is projected to climb higher. Nigeria, a country that lacks the capability to ramp up production to meet her OPEC quota, is in no position to increase production as the world is in a state of petroleum emergency to make up for the short fall from Russian oil fields owing to the Russia-Ukraine war. That is not the only failing; the worse part is that it is certain that the pump price of refined petroleum products will rise in Nigeria or scarcity of such will ensue or both. Yet, nobody will applogise to the luckless nation for such failures and nobody will resign. And when the time comes to justify the jump in price, all sorts of authoritative voices would be shouting about the need to remove the government’s subsidy on imported petroleum products. They will not blame those whose duty it was to keep the refineries humming and the Naira exchange rate against other currencies to be above the gutter level. No, that would be too hard for them to do. The easy way is to blame the Nigerian victims, the ordinary Nigerians! This and the refined petroleum products importation and the subsidy that attracts, and the resultant devaluation of the Naira’s value that results as Nigeria wastes scarce foreign exchange in importing every litre of fuel it needs, is now a new normal. Nobody asks any such questions. Yes, it has become the new normal. Yet, the situation is more dire than that. Insecurity blankets the entire nation and travelers could be waylaid and killed anytime and anywhere. That has become a new normal. Killing is so rife in the country and life is so cheap that there is little difference now between the Boko Haramists and the Bandits and the killer-herders. Nigerians, innocent Nigerians, are being killed every day and everywhere such that it has become the new normal. In the mega city of Lagos, a young and hardworking woman trying to better her life, boarded a government-operated bus to take her from point A to point B. The driver who knew that there was no security camera on the bus, and that he was not being monitored in any way, that nobody knew whether he drove out from a bus stop with an empty or full bus, did the unthinkable. He sprang out from a bus stop as fast as a bat out of hell and stopped somewhere on the road and did the nastiest thing any human being could do; collude with others to slice off the victim’s private parts – even with the woman still alive, pushed her out of the bus and sped off. The government-owned company did not suspect in any way that the driver could have transgressed in any way. So, does it mean that any driver who wanted to bankrupt the company could just drive empty to and from terminals? Was there no way, in this day and age, of knowing if a driver went off his route? Or if he was driving an empty bus, or if he did not take in a full load at any point? And the Police did not swing into action when that lady was reported missing until the family all but cracked the case by providing details of a phone conversation the victim had with her friend? So, without that phone evidence, the Police would not have stirred? Such has become the new normal. Just within the week, there was the bitter and unnerving report that rival cult groups clashed during the Inter-House Sports competition of a school. Cultism in school? That, too, has become the new normal. Hunger and want are a part of the new normal. Wickedness in high and low places is part of the new normal. The presence of all kinds of disease is part of the new normal. Dry seasons have happened yearly since Nigeria came into being. Yet, a minister of the Federal Republic recently presented to the nation one very remarkable reason while electricity supply has dipped; low water level at the dams. Yes, low electricity has become the new normal. This has become a normal feature of Nigeria for decades such that Nigerians know the difference between low current and half current. Oh yes, there is even over-current; when power voltage surges past the normal level in an immense jump, devastating every electrical appliance in a home. Happiness and joy have fled from Nigeria. Death and want rule everywhere. And our leaders are not worried. The ruling All Progressives Congress is even preparing for the 2023 election. Just as Achebe had a favourite word for what he judged awful, so too, he used the word “remarkable to express it opposite. I know he wouldn’t have thought the Nigeria of today to be a remarkable country. It has not just remained a sorry story; no, the APC administration has made the story even worse. And that sorry state has become the new normal. Nigerians have come to the end of living. They barely survive now. It is the new normal, and it is terrible. PS: This piece was first published on March 13, 2022.