Leeds United and Tottenham Hotspur are reportedly set to battle it out for Bristol City youngster Alex Scott. According to the Mirror, Premier League duo Leeds United and Tottenham Hotspur will battle it out for the signing of Bristol City starlet Alex Scott in the upcoming summer transfer window. The 18-year-old moved to Ashton Gate from FC Guernsey in 2020 and has quickly impressed one and all at the Championship side. He has already made 40 appearances so far, scoring four goals and assisting two more. An attacking midfielder, he has primarily played out wide on the right or in central areas. He has also shown himself to be capable of playing as a wing-back. This versatility should aid him in the journey to the top, and it remains to see what his next step will be. Both Leeds and Tottenham brought in new managers midway through the season and will be eyeing the summer transfer window as a means to back their men in charge. Scott, an English Under-19 international, appears to be on both sides’ radar and was privy to being scouted by them this season. The youngster’s current deal at Bristol City runs until 2025. The Robins have the advantage when it comes to negotiations but could cash in for the right price. They value Scott at £10 million, which is a fair price given the player’s potential. Tottenham have been reliant on Harry Kane and Son Heung-min to lead their offence over the last few years. While others have stepped up at times, there has been no consistent third front in attack. The arrival of Dejan Kulusevski has afforded Antonio Conte’s side more bite in attack, but Spurs could do with a few more additions in the attacking third of the pitch, making Scott a target. Moreover, he can be used as a right wing-back as well in Conte’s system, amid question marks over the future of Emerson Royal, who is being linked with an exit just a year after signing for Tottenham. POLL The same can be said for Leeds, who rely on Raphinha for inspiration. They lack a creative presence in the middle of the pitch and will need to address it this summer. Moreover, Scott’s ability to play as a wing-back could see him link up with Raphinha on the right to overload the flank. At 18, Scott is far from the finished piece. He can develop into a quality player for the future with the right guidance and become a long-term asset to either Premier League club. Where his journey takes him next remains to be seen.