BORIS JOHNSON will face a parliamentary investigation into whether he lied in the Commons about partygate after MPs agreed today to refer the Prime Minister to the privileges committee. The Labour motion passed without a vote after no objections were raised as Downing Street abandoned its mission to force Tory MPs to vote against it. The investigation will look into whether Mr Johnson is in contempt of Parliament for misleading MPs by repeatedly denying his involvement in lockdown-busting parties in Downing Street. But the probe will not begin until police enquiries have concluded. Tory MPs had initially been ordered to back a government amendment on the motion which would defer any decision on referring the matter to the committee until after the conclusion of the Met Police inquiry. But in a U-turn shortly before the debate began, they were given a free vote. The scale of discontent over the government’s attempt to kick the issue into the long grass was set out by public administration and constitutional affairs committee chairman William Wragg, who confirmed he had submitted a letter of no confidence in Mr Johnson’s leadership. “I cannot reconcile myself to the Prime Minister’s continued leadership of our country and the Conservative Party,” he told MPs. POLL “There can be few colleagues on this side of the House, I would contend, who are truly enjoying being members of Parliament at the moment. “It is utterly depressing to be asked to defend the indefensible. Each time part of us withers.” Mr Johnson’s aides are braced for him to receive multiple fines, having already been handed one fixed penalty notice for a gathering on his 56th birthday. He is thought to have been at six of the 12 events currently under investigation by Scotland Yard. During the debate on the motion, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said the Prime Minister had tried to “cover up his misdeeds” by taking advantage of the Commons convention not to call someone a liar. “The Prime Minister has stood before this House and said things that are not true, safe in the knowledge that he will not be accused of lying because he can’t be,” Sir Keir said. “He has stood at that despatch box and point-blank denied that rule breaking took place, when it did. “As he did so, he was hoping to gain extra protection from our good faith that no Prime Minister would deliberately mislead the House.” Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner said the “Prime Minister is leading the Conservative Party into the sewer.” “This process that we are enacting today is only in place because the Prime Minister has failed to do the decent thing and resign,” she added. Liberal Democrat MP Helen Morgan said the Prime Minister has “irrevocably damaged” the trust of the public and the Commons. She told the chamber: “No-one believes the Prime Minister has told the truth because he has become entangled in a web of lies.” Conservative MP Anthony Mangnall has said he cannot forgive the Prime Minister for “misleading the House” and that he was supporting the motion. The MP for Totnes told the Commons: “Every day that I see issues and rules broken in this place only reaffirms my belief that we have to stand up and make it clear that dishonesty, that inaction and misleading of the House cannot be tolerated from anyone.” Mr Johnson said that he did not think his resignation was “the right thing to do” and said he is confident that he will lead the Tories into the next election.