Project55 Africa, a capacity development, value-based leadership organisation based in the US is organising a transformational leadership Summit for undergraduates, academic and non-academic staff of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta on Wednesday. According to Mr Ade Adeyemi, the Founder of Project 55 Africa, “Our mission is to transform Africa one person at a time and this is closely aligned with that of John C. Maxwell, the world-renowned leadership guru and author of about 100 books on leadership and values transformation, whose vision is to transform leadership in every country in the world.” In a press statement, Adeyemi stated that “We want to launch our African countries transformational journey at Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Ojere campus Abeokuta taking the entire Faculty and students on a journey that will drastically transform the culture of the institution, and values of our future leaders.” In 2015, John devised a formula to transform countries by bringing together leaders of all eight spheres of influence around Transformation Tables. Mr. Adeyemi further explained that “Transformation tables are values-based leadership development lessons, designed to encourage self-reflection and consistent action. They are 6 weeks long, one lesson each week. Each table lesson lasts one hour.” In his contribution, Pastor Ezekiel, National President of MAPOLY Alumni Association added that ‘ the transformation leadership summit in conjunction with Alumni and the dynamic management led by Dr Adeoye Odedeji, Rector, MAPOLY is apt, timely and significant to transform our society ” Obasanya further added that “The Summit is expected to be attended by High Commissioner of the African Union (AU), Ogun State Commissioner for Education, Prof Abayomi Adelaja Arigbabu, distinguished leaders of all eight spheres of influence in Ogun State, leaders of service clubs and organizations, MAPOLY students, faculty and members of the public will start the institutions week 1 of 12 on the transformation journey.”