Engineer Sanni Adedokun, Managing Director, LearnSmart Solutions and Educationist, in this interview with OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA, gave insight into how his organisation is providing solutions to the study of Mathematic. Excerpts; Tell us about yourself and how you came about what you are doing? My name is Sanni Adedokun; I had my primary and secondary education at Adedokun International School. It is a very big school located in Ogun State. It was in the school that I developed the love for Mathematics and other science subjects. Owing to my outstanding performance, in addition to my academic achievements and leadership skills, I was made the Head Boy in primary school, while in secondary school; I was privileged to represent the school in many competitions, winning many laurels. Going forward in my university days, and before I even entered the university, I had several options, first, I was given a scholarship to a University in China, secondly I had admission to University of Ilorin, and thirdly to Bells University of Technology. I decided however to study Engineering at the Bells University. However, when I started my studies at the school, my results were not as good as I expected, so I decided to improve and with God, I was able to come out with a very good result. I came out as the best graduating student of the department of Mechanical Engineering, and correspondingly as the best graduating student of the entire faculty of engineering. During my undergraduate studies, I also took interest in management, prompting me to register for the Institute of Chartered Account of Nigeria, ICAN studies and exams. POLL In the course of this programme, I realised that lots of students find it difficult or had difficulties in their education due to their educational background, stemming possibly from the secondary school or primary schools attended. From that period I started looking for ways to support my colleagues and my juniors in ensuring that they have what it takes to excel in their academics. How did you come about the vision; ‘LearnSmart’? Give us the vision, the mission and goals. Our vision is setting global standards through learning competitions, so the reason why we established ‘LearnSmart’, was just to support students in their academics, to improve them and to make sure they have no issue with learning. How are you going about it or achieving this? We decided to create academic competitions among students so they develop the zeal to learn and to win. It is a healthy competition among students, carried out through an online learning platform, we also have a studio where we shoot teaching sessions for teachers and students through an online channel. Apart from this, we sell educational materials at very affordable prices to schools and students in need of such books. And organise mathematics camp, though we just started that one, we will be doing the first one this summer in affiliation with Bells University of Technology, Ota. The Mathematics camp is to bring students together and give a foretaste of campus life to those going to university, while those leaving primary school will see how secondary school is all about. Apart from that, it is an avenue to gain more knowledge in Mathematics because we have lots of tutors that will be there to ensure that the students achieve what they cannot achieve in school. You talked about competitions. What kind of competitions do you organise, for what kind of subjects, and what is the nature of these competitions? For now, we basically deal with mathematics, with intention to go into other subjects and it is basically online for now. But, we also have intention of making the final stages of the next competitions physical so that schools from different countries can come together and compete in a free and fair situation. As you said, it is now an online competition, how soon are you planning to turn it into a physical competition? We are thinking of doing this anytime soon, especially after our MATHSCAMP, by the grace of God before the end of next year we would achieve that. So how do students get involved or how do they register for these competitions? We have an issue with marketing, we actually got an approval from the Ministry of Education in Ogun State to organize these competitions and were able to do social media marketing and meet with the Zonal Education Officer, ZEO, Ota Local Government, but we are not finding it easy reaching other ZEO’s across other Local Governments of Nigeria. So, how are you publicising the competition? It is very easy; all you need is knowledge of the web site link – LearnSmart.ng. You will find the place of registration, once you register with your name, e-mail address and school, you will be registered for the competition. After registration we will continue to send you updates through your e-mail informing you on what to do. So, how is the response being so far, how many competitions have you carried out, and how was the participation like in terms of the volume of people? The first one we did, we had about 100 students that registered, the second one was 700 students that registered but the number of students that partook in the exam were 350. In the first one 100 students registered and all participated. What is the encouragement like, what is the benefit of the children or what is the motivation for schools to want to compete or participate? For now, we are self-funding, using our resources to encourage participants. We usually give cash prizes to winners of the competitions, which is not less than 50, 000 for the second runner up, N75,000 for first runner up and N100,000 to the winners. We however look forward to getting more gifts and support from prospective sponsors. How are you going about raising funds to enhance successful organisation of this year’s competition? In reaching out to sponsors, we feel it is necessary to go into partnership but you know in Nigeria before you go into partnership you need to provide them with the understanding of what you are doing. To let them know that what you are doing is valid and legit so that’s why we decided to continue with the competitions despite the odds. Afterwards we intend to reach out to prospective sponsors by writing letters to companies, showing them what we have done. How will you describe education as a catalyst to success in life, what will you give as advise? Firstly, I would start with the condemnation of the fraudulent means of getting money; It is a short-term win without labouring. If you are not focused on your education but want to follow the fraudulent means of getting money, I would advise you not to go that route, because it will only last for a short term, aside that, if you are not educated and feel you can start a business on your own, there is a limit to where you can rise to, you need to be educated to know the laws and the rules that guides the business. Mathematics is the subject you have been dealing with, what informed that choice for now? Well, I am mathematics inclined, I studied engineering and the people I work with, my IT team and tutors are mathematics inclined also. We decided to go for the subject that we know best and we can deal with for now. When it achieves the desired impact, we can now decide to employ more forces to join us and then divert to other subjects. I thought, because mathematics has been the challenge for every student and you feel doing this competition will steer up the interest and understanding? That is also part of the reason. Mathematics is a challenge really to many students in Nigeria, but if they have something to inspire them up like these competitions it will really improve them. We expose students participating in this competition to several methods of solving different questions in mathematics, so it makes it easier for them, and when applying it to true life situations. Now talking about mathematics, what is the impact of mathematics in general life, I mean what are the applications? Mathematics is the most important subject in the world, in fact it is also a mode of communication apart from our general languages that we use to communicate, take for example if someone wants to move or transport himself from Lagos to Ogun State, he has to calculate the amount of money he needs to use to get there, he has to know the amount of money with him, and if you want to get a loan from the bank, you need to calculate interest, the turnover. Mathematics is very diverse, if you want to start a business you need to analyze, the cost of the goods, the selling price and what will be your profit margin, so that is why mathematics is very important in real life situations. It is applicable to every area of life. Now what do you think would happen to a student who fails or who is weak in mathematics even if he is learning Art subjects, why do you think mathematics is important to such students? People really believe that mathematics is a difficult subject, especially students that are in Art classes, but once you deploy ways to encourage them to like the subject, fall in love with it and begin to perform well.