Nasarawa state government said it has put in place irresistible investment incentives to attract local and foreign investors to the state. Egnr. Abdullahi Sule, the Governor of the State in a virtual meeting with reporters in Banana Island Lagos said that one of the state strategies is an investment summit which is coming up between 11th and 12th May 2022. Sule said: “As a State, we have been very deliberate about stimulating our economy, building our people’s human capacities, and creating wealth and jobs for them. This is the basis of the Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy (NEDS) (2019-2023), which is a testament to our collective commitment to implementing a practicable Economic Transformation Strategy for the State, as promised during our campaign. “ It is founded on a vision to sustain accelerated growth of the Nasarawa economy driven by the private sector and translating this to a clear improvement in citizens’ lives and the achievement of other key development outcomes”. Governor Sule further said: “the implementation of the NEDS is already reflecting in not just improved outcomes in key areas of the State, but also in terms of development impact. For instance, through reforms, we have significantly increased our Internally Generated Revenue by 49% in 2020 (a COVID-19 tainted year) and already on track to surpass that in 2020. “An independent evaluation platform (Kingmakers) has also shown that Nasarawa has moved ranks on Standard of Living from 24th position in the country in 2016, to 12th position in 2020. “Our ease of doing business and investment promotion effort has also seen us attract over $500 million investments into key sectors in the State within the last 3 years. “To solidify our position as a key investment destination in Nigeria and by extension the west African region, we are hosting our Inaugural Nasarawa Investment Summit in Lafia on 11th and 12th of May 2022. The Summit is themed “Diamond in the Rough; The Making of a New Investment Frontier”. POLL “His Excellency John Dramani Mahama, Ghana’s 13th President, will deliver the summit keynote address and will be attended by Captains of industry, renowned members of the business community, investors, International and domestic partners, diplomatic corp and the political class. “Our objective is to challenge the old ways of addressing our economic challenges with new innovative ideas leveraging our geography, people and new business climate. ‘We will have 6 high level plenaries, an MSME challenge to help stimulate small businesses involvement in our economic activities and a Deal room showcasing bankable investment opportunities in our state. “This is a unique summit in that it will bring together a diverse group of stakeholders, including leaders from a wide range of businesses, to discuss the state’s socioeconomic challenges and prospects over the next decade. “On that day, we’ll demonstrate our enormous potential and investment known industries: agriculture and mining. opportunities in two of our most well- “The Nasarawa State Government recognises the need for a robust private sector for economic development and revitalisation, which is why we have built an effective Public-Private-Partnership framework that allows for long-term private sector participation. “This has aided in the establishment of a favourable and enabling environment for increasing private sector investment, which has resulted in the creation of jobs, revenue, and overall economic development in the state. Nasarawa is indeed, a diamond in the rough and I am determined to make it Nigeria’s top Investment frontier”. According to the state Governor, “Nasarawa is abundantly blessed with fertile land, natural resources, and human resources. “It is primed to be an investment powerhouse and economic hub in Nigeria by virtue of its abundant solid mineral resources, strategic location, rich agricultural and tourism potential, and vast arable land. Amongst the abundant mineral resources presently available in Nasarawa State are limestone, iron ore, crude oil and natural gas, barite, gold, gypsum, kaolin, marble, and lead/zinc. These present tremendous opportunities for investments in the solid mineral sector. “The State is also endowed with some gold deposits which occur in pegmatite-quartz veins within Precambrian basement rocks in Wamba. The Metasedimentary rocks in Toto, Udegbe, Gadabuke, Laminga, and Nasarawa also contain some gold deposits. Nasarawa state is blessed with other varieties of gemstones and the important ones in terms of quantity include; aquamarine, emeralds, sapphire, ruby, topaz, tourmaline, zircon, and almandine. By creating concrete business partnerships, allowing both domestic and foreign investors to tap into investment opportunities in the State, these economic opportunities can be explored to realise sustainable economic growth for the State and its private sector partners.