Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has raised the alarm on the persistent incidents of invalid registration of voters now put at about 44.6% of the over 2.5 million prospective voters captured during the last CVR exercise nationwide. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, raised the concern while briefing journalists on Wednesday in Abuja on the outcome of the first and second quarter of the nationwide CVR exercise. He noted that despite the best efforts of the commission, the incidence of invalid registration has persisted. He said the commission is looking inwards and is currently investigating the culpability of some staff of the commission, vowing to prosecute those that in one way or the other aided the increasing incident of invalid registration. Of the current CVR exercise started, a total of 2,523,458 persons have been registered. Of the figure, 1,390,519 was entered as valid registration while 1,126,359 were invalid. The INEC chairman expressed worry that despite the effort it made to clean up the voters register before the 2019 general election, cleaning the bank of over 4,239,923 invalid registrations, the problem has persisted. “From 27th April 2017 to 31st August 2018, 15,317,872 new voters were registered. Out of this figure, 1,034,141 ineligible registrants were detected and removed from the register to arrive at the figure of 84,004,084 voters for that election. POLL “Unfortunately, the troubling issue of invalid registration still persists which we detected while cleaning up the latest registration data. As against the AFIS used in previous exercises, the commission introduced the Automated Biometric Identification System (ABIS) which is a more comprehensive and robust system, involving not just fingerprint identification but also the facial biometric recognition. “Sadly, it seems that many registrants, either out of ignorance that they do not need to re-register if they had done so before, or a belief that our systems will not detect this infraction, have gone out to register again. “This is despite repeated warnings by the commission against this illegal action. In addition, there are also registrants whose data were incomplete and did not meet our business rules for inclusion in the register. Both categories i.e. the failure of ABIS and incomplete data constitute invalid registrations. “Presently, nearly 45% of completed registrations nationwide are invalid, rising to as high as 60% or more in some states. This infraction happened in all states of the federation. No state is immune from it. These invalid registrations will not be included in the register of voters”, he said. The INEC chairman said the commission is not taking the matter lightly considering huge cost involved in conducting the exercise. “ This development is worrisome because of the time and resources expended in handling these cases. Even more disturbing are the strong indications that some of our staff may be complicit in facilitating these infractions, notwithstanding stern warnings. “Consequently, the commission is reviewing reports on such staff and has commenced a detailed investigation which may include the prosecution of those found culpable. Specific registrants associated with these infractions by our staff may also face prosecution in line with sections 22 and 23 of the Electoral Act 2022”, he said.