Lagos – The federal government has commenced its vow to re-organise Nigerian football by ordering the Nigeria Football Federation to as a matter of urgency come up with plans that will bring the standard of the domestic league to be at par with the English Premier League or the the La Liga and or the South African football league. The vow to re-organise the country’s football was a consequence of the failure of the Super Eagles to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Only on March 29, 2022 Ghana Black Stars ousted Nigeria Super Eagles on away goals rule after playing 1-1. The uproar that greeted the failure forced the federal government to promise re-organising of Nigerian football with immediate effect. A side asking the NFF to come up with plans that will improve the league, the government has also given the NFF to immediately set in motion plans to hold its general elections in September this year. This is meant to usher in fresh minds that will take Nigerian football to the next level. However, Amaju Pinnick, NFF president, who was nursing a third term agenda, has announced his bid not to contest again. The football house was also ordered by the government to commence a camping programme for 30 indigenous players with 3-man Nigerian coaches to coach them. The government has also given the football house the marching orders to get a foreign technical adviser for the Super Eagles and to ensure that the team bounces back into reckoning. POLL The government, it was learnt will foot the foreign coach bill. The CHAN Eagles, Olympic Eagles, Flying Eagles and Golden Eaglets, Pinnick was told must also be adequately prepared so they can do the nation proud. The women teams, the Super Falcons, Falconets and Flamingos are not be left out as their preparation for their different International competitions, the government said must be top notch. Ministry sources at the weekend revealed that these measures were to ensure that the Super Eagles bounced back hungrier, stronger and better so that they could restore joy and happiness to Nigerians by qualifying for the 2023 aftermath of Africa Cup of Nations in Cote d’ Ivoire.