Lagos – There has been mixed reactions over the appointments of coaches for the male national teams as announced by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Thursday. Some of the coaches in their reactions felt that the NFF should have gone for new hands instead of recycling coaches who have served at one time or other. “The NFF has really not learnt its lessons in the appointment of coaches for the national teams. Why recycle coaches when there are others who are better than the recycled coaches,” queried one of the concerned coaches who begged for anonymity. An amateur coach, Bamidele Jones particularly queried the appointed of Salisu Yusuf, who was one of the recently sacked Super Eagles coaches. “The NFF should not compromise with the interest of football loving Nigerians. What is the rationale behind the redeployment of Yusuf, who was part of the Super Eagles technical crew that failed to give a World Cup ticket? “Are we now using quota system in the appointment of coaches for the national teams or is it a matter of ‘godfatherism?, queried Jones. The NFF on Thursday appointed Salisu Yusuf as Head Coach of the Super Eagles B (otherwise known as CHAN team) as well as the U23 (Olympics) team. POLL Yusuf, who was Head Coach of the Super Eagles B when the team emerged runner-up of the African Nations Championship (CHAN) in Morocco in 2018, will work with Kennedy Boboye (Assistant Coach); Fatai Osho (Assistant Coach); Abubakar Bala Mohammed (Assistant Coach); Fidelis Ikechukwu (Assistant Coach); Eboboritse Uwejamomere (Match Analyst) and Ike Shorounmu (Goalkeepers’ Trainer) and Suleiman Shuaibu (Goalkeepers’ Trainer 2). In other appointments, Ladan Bosso retains his position as Head Coach of the U20 Boys. He will work with former U17 Head Coach, Fatai Amao (Assistant Coach); Oladuni Oyekale (Assistant Coach); Jolomi Atune Alli (Assistant Coach) and; Baruwa Olatunji Abideen (Goalkeepers’ Trainer). For the U17 Boys, Golden Eaglets, Nduka Ugbade was named Head Coach. He will work with Ahmad Lawal Dankoli (Assistant Coach); Omoniyi Haruna Ilerika (Assistant Coach); Yemi Daniel (Assistant Coach) and; Mohammed Nasiru Isah (Goalkeepers’ Trainer). Ugbade captained Nigeria’s first cadet team that won the FIFA U16 World Cup in China in 1985. For the U13/15 Boys known as Future Eagles, Patrick Bassey will be Head Coach and will work with Abdullahi Tyabo Umar (Assistant Coach); Mohammed Kalli Kachalla (Assistant Coach); Ifeanyi Uba (Assistant Coach); Mohammed Kwairanga (Assistant Coach) and; Abubakar Abdullahi (Goalkeepers’ Trainer). The NFF also stated that a new Head Coach for the Super Eagles will be announced and officially unveiled once the processes for his engagement and contract-signing are concluded.