Barcelona are reportedly concerned that Aston Villa will not take up the option to sign Philippe Coutinho on a permanent basis this summer. That’s according to the Mirror, who claim the Spanish giants are worried that the Brazilian’s inconsistent performances could lead to Villa opting out of a potential deal this summer. The report adds that Barcelona’s directors “plan to speak to Coutinho’s representatives” in hope of determining where his future lies. Coutinho has made an impressive return to the Premier League with Villa, since joining the club on loan in January to link up with a close friend and former Liverpool team-mate in Steven Gerrard. The Brazil international has made seven goal contributions in 12 appearances so far this campaign. Though, Coutinho’s influence on games has ever so slightly dried up amid Villa’s recent losing run. Gerrard’s side have lost their last four games and have struggled to play through the playmaker. With seven games left this season, it has now been reported that Barcelona would like to know if Villa plan to take up the £33million option to buy Coutinho permanently or not. The Mirror add that Coutinho’s representatives will offer him elsewhere if Villa fail to give a concrete answer, with Barcelona desperate to get him off their books for good this summer. Manager Xavi has no plans to reintegrate Coutinho into his squad and, given their financial issues of late, Camp Nou officials are keen to free up some money tied up in the Brazilian’s massive wages. For Villa, this summer provides an opportunity for Gerrard to continue shaping his squad and it is expected that he will urge the board to green light Coutinho’s permanent stay at Villa Park. A fee of just £33million represents good value, especially if Villa can supplement his quality in the upcoming transfer window. Gerrard has also earmarked a holding midfielder and more defensive reinforcements as the priority areas of the squad that will need addressing this summer. Leeds United’s Kalvin Phillips, Brighton’s Yves Bissouma and Germany international Matthias Ginter are all said to be on Villa’s radar.