There are a number of things that may be keeping you from getting pregnant: Damage to your fallopian tubes. These structures carry eggs from your ovaries, which produce eggs, to the uterus, where the baby develops. They can get damaged when scars form after pelvic infections, endometriosis, and pelvic surgery. That can prevent sperm from reaching an egg. Hormonal problems. You may not be getting pregnant because your body isn’t going through the usual hormone changes that lead to the release of an egg from the ovary and the thickening of the lining of the uterus. Cervical issues. Some women have a condition that prevents sperm from passing through the cervical canal. Uterine trouble. You may have polyps and fibroids that interfere with getting pregnant. Uterine polyps and fibroids happen when too many cells grow in the endometrium, the lining of the uterus. Other abnormalities of the uterus can also interfere, ‘Unexplained’ infertility. For about 20 per cent of couples who have infertility problems, the exact causes are never pinpointed. Tests for Infertility Your doctor may order several tests, including a blood test to check hormone levels and an endometrial biopsy to examine the lining of your uterus. POLL Hysterosalpingography (HSG). This procedure involves ultrasound or X-rays of your reproductive organs. A doctor injects either dye or saline and air into your cervix, which travel up through your fallopian tubes. With this method, your doctor can check to see if the tubes are blocked. Laparoscopy. Your doctor puts a laparoscope — a slender tube fitted with a tiny camera — through a small cut near your belly button. This lets him view the outside of your uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes to check for abnormal growths. The doctor can also see if your fallopian tubes are blocked. How Is Female Infertility Treated? Laparoscopy. If you’ve been diagnosed with tubal or pelvic disease, one option is to get surgery to reconstruct your reproductive organs. Your doctor puts a laparoscope through a cut near your belly button to get rid of scar tissue, treat endometriosis, open blocked tubes, or remove ovarian cysts,  which are fluid-filled sacs that can form in the ovaries. Hysteroscopy. In this procedure, your doctor places a hysteroscope into your uterus through your cervix. It’s used to remove polyps and fibroid tumors, divide scar tissue, and open up blocked tubes. Medication. If you have ovulation problems, you may be prescribed drugs by your doctor.  The drugs can also help you get pregnant by causing your ovaries to release multiple eggs. Normally, only one egg is released each month. Your doctor may suggest that you take gonadotropin if you have unexplained infertility or when other kinds of treatment haven’t helped you get pregnant. Intrauterine insemination. For this procedure, after semen gets rinsed with a special solution, a doctor places it into your uterus when you are ovulating. It is sometimes done while you are taking meds that help trigger the release of an egg. In vitro fertilization (IVF). In this technique, your doctor places into your uterus eggs that were fertilised in a dish. 