As Christians and Muslims in Nigeria join their counterparts around the world to celebrate Easter and fasting, stakeholders have continued to express concern about the worsening insecurity in the country as citizens cannot travel safely to celebrate with loved ones. Other fears expressed by experts include the negative impact the present faux pas may likely have on the current electoral process. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, TOMI FALADE, TITI JOSEPH and OYIKAN SOMORIN Late Thursday President Muhammed Buhari led other prominent Nigerians to felicitate Christians on the celebration of Easter, the celebration of death and the rise of Jesus Christ. Earlier, the Muslim faithful had commenced the compulsory Ramadan fasting. The President said that this year’s celebration is very unique for adherents of the two great faiths in Nigeria, as it culminated the 40-day season of Lent for Christians, where the faithful were expected to fast, pray, assist the poor, abhour injustice and strife, give alms, penitently engage in self-examination and repentance of sins. President Buhari said that Easter reminds Nigerians of the power of divine love, faith and redemption, values that also apply to the Muslim faithful, currently about halfway into the holy month of Ramadan. “For us as a nation, the message of Easter, which commemorates the resurrection of Jesus Christ after crucifixion and burial, reminds us of the power of divine love, faith and redemption. Easter also evokes in us the resilience of the human spirit not to give up in the face of seemingly daunting challenges of life. “This period emboldens us to believe that the current spate of uncertainty and insecurity will soon unfold a season of the triumph of good over evil; hope over despair, and light over darkness. I enjoin us, therefore, to live out the eternal words of Jesus Christ on the cross: ‘Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing.’ As we approach another season of electioneering, let the security and unity of the nation guide our actions and utterances,” President Buhari stated. POLL Even as the President took cognisance of the damage insecurity has done to Nigeria and his plea for love and unity, stakeholders and experts express the negative impact insecurity is having on national lives, the economy and the country’s image. Some who spoke to the Saturday INDEPENDENT feared that it was time something gave for the restoration of Nigeria from the precipice. Dr. Ndubisi Nwokolo, a security expert with NexTier said the major worries about insecurity in the country are mainly how it is affecting national cohesion and resilience. By the day, he said Nigerians are losing trust in the Nigerian state and its ability to carry out her functions as proposed by John Locke as captured in his Social Contract theory. In turn, Nwokolo stressed that such distrust means that the people generally distance themselves from the state and its activities such as elections, etc. “With the high stake insecurity across the country, 2023 elections and party primaries will be threatened. Not only will criminal elements cash in such a situation to perpetuate evil but politicians will use it as criteria to rig or gain from the situation. The 2023 election will hold in the midst of various security challenges facing the country. There will be some cancellations in some extreme violent localities, especially the local government areas that are away from the state capitals where the security provision will not be adequate,” he stated. A prominent cleric, Bishop Oscar Ossai, General Overseer of City of Refuge Missions International is a very worried man because Nigerians cannot live their lives anymore. For example, he said as “our traditional festivals approach, insecurity is yet another major concern of the average citizen. At a point in our nationhood, we were content traveling from North to South, East or South West, driving through the Sahel savanna of parts of the north and down into the tropical rain forests of the South. “It used to invoke pleasurable memories until the bubble burst. It first began with armed robbery attacks, especially on night buses. They devised security measures of having mobile police on board. Lately police killings escalated, kidnappings became the trend and then terror broke out. Today no one is thinking about traveling by road to unite with families, friends, town union meetings, and burial engagements. Going home was a favourite pass time for Igbos. People resorted to using trains magnanimously provided by Hon Rotimi Amaechi as Minister of Transportation. “We were praising him for the initiative until explosions, train raiding and kidnapping took over. Traveling by air began to trend until a mixture of the tripling of airfare plus delays became a common excuse. We hear jet fuel prices doubled even when found due to scarcity. The slogan today is to celebrate from where ever you are. “The Christian community feels there is a deliberate attempt to weaken the Christian belt in Nigeria before heading down south by the forces of hegemony. Where these spates of insecurity and possible reprisals will lead to is yet another security concern of the man on the streets. In it all, indeed there is palpable fear about issues of security of lives and properties. The government is slowly showing signs of combating these menaces. “The fact is that the citizens expect much more from the state and her agents. Investment in our security architecture in the past seven years of this administration is unimaginable and very high, yet the results we see are not commensurate. If the economy was not doing well and there is peace, one can manage and keep one’s head low, trusting that this ill wind will blow away. It is not so. One feels caged either way. I indeed commend the resilience of fellow countrymen. Government must do more than just these lame explanations after each attack,” Bishop Ossai explained. An Islamic cleric and President of the Ansar-ru-Deen Society Worldwide, Alhaji A. Ademola Sanni said “at this period of Ramadan, I believe the Almighty Allah will close the doors of our enemies and open the door of mercies for Nigerians. Part of the duty of the government is to take care of lives and properties. Any government that fails in that aspect has no business being there in the first place but how are the citizens helping the government achieve the goal when we are not even cooperating with them? “As for the election, I think this period is a test for Nigeria and my prayer is for it to go peacefully. We all know for this to happen there must be certain things that must be done, INEC must ensure a free and fair election. Security during the election must be tight so that people will feel safe to come out and vote.” Mr. Ebisike George, an investor and innovator told Saturday INDEPENDENT during the week that with a devastating terrorist train attack a few weeks ago on the Abuja-Kaduna corridor and countless other attacks before that even at the Kaduna Airport and those ongoing as he speaks, tells a chilling story of the measure of insecurity. He, therefore, expressed no surprise as, on 14th of April 2022, the House of Representatives declared Nigeria a failed State with threats to shut down the legislature. George further expresses doubt on the current electoral process as the journey to the 2023 election seems strewn with unsavoury challenges of all measures that may after all see it being truncated. “This could either be a machination of fifth columnists within the corridors of statecraft who want to hold on to power at all cost thereby manipulating the spectrum of extreme orgies of violent attacks and mass killings through their proxies.” Prominent lawyer, Chief Goddy Uwazurike, a former president of Aka Ikenga, an Igbo socio-cultural group said insecurity actually has distorted people’s way of life. “Among us now are people who organise traditional marriages in the city. Burials are postponed until favourable signals are received. Today, the men of the underworld determine what goes on.” Uwazurike, President of Cultural Credibility Development Initiative (CCDI) explained that “traveling is one of the indicators of freedom of movement. During Easter week, many Christians travel to visit their kit and kin. In some communities, especially, in Igbo land, we deliberately fix events during Easter, August meetings and Christmas. The reason is that these three seasons actually record the huge presence of our people from far and near. Some of the events are weddings, fundraising, burials and church ceremonies. This is a normal situation until now.” He further stated that insecurity will certainly affect the turnout of the elections of 2023, as a good number of people have relocated from the insecure areas to the cities. The rural areas actually constitute the insecure areas. The reason is that it is easy for evil men and women to appear and disappear at will. Kabir Akingbolu, a lawyer and human rights activist agrees with Chief Uwazurike. Akingbolu, who said that the first law in heaven is self preservation explained that people ordinarily are expected to travel for Easter, “but unfortunately, this is not likely to be. This is because the insecurities in the land are alarming so much so that nowhere is safe any longer. “The insecurities across the country as we witness now is a serious threat to everything in Nigeria today, especially the pending political party primaries. But the politicians, being who they are, will always know how to dance around it. They will hold their primary elections without blinking an eyelid or caring much about the security threats and it’s unfortunate,” Akingbolu said. Well for this to happen, a lawyer and labour rights activist, Femi Aborisade, insists that the ultimate solution lies in solving the root cause of physical insecurity, which is poverty. “We need to build a more equal society or what is often called an egalitarian society. For as long as young people remain unemployed, homeless and hungry, frustrated and hopeless, some of them would remain extremely angry and seek to survive by all means possible, including engaging in daredevil criminalities. The 2023 elections would most likely hold but in the usual turbulent and violent milieu, which would undermine the integrity of such elections.” Joe Odumakin, an activist told Saturday INDEPENDENT that the adverse effect of insecurity is already telling on the day to day activity of Nigerians as people no longer go to farm without the thought of either being kidnapped or their farmland being attacked by straying cows as “we still have herdsmen who still engage in open grazing. Insecurity has also affected the price of foods and commodities at this material time. Given the continuous efforts of the government and absence of sabotage, we will get out of the woods.” Akingbolu said Nigerians and Nigeria can only be better protected if and only when the government is ready to fight terrorism, a position George agreed with but added that the only way Nigeria can come out of this debacle is through a strategically truthdriven reconciliation which will come with dialogue and a perceived action to bring all the stakeholders representing the indigenous people of Nigeria to agree on a new constitutional framework.