ABUJA – Due to the outstanding debts owed the Abuja En­vironmental Protection Board (AEPB), some gov­ernment offices, hotels, plazas and other business premises may be under lock and key as workers prepare to resume work after the Easter break. This is coming after the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, established a Task Team to recover near­ly ten billion naira owed the AEPB by multiple govern­ment institutions, business locations, and residential flats in the nation’s capital. This information was disclosed by the Director of AEPB, Osilama Briamah, in a statement made available to newsmen on Monday in Abuja. Briamah said the Task Team, which is to be headed by him, has been mandated to apply all legal means to recover the huge sums of money from the debtors, while adding that the debts accrued over time due to the failure of those concerned to pay for services rendered to them by the AEPB. According to him, “All of us desire to live and work in a world-class city compared to other beautiful cities around the world. But we can only do that successfully if we be­have as responsible citizens who pay their utility bills es­pecially for solid and liquid waste collection. “Unfortunately, many agen­cies, residential apartments, hotels, plazas and so on, are not paying their bills as expected. That makes it difficult to raise the money needed to manage a mega-city like Abuja.” He further hinted that, be­ginning from 5:30 am on Tues­day, April 19th, based on a court order already obtained by the AEPB, the Task Team will embark on mass seal-off of these facilities with the aim of recovering the huge money being owed. He, however, lamented that the AEPB had made moves to provide soft-landing for the debtors through negotiated settlement but to no avail, adding that the only option left was to apply the legal means by enforcing the court order to seal-off the affected premises. POLL The director said the af­fected debtors can avoid the impending embarrassment by ensuring prompt payment of their liabilities. He explained that the pay­ments can be made conve­niently through the Remita portal.