KANO – Hundreds of Youths hit Kano streets on Saturday handed over an ultimatum to the immediate past Nigeria President, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to declare interest in the 2023 presidential race. The group under the auspices of Jonathan Support Organization had thronged the Kano state Secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) on Saturday, after a merry-go-round on strategic streets to drum up support for the former Number One man. The youths were carrying banners, posters and placards with different inscriptions that show their support for the former president to contest for the presidency in 2023. Speaking at the NUJ secretariat, the Coordinator of Jonathan Support Organization, Mubashir Tafida said they call on Jonathan to declare within seven days or force him to contest the election. According to Tafida, Nigeria is in a sorry situation that only a man like Jonathan could fix the problems, adding that the former president should declare his intention to run for presidency or two million youths would storm his office and force him to contest. He said the economy of the country is in a bad state, just as hunger and poverty have become the order of the day in the country, noting that Jonathan could overcome such problems as he did during his first tenure as president. “Economic instability in Nigeria is taking to its toll. That needs a man like Jonathan to be fixed. “When he was president, there was no hunger and poverty. Our destiny lies in his hands. He is our father, and as children, we appeal to him to contest for election in order to save us from the present hardship in Nigeria. POLL “So, we give him a seven-day ultimatum to declare for the presidency or we will throng his office with 2 million youths to force him to declare. Our destiny lies on his decision to run. “He is our father and he has to listen to his children. We want him to come out to declare in order to stop blood-shedding in this country,” said Tafida. The Coordinator also stated that they do not care about under which political party Jonathan should run for the presidency. “We don’t care about any political party Jonathan would run under. We will be ok in whichever party he runs under,” he said.