The elders and leaders of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the Udu Local Government Area of Delta State have resolved to resist any attempt to impose a candidate on them. The elders and leaders who spoke through their leader, Olorogun Eddie Ono-Sorhue when leading House of Assembly aspirant for Udu Constituency, Chief Saturday Mofoye paid them consultative visit at Ogodogun Street, Ovwian, expressed joy that Mofoye brought new innovation into aspirants declaration as the first person to come along with a live band. According to him, Mofoye raises a team to sing glory to God which has never happened before his (Mofoye) visit. “We note what Mofoye told us that whether projects are statutory or not, he will bring them here for determination. “We believe in credibility and accessibility of any aspirant that we will choose to represent us, provided the state did not impose anyone on us. If they do, we will oppose it, we wish you well, go about your campaign quietly. Reach out to the delegates for their support”, he added. Earlier, Chief Mofoye, in his speech, said the visit was to inform the elders and leaders of his intention to contest for seat to represent Udu Constituency at the Delta State House of Assembly. Mofoye, the immediate past Vice-Chairman of the PDP in Udu LGA and immediate past Senior Special Assistant to the Delta State Governor on political matters, expressed willingness to serve his constituents at the State Assembly and make difference through better representation. According to him, as a grassroot politician, who knows the plights and needs of the Udu people assured the elders that he will work with the executive arm of government to attract socio-economic, human capital and infrastructural development to Udu. He noted that with his achievements in Udu as a former councillor, he is more qualified among his contemporary to represent Udu at the Delta State House of Assembly. POLL “As a grassroot politician who knows my people as much as they know me, I feel their pains and marginalization. My aspiration is to bring true representation to them because I know what they need. “Today, I have come to request for you to send me to the State House of Assembly to make the difference through an effective representation and bring home what is due for our people through empowerment programmes for youths, women and others, notable infrastructural project and other dividends of democracy which are needed by the Constituency”. “I seek for support and prayers from elders and leaders of the PDP in Udu in order for me to win the PDP primary election to represent the party in the general election.