The Journalists International Forum For Migration (JIFORM) comprising over 300 journalists covering migration across the continents has congratulated the multiple international awards winner and one of the African migration legends, Dr Princess Asie Kabuki Ocansey and the Director General of the World Trade Organization, Professor Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala for winning the global women awards. The duo received the awards on March 30- 2022 in Dubai during the Millennial International Edition of the African Women of Excellence Awards to commemorate the United Nations Women’s Month held in collaboration with the renowned IFZA POLO Lounge. Dr Ajibola Abayomi, the President of the JIFORM in a statement said Professor Okonjo-Iweala remained an international jewel to behold in this generation. He also described Ocansey, the Principal Consultant on Labour Migration to the Government of Sierra Leone and member of the African Union’s Advisory Committee on Labour Migration from Ghana as a blessing to the continent. “We are proud of you for making keeping the flag flying on your firm belief in regular and prosperous migration with total commitment to liberate Africa from the shackles of irregular migration and extortion by the slave masters” He added that Ocansey, the Chairman/CEO of SOS Global Investments has made huge contributions to championing gender emancipation globally. “She is representing the Diaspora forum very well at the AU and JIFORM is happy that she is willing to do more. We are partners in service to humanity” Ajibola said. Ocansey, in 2021 during the African Migration Summit organized in Accra by the JIFORM in partnership with Nekotech Center of Excellence, Ghana won the African Migration Legendary award. POLL Honoured also were HE Reem Ibrahim Al Hashimy – MD of Dubai Expo 2020, Petrolin’s multi-billionaire Oil boss- Mr Samuel Dossou-Aworet who is also Chairman of the African Business Roundabout/ the Global Renewable Energy giant, Mr Kerry Adler- CEO/Founder of Skypower Group of Companies. Mr. Martin Pedersen, Chairman of the International Free Zone Authority, received recognition for his support for the Millennial International Edition in the UAE while other awardees included HE Claudia Turbay Quintero- Dean of the Diplomatic Corps and Columbia’s Ambassador to Ghana, Mrs. Nadia Murabet Founder of Miracle Africa International Foundation and Ambassador Nancy Quartey Sam – VP of ECOWAS Tourism were also honoured. The unique and high powered event featured Hollywood’s mega action movie star, Mr Steven Seagal, founders and co-founders of the African Women of Excellence Awards – Ambassador Erieka Bennett and Dr Toni Luck with Dr. Juliette Tuakli- Vice President of the Diaspora African Forum- a distinguished member of the African Women of Excellence Hall of Fame- was the mistress of ceremonies. Previous recipients of the award were Winnie Mandela, HE Nana Konadu Agyeman Rawlings, HE Dr Joyce Banda – Former President of Malawi, Mrs Kagame, first Lady of Rwanda, and Mrs. Sirleaf Johnson -former President of Liberia.