ABUJA -The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dis­qualified two of the 17 presidential aspirants seeking its ticket to contest the 2023 election. The two disqualified aspi­rants are to forfeit the N40 mil­lion each of them paid for the expression of interest and nom­ination forms. The chairman of the pres­idential screening committee, Senator David Mark, announced thedisqualification of thetwo as­pirants on Friday evening. Mark, however, declined a request by journalists to reveal theidentitiesof theaffectedaspi­rants and the reason(s) for their disqualification. When asked if the screening committee made any recom­mendationtothepartytorefund the N80 million nomination fees paidbytheaspirants, Marksaid: “Why should the party refund the money?” The Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) on Friday screened its presidential aspirants in prepa­ration for the primary scheduled for 28th of May, 2022. The aspirants, who spoke with newsmen after screening described the exercise as good, noting that the committee did a very good job. The17aspirantsscreenedare: former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, the former Speaker Houseof Representatives, Chair­man of PDP Governors Forum and Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, two-term governor of Kwara State andimmediate past president of theSenate, DrAbubakarBukola Saraki, former President of the Senate and former Secretary to the government of the Federa­tion, Anyim Pius Anyim. POLL Other aspirants are: former Minister Federal Capital Terri­toryandBauchiStateGovernor, Senator Bala Mohammed, for­merMinisterof StateforEduca­tion and Rivers State Governor, NyesomWike, AkwaIbomState Governor, Udom Emmanuel, 2019 PDP Vice Presidential can­didate, former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, a United States-based medical doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze and media mogul, Dele Momodu. Others are investment bank­er and economist, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; apharmacist, Sam Ohuabunwa, Former Speaker of Abia House of Assembly, Cos­mos Ndukwe, Charles Ugwu, Rt Hon Chikwendu Kalu as well as the only female aspirant in the race, Tareila Diana. Speaking to newsmen short­ly after the screening, Governor Emmanuel said that the party is supreme on the issue of zoning, adding that whatever the deci­sionthepartytake, hewillabide. He said that the delegate will decide on the candidate that will represent the party in the 2023 election. Also speaking on zone short­ly after the screening, Peter Obi said, “the party has the final say. I can’t have a thought, I’m a member of a party. If the party says this is where they want the party to go, if you’re a member of an organisation, you respect that organization. And that is why I said, whatever we do, the most critical thing is, what we do to pull Nigerians out of poverty and create a future for teeming unemployedyouthsof Nigeria.” However, Fayoseinsisted that thepartymustzoneitspresiden­cy to South. Cautioning the party to note that posterity is watching, Fay­ose said, “well, I say it again, very expressly, that I am for zon­ing and I believe the best thing this party can do for posterity, for tomorrow, so as not to cause confusionisforthispartytozone this presidential campaign or presidential election. “You know why, if we fail to do it, even if we say anybody can contest, you must officially zone it to the South. “In 1999 it was zoned to the South which brought Obasanjo and Olu Falae. Rimi still con­gested within the ambit of the Constitution. Butthepartymust remember, whateverwedotoday, will stand against us tomorrow.” Other aspirants, who spokes talked about their qualities and how they are the best to repre­sent PDP. Meanwhile, the party has issued a zero-tolerance for the imposition of a candidate. The party, in a statement by itsspokesman, Hon. DeboOlogu­nagba advised all Party leaders, stakeholdersandofficialstocon­duct themselves in line with the party’s regulations in the 3-Man Ad-Hoc and National Delegate CongressesandPrimariesslated for Saturday, April 30, 2022. “This directive is part of the resolutions of the NWC at its 552nd meeting on Wednesday, April 27, 2022 in keeping with its resolve to ensure credible, trans­parent, free and fair processes in the build-up to the 2023 general elections,” the party said.