LAGOS – A Professor of Accounting, Department of Accounting, Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, Francis Iyoha has advocated for the integration of spirituality into the accounting profession to enhance ethical practice. Prof. Iyoha made the call recently as he delivered the 27th Inaugural Lecture with the theme: “Actualising Spirituality for Ethical Accounting Practice Forever” at the University Chapel. He said the promise of the accounting profession to accept responsibilities to faithfully and consistently act in the public interest has been eroded because the financial scandals involving high profile organizations suggest that the profession is still gasping for breath to satisfy the public interest mandate. Emphasising that the business world has not been able to rescue itself from unethical and unspiritual transactions, profit motive continues to trump the God factor as management morality and ethics remain misaligned. He lamented that since responses to unethical practices by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), adoption of legislation, post-professional qualifications training in ethics, training on the Code of Professional Ethics (CPE), the teaching of ethics in higher education institutions and establishment of tribunals among other global and local interventions have not eliminated infractions, Iyoha said this will require spiritually redefining the path to ethics in accounting practice. The path to the education required and canvassed in this presentation is Spirituality. As long as the heart that desires and delights in practising accounting in the exact ethical opposite prevails for want of the driving force of Spirituality, it, therefore, stands to reason that Spirituality remains the redeeming imperative. “It can dis-empower the triggers of unethical behaviour and mediate the global diversity in accountants’ cultural and ethical backgrounds. It is possible because the Word of God is sharper than any two-edged sword and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart,” he said. He added, “The Accounting Profession acknowledges that the struggle against unethical practices is real as some accountants and managers continue to be stoutly unscriptural, secular, and profane in their perspectives of accounting practice. POLL “That not much can be done without integrating spirituality into the accounting profession has not been sufficiently addressed. Accountants are not autonomous moral agents immune from atrocious influences in the business environment. To reverse the trend requires spiritually redefining the path to ethics in accounting practice.” He advocated for spiritual sensitivity, spiritual motivation, spiritual courage and spiritual judgment as a model for priming accountants toward ethical conduct. Professor Iyoha tasks employers of accountants and auditors to emphasise spirituality in the job schedules and offerings, saying “This is important because personality, professional training and spirituality should be intertwined for ethical practices.” “The introduction of Spirituality into accounting practice will lead the profession to return to being in great honour. Accountants will begin to shine forth as Daniel, in whom critics could find no ground for accusation or evidence of corruption, fault, or error because he was faithful.”