Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, on Monday, stated that the nation needed a detribalized, firm and effective personality to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2023 general elections. He noted that the multifaceted challenges being currently faced by the country could only be handled by an experienced person with track records that showed he had solved similar challenges in the past. Amaechi stated this in Akure when he visited the Palace of Deji of the Akure Kingdom, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlusi, and the All Progressives Congress (APC) Secretariat in Akure, the Ondo State capital to solicit their support for his presidential ambition. He assured the people of the state that he would ensure the completion of the rail line that passed through the state capital and the proposed seaport at Araromi in the Ilaje Local Government Area of the state. Amaechi said, “Nigeria needs a detribalised, firm and effective leader. In less than one year I became the governor of Rivers State, and militancy stopped in the state. The reason why it stopped was that every time there was militancy, our revenue from the Federal Government dropped. “So, we needed to look for money to develop the state, so, we have to stop kidnapping and other crimes. “So, I have had the experience in finding a lasting solution to insecurity in my state, I’m not the person that they will teach because I have already known. Besides, I’m still going to learn how we will end insecurity in our dear country. POLL “I’m going to give all necessary backing to the issue of security to secure the nation. I also believe that if we grow the economy and support our security system, we will find a lasting solution to insecurity. I have participated in moving this country forward and I will continue to do so. “Your vote matters this time around. We are here in Akure this time around to seek your support, not for only general elections, but for us to win the primary election which will give us the grace to be the party’s candidate. “Once we are voted for in the general election, the traditional rulers will be given a responsibility to play in the constitution. “There will be no segregation, I promise to deliver and move this country forward. Take, for instance, you can see our railway. I want to tell you that Akure was not part of the railway project before, but when I came as a Minister, I included Akure. They told me also that they wanted Seaport and I said there was no problem once you have the facilities, our own is to give you licence. “We must vote for the candidate that will make the ongoing railway project continue. if you voted for the wrong person, the railway project will be aborted. If Akure wants the railway project to continue, you owe me a vote because politics is about interest.”