The 2023 general elections in Rivers State has shown every known sign of interest and drama. There is, indeed, going to be a huge paradigm shift from what the Rivers people knew in 2015 and 2019 elections. While the All Progressives Congress (APC) was on the electoral ballot in 2015, it was not so in 2019 when the party did not field any elective candidate from the local government level to the national. This political quagmire in the state was mainly due to the internal crisis that rocked the leadership of the party. The crisis was and still being orchestrated by the Transportation Minister, Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi and the former member of the board of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Senator Magnus Ngei Abe who was also a member representing the south-east senatorial district in the Senate. While Amaechi was deep neck in getting a candidate from the Riverine part of the state, Abe and his liked-minds wanted fairness, equity and justice in giving an Ogoni son or daughter an opportunity to occupy the Brick House (Rivers state Government House) for the first time since the creation of the state in 1967. This position pushed Abe and his teeming supporters across the state to pitch tent against the former Governor of the state, Amaechi. The argument was that only a popular candidate in the mold of Senator Abe could win the election against the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)/and its strong candidate, Nyesom Wike. Statistically, APC was believed to have failed the election in 2015 because of wrong choices by Amaechi. For instance, Dr Dakuku Adol Peterside’s LGA, Opobo/Nkoro had barely 26, 400 registered voters. Honorable Asita, Dakuku’s deputy from Ahoada West had about 23,000 (plus) votes. If you put all the above together, you have less than 70,000 votes. Obio/Akpo has 460,000 (plus) registered voters. That is where Wike comes from. A particular Ward, Ward 10, Rumueme will dwarf Opobo and Ahoada West votes. Emohua had 110,000, Ikwerre was 98,000 voters. PHALGA had about 350,000. How then can any good politician think he can beat Wike in a free and fair election? Won’t he have sympathy vote from Ikwerre ethnic nationality where the governor comes from! “It is better from me that I left him (Amaechi), said the former Chief of staff, Chief Tony Okocha.  “Some people who are still with the Minister are waiting for their pound of flesh. Stomach infrastructure”, he said. POLL Just last week, April 17 which was Easter Sunday, Abe finally made his intentions to contest the 2023 governorship election in Rivers state on the platform of the APC known to his supporters. A staunch political ally of the national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, Abe who was at B-Dera Community in Gokana local government area of Rivers state to launch the Bola Ahmed Tinubu, BAT, Vanguard, declared that he was mentally, physically and spiritually set for the race. By his public declaration, Abe again is up against the Transport Minister once more to stop his (Amaechi’s) men from accessing the Government House next year. While the Minister is on a nationwide consultation tour for his presidential ambition, his foot soldiers in Rivers state are waiting for his final orders on who should take the ticket. It is going to be more of one man’s choice than the electoral process. Barely six days before Abe’s declaration, ten Governorship aspirants of the APC met somewhere in Port Harcourt and called for genuine reconciliation and forgiveness among members in the state to ensure that the party emerges victorious in the Governorship and other elections in 2023. In a communique jointly signed by the ten aspirants in Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital, they encouraged all those interested in the governorship to go about their consultations peacefully devoid of name-calling, insults and pulling down of one another just to gain attention. 