LAGOS – Residents of Ilasa Community of Iyana-Iyesi, Ota, Ogun State were on Monday 25, at about 4 p.m. thrown into panic when military officials numbering about five, wearing military camouflage and Navy uniforms, invaded the community with the aim of dislodging artisans working on a piece of land in the community. An eye witness, who spoke exclusively with Daily Independent, said the military men came in a Honda car with registration number BDG 31 BC, which was parked at the front of a landed property, the occupants who are military men jumped out of the vehicle to attack those found on the land. Some of the artisans on the land tried to escape but were pursued by the officers creating panic for the residents who began to scamper for safety. Nurudeen Iroko, who is the head of the Agedu Ajoye Ejobose branch of Akowonwado family, the owners the land in question, said, “We were laying foundation for a building on a portion of our land at Ilasa Community on Monday, when suddenly we saw a group of unknown military officers jump out from a Honda saloon car numbering about five who pounced on the workers, using sticks, canes, belts to mercilessly beat everyone on sight, kicking and hitting at the same time. “Everyone had to run for dear life, bearing varying degrees of injury. Unfortunately, one Alfa Tiamiyu Shittu, working with others on the land, was apprehended and thrown into the car’s booth and whisked away, but he managed to open the booth when he sensed they were at the Iyana-Iyesi bus stop, and a crowd of Okada riders saw his dilemma and sympathetically came to his rescue by resisting the military men who fought them, wounding many. It was the intervention of men of the Obasanjo Police Station that saved the situation,” he explained. Iroko explained that the said land was sold by scammers to one Bankole Elega, and when the family discovered, he was taken to Court in 2016 where a judgment was given against him. The family, pasted the judgment for three months in that year for his awareness and the public, but he never came to the family for resolutions or ratification before bringing the military officers to forcefully take over the land.