NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, JOSEPH UNDU ABUJA  –  Plan by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), to intensify its ongoing investigation of completed, but un-occupied estates in the country as part of measures to address Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs), as gathered, has been a source of excitement among some players in the estate business in Abuja. ICPC during a two day Capacity Building for Investigators, Prosecutors and Tax Inspectors on Investigating and Prosecuting Illicit Financial Flows in Abuja, organised by ICPC in collaboration with the Ford Foundation, hinted the need to thoroughly investigate financial inflows in the estate business. Experts in estate business have since concluded that pricing of estate items in Abuja is artificial on account of illicit inflows of cash into the business. “The moment you take it away, prices of properties in the nation’s capital will drop. “Even more, the knowledge that ICPC is investigating unoccupied buildings will force owners to get people to either occupy them or sell them off to legitimate buyers to avoid investigation,” explained Salem Abubakar, an estate and realtor expert in Abuja. Anti-graft agencies in the country have long suspected that there is a nexus between the high rate of corruption in the public sector and investments in estate. They believe that money from illicit sources are channeled into the industry to launder the cash and cover their tracks. POLL How ICPC plans to embark on this new measure were the highlights at a training Programme where a paper titled, “Illicit Financial Flows in Real Estate”, was delivered by the Director of Asset Tracing, Recovery and Management (ATRM) of ICPC, Mr. Adedayo Kayode. According to him, continuation of on-going investigation of completed but un-occupied estates across the country was identified as a solution in tackling the menace of illicit cash flows. According to him, “The ICPC in accordance with its mandate to curb corruption is presently investigating cases of myriad of completed but abandoned estates scattered around the Federal Capital Territory with the intention of identifying those that instruments of IFFs. “Furthermore, we are collaborating with the National Assembly to investigate study and promulgate appropriate legislation to stem the tide of corruption in the real estate sector. “We need a coordinated and concerted approach to fight IFFs: the law enforcement agencies need continuous investment in capacity building to trace and follow the money, their need for implementation and investigation of breaches of the Beneficial Ownership rule, data availability is a must and intelligence sharing,” the director stated. He listed other solutions to combating IFFs to include: implementation of sanctions on land holding without development after prescribed number of years; enforcement and compliance investigation of Capital Gain Tax on Real Estate transactions; strengthening international cooperation on investigation of cross-border real estate purchase transactions; full implementation of beneficial ownership regulation, and regulation of Foreign Exchange trading and movement. Kayode, who noted that IFFs are laundered in order to disguise or conceal illicit origins, lauded the effort of government in the recent SIM card/ NIN matching and deactivation of non-compliance as a good step in the right direction. He said: “A key sector to the laundering of IFFs at their origin globally is the Real Estate which is due to its informal; little regulated nature proves very attractive. Key culprits involved in the laundering of IFFs in the real estate sector are top public officers. “The laundering activity is conducted in collaboration with real estate developers and accomplices in the Land Administration departments.”