The newly established retail unit of Universal Insurance Plc is said to be adding great value to the bottom line of the company raking in over N900million into the coffer of the firm in less than four years. Universal Insurance has done a whole lot in that retail space. It is one thing we are sure that we are going to sustain, said Ben Ujoatuonu, managing director and chief executive officer of the foremost underwriting firm. From 2019 Universal Insurance has been able to sustain its growth trajectory progressively with increased revenue line, increased bottom line and maintained profit level consistently year in year out. The year 2021 and the first quarter of 2022 were no exception as the company expects to overshot the 2021 performance with N2.5billion premium income already recorded in the Q 1 2022. “I would take you back to 2019, we ended the year record with N1.8billion, in 2020 we ended with about N3.3billion, in 2021 we ended with about N3.7billion and as at first quarter this year we have done almost N2.5billion. So, that shows that we are going to surpass the 2021 record in 2022.” Ujoatuonu explained further. “Progressively, we make impact, we have increased our revenue line, increased our bottomline and maintained profit level consistently year in year out. And year 2021 was not an exception and even in 2022, we are poised to even overshoot that of 2021 performance,” the CEO added. He attributes the success to the grace of God for the strength to drive this and the tenacity of his team to keep it eyes on the focus, without distraction, going for what needed to be achieved. “It has been paying off. We may not reach where we want to be but I know the sky is our limit.” He humbly said. POLL But, Mr Ujoatuonu is not happy with the harsh economy on businesses including insurance as he laments the high cost of doing business in the country saying: “Insurance market is having its own share of the effect of the economy. You know that the economy is really having some challenges, the exchange rate, the cost of doing business is very high and all of these have affected business operations.