Lagos – Samuel Chukwueze has declared that Villarreal are not afraid of Liverpool despite the Reds being favourites going into today’s UEFA Champions League (UCL) semifinal clash at Anfield and they are ready to shock the English side. Having shown Juventus and Bayern Munich the door in the previous rounds and won their last two matches against Getafe and Valencia in LaLiga, the Yellow Submarines will not be lacking confidence against the Reds. Chukwueze scored the back-breaking goal that sent Bayern Munich crashing out of the quarters and the Nigerian winger now eyes a bigger achievement against Liverpool. “The most important thing is to win the semi-finals. If we win the semi, maybe the celebration will be bigger than the celebration after the UEFA Europa League (UEL) win. It’s my first UEFA Champions League (UCL) and my first semifinals. “Reaching the final would be amazing. It would make this one of the best seasons of my life.” Chukwueze told the official website of UEFA. Chukwueze also talks about what keeps Villarreal going. “What makes this Villarreal team so special is that they take themselves as a family, they look after each other, and they work for each other on the field. “They don’t complain: ‘Oh, this person’s not doing his job’ or anything. They work together. That’s what it means. POLL That’s what’s keeping us together, the work, the contact, everything.” The Nigeria international praised the work of Villarreal manager Unai Emery, saying that the Spaniard knows how to read the game well. “The most important thing is the coach. He’s so fantastic. He knows how to read the game and everything. Reaching the semifinals with this coach, I think, is amazing. “It’s a dream come true for him also, and for the club. Playing Liverpool – they are one of the favourites, also, but we’re going to push, to show them that this is why we’re in the semifinals.” He concluded by revealing what makes the Villarreal squad so special and highlighted the team spirit in the group. “What makes this Villarreal team so special is that they take themselves as a family, they look after each other, and they work for each other on the field. “They don’t complain: ‘Oh, this person’s not doing his job’ or anything. They work together. That’s what it means. That’s what’s keeping us together, the work, the contact, everything”.