A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Sanya Atofarati has called on the party stake­holders to fast-track recon­ciliation of all aggrieved members in Ekiti, ahead of the June 18, 2022 governor­ship election. Atofarati, zonal leader of the PDP in a statement enti­tled: ‘Ekiti 2022, Why Ayu, PDP Must Not Allow Olu­jimi To Defect’ argued that the space and influence of the current highest political office holder in PDP in Eki­ti and Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial Dis­trict, Chief Abiodun Olu­jimi cannot be downplayed. The PDP chieftain who expressed concern over the state of affairs in Eki­ti warned that it would be dangerous to approach the gubernatorial election as a divided house. According to him “it would amount to self-deceit to ever think Senator Bio­dun Olujimi can be wished away in the political archi­tecture of Ekiti State, even at the National politics”. He called on critical stakeholders of the party, particularly, the national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu and Governor Seyi Makinde to devise means of recon­ciling former governor Ayo Fayose and Senator Abiodun Olujimi in order to guarantee the winning chances of the party. Atofarati, the SouthWest Zonal Publicity Secretary of the party also urged Fayose to harmonise all tendencies before the crucial election. He said “as critical as former Governor Ayo Fay­ose of Ekiti State is to PDP in Ekiti State and national levels so also is the Senator representing South District of Ekiti, Mrs Biodun Olu­jimi, to the forthcoming Governorship election in the state. “Just as we have count­less numbers of beneficia­ries of Ex-Gov Ayo Fayose’s government, so also we cannot shy away from the contribution of Senator Olujimi towards develop­ment of democracy and wide distribution of its dividends through various employment and empower­ment programs. The com­munities whose roads were tarred by Olujimi will forev­er be grateful to her. POLL “Politics, especially elec­tion is about the people so it is suffice to say that in win­ning any election, everyone is important to actual vic­tory for PDP in the coming June 18 Guber poll. “I am calling on the lead­ership of our party both at the National and the Zonal levels to rise up to the oc­casion in ensuring recon­ciliation of all aggrieved members of the party in Ekiti State so as to guaran­tee and cement our winning chance in the 2022 governor­ship election.”