Ahead of the presidential primaries slated for May 28th and 29th, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday end the sales and submission of its nomination and expression of interest forms for all elective positions in the 2023 general elections. Daily Independent gathered that 17 presidential aspirants have bought the forms to contest for the presidential ticket of the party making the party generate roughly N646 million from the sale of the forms. The presidential aspirants who have bought their nomination and expression of interest form include, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President Bukola Saraki; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. Others are former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim; Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel; former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, former Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose; a United States-based medical practitioner, Nwachukwu Anakwenze and media mogul, Dele Momodu. It was learned that Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, met with the NWC and asked them to work for his emergence as the party’s flag bearer to replicate his outstanding performance in Akwa Ibom State. In his response, the party chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, said PDP has the best aspirants and not the ones “who run around the stadium but cannot run a railway station. Our aspirants are people who can perform.” He added that “Our job as National Working Committee is to prepare a level playground for you to come and play your game. I want to assure you that we are committed to the most transparent and fair primaries in the history of the PDP.” Meanwhile, a group in the party, PDP New Generation, has warned the National Working Committee (NWC) to guard against godfatherism and imposition of candidates ahead of the party primaries. POLL Addressing journalists during the launch of Operation Rescue Nigeria in Abuja on Tuesday, Audu Mahmood, the director-general of the group, said what Nigerians need is to recreate hope and make Nigeria safe and united. He said there were serious burdens on the next government to be formed by the PDP and as such the party needs to present leaders that have the capacity not to impose candidates on it.