P/HARCOURT – The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Rivers State Branch, has denied a statement making the rounds that Rivers teachers raped 50 students in four months. Chairperson of FIDA, Rivers State Branch, Mrs. Adata Bio-Briggs, who made the denial while speaking to journalists shortly after a stakeholders’ meeting held at the Conference Hall of the Rivers State Ministry of Education in Port Harcourt, said she was misquoted by the media. “The information put out there is wrong. The question that was asked in that interview was how many defilement matters do you have and we said we have about 50 defilement matters ongoing in court. For the avoidance of doubt, we have only five incidents of school, two public schools and three private schools, that have issues of child defilement,” she stated. Speaking further, Bio-Briggs explained that “when we are talking about caregivers here, they are both the fathers, pastors, uncles, lesson teachers, brothers and neighbours,” noting, that “those are the caregivers that we say have gone ahead to defile these children; it’s not just the schools. Earlier in his remarks, Rivers State Commissioner for Education, Professor Kaniye Ebeku, who called the stakeholders meeting in order to interrogate the allegation, expressed displeasure over the reports describing it as fake and unverified news. “When I heard the report, I was horrified, I was peeved and I thought the best approach is to summon a stakeholders meeting where FIDA would be invited to explain the source of that information. Now, FIDA have said they didn’t give that information in the manner it was presented to the public. So, it is not true that we have incidents of about 50 cases of rape or molestation in schools in Rivers State”. The statement which was signed by Faustina Eugene- Nwanekwu, S.A. Media to the Hon. Commissioner for Education noted that the Ministry has zero tolerance for sexual molestation and other vices and that any staff culpable would face appropriate sanctions. POLL “People should stop playing politics with everything because it doesn’t help us. Facts are sacred and the meeting has proved it clearly to everyone that people are just simply playing politics with the number 50. We are serious about discipline in Rivers schools and some of you are already aware that when we have reports of such incidents in the schools, we never hesitate to discipline the persons involved,” she added. The stakeholders meeting had in attendance Heads of Senior Secondary Schools Board and the Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Dr. Widom Ade and Ven. Fynface Akah respectively, Directors of the Ministry of Education, FIDA Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, ANCORPS and NAPPS representatives, Principals of the Schools where the incidents where alleged to have occurred, and journalists.