LAGOS – The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has deployed additional officers to the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos following the commissioning of the new international terminal at the airport. A source close to the service confided in our correspondent during the week that the officers would be deployed to the new terminal, which is expected to boost passenger traffic by an additional 14 million. The source hinted that the officers were presently going through intensive two weeks training at the cargo unit of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos Command for reorientation and would only be allowed to join their mates on the completion of the training. Also, it was learnt that after the two weeks of training, the officers would be sent to understudy the various units of the command in order to acquaint themselves with the rudiments of the Command. The source said: “You need certain skills to work at such a Command. So, the training is very important for them. The attitude of our officers to the travelling public is very necessary, yet you must convey the message you need to convey to them without compromise. ‘After the training, we will now make them to understudy the various units to be able to know what others do. Then, the officers will go back to class and ask questions based on their observations and on how they can get a better result.” Besides, our correspondent gathered that the Federal Government on Tuesday carried out a simulation exercise for agencies that would function at the new international terminal, including the immigration officers. At the simulation training, it was learnt that some of the gaps noticed in the system were noticed and itemised for correction. POLL It was also learnt that the command has keyed into the three major agenda of Mr. Isah Jere Idris, the Ag. Comptroller General of the Immigration, which includes security of borders, staff welfare and on-time international passport issuance to applicants. Recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had on Tuesday, March 22, 2022 commissioned the newly built international terminal in Lagos. The facility was built on a landmass of approximately 56,000 square metres, with 66 check-in counters and has the capacity to process 14 million passengers annually. The new terminal is equipped with censored conveyor belt, seven jet bridges, 10 ultra-modern cooling systems, heat extraction in the baggage hall, ample space for duty-free shops and banks, recreational areas for children, 22-room hotel for stop-overs among others. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, among others, attended the commissioning.