AKINWUNMI KING With less than 13 months to the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, several qualified aspirants from both the ruling and opposition parties have indicated interest to succeed him, among them former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. With the zoning arrangement of the APC, the party seems to have concluded on a southern candidate to fly the party’s flag, and from all indications, the presidential candidate may probably come from the South- West. This makes the contest between Tinubu and Osinbajo the cynosure of all eyes. And they are the two aspirants that have been making waves in the South-West zone, even though there are other contestants. The War In South-West While Tinubu has been going round the country, making his intention known to stalwarts of the party, Osinbajo, on the other hand, though is consulting in his own way, may also be relying on the rumoured backing of Aso Rock, which is said to be rooting for him to replace President Buhari. The aspiration of the two APC gladiators has continued to pitch their loyalists against each other. Also, various groups and individuals have been asking each of the leaders to step down for another. A former presidential adviser and chieftain of APC in Borno state, Senator Muhammed Abba Aji is one of those who have asked the national leader of the party to shelve his presidential ambition and allow his dreams for his political godson to materialize. In an interview, Abba Aji, an Arewa elder who served as Special Adviser on National Assembly Matters to two Presidents, emphasised that in spite of challenges, Osinbajo has a solid support base in the North, along with thriving circles of influential supporters across the South. The APC chieftain who is one of the Arewa elders in the Progressive Consolidation Group (PCG), a pro-Osinbajo lobby group that has been active since last year, also applauded the spontaneous nationwide celebrations that greeted Osinbajo’s declaration for the 2023 presidency. He said, “I have been in politics since the early 80s and I can tell you that the Nigerian electorate is now much wiser, much more discerning and sophisticated than what you had in the past. The spontaneous rallies are a show of strength, asserting the power of the real people and it is a strong pointer to Professor Yemi Osinbajo’s very bright chances for ultimate electoral victory,” he said. POLL Speaking further, Senator Abba Aji described Tinubu as a great party leader who should feel vindicated that the good idea brought forward in the person of Osinbajo has continued to flourish. “Asiwaju is a great leader of our party and his role in bringing about an Osinbajo vice presidency has been vindicated; having performed creditably, impressing President Buhari and millions of Nigerians. “As a leader, when you have brought a great idea, you should allow such to grow and Vice President Osinbajo’s declaration for the 2023 presidency is a reflection of very sound growth and the next step is for Osinbajo to assume the Presidency in 2023,” Abba Aji said. Asserting that Osinbajo has a bright chance of winning the presidential elections, Senator Abba Aji stressed that the security situation in his home state of Borno has vastly improved under the Buhari administration, adding that Osinbajo has greatly impressed Nigerians with his performances during the period when he acted as president. “His (Osinbajo’s) chances are very bright in the view of most people that I have interacted with. He is better than anyone else but we are in a democracy and others also have a right to present themselves and increase the choices available to the electorate,” he said. Abba Aji further commended all those who participated in the spontaneous celebrations and support rallies that greeted Professor Yemi Osinbajo’s declaration for the 2023 presidential race, stressing that the reinvigorated populist base of the APC is now fully set for further electoral victories. Trading Venom There are some Tinubu’s loyalists who have also referred to Osinbajo as a traitor for choosing to contest against Tinubu whom they described as his (Osinbajo) benefactor. These set of loyalists are of the opinion that Tinubu made Osinbajo whatever he is today. They argued that since it was Tinubu that gave Osinbajo his first political appointment as far back as 1999, an Osinbajo challenge would be tantamount to “biting the finger that fed him’’. This argument, according to some analysts, is specious, deceptive and myopic. They maintained that the idea is a clever and disingenuous ploy by the Tinubu campaign to discourage the VP from the race and pave the way for Tinubu as the sole APC candidate. “Nigerians deserve the benefit of choosing the next President from a wide array of candidates. Nobody should be bullied or railroaded out of the contest; not this VP who is well placed to offer sound and competent leadership,” a political analyst, Etim Etim said. On his part, a political scientist, Gbade Ojo, said the perception of Osinbajo being an ingrate is uncalled for. Ojo stressed that the vice president was exercising his constitutional rights as a citizen of the country, hence the fact that Tinubu was his mentor should not ordinarily prevent him from throwing his hat into the ring. Pointing to the informal power-sharing in Nigerian government and politics with President Buhari, a Muslim, finishing his tenure next year, Ojo said it waits to be seen if it will be the turn of a Christian or the arrangement will change. While some said he (Tinubu) made Osinbajo the vice president, those in Osinbajo’s camp argued that the APC national leader never supported the emergence of the vice president in the first place. When Tinubu was confronted with the declaration of his political godson, he outrightly denied having any son old enough to contest for the highest office in the land. According to him, “I don’t have any son grown up enough to make such a declaration. “The fact that we have people in our party that express desire to lead the party into the highest office in the electoral contest shows how much this our party has resonated with Nigerians and our party members.” Narrowing Contest For Money Bags The APC has fixed May 30 for its presidential primary election but some of the aspirants that have indicated interest are likely to drop their ambition with the decision of the party National Executive Committee (NEC) to peg its presidential expression of interest and nomination forms at N100 million. The spokesperson of the party, Felix Morka, who disclosed this at the end of the emergency meeting of the NEC on Wednesday at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja, said the expression of interest form is N30 million while the nomination form will cost N70 million. While there are claims that the supposed powers-that-be in the country prefer Osinbajo to replace Buhari, sources disclosed that if Tinubu does not back out of the race and choose to go into the primary with Osinbajo, then the South-West may lose its turn. A Lagos based political analyst, Olukayode Salako, in a chat with our correspondent, said nobody should see Osinbajo’s declaration as betrayal. Waiting For Power Brokers Salako noted that in the best interest of the South-West, Tinubu should allow Osinbajo if he is the preferred choice of the “power brokers”. “When Asiwaju himself was the anointed choice of the established ruling party elders, leaders and power brokers in Lagos State in 1999, even as a fresh and new entrant in the game, he became the governor against the aspirations of other aspirants, who felt they must also be the ones to be crowned the kings at all cost. Against all odds, Bola Tinubu became the governor of Lagos State, and the rest is history. “When he (Tinubu) was leaving after his eight years as the governor of the state, he openly anointed Mr. Babatunde Fashola who was not a politician; not known and popular to Lagosians, and had no political structure at all for the contest in the state as his successor. “This was against the ambitions of retinue of worthy aspirants, who also felt they deserved to be given fair chance to contest in a free and fair, as well as, credible primary election. Since Mr. Fashola was whom the established ruling system in the state wanted, he became the governor at the end of the day? “The same story of anointing for Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode and the current sitting governor of the state, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “This is the culture of how privileged Nigerians (aspirants) get to the positions of power or public offices anywhere in the country. That is the way it runs in every state and at local government levels of politicking in the country. “Those, who did not even aspire or show interest in it at all, even get lucky with the selection culture in the Nigerian political system most times. They would just sit down on their own, and they would be picked. “Let me now go to the politics of the federal level, General Olusegun Obasanjo became the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, simply because he was the choice of the established ruling system and the North in 1999. The Yorubas, like many of us, who are agitating right now for Tinubu, preferred Olu Falae, but Obasanjo, the anointed man of the system, became the president. “Obasanjo was in prison; he had no premonition of it. He had no money and expansive political structure like that anywhere at the time, but everything was made ready and easy for him. Eventually to the surprise of all, especially the Yorubas, who didn’t want him to represent their region, he became the president and ruled for eight years. “However, when OBJ was done, and was about stepping down for another Nigerian to take over from where he stopped, he also openly chose and endorsed Umaru Yar’Adua, to succeed him. Yar’Adua didn’t struggle for it. He didn’t have that very expansive political infrastructure and structure the way Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has built it, he was on his own like Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, when the then established ruling order system went to call him. And eventually, he became the president against all odds. “That was the same compatible story of how Goodluck Jonathan became the Vice President and eventually the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, when his boss Yar’Adua died. “This, I heard, was the same way President Muhammadu Buhari too was anointed and chosen for the job. All of these Asiwaju Bola Tinubu knows, if his supporters (not one like me), who are now struggling for him to become the next president of Nigeria, would have to be behaving as if they do not know how it runs in the system, if they do not know that of Nigeria, at least they know that of Lagos. “You don’t really have to struggle desperately for it. If you are the one destiny wants, the system would always reach out for you by itself, one way or another. “Bola Tinubu himself is a system man, and one of the power brokers to an extent in Nigeria. He has been part of it, and he knows how they sit down in the dead of the night, when those of us who are fighting because of them now, would have been fast asleep in the comforts of our bedrooms, to make those decisions for the country. “Asiwaju himself knows the story of how Prof. Yemi Osinbajo was chosen as the Vice President. So, if Asiwaju is the choice, he himself would have known. He wouldn’t need to be traveling the length and breadth of Nigeria, consulting effortfully as he is doing right now. “From the story I read, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo was in Abuja for a supreme court case job, when he received the miracle phone call from Senator Ibikunle Amosun, the then sitting governor of Ogun State that he was the choice of the job of the Vice President in 2014. “Osinbajo never struggled for it, he never lobbied for it, he never campaigned for it, he was on his own when destiny reached out for him. That is the culture in most power game systems in all societies across the world. That is the way it is here as well. “Asiwaju knows how he himself influences the process of how kings and chiefs are picked for the crowns. He knows how he influences the choices of things in the political system in today’s Nigeria. He has been part of it. He knows the nitty-gritty of how the game of power play runs in the country. He is one of the power brokers in the game. Succession Tradition “Now, this is President Muhammadu Buhari’s time to leave for a successor to take over from him. The strong belief or resolution in some power game quarters at the federal level, as I heard it, is that he should also be given that honour of exercising the influence of how his own successor too would be picked for his party. “At the end of the day, it would now be left for Nigerians to decide whether they want that person or not with their votes on the day of the February 2023 election. “As far as I am aware of it, that choice might be Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, or somebody else in the permutation we all might not yet know. Politics is a game of chess, you can only know the beginning, you might not know how and where it would end. It might also be Bola Tinubu at the end of the day. “However, my strong belief is that vice-President Yemi Osinbajo would never, ever have come out to declare to take part in the contest on his own volition, or insistence if President Muhammadu Buhari and some power brokers in the country are not behind it. “As I see him, he doesn’t have the nature of struggling for it, and I do not believe this time that he is the one struggling for it on his own volition. “For the vice-President, with his nature, antecedent and way of taking things to have come out to say he wants to run for the office of the President, even when he knows that his ‘Asiwaju’ in the political fraternity, has also declared to contest, then he might have been the anointed choice of the powers that be at the federal level and the age long established ruling order system in the country, which former President Ibrahim Babangida, the suspected spokesman of the group has already spoken to tell Nigerians that the vice- President Yemi Osinbajo is a very, very good and nice man for the job. “That appears to me like the endorsement zeal from their group. And when Babangida speaks like that about anyone, during an election period like this, the North might be the one speaking. “As far as I know, when the North is behind it, that might be the next choice for Nigeria. That is why I have always opined in my consistent submissions that the North holds the aces when it comes to the choice of who emerges, most times, to become the president of Nigeria. “To me, if it is Prof. Yemi Osinbajo this time, then that is when I would rather feel disappointed that he would be betraying the South-West by refusing not to accept the offer. “And if at the end of the day, the choice is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a realistic Nigerian of Yoruba extraction like me, would be very glad to have an erudite and kind hearted political leader like him as my president. “But as far as I am concerned, Osinbajo doesn’t have to betray Tinubu in all of it, if he happens to be the anointed choice, because if he refused to accept it, the opportunity might go to somewhere else and the entire Yorubas might also feel betrayed by the ruling party at the end of the day. “PYO doesn’t have to betray anyone, it is the culture of the system, which Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is eminently a part of, as well as, helped to institute,” Salako added. Meanwhile, stakeholders in the South-West have been calling for caution, urging both aspirants to call their supporters to order and set the region on fire. The general secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), Kunle Olajide warned the camps of both leaders against creating a climate that is capable of making history repeat itself over their ambition. Olajide described the ongoing rivalry between them as worrisome, adding that the elders might have to intervene to avert a possible backlash. “It is very frightening the way things are going and nobody anticipated that. The handwriting we are seeing on the wall is not anything to be proud of and we, the elders, might have to intervene. “The elders will have to come in to address the issue. We don’t want another situation where the South-West will be set ablaze because of the personal political ambition of anybody. We cannot afford to witness that again. “We will have to call them, at least to tell them to moderate their supporters. They have been friends for over 20 years. I don’t see any reason why they must suddenly become enemies and start to point guns at each other. They have been together; they have been friends and political allies for over two decades. “They should not allow politics to turn them to enemies. I don’t see anything bad in the two of them pursuing their ambitions, but it must be done decently. “They must be able to caution their supporters because sometimes, it is the supporters that start these problems. So, they must caution their supporters and go about selling their messages to the people in a very decent manner,” he said.