LAGOS – Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) has condemned those describing the Vice- President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as a traitor and betrayer for declaring to run for the presidency in 2023 under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Some loyalists of of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos state and presidential aspirant had pasted posters where they labeled Osinbajo as Judas who betrayed Jesus Christ while others called him the ‘modern day Akintola who betrayed Awolowo’ in reference to the 1962 Action Group crisis which was a result of the struggle for power between two political leaders of the Western Region and Action Group (AG), Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Chief Samuel Ladoke Akintola. Tinubu, however issued a statement last week dissociating himself from the publications.Speaking in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Sagay said calling the Vice- President derogatory names for coming out to contest is uncalled-for. “I think labeling the Vice-President a betrayer for coming out to contest for the presidency is most uncalled-for. In the larger interests of Nigeria, anybody who thinks he has something to offer should be allowed to indicate interest and contest the election. This is because the greater the variety, the most likely possibility that we will get the best candidate”. “So, I don’t think it is good to try to curtail the variety of those who are interested by shutting down to anyone. Those publications against the Vice-President were very unfortunate”. “ We are all aware of the antecedent of the Vice-President, particularly as a former Attorney-General of Lagos state. What some of us are saying is that everybody should be given a chance so that the delegates will have a wide choice to make and will  be able to pick the very best”. “When you begin to threaten or eliminate people, you are narrowing the choice and you may end up eliminating the best person. In my view, the Vice- President is entitled to contest. Let the delegates determine who the candidate will be”.