…Frowns At Over Concentration Of Power At Federal Level …Harps On Need For Devolution Of More Powers To States, LGAs ABUJA – As part of his consultations towards clinching the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, on Wednesday met with the members of the PDP Caucus in the National Assembly. The PDP presidential aspirant, who also met with members of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the party, decried the level of marginalization of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government, especially the South East and also the level of insecurity. Tambuwal, who frowned at the over-concentration of power at the federal level, harped on the pertinent need for the devolution of more powers to States and local government areas in the country. He said: “The centre is overloaded. And we really need to go back to the local government and state, where the people are and give them more responsibilities and more resources, and that is how we are going to do it.” Lamenting the state of the nation, Tambuwal noted the level of corruption, insecurity economy and general unemployment in the country. He warned that unless and until something is done as quickly as possible, Nigeria is clearly on the bricks that will not be good for the country. POLL He said: “I believe in this country, we have the right people. What we require is that leadership that can identify those people and charge them with the responsibility of doing and discharging those responsibilities, that they are competent enough to handle and it’s not rocket science. “So it’s all about that leadership that can identify the issues, the complex of Nigeria, its differences and ability to bring the people of Nigeria together and work together as one country without leaning towards a particular region or religion. “It is unbelievable that in a country such as Nigeria, you can have from number one to number eight without a region being represented in the leadership of this country. “From the President, to the Vice President, to the Senate President to the Speaker, Deputy President, Deputy Speaker, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, you don’t have one single individual in that hierarchy from Southeastern Nigeria. That cannot happen under my watch.” The Sokoto State Governor, while soliciting for the support of the federal lawmakers to emerge as the presidential flag bearer of the PDP, pointed out that he has the capacity, ability, intelligence and experience among others to govern the country as well proffer solutions to the various problems plaguing the country. Addressing the BoT members, Tambuwal said, in spite of the challenges, he has what it takes to lead the country and asked the BoT members to support him to emerge as the flag bearer of the party.