•Shooting Accidental, Investigation Ongoing – Police  Family of a late businessman, Mr. Chikere Obieshi popularly called JB, who was alledgedly killed by a Police officer at a friend’s birthday party in Egbeda area of Lagos has called for justice. The family on Wednesday at a press conference held in front of the deceased’s shop at Computer Village said only justice will compensate what the killing of their son has caused. According to the family, the late business man was described as a legitimate phone dealer of iPhones who was invited by a supposed friend called Mr. Ifeanyi Uchendu aka Asiwaju to grace his birthday party last Sunday, only to be gunned downed by a Police Inspector, named Mohammed Useni. Representative of the family, Anayo Chukwu Obieshi, told journalists that their sibling was only at the party less than two hours when he was shot dead by the policeman while he was dancing and spraying money on the celebrant. They are also calling on Police highest ranking authority to ensure justice for the deceased.Adding that, the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, CP Abiodun Alabi, and AIG Zone 2 should come to their aid so that the alledged killer will not go unpunished. Also calling for justice in an emotion laden voice, the deceased’s younger brother, Osigwe Stanley in a distressing tone said, “All the things he used to do in the house, who wants to do it? “You that killed him, do you want to take his place, now that you’ve killed my elder brother, what do you want to do with his dead body? Come and take his responsibilities now, if you can take half of his responsibilities .”“We need justice, we need justice, I am calling on President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu our honourable Governor, Rochas Okorocha, Senator Ararume, we need justice. “ POLL Meanwhile, The Lagos State Police Command in a a press release on Wednesday said it has ordered an immediate full-scale investigation into circumstances surrounding the unfortunate incident. The Command’s spokesperson SP Benjamin Hundeyin said the shooting incident which occurred on Sunday April 24,2022 at La Silver Bar, Egbeda which resulted in the death of two persons and injuries to others. He added that investigation is ongoing, findings so far reveal that the shooting was accidental and involved an off-duty police officer, Inspr Mohammed Hussini, serving at the State Headquarters, Ikeja. Findings equally reveal that the off-duty officer is a friend of the celebrant, Ifeanyi aka Obama and was not at the party in any official capacity. “Efforts are currently being intensified to apprehend the fleeing birthday celebrant while the officer involved is expected to turn himself in anytime soon. “ He further said that the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi has given firm assurances that everyone found culpable in the sad and avoidable incident will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the law.