The level of insecurity in the country is no doubt a major concern to all and sundry, including the stakeholders, and as such calls for collective responsibilities in finding lasting solutions to the menace, this is the take of the former Military Governor of Oyo State, Major General Oladayo Popoola (Rtd). Popoola at the 14th combined special convocation ceremony of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) Ogbomoso was honoured alongside other eminent Nigerians with honorary degrees as recognition of their immense contributions to the development of the society and humanity at large. While speaking with journalists, Popoola urged parents and lecturers to continue training and retraining their children to desist from all forms of anti-social vices that contribute to the insecurity challenges that are currently battling the country. He said, ” I believe every one of us has a problem, I would like to challenge parents, and lecturers because years back we can see that there’s nothing like cultism, internet fraudsters in all these institutions but nowadays we have.” “Those are issues of insecurity and these people are causing problems in society. So we need to retrain our children because most of our children are not looking forward to riding bicycles, they want to live a luxurious life.” Popoola said. When asked how have felt being honoured by the institution, Popoola said, “I feel overwhelmed and happy it happened, I thank God for it. I know how LAUTECH started and I know what we have done so far.” “Our present Governor, Seyi Makinde is doing everything to make sure that this university becomes a very good university and I believe he is laying a good foundation for the future.” He said. In his advice to the military that is fighting the insurgency among other insecurity challenges, the ex-military administrator said, “Military should be more dedicated and take control from those bandits and other criminal elements that are threatening the security of our dear nation.” POLL In his address the visitor to the University, the Executive Governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi Makinde said that the convocation ceremony presented an opportunity to celebrate the good decisions made by the state government under his leadership, stressing that those decisions have brought positive results including the sole ownership of the University, the reduction of school fees by 25 per cent, approval of 13 new degree courses by the National Universities Commission and the recent rankings of LAUTECH by the World Scientist and University Rankings 2022 and National Universities Commission as the best state university in Nigeria and one of the top universities in the country. He also lamented how wrong electoral choices of the past had wasted the time of the teeming students and affected their opportunities. He explained that electoral choices made today will have an effect on the future and also affect the number of years children will spend at the universities. In his address, the acting Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Professor Mojeed Olaide Liasu linked the reasons why the institution has not been able to hold convocation for her graduates since 2016 to the crisis that rocked the University to its foundation before Governor Makinde claimed the sole ownership of the University for the state. In his breakdown analysis of the graduands, Prof. Liasu said a total number of 24,704 graduands were awarded the first degree from various faculty such as the Faculties of Agricultural Sciences, Basic Medical Sciences, Clinical Sciences, Environmental Sciences, Engineering and technology, nursing sciences, management sciences and pure and applied sciences.