After attending Monday, April 4 prayer session at St. Joseph Catholic Cathedral, Ekwulobia in Aguata Local council, Governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo declared that Monday’s Sit-At-Home home has formally come to an end. The special prayer session was held all over the state for the return of peace and tranquillity in Anambra State. The Bishop of Ekwulobia, His Lordship, Most Rev. Ebele Okpalaeke, who led the prayer session in his brief homily charged the people to embrace peace. Bishop Okpalaeke said that nothing can be achieved without peace and harmony in the land and appealed to those who are bent on creating fear and tension in the land to cheat their sword and embrace the olive branch offered by the state government for peace to return to the State. While addressing the congregation, Governor Soludo in his remarks, also appealed to the non-State actors still engaged in all manner of criminalities to lay down their arms and embrace peace. He reiterated that the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) had issued a press release putting an end to the Monday sit-at-home. Governor Soludo further said the people and the state are the major losers anytime the Sit-At-Home order is enforced adding that children are deprived of going to school every Monday and economic activities are also grounded. According to him, the State cannot continue in that manner, stressing that this is the time to take back Anambra State and build it as a home of peace and the light of the nation POLL Soludo also informed the congregation that the State government has put in place measures to rehabilitate and train the youths to be gainfully employed as well as the setting up of a Peace and Reconciliation Commission to reconcile all aggrieved parties He said that with the prayers offered today, the Monday weekly sit-at-home is officially over. He urged the people to come out every Monday to conduct their business while schools and other essential institutions/agencies are required to open for business every Monday as well Soludo was accompanied to the prayer session by the Special Adviser on Security, AVM Ben Chiobi; Hon Eche Ezeibe, (Ijele), TC chairman, Aguata LGA; Hon Chinedu Nwoye (Glamour), Deputy Chief of Staff and State Chief Protocol to the Governor and other government functionaries. Meanwhile, the streets of Anambra were deserted on Monday as the people still obeyed or were afraid to venture out because of the Sit-At-Home.