A 23 year old man, Bankole Mustapha has been arrested and paraded by Oyo State Police Command for stealing items belonging to a recreational facilities in Ibadan metropolis. The suspect according to a press statement by the state Police Public Relations Officer SP. Adewale Osifeso was arrested by the Eagled-eye operatives of the Command attached to Bodija-Housing Divisional Police Headquarters while on intelligence led surveillance activities around Bodija/Sango axis of Ibadan North Local Government Area on Monday 25/04/2022 around 0100hrs. He also noted that the suspect is a serial burglar specialised in stealing from hotels and other recreational facilities. A copy of the statement made available to INDEPENDENT maintained that preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect approached the Hotel’s receptionist during the late hours of Sunday under the guise of being a lodger having devised sinister means of executing his plan of removing valuables from the hotel by demanding a room in proximity with the Hotel’s exit point. Osifeso through the statement further stated that the suspect at about 0100hrs he removed and carted away the 32 Inches Samsung Television in his room and another unbranded 32 Inches flat screen Television at the reception when no one was within sight. “He has since been arrested with the items valued at about N120,000 (One hundred and twenty thousand naira only) and has confessed to committing the crime.” “Efforts are in top gear to crackdown the rest of his criminal network. More updates regarding the investigation would be provided accordingly, please.” “In cases of emergency, the Command can always be reached through these emergency control room numbers: 615 (toll free) (OYO STATE SECURITY TRUST FUND), and Oyo State Police Command emergency lines 07055495413 and 08081768614.” POLL “The NPF rescue me app is also available for free download on both Android and Apple IOS, for Android and I phone users respectively.” The statement concluded.