LAGOS – Governor Yahaya Bel­lo of Kogi State on Friday said that he would not tolerate buck-passing but ensure that Governors take responsibility for security in their states and are held responsible for breach­es when he becomes the Presi­dent of Nigeria in 2023. While noting that President Muhammadu Buhari could not be in every state of the fed­eration ensuring security of lives and property when there are chief executives in place in the states, he, however, said states would be empowered to rise to the challenges. Governor Bello said this while answering questions from journalists at the ongoing 2nd Annual GYB Seminar for Political and Crime Correspon­dents and Editors in Abuja on Friday. He insisted that he would not play politics with the secu­rity challenges in the country because it was as a result of the failure of various administra­tions in the past. He said, “I refused to politi­cise insecurity. Buhari is a man who loves truth and reality. I will let you know that Mr. Pres­ident loves this country. “This insecurity is not a thing of Mr. President even though we shouldn’t pass buck because that is why we came on board. It is a successive failure of various administra­tions. “Let me remind us once again that certain military and police hardware were non-ex­istent or was last purchased in the administration of former President Shehu Shagari. Af­ter the bomb blast incident in Ikeja cantonment, did Nigeri­ans ask whether the arms and ammunition that detonated and killed some people were ever replaced since then? “After the various decays, the foundation was shaky and the President spent a lot of money to buy equipments. The President will not sit in the Vil­la and hold AK-47 to come and secure my schools and roads. POLL “Some of these crimes that we see today is more than what we see on the surface. I will nev­er come out here and point out the flaws. Whatever I observe, in terms of loopholes and laps­es, it is between myself and the President to let him know. “I will never be that gov­ernor who will come out and tell that the President did not secure my schools and roads. That is why as the Chief Se­curity Officer of Kogi, I en­sure that I brought the rate of crime from the zenith down to the floor and the President is assisting me to succeed in that area. “I am sincere about fighting crimes and criminality. If all of us as Chief Executives are do­ing what we are supposed to do, Mr. President’s job would have been easier. “But if I become the Presi­dent, I will ensure that every Chief Executive of the various federating units sit up and do their jobs. I will not tolerate any lackadaisical attitude or pass­ing of buck to the center. I will ensure that various federating units are strengthened. “Majority of some of these crimes are politically motivat­ed, especially the recent ones we are witnessing. However, the issue of security can nev­er be brought out to the public so you would not expose your country to danger.”