Abuja – The Department of State Services (DSS) on Tuesday said that it had uncovered a renewed plan by some criminal gangs to forge alliance among themselves to bomb worship and relaxation centres in the country. In a statement by Peter Afunanya, Public Relations Officer, DSS, the secret police said though there are already reported cases of such incidents in some parts of the country, the “suspected criminal gangs” are also planning to launch attacks on critical infrastructure and other frequented public places, especially during and after the holidays and festive celebrations. According to him, the criminal elements “want to return the country to the pre-2015 era reminiscent of IED attacks on soft and hard targets in parts of the country. “The objective is to achieve some self-serving interests as well as cause fear among the citizenry. The Service, however, recalls its earlier warning that some groups and individuals were plotting to stoke violence in the country. “Following these, patrons, owners and managers of aforementioned public places are advised to be wary of this development and implement basic security measures to deter the threats. “While the Service is committed to the disruption of this trend and pattern of violent attacks, it will continue to partner with other security agencies to ensure that necessary drills are emplaced in order that public peace and order are not jeopardised”, he said. The secret police enjoined residents to go about their lawful businesses and share with security and law enforcement agencies useful information on the activities of criminals. POLL Terrorists Release New Photos Of Abducted Train Passengers Meanwhile, terrorists holding at least 160 passengers of the Abuja-Kaduna train attack have released fresh photographs of their victims. One of the photographs, mostly of women and children, appear to be a desperate move by the terrorists to force the hand of government in meeting their demands. The terrorists have claimed that they were not interested in money, but prisoner exchange of their top commanders in government custody. In the other photo, there were 17 men in two rows. The terrorists seized the passengers who were travelling to Kaduna from Abuja on March 28 after derailing the train with a bomb. At least eight passengers were killed in the incident, while 168 others were kidnapped or declared missing. Ten days after the attack, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Hassan, was released alongside others. Hassan, who was seen in a video released by the bandits, said he was freed on compassionate ground. But a family member of Alwan Hassan claimed they paid N100 million to secure his release. Alwan Hassan regained freedom after spending 10 days in terrorists’ captivity.