LAGOS – Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has accused the Chief Medical Directors (CMDs) of health institutions of mismanaging the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) Scheme, urging the Federal Government to urgently intervene and save the DRF Scheme from collapse. Raising alarm over the ailing state of DRF Scheme, PSN appealed to the Federal Government to make do its promise to urgently summon CMDs for a parley with the HODs of Pharmacy of FHIs on the way forward for scheme. Specifically, the society further raised alarm over the state of DRF Scheme in health institutions, alleging that the scheme at the National Orthopaedic Hospital (NOH), Igbobi, Lagos was now in shambles. In a letter signed by Prof Cyril Usifoh, PSN President,  tagged: “Rescuing the DRF Scheme in Federal Health Institutions (FHIs)” and made available to Daily Independent, the society urged the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH)  to probe the scheme at the hospital, alleging that the scheme was currently being manipulated. “We demand that the probe of the mismanagement of the DRF at NOH, Igbobi must proceed immediately as planned without compromise to avoid invocation of other options outside the realm of the FMoH. “We also strongly call on the FMoH to summon the round-table discussion on DRF which will include the CMDs/MDs, and the HODs of Pharmacy of all the FHIs as earlier promised by the FMoH.” The DRF was an integral part of the old decree 43 of 1989 which gave birth to the concept of the use of Essential Drugs in Public Hospitals in Nigeria. This law is entrenched in our statute books as Cap 252 LFN 2004 in its most current form. We put on record that a preponderance of the CMDs and MDs have truncated the DRF scheme albeit for pecuniary interests in most of the 56 FHIs because the FMOH has been largely complicit in the modus operandi of this scheme which is also largely reflected on in the National Drug Policy 2005 document of the FMoH, WHO and other partners. POLL However, PSN lamented that the National Orthopaedic Hospital Igbobi, where the system was initially running perfectly and raised additional capital to build a house of about 200 million has nosedived. The statement further reads, “A particularly tragic scenario is the obvious stinking state of affairs at the National Orthopaedic Hospital Igbobi, where the DRF scheme was the benchmark because it was the most successful nationwide. “The DRF scheme at NOH, Igbobi was so strong that the Pharmacy Department built a three-storey office complex worth hundreds of millions of naira from the proceeds of its DRF without the building cost affecting the fortunes of the DRF. “Today the DRF scheme at Igbobi is now in shambles as the MD of the Hospital has manipulated the scheme to effectively handle procurement of drugs personally in the hospital. “This led to petitions by the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) to FMoH at different times until the FMoH directed a probe of the DRF at NOH, Igbobi, in August 2021. “That probe of the DRF which is yet to be effected has only encouraged the MD of the NOH, Igbobi to accelerate to the next phase of the agenda to completely annihilate the DRF at NOH, Igbobi by plotting to impose personal acolytes who can be subsumed to his whims and caprices to emerge as the Director/HOD of the Pharmacy Department in the hospital. “Our on-the-spot checks and routine surveillance suggests and confirms authoritatively that the MD, NOH has taken over the procurement of drugs in the hospital contrary to NDP 2005 and extant Pharmacy and Drug laws. “The inaction/action on the DRF Scheme by the FMoH has also encouraged further perversion of different procurement models in the FHIs. “Today, the CMDs and MDs are emboldened to scheme out HODs in Pharmacy who do not submit to their absolute control and then go on to use their subordinates as well as other proxies to take over procurement of drugs in the FHIs all for their own pecuniary gains and interest. “The situation in the Pharmacy Department in FHIs have become so difficult that Pharmacists who work in these facilities can no longer justify the essence of their professionalism which is tragic.” Usifoh further intimated that PSN was open to further discussion on the sponsorship modalities of the round-table arrangement if the FMoH is constrained by a paucity of funds. He expressed optimism that the Minister of Health that the FMoH would appraise the concerns of PSN members. Recall that PSN had recently raised an alarm over what it described as “gross mismanagement: of the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) by most institutions especially the tertiary health institutions, disclosing that debts owed by Teaching Hospitals to pharmaceutical companies has grown to N30 billion  at the last count. In a press conference, Pharm. Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, the immediate past President of the PSN, allegedly alerted that the N30 billion DRF owed the pharmaceutical industry by federal and state agencies, teaching hospitals, Federal Medical Centres parastatals, among other institutions, are over two to three years overdue. Ohuabunwa said the huge debt has further frustrated their operations and left the pharmacy shelves empty. To ensure the availability of drugs in health institutions, the PSN is proposing a bill to institutionalise and regulate DRF, the former PSN President said. He claimed that the DRF was one of the fallouts of the Bamako Initiative, towards better health of the people through the Primary health care model. His words, “The Drug Revolving fund ( DRF ) is one of the fallouts of the Bamako Initiative, towards better health of the people through the Primary health care model. “DRF is programmed to provide quality and affordable medicines through a fund set aside to procure medicines and dispense same to patients at a minimal cost. “Unfortunately, this has been grossly mismanaged by most institutions especially the tertiary health institutions, where pharmaceutical companies are owed huge sums of monies that have further encumbered their operations and left the pharmacy shelves empty. “We know that these debtor institutions receive regular subventions from the government, and they have sold the items to patients for cash. “We could not understand why they are using the government space and reputation to incur debts and embarrass the nation as a difficult place to invest in and do business. “In some hospitals, they have diverted the money to other things and so the money is no longer available and they are owing pharmaceutical companies about N30 billion the last time we check because the drug revolving fund is no longer revolving,” Ohubuanwa noted. He called for a bill to institutionalise and regulate DRF to ensure availability of Drugs in Health institutions. “To ensure availability of Drugs in Health institutions, the PSN is proposing a bill to institutionalise and regulate DRF,” the immediate past President advocated.