Mohamed Salah would damage his Liverpool legacy if he were to leave the club in the summer transfer window, according to Jamie Carragher. Salah is currently under contract with Liverpool until June 2023 and his long-term future on Merseyside has been the subject of intense speculation all season, with Barcelona and Real Madrid both interested in his services. The Egypt international and his representatives have been locked in negotiations with Liverpool for many months over extending his deal. The 29-year-old, who has scored 28 goals in 38 games so far this season, has previously rejected new terms which would have seen him earning £400,000 a week. However, as the Mirror exclusively revealed, he has now had a change of mind and intends to put pen to paper on a fresh contract. Having initially demanded close to £500,000 per week, Salah is now ready to compromise and commit his future to the club he has played for since a transfer from Roma in June 2017. Former Liverpool defender Carragher believes that is the best course of action for Salah, who would risk becoming another Fernando Torres if he left this summer. “I still think Mo Salah will sign a new contract,” Carragher said on Sky Sports. “Liverpool is the best place for him, he became a superstar at Liverpool and Jurgen Klopp brings out the best in him. It wouldn’t be a sensible move for him to leave. “The football he’s playing now, he’s playing for one of the best managers in the world, one of the best teams in the world, what he’s done over the last five years makes him one of the best players to ever wear a Liverpool shirt. “I just think it would be sad if he were to move on, maybe to a rival in this country, he’d lose his legacy at Liverpool. You look at what happened to Fernando Torres going to Chelsea, and I just don’t think it would be great for his career. Where could he go that’s better than Liverpool right now?” Salah has established himself as one of the best players in the world during his five years at Liverpool. He has contributed 153 goals and 57 assists in 241 appearances across all competitions, helping to win the Premier League, Champions League, Carabao Cup, Super Cup and World Club Cup. POLL While there has been much confusion over his contractual situation, Salah has not let it affect him on the pitch this season. He is enjoying one of his most productive campaigns in a red shirt and will hope to make the difference for Jurgen Klopp’s side in their crucial trip to Manchester City on Sunday afternoon. Liverpool travel to the Etihad Stadium on the back of 10 successive Premier League wins, but still one point adrift of the defending champions.