The National Executive Council of the Urhobo Progress Union has endorsed the candidature of Chief David Edevbie as Consensus Candidate of the PDP for the 2023 PDP primaries The group also drop Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevbori and Chief Kenneth Gbagi who were earlier shortlisted by the DC-23, a political pressure group that screened all the aspirants from the Urhobo nation. In a statement signed by the UPU President General, Olorogun Moses Taiga, Chief Capt Anthony Onoharhigho, First Deputy President General; Chief Godwin Notoma, President General of Urhobo Kingdoms PGs, Dame Christy Siakpere, UPU Women Leaders and Comrade Ovie Ebireri, UPU Youths President on Sunday. The UPU disclosed that after a thorough evaluation of all the aspirants on the UPU platform from the Urhobo nation, the apex Urhobo leadership organ has found Chief David Edevbie to be the best and most competent to be the flagbearer of the PDP in the 2023 general election. The UPU stated that it has noticed the current political atmosphere in the State and the seeming undercurrent moves to deliberately undermine the interest of the Urhobo people in the 2023 Governorship elections and that the body is obligated to “at all times and in all circumstances, to defend, protect and promote the interest of the Urhobo Nation and her people. “That the UPU is unequivocally committed to the emergence of an Urhobo as Governor of Delta State in 2023.UPU has absolute faith in the rotation of the Governorship position among the three Senatorial Districts of the State, which, of course, has gone round, having started with Central in 1999 and rounding up now with the North. “This rotational policy has brought about peace, mutual respect among the diverse ethnic groups and transquility to the State in the last 22 years, paving way for the growth and development, that have been witnessed so far in the State. “The policy must, therefore, be encouraged and sustained by all the ethnic nationalities in the State to guarantee the prevailing peace, and prevent the unnecessary rancour, acrimony and violence often associated with campaigns and elections. POLL “To present a united front in the forthcoming primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the UPU had a brain-storming session with each of the Urhobo aspirants. “All the aspirants who presented themselves before the UPU in the four-day interactive session, performed brilliantly. We hereby acknowledge that they are all eminently qualified and suitable for the job, and each has what it takes to occupy the office of the Governor. “We wish to recall admonishing each of the aspirants in the cause of our meeting with them that, “the UPU will, in conjunction with all stakeholders, ensure that the Urhobo Nation produces the Governor in 2023. “We shall be firm on this and do whatever it takes, for an Urhobo man to occupy Osadebey House, Asaba, in 2023. Be also assured that we shall be fair and just to all the aspirants because we know that you all are eminently qualified for the office. It is just that only one person can go per time. “After thoroughly examining and analysing all the aspirants, we have, however, reached a consensus that Olorogun David Edevbie, is the best person for the job at this time. Over time, he has acquired impressive public sector experience, both locally in Delta State and Federal Government, and prior outstanding international development finance experience. “We hereby plead with all our sons, and prevail on them all to support and collaborate with *the consensus choice of UPU Worldwide, for the collective interest of our dear Urhobo Nation. We ask for their understanding at this critical and trying time in the history of the Urhobo Nation. “The UPU will also interact with all Urhobo aspirants in the All Progressive Congress (APC); Social Democratic Party (SDP); Labour Party (LP) or any of the other parties, with a view to fielding the most suitable for the primaries in those parties. “We want to appeal to our Governor, His Excellency, Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, to forgive Olorogun David Edevbie for any perceived transgression. To forgive is divine. No individual is perfect”. The statement said. The UPU also pleaded with governor Ifeanyi Okowa to “kindly allow the Urhobo Nation to choose the candidate of their preference, please. “We can assure Your Excellency, that if considered necessary, we, as Urhobos, will act as sureties of Olorogun David Edevbie while in the office, if by the grace of God, he wins the Governorship general elections in 2023.” UPU added.