ENGIE Energy Access has inaugurated its hybrid 90kW mini-grid to connect unelectrified households and Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) in Nigeria. With the mini-grid, ENGIE Energy Access connects the people of Gbangba Community in Niger State to an electric power supply for the first time ever and empowers over 300 customers, comprising households, and MSEs. The company on Tuesday said that the mini-grid directly impacts over 1,500 people by providing them with affordable, reliable and clean electricity. The mini-grid was inaugurated by Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, the Governor of Niger State, Mrs Emmanuelle Blatmann, the Ambassador of France to Nigeria, and dignitaries from the Nigerian Government, power sector, traditional institutions, youth and the local community. Speaking at the launch, Bankole Cardoso, the Managing Director of ENGIE Energy Access Nigeria said that Nigeria’s electricity challenge remained a huge gap that needed to be filled in the country’s journey to fulfil its full potential as a nation. Cardoso said that the power challenge in Nigeria required the support of the private sector, and the construction of the Gbangba mini-grid demonstrates how private investment could help to address the infrastructure gap in the energy industry. He added, “This mini-grid will foster socio-economic development and prosperity in the Gbangba community, its people and its neighbours. It will serve private households and commercial businesses – provision shops, grocery sellers, bakeries, mobile phone chargers etc. “It will boost the productivity of farmers and food production by powering agricultural loads such as irrigation pumping and cold storage, productive loads such as grind mills and wood or metalworking shops, and semi-industrials such as telecom towers and processing plants.” POLL Gillian-Alexandre Huart, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), ENGIE Energy Access, said that the mini-grid was not only a win for Gbanga Community, but also for Nigeria at large. According to him, this demonstrated ENGIE Energy Access’s strong commitment to meeting the growing decentralised energy needs with an ambition to build 100+ mini-grids throughout the country. “The launch of our first mini-grid in Nigeria means that we have now installed mini-grids in five African countries, with other ENGIE Energy Access mini-grid sites in Benin, Uganda, Tanzania and Zambia. Our plan is to further expand our mini-grid business on the continent over the coming months and years – adding other countries to our footprint. “The launch of the Gbangba mini-grid is a further demonstration of ENGIE Energy Access’s commitment to improving the quality of life and economic potential of people in rural communities, by increasing their capacity for productivity,” he said.