ABUJA – Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Bankole Wellington otherwise known as Banky W has urged the Nigerian youths to move from protest to power. He has also charged them to leave the sideline and use politics to change the narrative and negative situations in the country. The musical icon, who was at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to submit his expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for the House of Representatives in Etiosa federal constituency of Lagos state, said that the greatest impact one can have is when he engages with the political system and try to participate and uses the powers of that office for the benefit of the community. Speaking about how the young people can change the situation in the country, Wellington said, “I believe that the greatest impact that we can have is when we engage with our political system, and try to participate in a political system and try to use the powers of that office for the benefit of the community. “At the end of the day, if all we do is shout from the sidelines, then we’ll never actually change anything, we’ll never have any impact. But if impact is truly the goal, if making a difference in Nigeria is truly the goal, then we must engage with Nigeria. And that’s been my message to young people to say, listen, we can sit and complain and shout from now till thy Kingdom come or we can join a mainstream platform that gives us a chance to play a part in the rebuilding and the rescue of our nation. “And I believe that the PDP is welcoming us with open arms and open doors. And it’s an opportunity for us to join hands together and rebuild and rescue Nigeria.” Noting that part of Nigeria’s problem is because politics has been left in the hands of politicians for too long, Banky W added that some of them have not actually built a business before. Banky W, who was optimistic that he will win the coming election, explained that what the EndSars protect represents was speaking up against oppression. POLL “My message to them now is that the truth of the matter is we cannot protest about every problem that Nigeria has, they are too many. If you play a Fella song today, the song that he wrote in the 70s, it might sound like he wrote it last week, because the things, the issues are the same, if not worse. “So when you think about protests, protests are necessary and I’ve been a part of many protests in Nigeria. But at the end of the day, we can’t protest about every problem. There are too many problems. It’s not sustainable. We can’t protest forever. So we have to move from protest to power.”