OSOGBO – Top government officials in Osun and the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday evening organised a reception for the newly elected National Secretary of the party, Senator Christopher Iyiola Omisore. The venue of the reception took place at the Nelson Mandela Freedom Park in Osogbo. It would be recalled since his emergence as a member of the National Working Committee of the party and National Secretary, Senator Omisore has not visited the state. He has been away in Federal Capital Territory, Abuja taking up the new responsibility and assignment entrusted in his hands. Omisore, a former Deputy Governor of the state was elected National Secretary of APC on March 25th 2022 at the National Convention of the party held at Eagles Square in Abuja. Speaking at the occasion, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola expressed happiness at the emergence of Omisore saying his election has made the state and the entire southwest have a big stake in the ruling party, APC. Oyetola who was accompanied by his wife, Alhaja Kafayat and other top government functionaries in the state said that his appointment into the National Caretaker Committee of the party gave the state and southwest a big stake in the party. According to him,” when I was a member of the National Caretaker Committee of the party, some politicians in the state were afraid of my person. Now that Iyiola Omisore emerged as party National Secretary, some of them threatened that they will rather abandon politics. POLL “Omisore is not just in charge of the Secretariat of the party but he is also a member of the National Working Committee of the party. He explained that this is the first time a politician from Osun will be getting such responsibility apart from just being given party Ex-Official. “Osun and Southwest now have a big stake in the party. I now urge you all to start the task of my re-election in earnest, let us work toward getting 450,000 votes to win the governorship landslide”, he said. In his appreciation speech, the former Deputy Governor of the State and now National Secretary of APC, Senator Iyiola Omisore said his emergence as the National Secretary of All Progressives Congress portends greatness and victory for Osun. “You know that Osun is APC State so we are overwhelmed by this privileged to serve as the national secretary of APC. “I admonished every member of APC and citizen of Osun State to appreciate the party for the privileged given to me by voting massively for Governor Oyetola in July 2022. “APC is united in Osun and we will do all our best to sustain this, he said.