. Anambra To Establish Truth, Reconciliation Commission AWKA  – Igbo Intelligentsia comprising top government officials, traditional rulers, the clergy and intellectuals on Saturday after a meeting called by the Anambra State governor, Chukwuma Charles Soludo at Government House Awka jointly declared Monday, April 4 as a Day of Peace for Alaigbo. The group said in a communique that such prayers were to be held in Churches and prayer Houses after which the harmful Monday Sit-At-Home will come to an end. The meeting also said the Anambra State Government will set up a Peace and Reconciliation Commission and called on all the injured, aggrieved and victims of the insecurity in Alaigbo over the past three years to step forward and cooperate with the commission to prove their grievances there. According to the communique, the Anambra State Government will in the next week conduct an inquiry into the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, documentation and examination of the circumstances surrounding the killings in the Southeast, and recommendations on the road to sustainable solutions. It called “on all criminal elements masquerading as working under the instruction of IPOB or ESN to cease and desist from further acts of violence and criminality or face the implacable force of law and order”. In that vein, all who may have taken up arms in the belief that their grievances could be achieved only through armed struggle should lay down their arms as the government and good people of Anambra hereby offered the olive branch for all to return. The Anambra State government pledged to undertake to train, rehabilitate and empower all such people to contribute to our homeland’s development, among other things.  The communique detailing the outcome of the meeting was signed by H.M. Obi Nnaemeka Achebe,Chairman, Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council, His Grace, Most Rev. Valerian Okeke, Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Onitsha, and Metropolitan of Onitsha Ecclesiastical Province, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, Secretary to the State Government.  Other signatories were: H.M. Igwe Laurence Agubuzu, Chairman, Ebonyi State Trad. Rulers Council​.His Grace, Most Rev. (Dr) Chibuzo R. Opoko, JP Secretary, Representatives of Archbishops and Bishops.