BENIN – A Peoples Democratic Party PDP House of Representatives aspirant for Esan North East/ Esan South East Federal Constituency, Prince Lewis Osobase has promised to find lasting solution to the problem of portable water in Esan Land if elected. Osobase, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Wosina Global Resources Limitedwho made the promise at the state Secretariat of the PDP while fielding questions from Journalists after emerging from the screening section of the party said his burning desire to serve the people of Agbazilo has compelled him to make himself available for the election. According to him, “if elected which I know it will come to pass by the grace of God, my first assignment is to ensure that the protracted water problem that has lingered for a very long time will be tackled in collaboration with Federal agency responsible for water. “I am not trying to indict those who have been there as our representatives but my aim is to go there and make the difference by making sure that those things that are very dear to the people are tackled with all seriousness”. Osobase who is the Managing ,Director of Osemhan Farm, a subsidiary of Wosina Global Resources Limited, recalled that the water reservoir still lying fallow at Ewohimi till today was constructed during the first republic when the Onojie of Ewohimi, HRH Enosogbe 11 and the then Iyase of Ewatto represented the Constituency. “My first Constituency project will be the overhauling of all the water reservoirs in Esan South East and Esan North East as a peanacea to the water problem in entire constituency” Osabase said. He also promised to give effective and qualitative representation to his constituency even as he added that youths in the area would be empowered to be self reliance. Born on August 1, 1971 in Kaduna State, to Prince Williams Osobase, a trained military pharmacist and Madam Lucy Osobase, a business woman, Osobase hails from Ewohimi in Esan South Local Government Area of Edo State. He attended Eguare Primary School, Ewohimi and he later proceeded to Pilgrim Baptist Grammar School, Ewohimi, for his secondary education. POLL He proceeded to Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State, where he earned a Bachelor degree in Accounting and MBA from the University of Benin, UNIBEN..