LAGOS – After several months of intrigues and horse-trading, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) finally held its much talked about national convention on Saturday, March 26, 2022, at the Eagles Square in Abuja. At the end of the exercise on Sunday morning, the party reached a consensus virtually on all the 78 positions with former Nasarawa State governor, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, endorsed by stakeholders, especially state governors, for the position of National Chairman while Senator Iyiola Omisore was endorsed as National Secretary. And now that the convention is over, the ruling party must spearhead the electoral process leading to the 2023 polls and fulfil the general expectations of Nigerians for a refreshing political season devoid of the shenanigans of the past. How It Resolved The Issues The party was able to reach a consensus because many candidates opted to step down in deference to President Buhari who had insisted on the choice of Adamu as the national chairman. Other new officials of the party were Senator Abubakar Kyari (Borno State) who was endorsed as Deputy National Chairman, North; Chief Emma Eneukwu (Enugu State) as Deputy National Chairman, South, and Barr. Festus Fuanter (Plateau) as Deputy National Secretary. For National Vice Chairmen, those endorsed were Muazu Rijau (Niger) for North Central; Mustapha Salihu (Adamawa) for North East; Salihu Moh. Lukman (Kaduna), North West; Dr Ijeoma Arodiogwu (Imo), South-East; Chief Victor Giadom, Rivers, South-South; and David Isaac Kekemeke, Ondo, South West. Others are Ahmed El-Marzuk from Katsina as National Legal Adviser; Uguru Ofoke from Ebonyi as National Treasurer; Bashir Gimel from Jigawa as National Financial Secretary, Sulaiman Argungu from Kebbi as National Organizing Secretary, and FN Nwosu from Abia as National Welfare Secretary. Felix Morka from Delta was endorsed as National Publicity Secretary; Senator Abubakar Maikafi from Bauchi as National Auditor; Dr Beta Edu from Cross River as National Women Leader; and Dayo Israel from Lagos State as National Youth Leader among others. The convention was characterised by high wire politics as Senator Ken Nnamani, who was initially touted to emerge as Deputy National Chairman, South, suddenly dropped out of the ‘Unity List’. POLL Also, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, who ran for the position of Deputy National Chairman (North), also pulled out of the race. Before last Saturday, the convention was the dominant topic in both the social and conventional media spaces, as there were initial doubts on whether the event would hold at all following two failed attempts by the Caretaker Extra-ordinary Convent Planning Committee (CECPC) led by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni. The internal wranglings in the party became apparent after the last postponement and many people had predicted that the party was heading for doom. Just a few weeks to the convention, the party ran into a crisis that almost put the convention on hold. However, President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention helped to douse the tensions as his consultations with the governors and other critical stakeholders yielded a positive result. The removal of the Adams Oshiomhole led NWC by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the APC, gave birth to the appointment of the Buni led CCEPC, which was asked to midwife the process that will produce a national convention within six months. Not only did the committee fail to deliver the said mandate, but it was also accused of being afflicted by a sit-tight syndrome. In addition, its legitimacy was challenged by several members of the party, including Festus Keyamo, an appointee of President Buhari who is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). Issues Yet Unresolved The emergence Buni’s CECPC put the party in the firm grip of the governors. The Committee was instantly faced with the execution of two governorship off-season elections in Edo and Ondo States. The party lost Edo but was able to hold on to the latter. The legality of Buni’s dual role as state governor and party head became contentious, particularly after the split decision of the Supreme Court on the Rotimi Akeredolu versus Eyitayo Jegede case after the Ondo State governorship election. Four out of the seven-member panel had dismissed Jegede’s appeal. Keyamo, while dissecting the judgment, explained that if Jegede had joined Buni in the suit, the APC would have lost the state, just as he warned Buni not to oversee the planned congresses of the party. Aside from Keyamo, the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Babafemi Ojudu, and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Ita Enang, also challenged the legality of Buni’s role in the party. Like in Ondo, APC lost Bayelsa State to PDP after the intervention of the court, which sacked the governor-elect, David Lyon, and his deputy. The party was also defeated in Anambra State. Within this period, Buni also went on an expansion drive, poaching three governors from the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ben Ayade of Cross River State, Bello Matawella of Zamfara State and David Umahi of Ebonyi State all swapped the umbrella for the broom. However, the Federal High Court in Abuja sacked Umahi over his defection, while another court sacked 20 members of the Cross River State House of Assembly for dumping the PDP for the APC. The states’ congresses further exposed the division in the party. Parallel congresses were held in several states, including Ogun, Delta, Kwara, Osun, Zamfara, Cross River and Kano. In some of these states, there were two or more state executives. Most of the crises in these states have resulted in court cases. In Zamfara State, the decamping of Matawalle further polarised the party to an extent that the former governor, Abdulaziz Yari, and Kabir Marafa almost unified to fight the new governor. The crisis was messy as Buni and Marafa engaged in media tirades, after the latter called the CECPC an illegal contraption, thereby prompting the caretaker committee to issue a warning of disciplinary action against Marafa. Recently, when Governor Sani Bello of Niger State swore the state chairmen in, it was obvious that several bigwigs of the party had lost out to their governors. In Kwara State, the faction loyal to the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had lost out to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRasaq, while Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, who was in bitter rivalry with his successor, Gboyega Oyetola, also found himself holding the short end of the stick. A similar situation happened in Ogun State between the immediate former governor, Ibikunle Amosun and his successor, Dapo Abiodun. Aside from the congresses, the Buni-led CECPC struggled to get the membership registration and validation exercise going. The process caused crises in Kwara and Imo, while it was suspended in Delta State. More so, several leaders of the party, including its national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Oshiomhole and others, criticised the exercise for one reason or another. Need To Pacify Aggrieved Aspirants It is interesting to know that at the Convention ground, while the aspirants were taking to the podium to announce their withdrawal from the race – albeit apparently reluctantly – most of their supporters behind the stage, kicked against the murky horse-trading their aspirants were forced into. Some of the supporters of the aspirants who stepped down for the party’s consensus nominees, expressed disappointment with the way their candidates were treated. “Allow the aspirants to test their popularity. How can someone join a party a year ago and be adopted as a consensus candidate but another person who has been there for years is not considered. It’s undemocratic,” a supporter of one of the aspirants said. There were complaints by some members of the party that many of those who stepped down were founding members of the APC and that denying them the chance to test their popularity was unjustifiable. It was learnt that some of the NWC hopefuls laughed off the “consensus arrangement” while some only knew the party had settled on consensus candidates a few minutes before the convention began. When Dada Olusegun, who wanted to contest the position of national youth leader, mounted the podium to announce his withdrawal from the race, his livid supporters could be heard asking him not to. But, in the end, Olusegun after several persuasions, loosened his hold and conceded to the whims of the party. While delivering his concession message, an emotional Olusegun burst into tears as his voice cracked all through the short speech. Also, Adebayo Shittu, former minister of communications, who later withdrew for Omisore, the consensus candidate for the position of national secretary, said at the convention that he was not part of the truce that led to the adoption of the singular candidate for the position. Shittu, who had initially refused to drop out of the race for the anointed candidate, Omisore, said he felt disrespected partly by the whole consensus arrangement and generally the manner he had been treated by the party. When accompanied to the podium by the former governor of Ogun State, Segun Osoba, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele and some other party bigwigs, Shittu announced his concession but had enough time to throw a little shade at the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “My grievance was the fact that under the used term consensus – the position I wanted, which I aspired to – was given to some other person on a platter of gold. “And I said as a lawyer of 42 years, I’m intelligent enough to know that consensus means conceding to somebody. But you cannot concede on behalf of somebody, particularly when you don’t have my instruction. So, I was not part of the consensus.” Osoba, on behalf of the whole South-West, earlier apologised to Shittu on the stage over how he had been treated in the party. So the former Minister thanked the elder statesman for his courage, adding that he (Osoba) is the first “Asiwaju” that he knows. This is believed to be a reference to Tinubu who is not on good political terms with Shittu. While many of the aspirants who stepped down from the race said they will continue to support the party, the issue of how the party treats loyal members lurks and may be a crisis in the offing. Daunting Tasks Ahead For many analysts, the first major duty of the newly-inaugurated NWC members should be to quickly reconcile the aggrieved members. Tinubu, who also is aware of the fact that the new NWC has a lot to do, told the newly elected APC National Chairman and others that there is much work to be done to reposition the party. Tinubu, who congratulated Adamu and other elected executives, said the task of the new APC leadership was to uphold the spirit of unity and allegiance to a shared vision for the party which saw them emerge as consensus candidates. Tinubu, in a statement issued on Sunday, urged them to work hard to sustain the party’s founding ideals and to perform diligently in their new offices that all members of the APC might ascend to ever greater height. The statement read: “Yesterday, I was pleased to attend the National Convention of our dear party, the All Progressives Congress. I congratulate the CECPC, the membership of the convention planning sub-committees and all others involved in planning and executing the event. “It was indeed a massive success and showcased our great party’s abiding strength ahead of the upcoming elections. I also congratulate all newly elected members of our new National Working Committee, led by Sen. Abdullahi Adamu. “Be proud of your appointments but be, also, ready to work for you have much work to do. Your task now is to uphold the spirit of unity and allegiance to a shared vision for our party which saw you emerge as consensus candidates. I urge you all to work hard to sustain our party’s founding ideals and to perform diligently in your new offices so that all members of the APC might ascend to ever greater heights. “I must also commend, with admiration, those who graciously agreed to step down their personal ambitions for the greater good of the party. Your courage and loyalty to the party will not be forgotten. “Let us all, now, direct our focus on rallying behind our new NWC and move our party, the APC, towards a bright future, not just for our members but for all Nigerians as we continue to lead our nation, Nigeria, onwards to its manifest destiny.” Toying Buhari’s Step The Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, in his own message to the new NWC, appealed to the Adamu-led NWC to follow the roadmap of President Buhari. Okechukwu while addressing journalists on Sunday, at the Eagle Square Abuja, congratulated Adamu and members of the new NWC, enjoining the new APC leadership to diligently follow Buhari’s roadmap while conducting the forthcoming primaries of the party. He opined that the key items in the roadmap of the President- adherence to the doctrine of internal democracy and equal opportunities, would ensure that the forthcoming party primaries were not hijacked by highest bidders. He admitted that money bags were seemingly unavoidable in Nigeria’s body politics, but acknowledged the possibility of conducting free, fair and transparent party primaries in the country. He said: “My confidence is predicated on the premise that Distinguished Senator Adamu and his team will follow Mr President’s roadmap because he (Adamu) headed the reconciliation committee and some members like the National Organising Secretary are with him. Therefore, with the report, it will be easier for NWC to navigate.” “For me the NWC should first address the recommendations of the Reconciliation Committee Report so as to engender trust and guarantee genuine peace instead of peace of the grave yard in many states before embarking on the primaries.” Okechukwu faulted claims that there was no time to waste on reconciliation, describing it as indispensable to the actualisation of Mr. President’s roadmap. “All the NWC needs to do is to set up many primary electoral panels, minimum of three per state for State House of Assembly, Senate and Federal House of Representatives, Gubernatorial and Presidential. “There should be as many as possible for lumping up which will slow down the process and create room for the money bags to hijack the process,” he said. The Biggest Challenge After electing all the members of its NWC through consensus, all eyes are on the APC regarding how it handles the process leading to the emergence of a presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections. Analysts and stakeholders believe that the party will surely pick its presidential flag bearer from the South and many have said that the party may also use the consensus method to pick the flag bearer. Sources said since consensus worked for the party in affirming its officials at the just concluded convention, the method would likely be adopted to elect the party’s presidential candidate in May this year. There are also claims that a powerful clique within the presidency, which sold the candidacy of Adamu to President Buhari, has, on its template, a Northern Muslim chairman and a Southern Christian presidential candidate. Therefore, a very major assignment awaiting the new NWC is how the presidential candidate will emerge without crisis. Already, loyalists of a popular aspirant are said to be frowning at the move to elect the presidential flag bearer through a consensus. They are asking that the party allow every aspirant to test their popularity at an open primary. Also, one of the national chairmanship aspirants, Sunny Sylvester Moniediafe, who later stepped down to contest for Deputy National Chairman (North), warned the party not to consider consensus arrangement for the presidential primary. Addressing a press conference Tuesday in Abuja, Moniedafe who was forced to step down for the elected Senator Abubakar Kyari, said the idea of consensus, even if in the APC constitution, appears undemocratic in practical terms. “I will advise him (Adamu) to focus on the task of reconciling aggrieved members. I was only called at about 3pm on Saturday out of Eagle Square to go to the Senate President’s house. It shouldn’t be so. “I will appeal to the chairman to build a reward system and ensure that party members get their deserved dues. “I know that many of our people may want to decamp. Please, don’t go anywhere. It is the same everywhere even in the NNPP that some people want to revive now. Please, remain in APC. “This issue of consensus is really not the right thing. It is undemocratic. I will keep the leadership on its toes to ensure that it fulfils its promises to Nigerians and party members. I will totally work against the use of consensus for Presidential primaries. “One of the promises is to put me in the primaries committee. If I am there, I will insist on due process. I will totally work against consensus at the presidential primary election. No compromise. No consensus. Let us all go and contest. Let the people vote and decide. “With 41 million registered members, we should be able to make the party independent. If we can convince them to contribute N100 monthly, that will run into billions in a year and the party won’t have to depend on governors for funding,” he stated. How the ruling party manages its new found fortunes and the outcome will become clear in a matter of weeks.