President Muhammadu Buhari has been advised to respect the dignity of the authorities of the anti-graft agencies by allowing them to carry out the war against corruption without any form of political interference. The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike who gave the advised said that the presidential pardon for persons prosecuted on corruption charges by the Federal Government only suggests that there is no need to have anti-corruption agencies in the country. Governor Wike wondered how to explain the embarrassment that the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) are made to suffer by that action because it has made them to be irrelevant. The governor made the statement while speaking to delegates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State as part of his ongoing consultation ahead of the 28th and 29th Presidential primary. “This is the same government that complained against the judiciary that it is not fighting against corruption. Now, look at what the judges have passed through; sleepless night from the FCT High Court to the Court of Appeal to Supreme Court, everything is wasted. “If President Muhammadu Buhari knows that he doesn’t want to fight corruption, then, he should disband EFCC and ICPC because he has thoroughly embarrassed them. “So, all these things he (Buhari) is doing is because of election coming soon. They want this person in Plateau State to help them and they want this person in Taraba State to help them. But it will not work because Wike will face them in that election.” Governor Wike dismissed the defence  put up by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari, Malam Garba Shehu on why the pardon should not be faulted. POLL The Rivers State Governor said it should be a thing to worry about because the same people who said they are fighting corruption are going through the back and releasing the same people that they said are corrupt. “So, when his press man (Garba Shehu) said I was invited to the Council of State, is it because I’m not there, that is why they did what they did? If you wanted me to contribute, you would have sent me the agenda. Then, I would have known what I’m coming to do in the meeting. “It’s not when you don’t send me agenda, I come, then you boxed us in, ambushed us, then you said I attended the meeting where they approved it. I will not attend such meeting.” Governor Wike also explained that, “When they said my deputy attended and when they looked back they could not see my deputy again. Why would you see her? “When she had seen what was there, she had to switch off because she knew it was a wayo (sic). That is what this APC government is known for.” The governor told the delegates that it was time for Nigerians to brace up to correct the mistake that brought the All Progressives Congress (APC) government to power. Governor Wike said he was offering himself as the most competent aspirant seeking their votes at the presidential primaries to fly the flag of the PDP. He noted that it will require a man like him to end the sight of insecurity and poverty that are seen everywhere in Nigeria. Kano State Chairman of the PDP, Shehu Wada Sagagi, assured Governor Wike of the delegates support because they believe that the next presidential flag bearer of the party must come from the southerner part of the country. “We know as a matter of principle, and all of us here agree that presidency should move to the South. That is a fair deal, because when in 2019 the presidency was zoned to the north, no any southern aspirant emerge to say that he will contest, unlike what is happening now. But I am sure with the way you are going, you will defeat all those evil forces that are planning evil against you.” Savage said Kano delegates will not be swayed by ethnoreligious sentiment. He declared that they will support Governor Wike.