LAGOS – Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor has said he has approved the construction of an academic block to the Lagos State Cooperative College, (LASCOCO) Oko-Oba, Agege, to boost the academic performance of the Monotechnic. He made this known while speaking at the maiden convocation ceremony of LASCOCO held at the Johnson Agiri-Agriculture Complex, Okooba, Lagos. Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Lola Akande, Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperative, said the government was mindful of the key role that education plays in bridging societal gaps, personal growth and wealth creation. “Education is a key pillar of our development agenda, a fact that has necessitated our massive investment in critical education infrastructure and also propels our formulation of policies that will engender human capital development and others. “With my recent approval of the construction of an additional academic block which would accommodate four standard lecture halls, a studio, a consumer shop, a standard library, conveniences and 11 offices for both academic and non-academic staff. “The Lagos State government no doubt is poised to become a global model in the provision of sound cooperative education. The governor also assured LASCOCO of his administration’s commitment to providing the much-needed support required by the College to function optimally in turning out professionals needed in the sub-sector of the economy. “We have thus established this college out of the need to complement efforts towards the creation of an economy that is knowledge-driven and skill-based. POLL “This is in appreciation of the key role cooperatives play in enterprise development, job creation and generation of massive economic opportunities for the teeming population of the State. “It is therefore expected that the existence of the LASCOCO will help to enhance the performance of bookkeepers and trustees of cooperative societies, through the provision of need-based training. “It will also help to meet specific manpower needs of the state through the provision of high-level manpower with capacity for self-employment and job creation,” he said. Oyewale Raji, Chairman of the College Governing Council, noted that the number of registered Cooperative Societies in Lagos State had grown from 108 in 1967, to well over 15,000 with a net asset of N7.7b, according to the mid-year report of the Cooperative Department for 2016. He described such a huge number of cooperators managing a stupendous amount of funds of about N80 billion in today’s worth, as an essential part of the current administration’s THEMES agenda. Raji further described Cooperative Societies as gold mines waiting to be explored and exploited for the betterment of the people of Lagos. “The economic reverberations and trickle-down effects of activities of this subsector can only be imagined in terms of improving the economic emancipation of the greater number of our rural dwellers. “Thus unable to provide assets to collateralise loans from conventional banks and financial institutions,” he said. Akorede Ojomu, Provost of the College, thanked the Lagos State government for the continued support and also solicited for more support. “We also appeal to our amiable Governor to assist in the procurement of a permanent site to meet NBTE’s requirement of not less than 10 hectares of land. “This will enable LASCOCO to realise its vision as a global model cooperative institution. “There are a lot of facilities that are still lacking in the college, for which we have presently improvised, but which are still required in the long run for the enrichment and standardisation of our academic activities. “We need demonstration farms, a well-equipped entrepreneurship centre for vocational and entrepreneurial training, a pseudo microfinance outfit for students of Microfinance and Enterprise Development, to mention but a few,” he appealed At the event Honourary awards of Fellowship of the College were conferred on a former Commissioner for Commerce, Olayinka Oladunjoye and three former Permanent Secretaries, Wale Raji, and Olajide Bashorun, and Olalekan Akodu, for their immense contributions to the development of the college. Olajide Bashorun expressed appreciation to the college for the honour bestowed on them, while Oladunjoye announced that she will be meeting one of the College’s needs by adopting the library, which will operate as a physical and e-learning centre. 104 students bagged Professional Diplomas in Cooperative studies during the convocation ceremony. The breakdown of the graduands shows that 26 students graduated with Distinction, 47 with Upper Credit, 24 with Lower Credit and seven graduated with the pass. Five of the graduating students who distinguished themselves in the course of the professional Diploma programme were given prizes, while Veronica Akingbade got the overall best student prize. The special student award was given to Ogunjinrin Oluwakemi, a person living with a disability for her tenacity and resilience during the programme.