IBADAN – As part of his efforts to realise his presi­dential ambition, the Vice President, Pro­fessor Yemi Osinbajo visited the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Lekan Balogun. The visit by Osinbajo to the monarch at his Alarere residence in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Friday was part of the efforts by Osinba­jo to realise his presidential ambition ahead of the 2023 elections. It was gathered that the VP during the visit solicited the support of the monarch ahead of 2023. The Vice President was ac­companied to the monarch’s residence by the Deputy Gov­ernor of the state, Engineer Rauf Olaniyan, former Senate leader, Senator Teslim Folarin and Chairman of APC in the state, Mr Isaac Omodewu. Others include Senators Kola Balogun, Fatai Bihari and Mr Sina Alabi. It would be recalled that Osinbajo had a few days ago declared his presidential ambi­tion to contest on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). While addressing journal­ists, Osinbajo noted that he visited the monarch to pay his respects. According to him, “I came here to visit the mon­arch. I am here to pay re­spect to the Olubadan of Ibadan land.” POLL Osinbajo, who arrived at about 11 am left the Olubadan’s palace around 11.35 am for Civic Centre to meet with the members of All Progressives Congress (APC), Oyo State Chapter. While addressing the party members, Osinbajo said that he will hit the ground running the first day he assumes office as President of Nigeria. At the gathering were Sena­tor Teslim Folarin, Dokun Ode­bunmi, Adeniyi Akintola, Iyio­la Oladokun, Babafemi Ojudu and Dr Azeez Adeduntan. Others are APC Oyo State chairman, Mr Isaac Omodewu and other notable leaders of the party. He insisted that what he learned as vice president has prepared him to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. He said, “On April 11, I, your son, your brother, and your friend, declared my intention to run for President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I declared my intention to run with the greatest humility. “I have served in the Feder­al Government of Nigeria for the past seven years. And in those seven years, I have been involved because the president considered it the right thing to do. In his own generosity and his openness, he gave me every opportunity to serve, including very sensitive international as­signments. “As you know, I also acted as president during certain pe­riods when the president was away on medical vacation. Ev­erything that I learnt as vice president, and everything that I have learnt as acting presi­dent, has prepared me to run as president of our country and to function as president of our country. “God does not make a mis­take. God is deliberate in ev­erything that He does. And by giving all those opportunities, every one of the opportunities that I have, to see for myself, to understand governance for myself at the highest level of our country’s governance, to be exposed to everything – local and international, at the high­est levels of governance in our country.”