ABUJA – Two chieftains of the All Progressives Congress APC, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Development and Chief Don Etiebeth, former minister of Petroleum Resources Friday at the party’s National Secretariat openly disagreed on the disputed Chairman of the party in Akwa Ibom State. Recall that the immediate past Secretary of the party’s Caretaker Committee, Senator John James Akpanudedehe had recently written the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu urging him to retrace his step in swearing-in Stephen Leo Ntukekpo as Chairman of the party in the state, citing Appeal Court Ruling to maintain Status quo. Obviously reading different meanings into the Appeal Court Ruling, Senator Akpabio said the rule of law requires that the decision of the Appeal Court be respected in the issue of status quo ante, suggesting that it obvious that Ntukekpo is the chairman. Chief Etiebet who initially did not intend to speak quickly objected to the opinion insisting that that was not the position of the court on the matter, adding that Akpanudedehe’s Stay of execution was what was before the court. Akpabio replied thus: “When a matter is in court it is subjunctive for somebody to make a conclusion or draw a conclusion even to comment on it. I happen to be a lawyer so I know that. So I will no be able to argue with my brother and major stakeholders in my state and in Nigeria Chief Don Etiebet on the issue of who is the Chairman or the issue of who is not Chairman because the matters are still within the purview of the court. “But I want to thank the national working committee of our great party for being law-abiding and for adhering to judicial pronouncement. The course had given the chairmanship of the party and the leadership of the party in Akwa Ibom to an individual and other persons. The candidate the Congresses produce, we don’t want to go into the merit and demerits of who worn, who did not win but because we are in court, we are going to abide by court orders as its stated in the court of Appeal has already dismissed the Appeal brought forward by the party. The APC has withdrawn from all Appeals in respect of Akwa Ibom and the working committee has enjoined us as leaders to go home and ensure peace and that is why I’m discussing this with my leader. So the question of somebody was sworn in, somebody was not sworn in. We must not forget the fact that we have another opportunity in the democracy to ventilate our thought. if you think you are not carried along, you go to Court and if you go to Court and the court said maintain status quo, everybody knows the meaning of status quo. POLL “Status quo means the court judgement not be justifiable in the federal High court. It means the consequential orders to ensure the swearing-in of the new chairman because the APC has withdrawn from that appeal. The status quo must be maintained which means swearing-in and obeying the court order and the party has done that. I want to urge my leader let’s go home and also abide by the party’s decision to ensure harmony and peace”