In the spirit of the Easter celebrations, a non-profit organization, One Heart Project, distributed food items to orphanages and needy people in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) over the weekend. The group provided 1000 food packages to an Abuja orphanage in Karu, as well as vulnerable communities in the Durumi and Wasa parts of the Abuja. The president of the foundation, Miss Nasa Okolie Kamsiyochukwu while addressing the children in the orphanage home, urged them to be committed to their education as a means of becoming important in society. According to her: “We are here to identify with them because we loves and cares for the less privileged in society. We are passionate about the vulnerable in the community. “No matter what your are going through, no matter where you are in life, just get back on your feet and say this is not the end of it and you can do that by going to visit people who can not pay you back. “You can as well visit the hospital, pay peoples bill and you will see that your situation is not the worst out there, there are people that are going through tougher times and their are still waking up and keep pushing and hoping that one day every thing is going to be fine. “Nigerian government should seat up because people are homeless, people are hungry, people are tired, they should step up and just do what needs to be done. we as citizens we will keep on trying but there is a very little we can do so they should step up and do whatis needed to do, they should really do what they needs to do. ” For us here we cooked fried rice, and made zobo, though we had so much plan but the budget was a little big so we just worked with what we had and we feed about a thousand people with God helps us. POLL “We have visited IDP camps in Durumi and the one in Wasa then we are going to a few other orphanages, those are what are listed but am sure by the time we start and continue we will see more places we would love to visit. ” Its all about giving back to the community and just helping and showing people that u don’t need to have much to do very little cause everyday we are always going to face problems that challenges us, but if you just take out a minute or two to make one or two people smile it would go a long way in their lives so, this all was like okay Easter is coming Easter is a season of love and celebration why don’t we go to the less, thought of people and share easter like share the love with them. “We are here to share the love with the less previlaged in the society, with those that people don’t always think about and with those that if not for circumstances they wouldn’t be in this position so we are here to share love and share joy and share as much as we can with them. “I admonish you all to imbibe the culture of punctuality, excellence, integrity, love, care for others and unity among the different ethnic and religious groups in the society. I commend our partners for making this possible especially the president of Helpline Foundation for the Needy, Dr Jumai Ahmadu”, she stated.