Arsenal could risk losing their ideal defensive solution ahead of next season. Newcastle and Liverpool could be the reason for this as the Premier League sides have reportedly entered to race to steal the Gunners’ defensive transfer target, Evan Ndicka, who is valued at £21m by CIES Football Observatory According to German outlet BILD, Newcastle are interested in signing Ndicka at the end of the season, while the Eintracht Frankfurt defender has also been linked with a move to the Emirates or Anfield. The Frenchman’s contract is set to expire at the end of the 2022/2023 season. This means that the Gunners can sign him on a cut-price deal at the end of the current campaign as he would have just one-year remaining on his current contract. Arsenal are extremely short in the centre-back positions currently, as Arteta only has three options in that position. If Rob Holding departs at the end of the season, then it would make sense for Edu to bring in an additional defender alongside William Saliba, assuming his future remains at the club once his season-long loan at Marseille ends. If Arteta has both Saliba and Ndicka at his disposal, then the Spaniard could follow RB Leipzig’s blueprint from when they had both Dayot Upamecano and Ibrahim Konate as their starting centre-backs. Both of the Leipzig defenders were French youth internationals, but Julien Nagelsmann had them starting alongside each other in the Bundesliga, which helped the team qualify for the Champions League on multiple occasions. This could be Arteta’s thinking behind the potential signing of Ndicka and bringing Saliba back into the group ahead of the new campaign. Both Saliba and Ndicka are French youth internationals, and they would compliment each other perfectly due to Ndicka being a left-footed centre-back and Saliba right-footed. Ndicka becomes an even more attractive signing when you take his versatility into consideration. The youngster has also played at full-back this season and was very impressive in this role against Barcelona at the Camp Nou when Frankfurt famously won 4-1 against the Catalan side in the quarter-final of the Europa League earlier in the season. Arsenal will also need to sign a full-back ahead of next season to provide more solid cover for Kieran Tierney, who has already suffered a season-ending injury this campaign. The Scotsman’s current understudy, Nuno Tavares, has performed well at times but has often looked very shaky at the back. POLL The acquisition of Ndicka would help Arteta to solve two defensive problems in one signing due to the versatility of the Frenchman. It could therefore be a major regret for the Gunners if they are to lose out on the defender to Newcastle or Liverpool.