Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has suggested to the Federal Government to name the headquarters of the North-East Development Commission (NEDC) after the wife of the President,  Aisha Buhari, saying that for her intervention the North East Development Commission Bill, which he sponsored as the Speaker in the 8th Assembly, would have been vetoed. He disclosed this on Saturday at the State House, Abuja, during the Iftar organised by the First Lady for Presidential aspirants of the various political parties. Yakubu Dogara recalled that Aisha Buhari’s swift and patriotic intervention ensured that the Bill was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari when some powerful persons tried to block presidential assent to the Bill. He also called on the management of the NEDC to name its headquarters in Maiduguri after the First Lady because she singlehandedly contributed to its birth and advocated for the creation of 3 State Assembly seats in each senatorial district exclusively for women in each of the 36 states of the federation He further said that the proposal, if adopted and enshrined into the constitution, will provide for a minimum of 9 legislative seats in each of the state houses of assembly and 324 across the country “If women fail in Nigeria, it won’t be because of them but because we men are weak. I am making the following proposals in order for us men to walk the talk on affirmative action.” “Through Constitutional Amendment, we should create 3 House of Assembly seats per Senatorial district in each State to be exclusively reserved for women. These seats should rotate among the Local Government Councils in each of the Senatorial Districts in alphabetical order”. “The proposal creates 9 guaranteed slots exclusively for women in each State House of Assembly. The Net implication of this proposal is that across Nigeria, women will have 324 guaranteed seats in all State Assemblies in Nigeria as against the prevailing situation whereby some State Assemblies have no single women member” POLL “In addition to this, Women are free to contest the other general seats with men but even if they don’t win any other seat, each State Assembly must have a minimum of 9 women members. Also, it was proposed that one additional House of Representatives seat be created for each State and the FCT which should be exclusively reserved for women” “A total of 37 exclusive seats for women would be created to rotate amongst the three Senatorial zones in each State. This means in each subsequent National Assembly; women are guaranteed an irreducible minimum of 37 seats in the House of Representatives even if they don’t win any of the 360 general seats for which they are to compete with men” “The proposal for Senate should be worked out after effectuating the two proposals above and assessing how impactful they are. These common-sense proposals guarantee a minimum total of 361 legislative seats for women across Nigeria” he said Following the proposal and nomination by Hon. Dogara, Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai of Kaduna State was adopted by the First Lady to the lead campaign for the creation and actualisation of the special legislative seats for women in the country.