There was time when a game be­tween Arsenal and Manches­ter United at the business end of the season was always a potential league decider. Even as poor at these teams have become of late, this lunchtime Premier League game at the Emirates is still a behemoth of a match that could potentially make or break both sides’ top-four chances. A win for either side will boost their top four aspirations, as the losing side will have nothing but rue lost chances. The Gunners reignited their Champions League bid with an enthralling 4-2 defeat of Chelsea in midweek at the Stamford Bridge, while United capitulated in a 4-0 loss to Liverpool. Eddie Nketiah led Arsenal charge in a phenomenal spectacle at Stamford Bridge to end their three-game losing run. Handed another opportunity to impress, Nketiah took advantage of Chelsea’s defensive lapses to register his first Premier League brace alongside strikes from fellow Hale End graduates Emile Smith Rowe and Bukayo Saka, a confidently-taken spot kick right at the death. Finally rediscovering their magic touch against a Chelsea side who were all over the shop defensively means that fourth spot is still technically in Arsenal’s hands, with Arsenal only behind Tottenham Hotspur on goal difference ahead of what will seemingly be a pivotal North London derby on May 12. A spate of devastating injuries and failure to bolster the attacking ranks in January seemed like it was going to prove costly for the Gunners after losses to Crystal Palace, Southampton and Brighton & Hove Albion, but Arteta’s side produced in the big game on Wednesday and will see no reason why they cannot boost their top-four hopes at the expense of United’s this weekend. Despite suffering back-to-back home losses to Liverpool and Brighton, Arsenal’s tally of 32 points on familiar territory is still the third-best record in the division, and the Gunners have all the motivation they need to avoid a run of three straight home defeats for the third season in a row. POLL Man United travel to the Emirates having posted a mere two wins in their last seven Premier League matches – as well as losing each of their last three away from home – and Rangnick’s side are still waiting for their first Premier League clean sheet on rival turf since the turn of the year. The Red Devils’ chances of ending such a miserable streak are seemingly rather slim at the Emirates, where Arsenal are unbeaten in three against their top-four rivals, but Michael Carrick did oversee a 3-2 win for Man United in front of the Old Trafford faithful earlier this season. Takehiro Tomiyasu returned to training earlier this week, but the right back was not used against Chelsea and may not be considered today. Thomas Partey and Kieran Tierney are out, but Arteta has no fresh concerns to contend with following Wednesday’s victory and has some big calls in all areas of the pitch, with Nketiah surely doing enough to start up top once again. Mohamed Elneny performed admirably in the midfield on Wednesday and could once again join Granit Xhaka, with Rob Holding also hopeful of keeping his place in the backline despite a couple of shaky passes midweek. As for United, Cristiano Ronaldo did not play in midweek after the tragic death of his newborn son, but the 37-year-old is now back in training and could feature at the Emirates. Scott McTominay’s return from a foot problem is timely after Paul Pogba was taken off with a calf issue after only 10 minutes against Liverpool, joining Luke Shaw, Fred and Edinson Cavani in the medical bay. One positive for Rangnick is that he will be able to welcome Raphael Varane back to the squad this weekend, and the United boss is reportedly preparing to take Harry Maguire out of the first XI after a bomb threat at the defender’s home. The expected return of Ronaldo should at least give Man United that extra attacking bite, but as much as the Portuguese loves a goal against the Gunners, it remains to be seen if he is in the right headspace to play. If Arsenal’s new-look side can produce similar levels of incisiveness that they did against Chelsea, Man United’s dodgy backline could be in for a rough ride against Arteta’s side, and we can only envisage the Gunners effectively ending the Red Devils’ top-four hopes while giving theirs a major boost.