‘Ovarian reserve’ refers to egg quantity and quality–or reproductive potential–and it impacts a woman’s ability to conceive. Age plays a significant factor in fertility and is linked to reproductive aging. Reproductive AgingThe concept of reproductive aging is based on the principle that eggs peak in number during fetal life, undergo degeneration, and do not regenerate. Remarkably, the most eggs women will have are when she is a 20-week-old fetus with approximately 6-7 million eggs. At birth, the number of eggs falls to 1-2 million, and at puberty, she has only 300,000-500,000 remaining eggs. From puberty though menopause, it is estimated women will ovulate about 400-500 total eggs.Although female fertility declines with advancing age, it is difficult to predict the overall rate of reproductive decline. The quality of a woman’s eggs is highest in her mid 20s through her early 30s, representing the most fertile period in her life. After the early 30s, both the quality and quantity of eggs begin to decline, resulting in a decline of fertility potential, with the most significant declines occurring in the mid 30s and early 40s.The decline in both egg quantity and quality may manifest in a longer time to conception. As a result, fecundability–the probability of achieving a pregnancy in one menstrual cycle– begins to decline significantly in the early 30s, with a more rapid decline after the age 37.Chromosomal Abnormalities and Miscarriage As women age, the risk of ovulating a chromosomally abnormal egg increases, resulting in lower fertility and increased risk of miscarriage. If a poor-quality egg is fertilised, either the embryo is unable to implant, or the embryo initially implants, but is unable to develop properly, resulting in a subsequent miscarriage. Though older women are more likely to have poor quality eggs, younger women, too, can have poor quality eggs.A common misconception is having regular periods indicated normal ovarian reserve and therefore means you will be able to conceive. This is not always the case, as many women who have regular periods can still have challenges conceiving if there is poor ovarian reserve (egg quality and quantity).Age And Fertility Age is a very important factor with regard to fertility, and even with all the advancements in assisted reproduction, it still remains issue. Public awareness of this fact is important as the age-related decline in fecundity leaves the clinician and the couple with limited treatment options. From a purely fertility aspect, delay in child bearing should be avoided. Tests for predicting the ovarian reserve are useful prognostic tools, but poor predictors of the IVF outcome. Diminished Ovarian ReserveDiminished Ovarian Reserve (DOR) refers to diminished egg quality, egg quantity, reproductive potential, and can therefore cause infertility. A high day 2 or 3 FSH level, a low AMH level, a low antral follicle count (AFC), and a history of a poor response during stimulation in an IVF cycle are indicative of DOR (diminished ovarian reserve). It is important to note that evidence of DOR does not necessarily translate to inability to conceive.In most cases, the causes of DOR is unknown, with reproductive aging being the primary cause. Other factors that can affect ovarian reserve include, tobacco use, underlying medical conditions, prior ovarian surgery, systemic chemotherapy, pelvic radiation and certain genetic abnormalities.There is no universally agreed-on criteria for diagnosing DOR. So, it can be difficult to provide prognosis to those with DOR, since it may predict a diminished response to ovarian stimulation in an IVF cycle, but not necessarily overall pregnancy rate. Poor egg quality is caused by diminished ovarian reserve and is one of the most common causes of infertility, especially in women over 35. Egg quality is important because it determines embryo quality. Poor egg quality is closely associated with chromosomal abnormalities in embryos, also known as aneuploidy.What factors affect egg quality IVF?Egg and Embryo Quality – The quality of eggs and embryos depends on some of the other items in this list, such as age, ovarian reserve, stimulation protocol and sperm quality. The higher quality eggs and embryos, the better likelihood IVF treatment will be successful.How to Improve Egg Quality? Egg quality cannot be fixed after you ovulate. Instead, you need to prevent the DNA damage. This isn’t a ‘quick fix’ but rather a way to improve the follicle cells before they develop into the final egg cell for ovulation.Improving Egg Quality For Pregnancy And IVFThese include, improve your blood flow. Oxygen-rich blood flow to the ovaries is essential for the health of the eggs. Others are eat a healthy diet, Incorporate fertility, supplements, stop smoking, maintain a healthy weight, de-stress, among others.Getting Pregnant With Poor Egg QualityIt’s possible that a woman could have difficulty conceiving if she has a large quantity of poor-quality eggs or a limited number of high-quality eggs. But having a good supply of eggs can be helpful because having a large quantity usually implies that some eggs will be viable in women under 35.Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) and Reproductive Aging No treatment or supplement has been shown to halt the process of reproductive aging, but women with infertility as a result of DOR can use assisted reproductive technologies to increase their chances of conceiving. Identifying if you have DOR is an important component of a fertility evaluation, especially as more and more women seek fertility treatment later in their reproductive years.