Over 3000 persons from Bomadi, Burutu and Ughelli South Council Areas of Delta State have benefited from a 3-day medical outreach programme organized by Joseph-Penawou Foundation. The Chairman of the foundation, Chief Joseph Penawou who spoke at the opening ceremony of the Free Medical outreach programme at Akugbene town, Bomadi Council Area of Delta State said that the programme was part of his effort to reach and provide better and quality health services to his people. Penawou who is the ‘Iyasere’ (traditional Prime Minister) of Akugbene-Mein Kingdom asserted that his foundation has been over ten years touching the lives of especially the indigent ones for them to have a sense of belonging. He further posited that this was the 2nd edition of the medical outreach programme and it is an annual event, a non-profit venture solely to give the people a new lease of life. He urged the people to take advantage of the medical outreach programme and get treated emphasising that the medical team was composed of specialists in different fields. Dr Stephen Dafe, Co-ordinator of the medical outreach programme who spoke to journalists at the end of the 3-day programme described it as a huge success and noted that a total of more than 3000 persons benefited from the exercise. Dafe held that their target audience was adults, pregnant women and the elderly ones expressing joy that it was not just indigenes of Akugbene town that took advantage of the medical outreach programme but people from Oboro, Okpokunou in Burutu Council Area and people from Okuoma, Gbaregolor in Ughelli South Council Area also benefited. While giving details of the area of health care services that were provided, he said Gynae and obstetrics, dentistry, optometry, medical care, pharmaceutical services and medical laboratory services were all provided for those in need of it. POLL Some of the beneficiaries Mr Ebitonmor Barah from Akugbene town and Mrs Waire Okpako from Okuoma community thanked Chief Joseph Penawou for the medical outreach programme saying that the outreach has saved the cost for them to get medical attention outside the community. They said many persons who could not afford medical bills outside were given drugs to treat their illness and they would remain grateful to Chief Joseph Penawou.