Joel A. Barker rightly put it that: ” Vision without action is merely a dream. Action without vision just passes the time. Vision with action can change the world.” Okeke Chibuikem Sinclair, Chief Executive Officer of Clairhub, a fast growing cryptocurrency trading enterprise, is a self-motivating young businessman and a digital guru taking the world by storm. The Clairhub founder does not have a dream, rather his dreams have him. He is too focused and ambitious for his youthful age. The CEO of Clairhub is not just a young entrepreneur, he  worked his vision to build perhaps the best cryptocurrency platform in Nigeria where people can without any hitch conduct money transfers around the globe. Clairhub is clearly ahead of the pack in the industry in the country, and the vision of its founder is to expand in 2022. According to Sinclair, the cryptocurrency trading enterprise is taking over West Africa, which will naturally mean influx of customers and barrage of transactions conducted via the platform. “I’m looking to launch my app since we’re handling a lot of orders manually we’d want customers to be able to swap coins using our app”, the owner of Clairhub stated after unveiling the company’s plans for the rest of the year. He continued: “Focus on creating a relationship as well as expanding our community with   People who are not familiar with crypto. “enerally sending money and buying crypto to facilitate money transfers around the globe POLL “Expanding and being a notable exchange platform in different  west African countries like Ghana etc”, added the Clairhub founder. Disabusing the mindset of people against crypto, the Clairhub boss averred that investment value decline globally, and encourage people to convert their investment into crypto. “People who trade globally are sometimes faced with the nightmare of decline or slide in the value of their investment or savings. Therefore, it made sense to convert such savings into cryptocurrencies which can be held for some times and then sold when the value goes up. “However, an astute investor needs a trusted crypto trader to avoid being duped by internet fraudsters and crypto thieves who are out there in their numbers,” the CEO of Clairhub affirmed.