Akwa Ibom State Governor and Nigeria’s Presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Udom Emmanuel, has posited that the country is in an economic war and that the party cannot afford to send recruits to fight the war, with Generals like him in the kitty. Governor Emmanuel stated this when he consulted the national leadership of the PDP in Abuja on his presidential aspiration, which he said was a mission to rescue the nation. Emmanuel, who said he was eminently qualified by his education, exposure and evidence-based governance of his home state Akwa Ibom, submitted that he has time-tested solutions, which can revamp the economy, restore security to all parts of the country and fix the current infrastructure deficit. Responding, the National Chairman of the Party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, commended Governor Emmanuel for the very excellent manner he has administered his state. Specifically, he commended the Governor for IbomAir, which he said, is the only airline that keeps to time in Nigeria. He lamented that previously, owning an airline in the country was like “rocket science” until Udom made a huge success out of it. The Chairman, who acknowledged the practicality of Udom’s governance propositions, wished the presidential ticket of the party was the prerogative of the National Working Committee, thus, it would have been easy to hand same to Akwa Ibom State Governor. Assuring that with the current mood in the country, the PDP was just waiting in the wings to take over the Presidential Villa, Ayu commended Emmanuel for sticking to issues without attacking fellow aspirants. POLL On his part, the National Secretary of the PDP, Sen. Samuel Anyanwu, while moving a Vote of Thanks, said that Governor Udom Emmanuel was one of the people Nigerians were waiting for to come and rescue them. With the current situation of things across Nigeria, he noted that only a rescue mission can turn things around. Governor Emmanuel was accompanied by the Chairman, his Campaign Council, Gabriel Suswam; Director General, Col. Habibu Shuaibu (Rtd.); former Minister and former National Treasurer of the PDP Alhaji Bala Buhari OFR; Immediate Past National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan; Immediate Past National Youth Leader of PDP, Hon. S.K Ude-Okoye; former Akwa Ibom State chairman and current National Ex-Officio Member of PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo; and the Campaign Spokesperson, Bola Bolawole. Others were Dr Moshood Fayemiwo, Dr Victor Adoji and Comrade Ini Ememobong.