Party Chieftain Tips Lawmaker As Consensus Candidate ABUJA – As party primaries for tickets into various elective offices on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) approaches, the governorship ambition of former Spokesman of the House of Representatives, Honourable Abdulrazak Sa’ad Namdas, on Friday received a big boost as the APC Caucus in the Adamawa State House of Assembly joined hands with other party chieftains to raise the sum of N25 million as support toward purchasing the nomination form for him. Representing Toungo, Ganye, Jada and Mayo Belwa Federal Constituency of the State in the 9th National Assembly, Namdas is the current chairman of the House Committee on Army, and a front runner in the race for the government house come 2023. The Asse caucus from Ganye Chiefdom, senior citizens of the Chiefdom and Namdas support group said they came up with the initiative in order to assist the federal lawmaker in advancing the course of his governorship project ahead of the party primaries. The three lawmakers from the Chiefdom are; Abdullahi Ahmed Manager member representing Leko Koma state constituency, Abdullahi Umar Nyako representing Toungo state constituency and Alhassan Hammanjoda member representing Ganye state constituency. Spokesman of the three groups and member representing Ganye state constituency in Adamawa State House of assembly, Alhassan Hammanjoda said the move shows that Namdas’ ambition is not an individual aspiration but a collective one. “We the APC members, Adamawa State House of assembly from Ganye Chiefdom, Ganye, Jada and Toungo constituencies, in collaboration with Namdas support group and senior citizens in the Chiefdom wish to declare our total support to Hon. Abdulrazak Sa’ad Namdas aspiration for the office of the governor in Adamawa State under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “In view of the above, we willingly contributed the sum of twenty five million naira only (N25,000,000) to enable him purchase the governorship nomination form,” he said. POLL While making case on the need of other zones to reciprocate the gesture of the Chiefdom in supporting them from time immemorial, Hammanjoda said, “the Chiefdom has never produced a governor in the history of Adamawa State apart from the three months tenure of Alhaji Bamanga Tukur in Gongola State under NPN.” He also eulogized the leadership qualities of the lawmaker saying that, “Hon. Namdas has the capacity to occupy the number one seat in Adamawa State. Hon Namdas has distinguished himself where he is serving as the member representing Mayo Belwa, Jada, Ganye and Toungo at the national assembly. His performance is unprecedented.” “In view of the above, we are calling on all APC family of course, the people of Adamawa State to support Namdas’ aspiration to be the next governor of Adamawa State come 2023. We are assuring you that Namdas will never disappoint you. And with him, the desired Adamawa State of our dream is achievable,” he assured. Thanking the groups for the gesture, and show of love for his aspiration, Namdas said the gesture represents a bold move by the Chiefdom to support one of its own. Namdas who was represented by his Senior Legislative Aide, Hussain Sanda thanked them for the gesture and goodwill, adding that they will never regret supporting him. He said the fact that many people came together to mobilize funds for the purchase of the gubernatorial form indicated that the aspiration of Namdas is not an individual but a collective dream. Namdas thanked them for the spiritedness, love and brotherhood towards him adding that he will not fritter away such confidence and goodwill if elected. In a related development, the candidacy of Hon. Namdas has been tipped for consensus by the Adamawa state chapter of the APC should the party ever consider adopting the option for its governorship primaries. Speaking on the ongoing disquiet among party faithful in the state over alleged plans to impose a consensus candidate for the governorship seat by the “powers that be”, as against an elective process of choosing one, a chieftain of the party,Hamidu Bappa told journalists in Yola that Namdas is one aspirant who deserves to get such consideration. Namdas according to political observers in the state is so far the only aspirant who has successfully toured all the 21 local governments in the state and interacted with the state executive of the party and other key stakeholders. Bappa said “also going for Namdas is that after the loss of the state to PDP in 2019, most of the people angling for governorship now abandoned the party and hibernated in Abuja while Namdas went about meeting people.” Bappa recalled that after the state congresses, Namdas played a pivotal and significant role in assuaging the feeling of aggrieved party members and set the tone of reconciliation to bring the party back on stream, spending his resources, time and energy traversing the state. “So, according to some APC leaders in the state, if consensus is being considered, an aspirant like Namdas would want to be considered, especially as he has large followership and his popularity should not be toyed with,” the APC chieftain added.