LAGOS – The African Action Congress (AAC) has urged Nigerians to vote out the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming 2023 general elections. The AAC, in a statement signed by  Comrade Femi Adeyeye, its National Publicity Secretary, made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Saturday, maintained that the APC had proved incapable of solving the nation’s problems. The party, which was reacting to the recent bombing of the Abuja-Kaduna train which claimed about nine lives with many injured and abducted, stated that the APC-led Federal Government had become clueless and lacked the political will to protect the lives of Nigerians in the last seven years. It stressed: “A point of concern for us at the African Action Congress is that if Kaduna State, a state that houses major military formations in the country – the training academy, Defence Houses, intelligence, etc, could be easily breached without any ounce of information leaking to our security apparatus, where else in the country is safe? “It is clear that these repeated attacks of this magnitude are products of some high-level intelligence compromise. “The bombings and renewed confidence of these terrorists keep justifying our long term suspicion that the current administration is only interested in looting and destroying all that is left in the country, in order to hand over to its terrorist allies. “Buhari has failed severally to expose to the world many of his political and personal allies that have been linked to the various violent activities of terrorists. “These terrorist sponsors and chieftains are members of the ruling cabal, and despite all the expositions by globally recognised security agents, the president has failed to arrest or prosecute any of them.” POLL AAC added: “Patriots like the late Obadiah, Commodore Kunle Olawuni and the researcher David Hundeyin have all come up with evidence. This is separate from the daily exposures from Sahara Reporters and some other media outfits. “All this evidence being consciously ignored points to nothing, but the fact that the ruling elite definitely has ulterior motives.” The party said that Nigerians should stop lamenting the failures of the APC administration, organise and take action, as the only way they could take their destinies into their hands. “The Army, Police, and other security agencies have been long decimated and weakened through poor remunerations and bad welfare. And they are also forcefully attacking all voices of dissent, including arresting and detaining police officers over the long-overdue police strike. “AAC believes that cries cannot resolve the issues at hand. We call on Nigerians to rise and conduct another mass action that will be multiple of the #EndSARS protests. “When we rise, no one can stop us. Nigerians must never mind the scare tactics and intimidations by the secret police and government rogues. We have a date with the future that we must never allow to be buried in this rotten present,” it added.