. Says It’s Illegal, Lacks Merit, Transparency MAKURDI – Former Director General, Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Dr Paul Angya has distanced himself from the arrangement of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that brought about the emergence of a consensus candidate for the party in Benue state. He insisted that the process that led to the emergence of the Speaker, Benue State House of Assembly (BNHA), Rt Hon Titus Uba as the consensus candidate of the party from the Tiv speaking areas lacked transparency as well as merit. Angya, who is also a gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the PDP in the state noted that the process does not reflect the popular will of the people of the state. In a statement signed by Clement Tsar, the Media Coordinator to Angya and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Wednesday, the aspirant called on the party leadership to adopt a democratically acceptable approach for the emergence of a flag bearer for the PDP in the state. The statement read, “After a careful review of the process that produced the “consensus” candidate in Benue state as assured in his earlier statement, the frontline governorship contender on the platform of the PDP, Dr. Paul Angya has rejected in strong terms the PDP governorship selection arrangement. “The legal luminary said the process that produced the “consensus” candidate in Benue state is dishonest, not transparent, lacks merit, not in tandem with the relevant sections of the electoral act as amended and does not reflect the popular will of the people. “He called on the leadership of the PDP to adopt a transparent, honest and democratically acceptable process of nominating candidates for the 2023 general elections using the guidelines as provided in the Electoral Act.” POLL “Apart from the purchase and submission of his nomination form, Dr Angya said he has worked hard to earn the confidence of the PDP delegates in the state who are patiently waiting to queue behind him during the party primaries, therefore, he cannot afford to disappoint them by associating himself with the result of the illegal arrangement.” The Director General of SON also assured delegates of the party as well as his supporters across the state that his covenant with them remains unchanged. He further encouraged them to be steadfast and focused in readiness for his victory at the PDP primaries in May 2023.