ABUJA – The Joint Civil Society Groups in Nigeria and APC Support Groups have stated that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu remains the best consensus candidate for the 2023 Presidential election. The group made this known in a five point communique signed by Mr Ndubuisi Nwobu, Chairman, Communique Drafting Committee, Mohammed Abubakar, Secretary and eight others in Abuja on Thursday. The communique, which was issued at the end of a two-day conference, centered on the strategic role of consensus building and what the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) holds for Nigeria. According to the communique, APC must do all within its powers to ensure that the candidature of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu becomes a reality in view of his leadership qualities. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is one candidate that presents an intimidating credential that can guarantee electoral success for the APC in the presidential elections. “All stakeholders should rally support for the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in his bid in the overall interest of the party. “APC should initiate mechanisms towards sensitizing its members on the benefits of consensus building towards the actualization of the presidential ambition of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” it noted. The communique noted that the conference, which was well attended, had participants pushing forward brilliant ideas on the way forward for the country. POLL It stressed that there was emphasis on the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu following his efforts at reaching out to numerous stakeholders across the country on his presidential ambition. The communique further pointed out that emphasis was made of Tinubu’s track records, stressing his exceptional commitment to ensuring sustainable growth and development in numerous ways. It also noted stated that Tinubu was a bridge-builder whose ultimate desire is one Nigeria. “The issues surrounding consensus building for political parties towards selecting candidates for elective positions have generated comments in the polity. “A consensus-building approach allows groups to reach an overwhelming agreement among relevant stakeholders and maximize possible gains for everyone. “The APC deployed this model during its national convention. “It was deemed a success and an indication that if this model is adopted for its presidential primaries, there is the likelihood for the best candidate to emerge and thereby increasing the chances of political success,” it stressed.