The opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) will on Friday begin the screening of the 17 presidential aspirants jostling for the party’s presidential ticket ahead of the 2023 general elections. Daily Independent learned that the former Senate President, Chief David Mark is the Chairman of a nine-member committee that will screen the aspirants. Presidential aspirants for screening are former Vice- President Atiku Abubakar, ex-Senate President Bukola Saraki, former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State and Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal. Others are Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Pius Anyim, Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel, former Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose, Cosmos Ndukwe, Charles Ugwu, Chikwendu Kalu and Tariele Diana Oliver. Also on the list are renowned industrialist Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, a former bank chief, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, a United States-based medical doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze and Ovation Magazine publisher Dele Momodu. The schedule of activities issued by the National Organizing Secretary of the party Umar Bature, indicated that the screening exercise would hold at Legacy House, Abuja, the party’s presidential campaign headquarters. Also listed for screening in Abuja are all aspirants for the governorship, state assemblies and National Assembly elections in all the seven states in the Northwest. The states include Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Jigawa, Kebbi and Zamfara. The exercise is scheduled to hold on Wednesday and Thursday. POLL Screening for same categories of elections in the remaining states, except Anambra, will however take place at the party’s zonal secretariats same dates. Other members of the screening committee are Chief Celestine Omehia, Chief Mike Ahamba, SAN, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, Edward Ashiekaa, SAN, and Mrs. Hilda Makonto. Also listed as members are Dr Akiku Indabawa, Hajiya Hassana Dikko, Dr. Esther Uduehi, while Ms. Chinedu Nwachukwu will serve as administrative secretary to the committee.