Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria ( IMN ) otherwise known as “Shi’ites’ on Monday in Abuja staged a peaceful protest to demand the release of International passports and travel documents of their leader, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenah. The sect said the refusal by the Nigerian government to release their travel documents was aimed to further worsen their health condition. The sect disclosed this in a statement signed on Monday in Abuja by Mukhtar Abdurrahman Auwalon behalf of the Academic Forum of the movement. IMN said the international passports of the cleric and his wifehave been denied for almost nine ( 9 )  months after the court have discharged and acquitted them of eight counts charge bordering on alleged culpable homicide, unlawful assembly, disruption of the public peace, among others. The protesters who gathered in front of National Human Rights Commission  ( NHRC ) building called on the commission to prevail on the government andrelevant security agencies to release their passport and allow the couple to go for medical treatments abroad. The sect also called on Nigerians and the international community to hold President MuhammaduBuhari is responsible in case anything untoward befall the couple. POLL The statement noted that the movement would not fold its hands while the rights of its leader is being violated than return to the streets until their demands are met. The statement read in part ” It is pertinent the public to note that the freedom of Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife is still being denied. Isn’t it such flagrant abuse of their fundamental rights to life? General Buhari would definitely be held responsible for anything that befall the couple; and certainly, we can not afford to sit at home while the rights of our leader are being abused. After patiently waiting for 9 months, we have no option but to return to the streets of Abuja, to protest this unholy conspiracy. ” In view of the foregoing, we demand for the unconditional release of the couple’s international” ” The public is fully aware of the Zaria massacre executed from 12th to 14th December 2015. It was an “all-out-war” to eliminate the Sheikh and dislodge the Islamic movement under his distinguished tutelage, “once and for all”. ” The Nigerian Army, under Buhari’s direct command, invaded the Husainiyyah along Sokoto road, the Dambo-film-village-farmyard-cum-martyrs’ graveyard and Sheikh El-Zakzaky’s Gyallesu residence, all in Zaria. They killed 1000+ followers of his, and set the house ablaze. Against all odds, the prime target, his wife and several other family members survived the arson and all that attack. Yet, no sooner had four soldiers “discovered” the whereabouts of the survivors in a laundry room than they started to rain bullets on them, instantly killing three of his sons, leaving the Sheikh and his wife “waiting to die” from the lethal gunshot wounds. But the duo are still alive with multiple health complications, very much in need of urgent medical attention”