LOKOJA – The Federal Government has trained 42 cooks under the Home Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP) in order to build their capacity and ensure a healthy and safe hygienic environment for pupils, tagged: ”Nationwide Documentation and Training of Master Cooks on tNHGSFP”. Speaking at the venue in Lokoja, the Minister, Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development (FMHADMSD), Hajia Sadiya Farouq, said the training was to build the capacity of the cooks to ensure safe and healthy meals for the pupils. The Minister, who was represented by the Nutritional Assistant on NHGSFP, Mrs Susan Simpa, said the 42 participants would go back after the training to their various local governments to cascade it. According to her, two cooks were selected from each of the 21 local governments of the state, who will, in turn, train 20 cooks each in their locality. She noted that the NHGSFP was a component of the National Social Investment Program (NSIP), established by President Muhammad Buhari to bring poor Nigerians out of poverty. ”The training is organised to build the capacity of the cooks to know how to make their environment more hygienic and safe for meal preparation for the pupils. ”This is to ensure that these children are given healthy and safe meals in their schools in a hygienic environment,” she said She added that it would also improve the hygiene pattern of the NHGSFP implementation, adding that the federal government had also provided quality feeding utensils for every child on the programme. POLL Earlier, Mr Suleiman Onyekehi, the NSIP Focal Person, Kogi State, said the idea was to improve the quality of food and nutritional values being prepared for the pupils, anf increase children’s enrollment in school. Onyekehi, who is also the Special Adviser to the Governor on Special Projects, stressed that the federal government was taking the program seriously because of its purpose and objectives. He urged the participants to listen attentively to ensure thorough compliance with the national guidelines, noting that the State Government would disengage violators of the guidelines. ”So, I want you to take this training very seriously, and also see the program as a service to humanity,” he advised. He said that the NSIP Kogi had recruited 2,933 cooks for the NHGSFP, while over 800 recruited additional cooks awaiting final approval to accommodate remaining schools and pupils yet to benefit from the program.