LAGOS – Ohanaeze Ndigbo World Wide has condemned the decision of the zoning committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to throw open the presidential ticket, pointing out that the party has committed political suicide. Professor George Obiozor, President General of the socio-cultural organization, while reacting to the decision of the Governor Ortom-led PDP committee on the zoning of the office of the presidential ticket wondered why the PDP has decided to jettison zoning when it is the turn of the South and particularly the South East of Nigeria. “For purpose of clarity, rotation and zoning principle was engrained into the PDP party’s Constitution in 2009. Article 7 (2) (c) of the PDP Constitution states: ‘In pursuance of the principle of equity, justice and fairness, the party shall adhere to the policy of rotation and zoning of party and public elective offices, and it shall be enforced by the appropriate executive committee at all levels,” Ohaneze noted. Obiozor deplored the unconscionable shifting of the goal post in the middle of the game. “Such unscrupulous violation of the zoning principle that has been well entrenched in the PDP constitution simply changes the rules of the game in order to deprive Ndigbo the opportunity to produce a president for Nigeria,” he said. According to Ohaneze, it is a political blunder and betrayal given what Ndigbo have suffered in their own country and most recently for supporting the PDP. The organisation noted that history has never been kind to betrayers and the treacherous, stressing that the machinations and conspiracies to deny Ndigbo their due place in Nigeria is an ingratitude that daily cries to God. Ohanaeze reiterates the position of the Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum led by Chief E K Clark that any party that does not zone its presidential ticket to the South should not expect the support of the Middle Belt and the entire South. POLL “It is therefore curious that the PDP should commit political hara-kiri at a time it is struggling for fresh air. It is unfortunate that the PDP glamourises inordinate ambitions; any political ambition that undermines nation-building should be checkmated. “One of the roles of a political party in a democracy is nation-building and for the PDP to shirk its responsibilities is an unfortunate path to Golgotha,” the organisation further stated. The statement added, “Let it be known that it runs contrary to the indomitable Igbo spirit to swallow any form of indignity, disdain or condescension from anybody or group. It is therefore highly inconceivable that the Igbo will validate a party or group that runs roughshod over its sensibilities. “For the avoidance of doubt, there is hardly any society that can develop amidst crises. Development is a product, an effect that arises from peace, unity and national coherence. On the other hand, the basics of peace, unity and sustainable national development is justice, equity and human dignity. In order words, to expect sustainable economic development rooted in injustice is mere shadow chasing. This is an irrepressible scientific, philosophical, historical and moral assertion that may be ignored at one’s peril,” Ohaneze stated. While urging all the Igbo presidential aspirants to remain focused and undaunted because of the PDP shenanigans, Ohaneze noted that history will always vindicate the just.