The National Population Commission (NPC) has raised alarm over the low rate of compliance to birth registration in Ebonyi State. The Commission explained that the high level of illiteracy, and poor funding account for the situation. Director NPC, Ebonyi State, Mrs Julia Manyike made the disclosure in an interview with our Correspondent in Abakaiki, Ebonyi State capital. She however noted that the Commission had made appreciable progress with the registration of under 1 and under 5 years old children through support from the government, UNICEF and other donor agencies. The NPC Director noted that the NPC had signed a Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) with the State’s Ministry of Health, Local Government and the Education Ministry. Manyike explained that “We have undertaken mop up birth registration during MNCHWEngagement and trained Adhoc Registrars called ‘Notifiers’ sponsored by the Ebonyi State government in 2012. The most recent engagement was the one-day stakeholders’ engagement for collaborative and improved birth registration service delivery in Ebonyi State on 13th October 2022 at Abakaliki”. Mr Victor Atuchukwu, Child Protection Specialist, UNICEF, Enugu Office explained that birth registration is recognized by the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD, 2014) as the continuous, permanent, compulsory, and universal recording of the occurrence and characteristics of births, as provided by decree or regulation in accordance with the legal requirements in each country, basically the permanent and official recording of a child’s existence, and is a requisite part of civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) system. “As provided in the Nigeria Constitution, according to the Births and Deaths (Compulsory Registration) Act Number 69 of 1992, registration of births and deaths is compulsory in all cases in Nigeria. The National Population Commission has the mandate, and is responsible for registering these important events nationwide (NPC 1992)”, he stated. POLL “Birth registration provides legal and documentary evidence to certify a person’s existence, age, parentage, birthplace and nationality, enables a person’s eligibility for health care, admission into school, voting, obtaining a passport, employment, marriage, etc., helps to check incidences of child abuse, child trafficking, early marriages, child labour, unlawful detention etc., helps to maintain records of births/deaths certificates, and provides the legal evidence to the inheritance of property and the rights of surviving spouses to remarry. “Most importantly, birth registration is critical for the Nigerian child’s survival, health, education, social services initiatives and development goals. Simply put, birth registration is the Passport to Protection for Every Child”. Atuchukwu noted that “Nigeria Demographic Health Survey (NDHS 2018), revealed that only 43% of children under age 5 have their births registered with the civil authorities, with only 22% of those having a birth certificate. Among the 43% of children under age 5 that are registered, only 62% are registered with the responsible authority – National Population Commission. “The proportion of children whose births were registered has increased since 2013, from 30% (NDHS, 2013) to 43% (NDHS, 2018). Birth registration under the National Population Commission has also increased also, from 57% (NDHS, 2013) to 62% (NDHS, 2018). “The percentage of children registered with the National Population Commission is higher in urban areas (64%) than in rural areas (60%). Across the states, registration of births under the commission is highest in Delta (99%) and lowest in Adamawa (20%)”. As it concerns Ebonyi state, he said, “The NDHS 2018 revealed that only 28.5% of under-5 children had their births registered, with only 18.1% having a birth certificate. NDHS 2018 also revealed that only 85.8% (of the total 28.5% under-5 children registered) had their births registered by the responsible authority (National Population Commission) – while the others had their births registered by local government administration (0.8%), private clinic/hospital (9.8%), and other authorities (3.6%)”. “Over the years, with government leadership and support from UNICEF, National Population Commission Ebonyi State have made some progress with the registration of under 1 and under 5 children through the signing of Memorandum of Understanding and collaboration with the Health and Education sectors, capacity building and designation of health facilities and staff for birth registration service delivery, integration of ad hoc birth registration campaigns and mop-up activities during enumeration area demarcation (EAD) exercises, continued sensitization at community and media levels”. When Daily Independent visited some communities in Ishielu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, which is said to have the lowest level of compliance with birth registration it was discovered that many of the inhabitants of the agrarian communities did not know about the birth registration or did not know or believe that it is important to them. A woman who gave her name as Agnes Nworie said she had seen some people who came to their house for the registration but that it was not a reason for her to have not gone to her farm where she had prepared to go to when they came. Mr Benard Okafor explained that it is taboo in his community to count the number of children a man has. Even when told of some of the benefits, he said it was for politicians, noted that they had many times been made to waste their time without any promises being fulfilled. A number of respondents who said that they had already registered their children’s birth said that the local government authorities, NPC gave them talks on the essence of birth registration.