“Oh, not another Monday again!” Anthony exclaimed. After an extended weekend of fun and relaxation, he wasn’t ready for another day of work, not to talk about another week of work. “Why do we even work?” he queried. “Can we not do without work and working? Must I even go to work today? Can they not do without me?” He asked himself. Thinking of taking the day off, he changed his mind and sluggishly and unhappily drove off to work. He muttered to himself, “I can’t wait to escape the bondage of work!” Have you ever felt like Anthony? We all have! And there are many people like Anthony in today’s workplace; they do not know the reason for work or have somehow forgotten why they work. As a peak performance consultant and leadership coach, I have had the privilege of speaking to thousands from the front lines to the C-suites in different countries. I have heard stories of so many “Anthonys” during my speaking engagements. I think they can broadly be divided into three. The first group are those who do not like to work. A Nigerian CEO once told me this story in one African country. He informed me that his people are a peculiar group. For example, someone would call in sick on a Friday and not come to work. But if the organisation is having a TGIF party that day, the same person would show up at the TGIF party, and you would be amazed at their energy on the dance floor. And you cannot sanction them because they are protected by their labour laws. The second group are those who, although they are at work, are just lazy. They are more like timekeepers and clock watchers. They cannot wait for the closing bell to leave the office. While at work, they are busy with other things not related to their primary assignment. They are physically present but emotionally detached from their jobs. The final group are those who started with enthusiasm but, over time, have lost their excitement. Work is now just a chore. Perhaps it has to do with the organisational environment or a poor line manager; whatever may be the reason, they need to recapture the essence of working. I hope the series will provide some insights into the reasons for work and help you recapture the essence of working. In this chapter, I will address six reasons why we work and should work with our hearts: 1. Work is the Womb of Greatness Greatness is intricately tied to work as nobody ever achieved greatness outside the realm of work—whatever that work is. I am yet to see someone who truly became great without working. Why? Because every success achieved without working is fleeting at best. POLL True success can only be accomplished and sustained through work. Do you know anyone of these names: Tiger Woods, Michael Jordan, Elon Musk, Serena Williams, Don Moen, Bill Gates, Jackie Chan, Nelson Mandela, or Mother Theresa? How did they become famous? By the quality and the impact of their work. Whether it is music, ministry, or medicine, you will only become known when your work announces you before your world. As it were, the quality of your work becomes your herald and advocate going ahead of you to speak and campaign for you. And can I say this? Excellent work has no ethnic or religious affiliations or colourations. Whether you are a Christian, Muslim, Buddhist or Atheist, nobody cares as long as you deliver excellent work. Have you ever boarded an aeroplane and asked about the religious beliefs of the pilot? No. You want a competent pilot and not a religious fanatic. Excellent work also transcends national boundaries. Whether you are in Africa, Asia, Europe, or America is irrelevant. What people want in today’s workplaces are excellent people. People become great through work and nothing else. I am yet to see someone who became great outside the realm of work or who became great and said, “I slept my way to greatness.” People become great because they work their way to greatness. Although luck might have played a part in their success stories, they knew how to ride their luck by working. Without developing a great work ethic, you cannot become great. Henry Longfellow rightly observed, “The heights by [which] great men reached and kept were not attained by sudden flight, but they, while their companions slept, were toiling upward in the night.” I like the fact that they toiled their way to the top. It means that there is nothing like effortless success. Success requires work. Therefore, I see every opportunity to work as a thread in the tapestry of my personal greatness. It is an opportunity to rewrite my success story and create my own luck. And so should you. Running from work or doing a shoddy job is the highway to a life condemned to mediocrity and ignominy. A healthy work ethic is necessary for success. Mahatma Gandhi noted that wealth without work is one of the seven deadliest sins of humanity. Don’t be caught in that trap. To succeed, you must work. The ancient admonition still holds for successful people, “Six days shall thou work…” It has often been said that the dictionary is the only place where success comes before work. Successful people know that work is the womb of greatness and the channel through which great individuals are born into the world. This excerpt is taken from Chapter w of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.