LAGOS – Finchglow Travels, Nigeria’s travel management company has been conferred with the awards of the ‘Overall Best Seller in 2021’ by British Airways, the United Kingdom carrier. This is as the company has unveiled plans to expand its services to Kano State from May 2022. Mr. Bankole Bernard, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Finchglow Travels, said that the award was the testament to the company’s commitment to excellence and delivery of quality service. Bernard in a statement by Olamide Oni, the Public Relations Executive, Finchglow Holdings, in receiving the award, expressed delight at the recognition, stressing that the travel company remained the best in the industry and dedicated it to its clients. He said: “We are thrilled to have further proof that Finchglow Travels is the best in this industry and it is with great pleasure that I dedicate this award to our esteemed customers, and staff who made this possible. “We have worked with British Airways for close to 13 years as a trade partner and over the years, the experience has been fruitful. We look forward to doing more business with the British Airways team; we reassure our esteemed customers and trade partners of our unwavering commitment to excellence.” Presenting the award, to Bernard Mr. Moran Birger and Mrs. Adetutu Otuyalo, the Head of Sales, British Airways, South Asia, Middle East and Africa and the Country Manager, British Airways, respectively, said that Finchglow Travels performed excellently in the past year and remained a top partner to the airline. They said that they looked forward to more cordial relationship with the airline in 2022. POLL Finchglow Travels was also recently named the ‘Highest Selling Agency to London’ and ‘Best Performing Agent in Nigeria’ by British Airways. Meanwhile, Bernard explained that the travel company would from May 2022 expand its services to Kano. Bernard noted that the expansion was in line with the company’s goal to grow across Nigeria and Africa. Mr Ezekiel Ikotun, the General Manager, Sales and Operations at Finchglow Travels, reiterated that the company was determined to reduce the burden of travel management services on travellers, which he said would continue to propel its expansion across different states in Nigeria and the region. “Finchglow Travels has been in existence since 2006 and within that period we already have 8 offices across Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. We will continue to expand in line with our set vision. We have built a solid reputation and we have continued to soar by adopting excellence as our watchword,” Ikotun added