Barr (Mrs) Vera Ndanusa, the President National Association of Women Entrepreneur (NAWE) and national coordinator Development Research and Projects Centre (DRPC) coalition, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about ways women can contribute to national development through involvement in policy making, among others. Excerpts: The National Association of Women Entrepreneur was inaugurated in April 1993, to empower women through skills development, capacity building policy reform etcetera. How has this objective been met especially among your members? To a very large extent it has opened the floodgate for women. The association has been able to empower women to the extent that we began to have women as Ministers, Senators and business giants in the country. It has helped to build confidence in women. To a large extent the rights of women have been protected. Women are beginning to be aware of who they are, it has reduced, though not totally eradicated gender based violence and economic exclusion. Our association has produced political office holders, Ministers, Senators, House of Representatives members, so these women have broken the barrier to go into strictly men dominated areas. We have done so well that is why today you can see so many associations trying to replicate what we are doing. One of the focus points of the National Development Plan (NDP) put up by this government to cover 2021 to 2025, is that small and medium scale businesses will be supported by advanced financial institutions and favourable trade policies. What are your thoughts about the plan? To some extent, yes, however, the plan is not holistic; it is not holistic in the sense that there are still gaps between the policies and implementation. A communication gap is still there between the grassroots women and the initiators of the plan, even though gender gaps need to be closed, they need a holistic approach in delivering this. At least we are glad that we have been captured in the 2021 to 2025 NDP, even before the plan we have issues of gender gaps that have not been properly addressed. POLL I want to believe that it is because the government has not taken the issue of gender gaps seriously. If they can take that issue seriously it will improve our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to above 20 percent.. You have stories that money has been domiciled in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Ministry of Trade and Industry, Bank of Industry (BOI), how much of this money has been accessed by those it is meant for? Not much, because there are certain gaps in the implementation. There is concern that women don’t always benefit from Women Economic Empowerment (WEE) projects. Records have it that out of the 645 WEE projects in 2021 budget, only 118 that is, about 18 percent are specifically targeted at women. What do you think can be done to prevent all of that? There should be synergy between the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). You can hear money is domiciled in some Ministries and Departments, and you see them duplication duties. There is no proper coordination. The Ministry of Women Affairs can supervise these programmes, It can do it in collaboration with stakeholders like us. These funds should be monitored from the different Ministries so that women can access them. We can also create room to assess the impact it is having on women. It is because we don’t monitor and we don’t evaluate that we don’t know the impact such interventions are having on women. There is no data, so we really need somebody that can maintain all these things warehoused in one Ministry, maybe the Ministry Trade and the Ministry of Women Affairs can supervise these funds. If we do that the women will be better for it and at the end of the day it will impact on the economy of the country. If women are not included the future of such an economy will not be sustainable. Empowerment of women will impact positively on the nation’s economy. It has been proven that there is a link between insecurity, poverty and the ability of women to contribute to the nation’s economic development because women and children are usually at the receiving end during emergencies and as such are vulnerable, the Minister of Women Affairs. Mrs. Pauline Tallen few days ago was advocating for women inclusion in mediation, peacekeeping and fighting insecurity. What are your thoughts? It is true that women suffer most when there is war or insecurity. Women are mothers, their children are killed and their husbands are killed, so women very often suffer most that is why we have a lot of widows in Nigeria. Women have been at the receiving end, and as the saying goes, ‘he who wears the shoe knows where it pinches’ the woman who is the one suffering knows how to prevent such an occurrence in future. Women have the innate ability to think emotionally and rationally. Men most often don’t think emotionally, though some people will see emotion as hindrance but I see it as an advantage. God has deposited something in women that is not in men. Women will be looking at your face and her intuition will be telling her what you are thinking. Every woman has something that a man doesn’t have and that is why they can bear children. This ability goes beyond just bearing children. It is for the same reason that a women will give birth to eleven children, they will all grow up in peace and still love themselves. If you see a family that is not together, probably there is no woman in that home. It is good to include women in peacekeeping missions because they can do better, they will bring in feminine touch into certain issues. Insecurity can be tied to poverty because if a woman is empowered definitely her children will be educated. They will have the best of health. We talked about terrorism; we talked about banditry, how many educated children are among the terrorists? If you look at the repentant Boko Haram, you will see that they are not educated. If a woman is educated, empowered, she will make sure that her children have a better future. If a woman is empowered there will be a safe country. No empowered woman will allow her children to be roaming about the street. An empowered woman will know when the child ought to be at home, in school etcetera. An empowered woman will have a voice; a poverty ridden woman has no voice. If you cannot fend for the child, he will go out, steal and bring food to the house and you cannot control such a child because he will probably become a vagabond. Do you think that engaging women to help their male counterparts in policy formulation can assist in addressing some of the challenges in the country? Women are very active in the informal sector like the small businesses. Over 50 percent of female entrepreneurs are in the informal sector but policies to grow that sector are not done by women. When you are in the formal sector you become a decision maker. How many women are decision makers? H0w many women have been promoted to that top level? In agriculture women represent only 13 percent of land owners, while over 60 percent of women are involved in agriculture, yet only 13 percent of them are land owners. Women also suffer workforce discrimination. Some of these things are the things that have excluded us. There is an international report that says that if women are included economically, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will grow by 23 percent. I don’t know if it is the political will that is lacking. Imagine what happened recently concerning gender parity, it is so unfortunate that in the 21st century with all the advocacy that has been going on, at this time and age, the National Assembly discarded the bill on women and one of those bills is the 35 percent derivative for women. The repercussions for gender inequality are enormous.