LAGOS – Nigerians aspiring for political offices in the 2023 general elections have been advised to seek God first for Divine direction in order to lead the citizens right when they are finally elected. District Superintendent, Apostolic Faith Church, West and Central Africa (WECA), Rev Isaac Adigun, gave the charge while speaking during the 2022 Easter Concert on Sunday in Lagos, themed: “He Lives.” “On the 2023 general elections and those aspiring for political offices, as far as that is concerned, we will be praying for them and we just want them to seek God as well. If they seek God, they will find Him and they will be able to lead us right. Without that, I don’t think we have any other way of escape,” Adigun added. Speaking on how to end the challenges facing Nigeria including insecurity, poor power supply, and banditry, among others, Adigun said “Hope for the country is the same as the one that is given to the Christians, there is no separate hope. “The only hope we have is the one that the Christians believe in and that is Jesus Christ, He is the only answer. If the whole country would line up with what is expected of Christians, that will be better. So there is no difference. They just have to be sure that they too accept Jesus as their personal Lord and Savior just as the Christians have done. That is the only hope, there is no other option.” Commending the Federal Government for its various measures put in place to check banditry, insecurity, among others, facing Nigerians, the District superintendent said: “Honestly speaking, the Federal Government may be trying to provide solutions to the problems, but the ultimate solution is when we allow God to take perfect control of our hearts and of that of every individual. Things will change.” He advised Christians and people worldwide to be cognizant of the theme: “He Lives,” adding: “That is the message that we want to pass across to everyone across the world. Since Jesus lives, we live and if we allow the Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead to dwell in us; even if we die, we will also rise with Him.” POLL On his Easter message, Adigun said: “We must believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, that He came, He died, and was buried and rose up for our justification. If we believe and pray to Him to have mercy upon our souls, He will save us from our sins and give us a change of heart, the results of which all the issues plaguing our nation will be taken care of. That is when our hearts are cleansed and we live a righteous life.” Also at the event, the Music Director, Choir and Orchestra of the church, Dotun Ewunmi, said that with praise to God, burdens will be lifted from the people, especially when they turn from their evil ways. “With God, all things are possible. In the scripture, when people had problems and they turned themselves over to God in prayer, He also turned their situations into joy,” Ewunmi added. He noted that in the case of Nigeria, “We are not losing hope. When we believe in the Living God who rules in the affairs of men and we sincerely turn to Him, He will turn our captivity. In Nigeria, God will turn our captivity to good. “When Nigerians praise God, His Spirit comes down to intervene in the affairs of men.” On what can be done to check the trend of circular music in Nigeria, Ewunmi said that the Apostolic Faith Church picks only messages and songs that edify the souls not just anyhow music. While advising Nigerians to return to God, and the youths taught the Word of God, the music director said: “With this, banditry, kidnapping and others will become a thing of the past if the youth embrace the Word of God. “They should fear God and embrace His Word, and He will also turn to us.”