LAGOS – The Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) has petitioned the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) over the alleged involvement of Nigerian Army personnel in private haulage and logistics business using military facilities. The association, in the letter dated March 31, 2022 and titled ‘Petition Against The Involvement Of The Nigerian Army Personnel In Private Haulage And Logistics Business Using Military Facilities (i.e Trucks And Garages)’, COMTUA, urged the CDS to help to restore sanity back to its business. According to the petition signed by Barrister Temilorun F. Komolafe, COMTUA’s Director of Legal, the group stated: “There has been a series of continuous and unfavourable events perpetrated by some personnel of the Nigerian Army at the Apapa and Tin Can Ports, which in diverse ways, have affected our business and which has been ongoing for many years.” It complained that Army personnel had been engaging in its private business, the haulage business, which it maintained should not be so. COMTUA stated: “That Army personnel are now constantly on the road, determining which truck should be allowed access into the port in the interest of their own private business or personal interest, which is, owning a private haulage business. “On several occasions, they violate the time-belt and bypass usual protocols of the port. Oftentimes, the drivers who drive these Army-colored trucks, are Army personnel themselves, dressed in Army uniforms, whose business in the ports and terminals is for private gains. “It is in the guile of being painted the Army colour, that these trucks used for personal business, gain access into the port before any other truck can have the opportunity to go into the port. “This, in many ways, has killed our business, as, during a typical 24-hour period, Army coloured trucks are allowed access to and from the port countless times in a day, while our trucks remain on the queue during this period. POLL “Military personnel are now found on the road as members of the task force team on traffic in order to enable free and easy passage of the camouflaged painted trucks which are going into the port for private business. “The Army now has a garage, NAPL (Nigerian Army Park Limited) at Mile 2 Lagos, for the purpose of sustaining their continued dominance of our private business. “Since the continuous dominance of the Army in our private business, which has resulted in difficulty to access the ports, our business has been badly affected and our finances have hit rock bottom.” The group, in the petition, referred to the provisions of the Federal Government Public Service Rules 2008 Chapter 2, Schedule 2, which stated that “…any person engaged in public service shall not directly or indirectly engage in business…” The group maintained that it had been a constant practice of the Army personnel, when their actions were questioned, “to always assault our members and inflict physical harm.” It added: “Most recently, one Mr. Collins Dike, the National Organising Secretary of our Council, was physically assaulted after he had challenged the need for some trucks painted the Army colour to gain access into the port freely and engage in private business thereby enjoying undue favouritism and nepotism to the detriment of our members and business. “This is contrary to the provisions of Sections 55, 93 and 104 of the Armed Forces Act of 1994 against disorderly behaviour, disgraceful conduct and assault respectively. “Sir, it is worthy of note that we have lodged a series of complaints to the necessary bodies and leadership of the Nigerian Army before writing this petition to you. It will be of great privilege if you look fully into this and come to our aid. “Thank you for your usual cooperation as we look forward to getting these issues resolved.”