The taxpayer perception survey that was conducted by the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) for 2021 has indicated that only about 13 per cent of Nigerian taxpayers, especially workers in the informal sector of the Nigerian economy are not likely to evade payment of tax in Nigeria. According to the report, “ a larger portion of workers in the sector, 83 per cent are likely to evade tax payments because they do not believe that tax authorities have the right to make people pay taxes”. The survey revealed the distrust between the citizen and government. The size of the informal sector in Nigeria, the report revealed, is estimated at about 65 per cent, accounting for significant portion of employment and national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the economy. “Ubiquitous official corruption, resulting in widespread poverty and infrastructure deficit created lack of confidence in government. “The social contract between the government and its citizens – represented by the quality of public services and the public’s willingness to pay or evade taxes. Perceived weak social contract between citizens and the government continues to threaten legitimacy of taxation”, the report revealed. The survey by the governors forum also revealed that poor collaboration between the state revenue services and identity management ministries, departments and agencies; institutional capacity constraints due to inadequate funding and professional staffing to deliver on mandate; lack of standard operating procedures and processes guiding operations of SIRSs and their zonal/area offices, and proliferation of private contractors/ consultants for same revenue items were responsible for the poor tax compliance level in Nigeria. The report urged the authorities to strengthen the perverse social contract to build tax legitimacy, ensure certainty around tax laws, promote administrative efficiency and harness the new shadow economy and strengthen taxpayer enumeration. POLL Mr Lanre Ajogbasil senior programme manager, NGF/SFTAS , it would be recalled, while speaking at a recent workshop that was organised by the national coordinating office of the Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) for financial journalists in Abuja, said weak transparency and accountability by Federal Government and States internal revenue services; misunderstood tax law(s) and incomplete revenue codes and multiplicity of taxation system, fees, levies and charges are some of the factors responsible for the distrust.