LAGOS – In a move to ensure Nigeria stands among emerging market countries with standard infra­structure, the Infrastructure Cor­poration of Nigeria (InfraCorp) officially took off yesterday with the official signing of Term Sheet with four not able independent as­set managers. The companies who have concluded the initial discussions on how they will operate together to deliver infrastructure to the country are AAA Consortium, Chapel Hill Denham, Africa In­frastructure Investment Manag­ers here in Nigeria and Sanlam Infraworks. Chairman of the company and Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN), Godwin Emefiele, acknowledged the fellow promoters like the Africa Finance Cor­poration (AFC) and the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) as well as fellow board members like the Debt Manage­ment Office (DMO) and the inde­pendent non-executive directors; and the Presidency. He said, “As we meet here today to witness the signing of the Term Sheet between Infra­Corp and the Independent Asset Managers, I think it necessary to bring attendees up to speed on the journey here. Afew months after the administration was returned in 2019, after the signing of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), Mr. Pres­ident issued a challenge to the Banking and Finance Sectors. He challenged us to partner with him in his Infrastructure Trans­formation Agenda to deliver the foundation of national assets for sustainable economic growth. No sooner was the challenge accept­ed, thantheextraordinaryevents of 2020 took a hold over our indi­vidual, national and global lives. “We have worked now for almost 18 months trying to put this together. We are happy that we have reached a stage where we are signing the term sheet between InfraCorp and our four assets managers. The first phase of this financing is to raise N14 trillion debt plus N1 trillion equity, which is being contributed by the CBN, AFC and NSIA. “From today, as we are un­veiling InfraCorp to Nigeria, we are confident that the funding of N15 trillion is available. We have done our scoping. We believe that a substantial portion of the N15 trillion is a vailable locally. Thereis a lot of liquidity today not just in thebankingindustry; thereisalot of liquidity that is currently held by our pension funds managers. I understand from the last count that the size of Nigeria pension fund is over N13 trillion. I am told that in another three to five years Nigerian pension assets will rise to almost N20 to N25 trillion. In other countries where infrastructurecorporationshave workedpensionsfundshavebeen used to develop infrastructure of those countries.”