Bala Mohammed Campaign Organization has berated those criticising the endorsement of their principal as the best presidential aspirant endorsed by the Northern PDP Leaders ahead of the 2023 general election. It could be recalled that the Northern leaders had shortlisted the former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed in the interim, ahead of the PDP primary scheduled for May 28, 2022. Explaining why the two aspirants were adopted, the PDP Northern leaders, in a communique signed by Prof. Ango Abdullahi, said it was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North-Central and one from the North-East are to be presented as Northern Presidential candidates. The communique had read in part: “For the purpose of this exercise, it is hereby resolved that Gov. Bala Mohammad from the North-East and former Senate President Bukola Saraki from the North-Central be presented as the Northern consensus candidates for the moment. “It was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North-Central and one from the North-East are to be presented as Northern Presidential candidates. “The two would, in turn, be required to make further concessions so that in the end, one of them would be presented as the consensus candidate, out of the four that presented themselves from the North.” However, the spokesman of the campaign organization, Prof. Udenta 0 Udenta Chairman, in a statement on Sunday said, “We, therefore, reject the current insinuations in the media from some quarters that purport that Gen Babangida and the elders either did not consult very widely or imposed a decision on an unwilling band of presidential aspirants. “Gen Babangida and elders deserve nothing but commendation for the conclusions they reached and the outcome of the consensus exercise by anybody, who believes in the tenets of truth, honour and integrity. Political ambition should not and cannot be a condition precedent to cast overboard these time-honoured verities and inviolable norms and ask those who are desecrating these values to have a sober rethink. POLL “The Sen. Bale Mohammed Campaign Organization will not join issues with anybody on the question of the consensus arrangement because the truth needs no further protection from its traducers but will rather press on in rallying the nation around its progressive ‘Nigeria First’ Governance Vision on the heels of the successful execution of the Consensus Arrangement. “The Campaign Organization, however, advises all those who are not happy with the result of the selection process or who did not participate in it to focus on their individual political trajectories without let or hindrance and not muddy the political waters any further. “Let us clear to the millions of members and supporters of the PDP that the Consensus Arrangement was not designed as an end in itself but as means to an end; not as a goal with a limited regional vision or appeal but first in the series of processes and exercises aimed at building inclusiveness, harmony and unity within the ranks of the Presidential Aspirants in the PDP. “It’s on record that the participants in the process toured the whole country together and reached out to critical political stakeholders in the party including its elected governors to explain the meaning and purpose of the arrangement and to seek their buy-in into the process if possible. “It is commendable that South East Presidential aspire have also acceded to this mode! and we wish them success in their current endeavours in this regard. “The Sen. Bala Mohammed Presidential Campaign Organization believes strongly that the search for consensus, unity, solidarity and shared vision among the PDP presidential aspirants is a worthy move and a patriotic venture that aims at reducing unnecessary tension, acrimony and unhealthy diatribe among competitors and restore back to our politics the culture of reaching common ground, the reduction of the politics of bitterness and the respect of all shades of political opinion. “Even if the process doesn’t secure all of its set goals at the end of the day, meaning that every aspirant participates in the Presidential primaries. It would have imbibed in all aspirants the culture of placing the group above the self in the party’s shared vision of the future and in accepting the very results of the primary election. “For the avoidance of doubt, Sen. Bala Mohammed will build on the success of the Consensus Arrangement and unfold his grand “Nigeria First” Governance Vision in the coming days and weeks.”