RAJI ADEBAYO, KAZEEM AWOJOODU IBADAN – The death of Alaafin Lamidi Ad­eyemi III on Friday has continued to attract a flood of tributes across the country. The monarch is the third prominent Oba to have died in Oyo State in less than five months. The Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Okadunni Oyewumi, died on December 12, 2021; the late Olubadan of Ibadan, died on January 2, 2022, and the Alaafin died on April 22. Also, the Asigangan of Igangan, Oba Abdul-Azeez Adewuyi, died in Decem­ber 2021 and the monarch of Ikoyi town in Oriire Local Government Area of Oyo State, Oba Abdulyekeen Ayinla, died in April 2022. Among those who paid the late Alaafin tributes on Saturday was another prom­inent Yoruba Oba, Oba Enitan Ogunwu­si, Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife; former Nigerian leader, Olusegun Obasanjo; the Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere, state governors and others. A delegation of the Oyo State Govern­ment on Saturday paid a condolence visit to family members and associates of the late Alaafin of Oyo, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III. The delegation, led by the state’s Com­missioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Chief Bayo Lawal, described Alaafin’s death as a great loss to Oyo State and Nigeria in general. POLL A statement by the Chief Press Sec­retary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted the Commissioner as stating that the late Alaafin was a valuable asset to the state and that the vacuum created by his death would be difficult to fill. Lawal prayed to God to give Oyo people an Alaafin like the late monarch, saying: “On behalf of the governor, we wish to commiserate with the family on the de­mise of the great Monarch. “Sincerely, this is a great loss to us, as we will sorely miss him. He has been a valuable asset and it will be difficult to fill the vacuum he has left behind. But we be­lieve that sooner or later, God will give us another great person like him.” Speaking on the burial arrangements, the Commissioner said that the govern­ment would follow due process and see to it that the royal icon is given a befitting burial. He said: “It is too early to say any­thing right now about subsequent plans on burial arrangements from the side of the government. It just happened and time is not on our side. We are still going to follow due process in ensuring that everything is done perfectly.” Shops Deserted, Market Shut In Oyo The remains of Alaafin, popularly known as ‘Iku Baba Yeye, were laid to rest on Saturday within the premises of the palace, barely a day after he was certified dead in a hospital in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. Following the announcement of his demise, Islamic rites were conducted on the body of the late Alaafin, signal­ling the beginning of his final journey home. Islamic clerics led by the Chief Imam of Oyo town were joined by members of the family of the late traditional ruler and some of his chiefs to offer prayers for the repose of his soul.Our corre­spondent reported that the palace was crowded and Oyo Indigenes in their hundreds were sighted inside the pal­ace, while those who didn’t access to the palace stayed outside. Roadside shops, market, the Ake­san shopping complex, some filling stations, especially those closer to the palace, were under lockd, while some traders were seen at the entrance of their shops and warehouses. The Palace spokesperson, Bode Duro­jaye, while confirming the death of the monarch, said: “Alaafin is dead. Details in due course.” It was gathered that the octogenar­ian monarch died on Friday night in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, after a brief illness. Another source inside the palace confirmed the death of the traditional ruler. The monarch, who clocked 83 years on October 15, was reportedly receiving treatment at the Afe Babalola Universi­ty Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti, where he gave up the ghost, after reigning for 52 years, the longest reign of any Alaa­fin of Oyo. The remains of one of the foremost traditional rulers in the country were said to have been brought back to Oyo Immediately. Biography Alaafin Lamidi Adeyemi III was born on October 15, 1938, into the Alowolodu Royal House, Oyo, Oyo State. He succeeded Alaafin Gbadegesin Ladigbolu II in 1970, during the admin­istration of Colonel Robert Adeyinka Adebayo, after the end of the Nigerian Civil War. He was a lover of boxing, as he was a boxer and had to retire before ascend­ing the throne of his Fathers. In 1975, then head of state, General Murtala Ramat Muhammed, included Oba Adeyemi in his entourage to the Hajj. He was Chancellor of Uthman Dan Fodiyo University in Sokoto from 1980 to 1992. He was also appointed Chancellor of the University of Maiduguri in 2015. And other two foreign institutions. In 1990, President Ibrahim Baban­gida appointed him Amir-ul-Hajj, in recognition of his commitment to the consolidation of Islam in Nigeria. On May 3, 2011, the outgoing Oyo State governor, Late Adebayo Alao-Akala, announced that the Alaa­fin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, was no longer Permanent Chairman of the Council of Obas and Chiefs in Oyo State. The state government passed a law that introduced rotation of the office of Chairman between the Alaafin and his two rivals, the Olubadan of Ibadan­land and the Soun of Ogbomoso. He was married to Ayaba Abibat Ad­eyemi, his senior wife, with whom he attended most events or with one of the twelve junior wives that he also had. His other wives were Ayaba Rahmat Adedayo Adeyemi, Ayaba Mujidat Ad­eyemi, Ayaba Rukayat Adeyemi, Aya­ba Folashade Adeyemi, Ayaba Badi­rat Ajoke Adeyemi, Ayaba Memunat Omowunmi Adeyemi, Ayaba Omobo­lanle Adeyemi, Ayaba Moji Adeyemi, Ayaba Anuoluwapo Adeyemi, and Aya­ba Damilola Adeyemi. The late Alaafin had several children but the number could not be ascertained as at press time.