IBADAN – The State Coordinator of Seyi Makinde political support group under the aegis of Seyi Makinde Agenda Actualization Team (SMAAT), Comrade Saka Moshood Olawale who was an Oyo State House of Assembly aspirant has declared his full support for the adopted Oyo East/West PDP consensus candidate and the party. Moshood also reaffirmed the commitment of SMAAT Group to Governor Seyi Makinde ahead of the forthcoming 2023 general election. Moshood officially commenced the actualization of his political aspiration to contest as a member of the Oyo State House of Assembly having purchased the party’s Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms to represent Oyo East/West State constituency in the forthcoming 2023 general election. The House of Assembly aspirant made this known today in a message made available to newsmen today April 6, reaffirming his group’s commitment to the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state towards the success of the party in the forthcoming 2023 general election. Moshood, who is the Special Assistant on Energy and Natural Resources to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state also declared his unwavering loyalty to the Governor saying that there is always a time to play politics and a time to focus on moving on from the outcome of politicking. According to the Governor’s aide, no personal interest or political ambition is bigger than the party stressing that politics should never at this age and time be played like a donor die affair. Moshood who commended Governor Makinde for his leadership style and his all-inclusive approach to the decision-making process also commended the leadership of PDP in the state particularly, in Oyo East/West State constituency noting that two persons can not occupy a single position at the same time. This, newsmen gathered, is coming on the heels of the outcome of the consensus arrangements adopted by the leadership of PDP in Oyo state towards selecting party candidates to fly the PDP flag at the 2023 general election. POLL “I want to use this medium to thank my leader, our leader, not only in Oyo state but in the entire southwest region, His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde for his continued support for me personally and the SMAAT Group in the state. “I want to make it unequivocally clear that we are more than ever before ready to set machinery in motion towards ensuring the success of Seyi Makinde agenda for 2023. “We have done this before in 2019 and we are going to do it again even with a bigger and better results because Seyi Makinde has shown us the light and is leading us through the path of total emancipation, no going back on this path that we have chosen with the God sent man. “Very soon, a meeting of the SMAAT Group will be convened for us to design a strategic roadmap to successfully prosecuting the coming general election in 2023. All the local government Coordinators will be in attendance and soon we will make our plans known to His Excellency. “I am particularly grateful to our leaders, elders and party stakeholders in Oyo East and West State constituency for being resolute and firm in their decision. It means when another time comes when they decide to throw their political weight behind me or another aspirant in such strong spirit, one can be very confident of his political success while congratulating the adopted consensus PDP candidate from my state constituency, I want to reassure everyone especially my party leaders and elders, of my full support and commitment to the success of our candidate and PDP in the forthcoming election. “Although, it was painful but I understand this is politics and there will always be another time to try again because our party is greater and larger than any one individual interest including myself,” Moshood stated.