Anambra State governor, Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo received in audience, today, Saturday, April 30, 2022, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and Chairman Nigeria Governors’ Forum at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia. Governor Fayemi, on behalf of the Nigeria Governor’s Forum, congratulated Governor Chukwuma Charles Soludo on his assumption of office and, becoming a member of the Forum. He described Governor Soludo as a valuable asset to the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. Fayemi also commended Soludo for the positive steps he has taken so far on his assumption of office. The Ekiti State Governor and Chairman Nigeria Governors’ Forum disclosed that he had been following with keen interest, Soludo’s activities in Anambra State since he assumed duty as the governor of Anambra. Governor Fayemi further noted that Anambra had been relatively lucky with the progressive governors. POLL He expressed optimism that Soludo would do well for the people of Anambra State. Responding, Governor Soludo disclosed that Dr. Kayode Fayemi had been his friend predating their current positions as governors. He spoke on the need for the Progressives to form a coalition in moving the country forward, while also developing the human capital as the foundation for nation-building Governor Soludo also commended Dr Fayemi for his sterling leadership at the Nigeria Governor’s Forum, emphasising the need for all to work together in moving the country forward He expressed his appreciation to the visitor for his keen interest and massive support since he came on board at the Nigeria Governor’s Forum and as Anambra State Governor Professor Soludo reiterated that Anambra and Ekiti share several similarities in common, especially in the area of human capital, adding that Anambra is a commercial hub with the potential to become the industrial and entertainment hub, building on the foundations of his predecessors. On the entourage of Governor Fayemi include: Hon Chinedu Eluemuno, Hon Tolu Ibitola, Deputy Chief of Staff; Hon Yinka Oyebode, Chief Press Secretary; Hon Makinde Araoye, Special Adviser on Federal Matters While those on his host side include; the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Ernest Ezeajughi, Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Mrs Chiamaka Nnake, Hon Chinedu Nwoye (Glamour), Chief of Protocol and Deputy Chief of Staff among others 