LAGOS – The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) has urged the Federal Government to sanction Chief Medical Directors (CMDs) and Medical Directors (MDs) of Federal Health Institutions(FHIs) for denying Resident pharmacists  use of FHIs for training. Recall that in 2015, the government approved the use of all FHIs in the country as training facilities for Resident Pharmacists in-training at the West African Postgraduates College of Pharmacists (WAPCP) through a circular. Mr. Mathew Ajorutu, acting National Secretary of JOHESU who called for the sanction on behalf of the union in a letter to the Head of Civil Service of the Federation alleged non-compliance by the CMDs and MDs to the circular. The letter, titled, ‘Call for Sanction against CMDs and MDs of Federal Health Institutions,’ addressed to Head of Civil Service of the Federation was made available to Daily Independent on Monday. Specifically, JOHESU in the letter accused some CMDs and MDs of federal hospitals of disrupting post-graduate specialty and skill acquisition of health workers through their non-compliance to circular. The letter partly reads, “It has become imperative to draw the attention of your exalted office to the continuous and undisguised oppression of health workers which disrupting their post-graduate speciality and skill acquisition endeavours by CMDs and MDs of FHIs. “In 2015, the FMoH under the leadership of the Permanent Secretary Mr. Linus Awute mni, approved the use of all FHIs in the country as training facilities for Resident Pharmacists in-training at the WAPCP through a circular. “All the CEOs of FHIs with the backing of the FMoH have sabotaged the residency training circular of Resident Pharmacists,” JOHESU added. POLL The union further alleged, “The few FHIs which allow resident training for Pharmacists charge them exorbitant fees contrary to the enabling circulars.” JOHESU also accused the CMDs and MDs of FHIs for conniving with some key chieftains of the FMoH to frustrate the Consultant Cadre implementation for pharmacists against global standards. Irked by the delayed implementation, the health workers’ union in the letter lamented that the National Council on Establishment (NCE) endorsed Consultant Pharmacist Cadre since 2011, and accused CMDs and MDs of sabotage. The letter further reads, “We also find it necessary to put on record that eleven years after the National Council on Establishment (NCE) endorsed a Consultant Pharmacist Cadre. It first approved the Consultant Pharmacist Cadre in 2011 with all necessary ingredients of due process of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HOCSF) and enabling circular for smooth implementation issued. “The FMoH yet again, in alliance with the Committee of CMDs and MDs of the FHIs have sabotaged the circular which prescribes that graduates of the WAPCP in the Directorate Cadre from CONHESS 13 to 15 be recognised as Consultant Pharmacists in the Public Service. “In what was perceived as very bizzare, the FMoH recently wrote a memo to the NCE asking for further clarifications on the implementation of the Consultant Cadre circular for Pharmacists. “This memo was rejected and thrown out by the NCE which insisted that all necessary steps for implementation of the Consultant Cadre for Pharmacists were already spelt out in the August 2021 Circular of the FMoH,” the letter further read. JOHESU also said, “It is noteworthy that the Permanent Secretary, FMoH in a letter Ref. no. FMH/FDS/CSPTH/1/77 OF March 18, 2021, issued an internal circular to all Heads of Departments, FHIs, Agencies/Parastatals and regulatory bodies directing immediate implementation of the approved scheme, a circular that has continually been flouted by the CMDs and MDs of the FHIs. “In yet another internal circular, Ref. No. FMH/FDS/CSPTH/1/95 of August 2, 2021, while citing precedents in the creation of Cadres in Civil Service, the FMoH ‘Cleared’ the mode of application for the implementation of the Consultant Pharmacists Cadre. “It hinged this on the Fellow of the WAPCP for officers already in the Directorate Cadre or the equivalent of GL.15 and above stating without ambiguity that such officers shall transit to the corresponding GL as Consultant without stepping down any grade. Further, JOHESU was displeased that only the UCH, Ibadan and about two other FHIs as well as the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria have conformed to the circular of the OHCSF and the FMoH to implement the new Consultant Pharmacists Cadre. It said, “Despite the flawless process that engendered the approval of the Consultant Pharmacists Cadre, it remains a sad testimony that only the UCH, Ibadan and about two other FHIs as well as the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria have complied with the circular of the OHCSF and the FMoH to implement the new Consultant Pharmacists Cadre. It is apparent that some key chieftains of the FMoH have colluded with the CEOs of the FHIs to attempt to jeopardize the Pharmacists Cadre. “Government’s apathy and refusal to impose sanctions on the reckless attitude of the CMDs amounts to promoting indiscipline in the service as well as a clear usurpation of the collective authorisation, rights and privileges of Pharmacists and the Generality of all Health Workers in Nigeria,” the union claimed. JOHESU reasoned that the CMDs and MDs as employees of the Federal Government, therefore urging the later to sanction them based on the Public Service Rules (PSR). “We caution yet again that the CMDs and MDs are employees of the Federal Government who should not be allowed to truncate the rights of other employees. “They are not employers of labour, regulatory bodies or autonomous organs of government which dictates what the benefit packages of any group of stakeholders in the Health Sector should or should not be in arithmetical or other known measures. “The HOCSF is called upon to uphold the mode of implementation already clearly and unambiguously documented in the circular Ref. No. FMH/FDS/CSPTH/1/95 of August 2, 2021.  This circular clarified the mode of applicability and full implementation of the Consultant Pharmacists Cadre in Nigeria.” According to the union, the principle is grounded in Lateral Conversion which ensures seniority is maintained and never compromised especially for those already in the directorate cadre. It noted, “All other Pharmacists in the rank of Chief Pharmacists and below who pass the Part II final examinations of the WAPCP will simply advance to the Directorate Cadre subsequently.  All CMDs and MDs who refuse to implement this circular violate the Public Service Rules (PSR). “The Public Service Rules provides the operational framework, the regulatory principles and a charter of rights, privileges and duties of all Public Servants while also detailing what sanctions erring conduct could attract. The action of the CMDs and MDs not to comply with circulars from the office of the HOCSF and FMoH even in the light of recent development at the National Council of Establishment amounts to a “refusal to obey legitimate management instruction” which is an act of Gross Misconduct in absolute and real terms.” JOHESU appealed, “The HOCSF is enjoined to invoke PSR 030301 against all the CMDs and MDs in FHIs immediately so as not to continue to set this ungodly precedence of indiscipline and recklessness in service protocol. “The HOCSF is further encouraged to note that PSR 030301 defines misconduct as a “specific act of wrong-doing or an improper behaviour which is inimical to the image of the service and can be investigated and proved.” “HOCSF ma, the incentive for the various aberrations at the FHIs is catalysed by the apparent inaction/action of the Federal Government to deal decisively with obvious aberrations perpetrated by the CMDs and MDs of the concerned FHIs,” it concluded.