In its efforts to ensure a safety of life and properties across all the nook and cranny of Oyo State, the state Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC), Commandant Adaralewa Micheal has announced the deployment of 2300 personnel to strategic locations across the state. The development was conveyed through a press release by the state public relations officer of the Corps, DSC Okuneye Oyindamola. Oyindamola in a statement made available to journalists in Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo state on Wednesday stressed that Commandant Adaralewa Micheal has deployed two thousand three hundred (2300) personnel of the Corps for this year Eid-il-fitri celebrations. Oyindamola through the statement also noted that Commandant Adaralewa praised the spirit of sacrifice and resilience displayed by the Muslim Faithfuls in the state during the period of Ramadan Fasting. A copy of the statement made available to Daily INDEPENDENT quoted Adaralewa as thus; “The Commandant Congratulates the Muslims on the successful completion of Ramadan and prayed that Allah will bless the immense Sacrifice that are being made.” He urged the Citizens to keep hope alive, and to Celebrate Eid-il-fitri moderately while felicitating with each other. The statement further stressed that Commandant Adaralewa used the medium to enjoin the citizens despite the current unrest across the country to remain grateful to God for the sustenance and unity of the country. He noted that unity of Nigeria should remain paramount on the minds of every Nigerians across all the divides. Adaralewa through the statement gave details of officers and men of the Corps to be deployed as disaster management, Counter Terrorism Unit, Female Special Squad, Agro-Rangers, Armed Squad, CNAI, Intelligence Department, C B R N E Unit among others. He noted that the corps will be position at various Eid praying ground, relaxation centres, malls, pipeline areas, telecommunication mast, and all Federal, State and Local Government properties across Oyo State. POLL Adaralewa also ordered that the Command ambulance should be stationed at the highways incase of any disaster occurrence. Commandant Adaralewa however called on all Divisional Officers to Monitor the activities of their officers and deployed to all the flash spot within their jurisdictions. He also assured residents and citizens of the state of the Command’s readiness to work with other sister agencies in other to secure and protect lives and properties of the good People of Oyo State, before, during and after the Eid-il-Fitri celebration. Commandant Adaralewa Micheal wishes all Muslim Faithfuls Happy Eid-il-Fitri celebration.