Celebrated film director, Lancelot Oduwa Imasuen’s new film, ‘Gbege’ will make its world premiere in Europe in the coming months. According to information, ‘Gbege, The First Son Saga’, a dazzling new production of Imasuen, will open the Nollywood Film festival Germany (NFFG) holding in Frankfurt from 29 to 30 July 2022. Imasuen known to many as D Guvnor is not new to making critically acclaimed films like Invasion 1889, the Issakaba series and many other remarkable films that projected Nollywood. In a release from the festival committee, its organisers, Ehizoya Golden Entertainment detailed the full program of the festival that ‘Gbege’ would show at 5:30 pm at the renowned FilmForum Hochst Cinema, Frankfurt on July 29, 2022. It will be followed by a film from Ghana; ‘Heroes of Africa’ by Frank Fiifi Garbin. The film shows continue on day 2 with the screening of ‘Son of Mercy’ by Amen Imasuen on 30th July 2022. According to information from the festival organisers, “the choice of Gbege out of the many films we pooled is because of its topical content, pictorial quality and all-round excellence”. The highlight of the festival is the Nollywood Europe Golden Awards (NEGA), a grand gala nite and live music concert featuring star artists and performers and other international celebrities. Expected to feature are Aproko, Nollywood stars, Emperor Wadada, Edo Sons of Legends and a host of others. In the words of a spokesperson for Ehizoya Golden Entertainment, “we are poised to make the event an unforgettable nite of celebration because it coincides with the 20 years anniversary of our continuous promotion of African culture in Europe. POLL Also in a recent chat, Imasuen expressed his desire, joy and happiness to premiere ‘Gbege’ in Germany, a country where he “has the most fans”. He said; “I am indeed humbled by the selection of my film ‘Gbege’ by the screening committee of Nollywood film festival Germany and for the special invitation to this special screening. Germany played a big part in my long filmmaking career. I feel happy..Very happy!!.”