The Ogun State gover­nor, Dapo Abiodun, has said his administration will collaborate with the National Assembly and officials of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in ending the importation of adulterated Adire fabrics into the country. Abiodun stated this at the launch of Adire Market, organised by Ajose Foundation, a pet project of the wife of the governor, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, held at the June 12 Cultural Center, Abeo­kuta. The event was attended by the former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, former governor of the state, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, wives of Edo, Oyo, Lagos, representative of the wife of Osun state gov­ernor and other top gov­ernment functionaries. The governor, who ex­pressed worry over a high volume of adulterated Adire fabrics by foreign­ers which have caused the local producers mon­umental loss to the local producers, urged the Na­tional Assembly and other government functionaries to adopt Adire fabrics as an official attire for na­tional events in the coun­try. According to the gov­ernor, “Some people just come from a country which I wouldn’t name, to steal our designs go back to their country mass pro­duce it and send it back to us. We will soon embark on #End the Adire steal­ing”. He disclosed that the government has also con­cluded plans to introduce Adire in its school cur­riculum as an authorised uniform for all the stu­dents both at the public and private schools across the state. Abiodun further said that since the inception of his administration, it has embarked on the promo­tion of locally produced Adire fabrics as a means of empowering the people of the state. He added that over 20,000 sellers of Adire fab­rics have benefitted from the various programmes espoused by his adminis­tration. POLL The governor, who com­mended the Ajose Founda­tion for the initiative, not­ed that Adire business is one of the surest ways of making end meet, which according to him has helped to grow the Small and Medium Scale Enter­prises. While urging the youth to key in into the produc­tion of Adire fabrics as a means of empowerment, the governor further de­scribed it as a way of mak­ing legal income rather than involving in getting-rich-quick-syndrome. He, however, called on the stakeholders in the culture and tourism sec­tor to partner the govern­ment in standardizing the production and market of the local fabric at both local and international level in accordance with the Local Content Agenda of President Muhammad Buhari’s administration. In her welcome address, wife of the State governor, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, said Adire is one of the major cultural heritage of Abeokuta which dat­ed back to centuries, but regretted that the tie and dye fabric makers are going through challeng­es which threaten their businesses to the point of extinction.