Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to as a matter of urgency ensure that the killings and kidnapping of innocent Nigerians by terrorists is put to a stop immediately. Tinubu, who is a presidential aspirant in the 2023 general election made the call while reacting to the terrorist attack on Kaduna bound train between Katari and Rigina axis, where terrorists opened fire on travelling citizens, saying it is no longer acceptable. Tinubu who also visited the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai on Tuesday to commiserate with the government and people of Kaduna over the recent spate of bandits’ attacks in the state donated a sum of N50 million to victims of the train attack and visited the hospital where the injured victims are being treated. He said: “I’m here to sympathize with Governor Nasir el-Rufai and the people of the state over the train attack. It is a national disaster. It’s a blow to all of us. “Nigeria bleeds. We need to fight terrorism with all we have. I understand some people were killed while some others are missing. It is frustrating. “We will Gov. el-Rufai on the rehabilitation of the victims. The governor is a symbol of our unity. Once in a while, we still remember the first stanza of our old national anthem- although tongues and tribes may differ, but in brotherhood, we stand. “If enemies of peace and progress think they can deter us as a nation, we must together stand against them and say no”. Taking to his Twitter handle, he wrote, “The recent attacks and killings by terrorist groups in whatever form is no longer acceptable and must stop.” “I urge the Federal and State governments to work even more closely together to wipe out this menace,” he added. It could be recalled that gunmen suspected to be terrorists bombed the Abuja-Kaduna train between Katari and Rigina axis last Monday night. POLL It was gathered that many passengers were kidnapped, including Zamfara State’s former deputy Governor, Mallam Ibrahim Wakkala Liman, during the deadly attack. Others were shot dead and an unascertained number of passengers also sustained various degrees of injuries.