The Federation of Cameroonian Football, (FECAFOOT) (Federation Camerounaise de football), recently got the former Indomitable Lions skipper and ex-international, Samuel Eto’ O, as president of its federation to run the country’s football. Eto’ O, we all know, was a player in the masters class. He explored entire Europe with his football artistry winning laurels for many influential clubs he plied his profession abroad. He was also instrumental in the Cameroonian world cup outing some years ago as a player! However, I have not come to my column this Saturday just to talk about this gifted Cameroonian superstar; but also to reflect on what he means to Cameroonians as a people! Indeed, in Cameroon, Eto’ is an enigma, a living legend, who has touched the lives of his people in one area or another! My interest in this young man is his ability to speak fluent and good English, in spite of the fact that he is from a Francophone country. That, for me, is some big deal of quality education merged with the social consciousness of a footballer of his magnitude! Having said that, football businesses are run by professionals who know how the game operates coupled with its development and administrative strategies. Football is a beautiful game, it is the most popular sport across the globe, and therefore, the game means a lot to countries, people, governments, and various individuals across the board. Every country wants to associate itself with the round leather game which commands a lot of respect, glamour, pride, and positions, and to launder images of affiliated countries with the Federated International Football Association (FIFA). POLL And for countries who are serious, they use this round leather game to do exploits in so many ways to achieve their political, economic, social, and cultural aims, leading to the settlement of crises or disputes, even in war situations, because it’s one game that is loved by all and sundry all over the world, nonetheless it’s for the unity of purpose. Therefore, for these aforementioned reasons, countries with great interest in football play world politics very well with it including international relationships. If a country must be a member of FIFA, such country must not toy with the administration of the game and its development, which of course, has a lot of economic and political impact and gains! These are some of the major reasons Eto’ got the nod of the Cameroonian people to pilot the affairs of the country’s football. And aside from being a former footballer, the former Cameroonian skipper has got that indomitable heart of self-discipline that he has demonstrated severally on and outside the pitch. He has also shown so much patriotism to Cameroon, his fatherland. Eto is a philanthropist of note with so much passion for orphans and the downtrodden in society. He cuts across the global world of charity. He played the game so well that he knows where the boots pinch. Having said so, he has qualified Cameroon for the 2022 FIFA world cup billed for Qatar in June. This was not quite long after he assumed the presidency of FECAFOOT! That’s how to lead from the front! The president of the football federation of Cameroon was thoroughly searched for because of his attributes. No good person will want to destroy his or her country’s football or sports because of ego, unnecessary pride, cluelessness, adamant to voices of reason and display of arrogance. If you are found worthy to serve, please serve well. Do your optimum best to save your country from an untoward image capable of destroying your country’s football. Such administrators at the helm of football federations should be the kinds that could eschew corruption, nepotism, sentiments, religious bigotry, sectional interest and above all misappropriation of funds to the detriment of the game, the players and coaches! These are some of the sterling qualities expected of football administrators across the globe. However, our NFF is not an exception. The way Nigerian football is run is just placing the cart before the horse – where does this happen? It’s only in the Abuja Glasshouse, where everything goes out unchecked. Are we running a “Cabal NFF” where truth can always be suppressed? However, if this is the veracity of what obtains in the NFF, no matter who becomes the president of the federation tomorrow after Amaju Pinnick, the same will continue because it is very obvious there’s a laid down template to destroy football in Nigeria. I say this without apology because you don’t kill the “bird” that sings for unity, peace and love for the entire 200 million people of Nigeria vis-a-vis the comity of football nations! Can Nigeria be faithful enough to find the likes of Eto to steer the ship of the Nigerian football federation and the sports ministry if we are not to call a “spade” “go-to-hell?” Can we begin to think of square pegs put into square holes, people who will not tamper circular politics with football politics? I can still remember pointblank some decades back when Chief Segun Odegbami (MoN) sought to become the then Nigeria Football Association (NFA) chairman with some other contestants as at the time, he couldn’t reach for it. Chief Odegbami was then the Technical Committee Chairman of the NFA board. However, some sources reported that during the Super Eagles qualifiers for both Tunisia and the USA exploits respectively, it was alleged that the former Green Eagles skipper and left-winger with his popular No. 7 jersey was delegated to various clubs in Europe to effect the release of Nigerian professionals but he rather stayed back in his London home, where he was making individual telephone contacts to the players. And of course, that didn’t suffice for the players’ release. When the former Dutch coach, Clemens Westerhof heard about that sad development, Westerhof on his own decided to embark on that journey, moving from club to club to effect a proper release of his reliables from abroad. That singular act at the period of both the CAF and the FIFA qualifying match series for the Eagles was what truncated what could have propelled the prolific “mathematical” left-footed dribbling wizard to the Chairmanship of the defunct NFA. So, when we reflect on our ex-internationals taking charge of sensitive positions in our football administration there must be a yardstick of measurement; given to one’s antecedents both on and off the pitch. There are certain qualities expected of an administrator (s); otherwise, the system will be jeopardised. It’s better when masters of the game are allowed to govern the game from the inside to the outside. This is the only way Nigerian football can have peace with the citizens of the country. The sports ministry and the federation should not be a space for circular politics and political appointees who will use that ample opportunity to perpetuate themselves into political tools with unnecessary rivalry towards political oppositions. Football does not abhor circular politics; hence, FIFA frowns against such a misdemeanor! And if there’s any country with this kind of administrator, it becomes very impossible to sack or suspend them from the office; hence, they can do whatever they want and call the bluff under the cover of FIFA over political interference in football by the state. Cameroon has found a new path to football development with Eto O, having qualified his nation for the forthcoming world cup where Nigeria lost out woefully. He has also said that his salaries be used in the payment of locally based professionals in the league, whose clubs are owing; and that he would always make a deduction from such club(s) fortune. He also added that both the female and male teams be properly remunerated with good welfare and insurance benefits for players in Cameroon. What else will you expect from a football governor who has played the game and knows where the boots pinch, even as an administrator? So, Eto fits into the position for his people! Congratulations to Cameroon! I am quite convinced that any day the people at the helm of affairs see football as a tool for unity, peace, and love and not for political agenda, it would be a new dawn for Nigerian football. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria!