The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has condemned the conflicts of interest among police formations and commands in Lagos State. The Agency said this could be attributed to the high level of corruption along the Apapa port corridors. Mrs. Olufunmilayo Olotu, Port Manager, Lagos Ports Complex (LPC) made this observation at programme held in Lagos recently. The event was put together by the Port Standing Task Team (PSTT) of the Nigerian Port Manual Process (NPPM) with the theme, “Operations Open Port Corridor.” The Port Manager noted that activities at Tin Can Island Port corridor calls for national concerns, saying the issues of extortion and corruption along the axis can only be nipped in the bud when all the agencies of the state and federal government work with sincerity of purposes in curbing the gridlock and easing the movement of cargoes in and out of the ports . Olotu further revealed that the port corridors also suffered setback due to inter- agencies’ disagreement despite the deplorable state of Tin Can Port corridor She noted that at the beginning of electronic call up system for trucks, there was free flow of traffic in and out of the corridor for about two weeks, but added thatsuch effort was frustrated due to the multiplicity of interest among government agencies deployed to the corridors. She noted that, ”For the police, the conflicts of commands and formations have affected the flow of traffic inward the seaport. But I dare say that the Apapa port corridor has tremendously improved from where we are coming and where we are going.” POLL “When ETO come in , for two weeks, everywhere was free, but all of a sudden the situation changed. She called on the Chairman, Apapa Local Government Area to stand firm by not allowing the diversion of truck laden containers. She appealed that there should be sanity within the corridors. She frowned at the multiple checkpoints by operatives of the Nigeria Customs Service at the ports and along the corridors, urging the service to streamline its activities in the supply chain service. While expressing worries about extortion by hoodlums and security operatives along the corridors, Olotu called on the government to identify the grey areas in order to finding lasting solutions to the problems affecting movement of cargoes.