ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday received the report of the zoning commit­tee, with the promise to take control of the presidency and 20 governorship seats in 2023. Recall that the party had last month set up a 37-man zon­ing committee headed by the Benue state governor, Samuel Ortom, to look into the zoning arrangement and it was re­ported that the committee led by the governor of Benue state decided to throw the presiden­tial ticket, a development that caused an uproar in the party. Receiving the report at the party national secretariat, the National Chairman of the par­ty, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, who said that the main concern of the opposition party to return to winning ways, added that the PDP is working hard to control the majority seats in both the Senate and House of Representatives. The report, which was wrapped in secrecy, submit­ted by the committee’s Deputy Chairman and Leader of the PDP caucus in the House of Representatives, Hon Ndudi Elumelu, was received by Ayu, who pointed out that the report will be deliberated upon by the National Executive Committee (NEC) members before being made public. The PDP National Chair­man and erstwhile Senate President said, “I want to assure you that your recom­mendations will be transmit­ted to the national executive of your party, of which many of you are members. It will be discussed and then it is at that point that NEC will take a final decision. “This decision will be known to party members across the country and all Ni­gerians who are eagerly await­ing the final decision of your committee. “We want to thank you very much, we want to appreciate you and pray that when you are called upon to serve the party again because there are so many other assignments that senior party members like you will have to conduct for us. “We hope you answer that call as you have always done and help to unite this party in such a way that by next year, we should be talking of return­ing to 1999 and 2003, when we had 20 something governors, controlled both houses of the National Assembly and control the presidency because our ulti­mate aim as we keep saying is to win the presidency and that will happen very soon. POLL “And it can only happen be­cause of leaders like you, the unity you have demonstrated shows that the PDP is a very united political party.” While submitting the report on behalf of the Chairman of the committee, Elumelu said, “Every member of the 37 man zoning committee had ample opportunity to make their sub­missions.