A high-powered laser defence system has for the first time passed a test to intercept drones, missiles and other aerial threats, Israel announced on Thursday. The system would be able to thwart attacks by the militant Palestinian group Hamas and Lebanon’s Iran-backed Hezbollah. The Israeli-made laser system, designed to complement a series of aerial defence systems such as the costly Iron Dome deployed by Israel, will be operational “as soon as possible,” Defence Minister Benny Gantz said Thursday. The goal is to deploy the laser systems around Israel’s borders over the next decade, Gantz added. The tests took place last month in the Negev Desert. “The laser is a game-changer thanks to its easily operated system and significant economic advantages,” said Brigadier General Yaniv Rotem from the ministry’s Directorate of Defence Research and Development. “Our plan is to station multiple laser transmitters along Israel’s borders throughout the next decade,” he said. The laser system was able to intercept drones, mortars, rockets and anti-tank missiles in multiple scenarios, the ministry said. The interceptors would use lasers to super-heat incoming drones or the kinds of rockets favoured by Iran-backed militias, officials have said Israel says it is developing airborne laser to down drones previously. The high-powered laser would be an addition to Israel’s current air defences of long and short-range systems that launch interceptor missiles costing tens of thousands of dollars to millions of dollars each. POLL Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said in February that Israel would begin using the system within a year, sending a message to arch-enemy Iran. Gantz said the laser system would be part of “an efficient, inexpensive, and innovative protection umbrella.” Israel has already developed or deployed a series of systems meant to intercept everything from long-range missiles to rockets launched from just a few kilometres away. It has also outfitted its tanks with a missile-defence system. Little is known about the laser system’s effectiveness, but it is expected to be deployed on land, in the air and at sea. The announcement came near the anniversary of the 11-day Israel-Gaza war, in which Gaza’s ruling Hamas militant group fired more than 4,000 rockets toward Israel. Israel said its Iron Dome defence system has been a great success, with a 90% interception rate against incoming rocket fire. But officials say the system is expensive to deploy and the new laser defence will be much more cost-effective. The defence ministry released a short video showing what it said were successful interceptions of rockets, mortars and an unmanned aerial vehicle. The video, which was highly-edited and includes music, appeared to show a laser beam coming out of a ground station, hitting the targets and smashing them into small pieces. Thursday’s announcement came as talks on restoring Iran’s tattered nuclear deal with world powers have stalled. Israel opposes the deal, saying it does not do enough to curb Iran’s nuclear programme nor its military activities across the region and Israeli officials have said they will unilaterally do what is necessary to protect the country.