ENUGU – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant and a former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, has expressed worry over Nigeria’s dwindling economic fortunes. Obi, who stated this while briefing journalists after his consultation with the members of the executive of the PDP, Enugu state chapter on Tuesday blamed the dwindling economic problem on poor civilian leadership in the country, assuring that he will rescue Nigeria from its present economic woes by facilitating the growth of its production if elected as President of the country in 2023. He said “Today, Nigeria is indebted more than it can pay. And we have continued to borrow more. We even borrow to service debts. What we are sharing is finished. We need wealth creators. We need to move Nigeria out from a consumptive nation into a productive nation. “The problem of Nigeria is leadership. The cumulative effect of the failure of our leadership in the past decades is what we are suffering from now. So we just have to do things right. Countries don’t fail overnight’. He disclosed that many nations like Egypt, Morocco, India and China etc who were placed on the same economic index as Nigeria in the year 2000, have all raised their nation above the poverty level but the Nigerian economy has suffered a serious setback as a result of poor leadership from 1999 up to the moment, with about 98 million Nigerians living below the poverty line. The PDP presidential aspirant asserted that the best way to save Nigeria from its present economic woes is to shoot up the production sector by ensuring that all borrowings are channelled into the productive sector, reduce the cost of running governance, create job opportunities for the teeming population of Nigerian Youths and enhancing food security for every Nigerian. Obi, who lamented incessant killings across the country stressed that his administration will curtail the prevailing high rate of insecurity to lives and properties across the country to pave way for the production sector to thrive, stating food security will be one of the top priorities of his administration. “Natural security is when human beings know where their next meal will come from. 98 million Nigerians are living below the poverty line. The poverty rate in Nigeria with a population of about 200 million people is far higher than that of China and India with populations of over 2.8 billion people, combined. POLL “Unemployment rate in Nigeria is the highest. More than 50 percent of our young people who are of production age are doing nothing. We want to move Nigeria from consumption to production. Everybody is suffering the pain. The PDP presidential aspirant expressed the fact that every aspirant in the 2023 presidential race from the South-East zone and other parts of the country is eminently qualified, but the ugly economic situation we have found ourselves in requires a leader who has the vision to create wealth. Obi who condemned media reports attributed to Oba Oluwo (of Iwo), who was quoted to have said that the Igbos cannot be entrusted with the leadership of the country stressed that the Igbo nation has supported every other zone and this is the time to support the Igbo nation in producing the president of the country. He assured that the Igbos will produce the best president Nigeria desires to turn around the economy of the country, and more importantly secure the unity of Nigeria, as one nation.