EKITI “Each time Oba Alabi picks the microphone at the Presidency, everyone listens with rapt attention, because of the brilliant and scholastic manner Kabiyesi usually makes his presentation. Oba Alabi always makes us proud whenever he talks.” These were the words of the foremost Yoruba monarch and Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi at the grand finale of the weeklong activities, marking the 10th Coronation Anniversary of the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi (Efuntade1). It was encomium galore as dignitaries shared beautiful and remarkable encounters with Oba Alabi who clocked 10 years on the throne. Since he ascended the throne of his forebears over ten years ago, Oba Alabi has kept the Ilawe community in the news for good reasons. The monarch did not only uphold the cultural values and tradition of the Ilawe kingdom, but he also raised the bar of the prestigious traditional institution with his regular and brilliant contributions to both the state and national issues. These exceptional qualities of the monarch probably endeared him to the presidency and other traditional rulers, particularly from Yorubaland. So, when the people of Ilawe-Ekiti rolled out drums to celebrate their monarch, who is a former diplomat last Saturday, it was considered a popular and well-deserved ceremony, which attracted dignitaries from across the country. Top government functionaries, senior security chiefs, members of the State and National Assembly, religious leaders as well as first-class traditional rulers in Yorubaland, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Ogunwusi graced the colourful occasion. Also Lagos-based lawyer and human rights activist, Femi Falana, SAN and the Commissioner of Police, Lagos, Abiodun Alabi were also in attendance. Another highlight of the ceremony was the investiture of some prominent Nigerians with honorary chieftaincy titles of the community. For example, Ekiti State First Lady, Erelu Bisi Fayemi bagged the title of Akorewolu of Ilawe Ekiti along with nine others.At a huge gathering of Ilawe sons and daughters, Oba Alabi also made a public presentation of his autobiography titled ” Divine Enthronement: Autobiographical Reflections On The Life of A Monarch”. Earlier in an address, the Chairman of the Coronation Anniversary Committee, Captain Kunle Olayiwola, disclosed that the event was designed to celebrate the monarch for projecting the community in good light both locally and internationally. “We are celebrating this monarch because he was the first Alawe to be Chairman of Ekiti State Traditional Council. It was under his reign that the federal government plans to establish a Law school here in Ilawe. POLL “He has also made Ilawe a cynosure attracting investors, facilitated the establishment of a Model Girls School, High and Magistrate Courts and well-equipped hospital. All these happened within 10 years of his reign,” Captain Olayiwola said. Also at the occasion, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi described Oba Alabi as an erudite scholar, who combined royalty with intellectualism, saying this reflected in the ways he superintended over the Ekiti State Traditional Council as Chairman and Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti. The governor posited that the banana industry initiated by the community will help in processing agriculture products in the state to a finished product and boost the economy at the local level. “I must thank Kabiyesi who in his enterprising wisdom and intellect deemed it fit to set up this industry to boost industrial development in Ekiti State. Let me assure you that I will provide all enabling environments for the industry to be sited and thrive here. If there is any C of O to be signed and if there is any reason for our enterprise agency to give support in terms of Microcredit to this industry, we will do that in the interest of development. “But nothing can be achieved without peace. We must work hard in unison with Kabiyesi to ensure that we achieve the peace that will bring development to our doorsteps”, Fayemi stressed. Harping on peace and unity in the country, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Ogunwusi, said these are needed to bring development and stability to the system. While eulogising the monarch, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi described the Alawe as a progressive-minded traditional ruler and pathfinder, who is committed to the development of his people and community. The CP disclosed that Oba Alabi, in the last ten years of his rulership had midwived numerous developmental projects. He expressed joy that the monarch’s purposeful leadership had engendered peace and progress in the town. “We now have a peaceful and progressive community. No violence, no security issue. Beyond that, Oba Alabi has been able to spur the youths into engaging in productive enterprise and play their own part in the development of the town,” the CP noted. “In the last ten years, it has been a very remarkable and wonderful period for the people of Ilawe-Ekiti. Kabiyesi leads by example, is very accommodating and is somebody who has galvanised all stakeholders to ensure that all of us work for the development of the community. “I can attest to the fact that Kabiyesi had made remarkable developmental strides in Ilawe-Ekiti in the last ten years. Of recent, Kabiyesi was appointed the chairman of the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, the first monarch to have occupied such an exalted seat in Ilawe-Ekiti history. He had used his position to intervene in many issues not only in Ilawe-Ekiti but in Ekiti and Nigeria,” the police chief stated. CP Alabi said, “Recently, some foreign investors came to Ilawe-Ekiti to set up a factory. It is still part of the efforts of the Kabiyesi to develop the town, because this factory will create jobs for the youths, thereby reducing social tension in the community.” Commending Oba Alabi for ushering in development in all facets in the last decade in Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Ogunwusi disclosed that Oba Alabi’s royal title (Efuntade) connotes peace, stressing why the kingdom has been peaceful under his reign. Ooni said the giant strides of the monarch to bring industrial development to the town showed his commitment to making Ilawe Ekiti a model. “We are really proud of the Ekiti people because of their love for scholarship and development. I am particularly happy with Alawe for combining royalty with intellectualism. All these are reflected in the growth and development you are witnessing today,” Ooni said. Addressing his subjects, Oba Alabi, appealed to Governor Fayemi to quickly attend to the perennial flooding ravaging the town. He further applauded Governor Fayemi and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Ogunwusi, for working hard with other colleagues to ensure peace, stability and unity in the Yoruba race. Chief Falana and Governor Fayemi at the occasion promised to create a conducive environment for the smooth take-off of the Banana Processing Factory in the town. Falana further promised to rally all the indigenous senior lawyers to contribute to the project.