ABUJA – The Coalition of National Civil Society Organisations for Transparency in Governance (NCSOFTIG) has distanced itself from a call on the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefele, to step down over his alleged presidential aspiration. Quoting a statement by one Willy Ezugwu and Ali Abacha on behalf of Civil Society Organisations in the country, NCSOFTIG explained that the statement “has no backing of the Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria. In fact, we are not part of it.” The statement calling for Emefele’s resignation read in part: “If these are not, by Thursday, April 21, the CNPP in conjunction with the civil society coalition will be occupying the CBN headquarters until Mr. Emefiele resigns or denounces the purported distracting ongoing 2023 presidential campaign on his behalf by groups.” But NCSOFTIG insists that the call was made on ‘malicious grounds,’ adding that the planned protest is a blackmail by the organisers and some other “misguided elements.” While it maintains that its name is been used without its knowledge, NCSOFTIG urged security agencies to stop Ezegwu and Abacha from disturbing public peace. A statement by its Director of Anti-Corruption, Bagudu Kudu, further denied Abacha as NCSOFTIG group’s spokesman. Kudu, the anchor of the coalition of CSOs for Transparency in Governance described Willy Ezegwu as an embarrassment to the Civil Society family, adding that he lacked morality and consciousness to call for protest against any Nigerian at the moment “as his integrity has degraded to zero level.” He also asked Nigerians to dismiss the purported protest, stressing that “the brains behind the statement are known jesters who only thrive on blackmail of public office holders for survival.” POLL “The apex body of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria also call for the arrest of the perpetual blackmailer, Willy Ezegwu for inciting protest against public peace after hobnobbing with a proscribed organisation. “We have to place it on record that the CBN Governor Emefiele has not committed any sin. And it is not also a sin for well-meaning Nigerians to call on him to serve the country in higher capacity as President. “Severally, various organisations have publicly declared that Governor Emefiele knew nothing about the posters and branded vehicles across the country, but Nigerians who believe in the capacity and capability of Governor Emefiele to transform the economy of Nigeria if given higher responsibility, are actually responsible for the posters and branded vehicles. We understand that opposition political party and some individuals are been threatened by the show of love Nigerians have shown Governor Emefiele in the recent time, especially the pressure on him to declare for presidency, hence the recruitment of some blackmailers for a dirty job such as Mr. Ezegwu to tarnish the image of the CBN governor,” Kudu added. While challenging Mr. Ezegwu to test the might of the law, Kudu said “publicising a notice of protest before the actual event shows that Mr. Ezegwu is not ready for any protest but an attempt to blackmail the CBN Governor at a time that Nigerians are yearning for him to succeed President Muhammadu Buhahri.”