Hon Kingsley Fanwo, Kogi State Commissioner for Information and Communications is seeking to represent the people of Yagba Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives in 2023. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on his ambition and Governor Yahaya Bello’s chances in the 2023 presidential election. Excerpts: Your Governor, Alh. Yahaya Bello is contesting for the Presidency in 2023 on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). What are his chances? He is undoubtedly the best for the job. He possesses all the qualities needed to fix the country. Millions of supporters across the country are calling on him to come and lead the nation from 2023 because of his antecedents in uniting Kogi, securing Kogi and all the massive infrastructural projects across the state. This is what Nigeria needs at this period. When Governor Yahaya Bello came, Kogi was a balkanised state. There were ethnic divisions, distrust and disunity. Upon assumption of office, he said he was going to unite Kogi state and he has matched his words with practical actions that have united the state today. When you look at the security situation in the state before he came, we were having an average of seven kidnap cases on daily basis. Today, it is possible to go six months without a single kidnap case. What he did to contain insecurity was to use local solution for a global problem by ensuring that the vigilante service was put in place. There was a law before he came to establish Kogi State Vigilante Service, but nobody cared about it. When he came, he ensured that he implemented that law by setting up the Kogi State Vigilante Service. They are doing a great job. We are also using hunters to complement what these people are doing. They understand the terrain, they can give direction to the Police, Army and other conventional security agencies. It is something that has worked well in Kogi state and that is why we have this success story which has won the governor a lot of awards across the nation. Nigerians are looking at these two things. There is still disunity in the country today. That’s why we are having the agitation for zoning of presidency. That is an indication of disunity. Yahaya Bello can unite Nigeria. He has done it in Kogi state and we are confident that it could be replicated at the national level. Then when you look at other problems of the country which insecurity, insurgency, banditry and all of that, he has done it in Kogi state and we know that he can do it at the centre. Those who are agitating have seen all of these in him. Also, don’t forget, his fearless approach to the issue of COVID-19, especially during the lockdown period has reassured Nigerians that we could have leaders who could decide to beat the established rule of deceit and stand firm with the people. Nigerians know that if this man becomes president, then they will have a leader who will protect their interests. That is the reason why a lot of Nigerians are begging him to run in 2023 and I am glad he has accepted their demands. With the heavyweights in the contesting like Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Yemi Osinbajo and Rotimi Amaechi, how do you think GYB will survive the fireworks? The question should be how those people will survive the tsunamic political powers of GYB. The name on the lips of Nigerians is Yahaya Bello. He is younger than the other gladiators and even our leader, Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Prof Osinbajo would be proud of GYB Presidency. What we need now is dynamism and GYB will provide that. The nation needs a unifier, GYB is a unifier. The nation needs someone who can guarantee secure, GYB has shown his capacity in Kogi State. The nation wants power, GYB will guarantee that. The nation needs infrastructural revolution, GYB will guarantee that. So, he is the leading candidate. He will respect the elders and leaders of the party. They will trust him to deliver massive victory to the party. He led the mobilization of women and youth to the party and brought over 40 million members. He is the voice they know and trust. Don’t you think the party will zone its Presidency to the South? APC is a party that respects its constitution. What we will talk about is capacity and competence. The youth of the nation are watching. We need the vigour and dynamism of the youth. We should be in the league of great nations around the world. Our party would not want to go the retrogressive way of allotting power based on geography. We are not worried about zoning. Also, the Constitution of the party does not exclude anyone from contesting. In 2023, Nigerians will go for capacity and competence. It won’t be about where the person comes from. We don’t care about the ethnicity of a medical doctor when we need medical services. We want the best Doctor. So why do we create the confusion of zoning in politics? POLL It is believed that you have an ambition to represent the people of Yagba in the House of Representatives. Can you confirm this? It is true that I will be seeking the nomination of my great party to fly its ticket to represent the great people of Yagba Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. I am a foundation member of the APC and for the past seven years, I have learnt from a great leader in the person of Alh. Yahaya Bello. He has taught us service delivery and responsibility to the people. Today, we are the aspirant of choice. We will take Yagba back to the APC fold at the centre. How will you rate the present lawmaker representing Yagba Federal Constituency in the Green Chambers? He has tried his best and that is quite commendable and we appreciate what he was able to do and will still do between now and the expiration of his term. I am in the race to raise the bar and be a better representative. We will ensure quality representation. Yagba is predominantly agrarian. Our focus will be on lifting our farmers and ensure mechanization. This is more important to us than Custom service. Modern representation is about constituency participation. The constituents are the hirers. They should decide what they want. My Team is already working with people from the 34 wards of the constituency. We will work with our manifesto. Yagba must be brought to the centre of the nation’s development. What has been the response of the people of Yagba since you announced your intention to represent them in the House of Reps? It has been massive show of support and solidarity. We have given scholarships, given health insurance, given water facilities and build a well equipped Health Centre for the people. They want me to represent them at the Green Chambers The PDP is gearing for a big battle ahead of 2023 and they have vowed to reclaim the power they lost in 2015, saying APC has disappointed Nigerians . Do you foresee an upset? PDP is about to implode. The party is in serious tension over power sharing. They won’t trouble APC too much and I have no doubt that APC will retain power beyond 2023. Political appointees intending to contest in 2023 have been resigning in compliance with the Electoral Act law. Do you have any plan to resign? We have done everything in compliance with the Electoral Act. We won’t violate the law.