Uyo Zonal Command of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, (NAPTIP) says it has between 2021 and now rescued 1444 victims of human trafficking. A breakdown of the report which covered the then four states within the zone indicates that 723 of the victims were from Akwa Ibom while 413,282 and 16 were from Cross River, Bayelsa and Rivers respectively. Uyo Zonal Commander of the agency, Mrs. Tina Ugwu who made the disclosure when she played host to Correspondents in Uyo on Thursday said the Zone, within the said period also convicted 52 offenders. She explained that the Zone within the period,  investigated over 568 of the 1,035 cases it received while 11 cases were still in court. ” For the number of cases received, the command received 1,035 cases with 1,035  suspects. It investigated over 568 cases. The command convicted about 52 traffickers in the zone with 11 cases still in court at different levels of prosecution. ” Specifically from  my assumption, that is from the beginning of March, the command has had about 17 cases . We have about 10 of them under investigation, and three that are fully investigated. We have about three cases with our legal elite which they are going to file those cases between today and tomorrow.” She explained. The Zonal Commander who described the media as strategic partners in the fight against trafficking however decried the high incidences of sale of babies in Akwa Ibom and said that efforts have intensified to apprehend perpetrators of the crime. She said the Command, which now covers Akwa ibom and Cross River States work in  collaboration with sister agencies who have their presence at the border and has  produced outstanding results as most of the cases handled by the agency were transferred from them while NAPTIP have assisted in giving some of their staff strategic training in their operations. POLL Ugwu further stated that the agency has over the years developed a close working relationship with community vigilantees, traditional rulers and the various ministries  in charge of women  affairs in the state in a bid to sensitize residents on the dangers of trafficking. She decried the activities of many Traditional Birth Attendants and warned that the agency would not spare any of them found culpable even as she regretted that most couples connive with them in their illegal activities. “And to make matters worse, some families agree to this procedure and the so called pregnant mothers know they are not pregnant but because of desperation to own a child accept any condition they are given by those homes. And those homes have always found a way to evade arrest bit we have a Task Force in place to monitor the TBAs with evidences of agreement between them and couples.” She said. According to the zonal commander, most failed DNA tests have been product of criptic and fake pregnancies because they also produce fake babies that are not from married couples. Ugwu attributed rise in sale of babies to  rise in broken homes and  single Parenthood but advised parents unable  to cater for their children to ask for help or register their children for formal adoption.