A woman identified as Mrs Anulika Uguru reportedly died as a result of domestic violence and battering by her husband Mr Sunday Uguru. The Ebonyi state chairman, Human Right Defenders, HURIDE, Sampson Oko Nweke, who confirmed the sad incident said the incident happened in Ekeru-Inyimaegu in the Izzi local government area of Ebonyi. He told Leadership Weekend that the deceased had presented a case of wife battery and domestic violence to his office against her husband on April 19, 2022. Nweke, however, said there was a little delay in responding to the case as the woman had provided an invalid phone number in her report. He noted that the rights group tried to intervene in the matter on April 25, 2022.Nweke said, “I spoke with the deceased on phone in the morning inviting her to our office for other actions to be taken. “After waiting for many hours in the afternoon, she didn’t come. I dialled her phone number which was picked up by another woman who told me that the owner of the phone was dead. “She directed us to one village clinic at Sharon Junction where I saw the body of Mrs Anulika. We went into the company of a member of GBV Taskforce in Ebonyi State, Comrade Matthias Okinya. “The sight of the dead woman filled my heart with uncontrollable rage and resentment, I phoned the police immediately and a detachment of a police team came but the husband was nowhere to be found,” the Human Rights Activist said. POLL According to him, they immediately commenced a serious search for the woman’s husband and with the assistance of concerned villagers, they later got him apprehended. “He is currently in police detention while the corpse was deposited in the morgue by the police,” he said. Mr Nweke stated that the woman’s husband claimed that the late wife drank some herbicide but did not know who gave it to her. “He must explain what happened to this beautiful young woman cut in her prime. She spoke with me yesterday; spoke with her son around 9 am today and died before 1 pm,” said Nweke. Meanwhile, a woman who claimed to be the sister of the victim, Mrs Chinwe Nwebonyi, said the victim had been going through domestic violence before her death. “At a point, we had to bring her back home on December 2021 but the husband later came to apologise to the family,” she said. She stated that after the apology, the family allowed her to go back to her husband only to be called on April 26, 2022, by her daughter that their mother was dead. Meanwhile the state police command is yet to confirm the incident.