Former Governor of Anambra State and one of the prominent presidential aspirants on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Peter Odi on Sunday said the country needed a president that could fix the current socio-economic challenges. He emphasised that the region where the president came from was irrelevant, but the personality who could fix the economy, insecurity and other problems being faced by the nation. Lamenting the economic quagmire the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government had plunged the nation into, Obi said the country was in debt because President Muhammadu Buhari had been borrowing for consumption. Obi stated this at PDP secretariat, Alagbaka, Akure, the Ondo State capital, where he went to canvass for the support of the state delegates ahead of PDP national convention. Accompanied by former spokesman to President Olusegun Obasanjo, Dr. Doyin Okupe, Obi charged the delegates to vote in line of who’s capable of turning the country to a productive economy. He said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government had nothing to show for the huge amount of money it borrowed. According to Obi, “The country is collapsing. There is banditry everywhere, people got burnt while scooping fuel just because there’s no food to eat. “This is caused by failure of government over the years. We have the highest number of people living in poverty. People living in poverty in Nigeria are more than those in Indian and China combined. POLL Last year, the country used 98 percent of the revenue generated to service debt. Among chieftains of PDP, who attended to Obi are former Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, the party’s candidate in the last governorship election in the state, Eyitayo Jegede, member PDP’s elders committee, Dr. Dayo Dairo, Senator Ayo Akinyelure and all delegates in the state. Mimiko and Jegede commended the performance of Obi while in charge of Anambra State. Mimiko said: “I can attest to his(Obi) character. I can assure you that what you see is what you get.” The party’s chairman, Fatai Adams assured that the state’s delegates would adhere to the advice of electing a candidate that could rescue the nation from the current economic challenges.