There was pandemonium on Wednesday at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja when a female Lagos-bound passenger slumped and later confirmed dead at the domestic wing of the airport. The passenger who was simply identified as Mama Tobi was at the boarding area for her flight to Lagos when the sad incident happened.An unconfirmed report alleged that the passenger may have died as a result of high blood pressure. A lawyer, Felix Ashimole, who goes by the name Che Oyinatumba, on social media posted the incident. The lawyer alleged that the woman died due to inadequate attention from the medical personnel from the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). The post titled, “Death in an airport,” reads: “Where is the money they claim was sunk into renovating the airport into world standard? For 13 minutes, no FAAN medical personnel. She died in my hands and few others.”A medical doctor on his way to Kano tried, but as he finally said, :we lost her.’ “But she would’ve been saved, had FAAN provided basic insulin. She was diabetic. Her sugar went high; She entered coma; No medical attention; She saw the light and moved towards it. “We kept calling her, Mama Tobi, Mama Tobi, don’t leave us, wake up, Good morning but saliva trickled down, foams bubbled and I knew she had seen a better place and wouldn’t be coming back! POLL “FAAN and the entire airline staff on ground were stupidly acting as if è no concern them. They kept announcing boarding and NEVER USED their speaker to ask if there is any medical personnel on ground. “Finally they brought an ambulance from their fire fighting department, to take her corpse away! Good night Mummy Tobi. Your country and countrymen, failed you.” The name of the airline the deceased intended to board couldn’t be confirmed as at the time of filing this report. It was learnt that the corpse of the deceased was later taken to the NAF Medical Centre at the airport.When contacted last night, spokesperson of FAAN, Mrs. Faithful Hope-Ivbaze confirmed the incident.But, she refuted the claim that FAAN medical personnel did not respond to her immediately. She said: “Our doctors were there. We are not happy it happened. We regret it happened but God knows the best in every situation.” She however expressed the condolence of FAAN to the family of the deceased and prayed God to grant them the fortitude to bear the loss.