The Lagos Aviation Academy (LAA) has been certified as an Amadeus Training Partner in Nigeria. The certification gives the academy the license to train students on how to navigate the Amadeus reservation system and others. A statement by Olamide Oni, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), Finchglow Group stated that the course is designed to help travel consultants learn how to make reservations on Amadeus, using graphical and cryptic commands. The statement quoted Bankole Bernard, Academy Director at LAA, as saying that Amadeus is one of the many qualifications travel agencies should have to make progress in the sector. Bernard, who is also the Chairman of the Association of Aviation Training Organisations in Nigeria, lamented that there are several untrained travel consultants in the country, reiterating that aviation training and professionalism were important for anyone going into the business. He maintained that the company’s partnership with Amadeus enabled it to offer an academic solution to improve comprehension of the Amadeus’ system. He said: “Gaining a better understanding of travel booking platforms such as Amadeus is essential to ensure smooth operations in a profession as complex as being a travel consultant or a travel manager, especially with the variation of airline policies. This is one of the many qualifications travel agencies should have. Partnering with Amadeus enables us to offer an academic solution to improve comprehension of the Amadeus system. It allows the users to be better informed and avoid unnecessary booking errors. It is an honour for us at Lagos Aviation Academy to have become a Certified Training Partner with Amadeus and currently the only one in Nigeria.” POLL Amadeus works closely with all types of airlines, airports, rail companies, travel sellers and corporations, as well as partner companies beyond the travel industry to deliver better travel experiences for all. Congratulating Lagos Aviation Academy on the success of the “ Train the Trainer” exam taken by one of the Academy’s facilitators, Gilles Molesti, Learning Partners Manager at Amadeus, expressed delight at the performance of one of the students, Michael Ozoalor who successfully passed the Amadeus Learning Partners Train The Trainer certification exams. Speaking on the benefits of the course to travel consultants, Chinasa Mbene, the General Manager at Lagos Aviation Academy stated most travel companies use Amadeus to book flights, hotels, car hire and other services. “The benefits of taking this training for our students include being able to secure good jobs in the industry, learning airline and airport codes, being able to communicate in travel terms with other travel professionals and much more. The Amadeus booking system is user-friendly, reliable, fast and trusted,” he added. Amadeus is at the heart of the global travel industry. With its people, its technology and its innovation, Amadeus is dedicated to working with its customers and partners to power great journeys through technology. The company provides the technology that keeps the travel sector moving – from initial search to making a booking, from pricing to ticketing, from managing reservations to check-in and departure processes.