Titilope Joseph ; Oyeniran Apata Lagos – The Lagos State Police Command on Monday said it has commenced investigations into the alleged sexual violence case involving students of Chrisland Schools which occurred in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). The command in a statement signed by its spokesperson, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, stated that alleged rape video purportedly depicting students of Chrisland Schools, Lagos, going viral on social media, was being investigated with a view to establishing the identities of the players in the video, the true incident in the video, the geographical location of the incident, the alleged threat to life against a student of the school and circumstances surrounding the alleged repeated pregnancy tests conducted on a student without parental consent. The statement further said, “The command is equally taking cognisance of the cybercrime angle to the whole episode and would not hesitate to enlist the support of the Interpol should the need arise. For a holistic and unbiased investigation, the command shall be working with relevant ministries, departments, agencies and non-governmental organisations.” The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, has assured that due diligence would be observed to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice. Earlier, the Lagos State government on Monday ordered the closure of Chrisland Schools in the state. The order was contained in a statement following the revelation of the alleged rape of a 10-year-old pupil of the school. According to a statement issued by the state Ministry of Education, the government said it has commenced an investigation into the case. POLL The government also warned persons circulating the sex tape of the students, stating that they run risk of 14 years of jail term. The statement read: “The attention of the Lagos State government has been drawn to the alleged sexual violence case involving students of Chrisland Schools. “It is pertinent to note that all allegations are being investigated by the relevant ministries, departments and agencies, including the Ministry of Education, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Ministry of Justice and the Lagos State Domestic & Sexual Violence Agency, whilst the criminal allegations have been escalated to the Commissioner of Police. “In view of the allegations, we are committed to ensuring that adequate medical and psychosocial support is provided. This is to reassure members of the public of the state government’s commitment to safety and child protection, especially in ensuring that all child-centred institutions within the state, formulate and implement policies and systems that are compliant with the Executive Order (NO.EO/ AA08 of 2016), Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Programme. “We also use this medium to remind the general public of the implications pertaining to engaging in any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child who commits an offence and is liable to a custodial sentence of fourteen years. This includes ‘producing, distributing, receiving, or possessing an image of child pornography. “In the meantime, all Chrisland Schools within Lagos State are hereby closed, pending further investigations.” A video purportedly showing a 10-year-old girl in compromising positions while participating in a ‘Truth or Dare’ game with other students who recently travelled to Dubai for World School Games have gone viral. Chrisland Schools pupils had participated in the World School Games from March 10 to 13, 2022 in Dubai when the alleged rape of a 10-year-old girl was allegedly carried out. The mother of the 10-year-old girl had raised the alarm over the culpability of Chrisland Schools in the alleged rape of her child in a viral video. But on April 14, 2022, Chrisland Schools, in a letter to the girl’s parent, stated that she took part in an “improper behaviour” after playing the truth-ordare game, describing her as a “major participant.” In a letter dated April 14, 2022, the school reportedly suspended the girl for carrying out an immoral act after the lights out instruction was given.