The All Progressives Congress (APC) has ceded its powers to the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) as it moves to curb the excesses of ex-governors and leaders hell-bent on ego trips in their respective domains. Rising from its National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja Wednesday the party also fixed its presidential and governorship nomination forms respectively at N100 million and N50 million respectively. The party announced that it is vesting the power of the NEC on the NWC for 90 days during which it will take decisions on behalf of the NEC on the interim without the need to call the NEC. Senator Iyiola Omisore, who announced the decision of the party disclosed that the motion to that effect was moved by Ahmed Lawan, Senate President and was seconded by Governor Nasir El-Rufai. According to the party presidential aspirants on the platform of the APC are to part with the sum of N100 million which the party has announced as the cost of its expression of interest and nomination forms. APC National Publicity Secretary, Barrister Felix Morka, who gave details of the outcome of the meeting, revealed that NEC has approved May 30 and 31 for its presidential primaries while the governorship primaries have been slated for May 18. The sales of forms commence this Saturday, April 23 and end on May 6, 2022, according to the schedule of activities. “NEC also devolved its powers to NWC as enshrined in article 13 paragraph three sub-four of the APC constitution to consider reports from national, State and Local Government areas and area Council chapters of the party and to take such decisions as are necessary to protect, advance and consolidate the gains and interests of our party. POLL “NEC further devolved its powers to the NWC as enshrined in article 13, paragraph three, five of the APC Constitution, to exercise control and take disciplinary actions on all organs, officers are members of the party and determine appeals brought before it by any member or organ of the party. Finally, the NEC has devolved its powers to the NWC as enshrined in article 13, paragraph three sub six of our Constitution to create elect and appoint any committee it may deem necessary, desirable or expedient and assigned to them such powers and functions as it may deem fit and proper, among other.” On the fees payable for the purchase of forms Barrister Morka said: “Now the last item which is the schedule of fees payable for these offices. The first is the House of Assembly. The expression of interest form has been set for N500,000 while the nomination form has been set for N1.5m. That brings it to a total of N2m for the State House of Assembly. The House of Representatives has a fee prescribed of N1m for the expression of interest form N9m for the nomination for bringing it for the House of Representatives to a total of N10m. “For the Senate, we have the expression of interests from set at N3m naira while the nomination form has been set at N17m bringing it to a total of 20m for the Senate. “For governorship, we have the expression of interest form set at N10 million naira with the nomination from set at N40m naira bringing it to a total of N50m naira for the governorship and our presidential form has been set for expression of interest of N30m naira and the nomination form set at N70m bringing it to a total of N100m. “Now please note and this is very important that female aspirants and persons with disability to purchase our expression of interest forms for all the positions that they may be interested in while the nomination forms will be free without any costs to them. “Let me say that again, especially of interest funds will be paid for based on the schedule that are announced for our female aspirants or for persons living with disability will be paid for according to the fees that are announced for each of the positions. But the nomination forms which obviously from what I’ve said costs more will be delivered to them for free at no cost to them. In a related development, Human Rights Writers Association (HURIWA) has called for the arrest and investigation of any aspirant who purchases the APC presidential form. Recall that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State and lately Minister of Labour and Productivity Chris Ngige have all indicated interest to run for the nation’s highest office in the land. The rights group said the citizens must demand accountability now or remain enslaved by the higher bidder who purchases the seat of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Converner of the Association, Emmanuel Onwubiko, in a strong rebuke of the APC leadership, said the party is displaying all tendencies of a secret cult, pointing out that only kidnappers, drug dealers and treasury looters can afford to buy a form from the party. “HURIWA has condemned the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for displaying tendencies of a secret Cult fraternity or a cartel by pegging at N100 million the fees to buy presidential nomination form for 2023 poll. ‘HURIWA said any citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in good standing with the laws should arrest those persons buying these forms at N100 million each set per person. HURIWA said it is inconceivable that a citizen of Nigeria who made his money through legitimate means can afford to fritter away the princely sum of N100 million just because he/she wants to put himself out to become the servant of the people of Nigeria. HURIWA argues that only political rogues, drug peddling gangsters or persons involved in armed robbery or kidnappings for ransom can afford to gamble away such a life long fortune. “The Right group said anyone who buys the nomination form at such a scandalous high amount of cash, should first be arrested by the citizens if possible under the law permitting citizen’s arrest so such a person is handed over to law enforcement agencies such as EFCC or ICPC or Police for investigation on the source of the money. “We were only just finished carpeting opposition Peoples Democratic party for bastardizing the process of nominating it’s presidential candidate by inflating the cost of nomination form to a princely sum of N40 million, little did we know that the politicians who run the Federal Government and have ruined the national economy will peg theirs at the extravagant cost of N100 million just to spite the opposition politicians and to make fun at Nigerians as captives who as hostages of politicians can’t do nothing to checkmate this rascality of the political forces. “This same APC government is unable to meet the funding obligations for federal universities and there by have left millions of students of public schools to roam around in their homes due to industrial strike by university teachers (ASUU) ince over two months , yet the politicians have hidden enough stolen cash to buy presidential from at N100 million each. “It is a shame that those who seek to govern Nigeria are made to cough out so much money to purchase forms just to signpost their original intention as persons whose only objective would be to first recoup their huge investments and to further impoverish the citizenry”. “We urge Nigerians to initiate citizen’s arrest of anyone who buys the APC Presidential form at the rate of N100 million so the relevant law enforcement agencies are handed over these suspects to explain their source of such huge funds.”