IBADAN – Suave Empire has empowered 33 youths in the recent NYFEW 2021 program and seven winners were awarded business inputs worth more than one million naira each through his project popularly known as Nigerian Youth Fashion And Empowerment Week (NYFEW). The leading Fashion brand in the City of Ibadan has awarded the seven lucky participants with gift items which included landed property courtesy of RO & Co Property Limited, a trip abroad courtesy of  UFITFLY, and a tabletop machine courtesy of Zinsu Tech Nig. Ltd, capacity development training/ program courtesy of OSC Fashion College, 360 Creative Hub, Mahogany International, FacePlus, Suave Fashion Academy and Suave Models Africa. The firm also appreciated Stonehenge, Goldmender, Spice TV, Hip TV and SoundCity for their support. The Awarded participants included, Sarah Adesemoye was awarded as the most creative fashion Illustrator with a brand named SHINNE. Isah Rizwana also sweep the most creative Fashion Designer category with a brand named Rizins Fashion house, Lucas Praise as the most creative shoemaking with brand named THE SHANTEL. Arohunmolase Gideon as most creative with brand named photographer TG Coal, Olasiji Temitope as most creative make up artist with brand named Toov Beauty, Vincent Ayomide as most creative hair stylist with brand named Main barber and Kareem Timileyin as the best male model with brand named PIRES as well as Nwabuka Chinelo as the best female model with brand named Nelo matilda. Also, Sakirudeen Rahmat, the best participant who is a bag designer, was given a business input worth over 500k for being an overall outstanding participant among all other 33 participants in NYFEW 2021 program. The Suave Empire Chairman/CEO, Mr Matthew Kehinde Ogunniyi, who in his inaugural address at the launch of EXPY Foundation said, “This is the beginning of the new Dawn as we promised to uplift more people during this trying times of our Dear Nation, we will continue to empower youths, make them self employ so that they can be their boss”. POLL Focusing on various skills in agriculture and tailoring where the first batch of participants were inducted and empowered. Ogunniyi also stated further that Nigerian Youth Fashion and Empowerment Week (NYFEW) is a youth-focused empowerment organization that was birthed with a mission to educate, empower, expose, advance, and contribute to the growth of talent and intellectual abilities of skilled youths in Fashion value-chain in Nigeria. He stated that the broader vision is to be the biggest empowerment organization in Africa with a focus on training, educating, equipping, supporting, and empowering youths from all backgrounds to facilitate their entrepreneurial success. Ogunniyi also said NYFEW executes its purpose consistently so far with five (5) brilliantly executed empowerment projects across Nigeria which make the total number of 190 youths that has been empowered through NYFEW project. We help skilled youths, especially in fashion value-chain vocations to hone their vocational skills because we believe that there is Innovative Endless Possibilities in the world of the youths.