Cocoa farmers under the aegis of Cocoa Farmers Association of Nigeria (CFAN), has assured stakeholders that a realistic cocoa pyramid is coming very soon. Adeola Adegoke, National President of CFAN dropped the hint while speaking at the flag off of the free distribution of the cocoa GAP hand book, to smallholders cocoa farmers in Cross River State. He said the need to enlighten and train cocoa farmers on responsible use of pesticides, child labour eradication, certification, traceability, MRL, deforestation, ecosystem and climate smart practices are very crucial to the association’s ambition of making Nigeria to produce 500,000 metric tonnes in the next two years, and be the highest cocoa producer in West Africa with the best quality beans that are produced in line with international acceptable best practices in the next five years. Adegoke said the world cocoa production is about five million metric tonnes of which Ghana and Ivory Coast produce one million metric tons and two million metric tons respectively with an average production of 800kgm per hectare, while Nigeria is presently producing above three hundred thousand metric tons with an average production of 350kgm/400kgm per hectare. He added that Ondo and Cross River States alone ( like Ivory Coast and Ghana) contributed 60 per cent of the total produced cocoa beans in Nigeria. The CFAN President also stated that the Association’s concept of producing the Cocoa GAP Handbook and also making sure that it is distributed free to the cocoa farmers is in conjunction with Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN) , EBAFOSA, Harvestfeld Industries Limited, Federal Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Development, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment with other stakeholders contributions towards the sustainability of the cocoa supply chain in Nigeria. “As the singular commodity that gives the highest foreign exchange earnings apart from crude oil and provide incomes to more than two millions cocoa connected families and over $100 million investment in the sector, our recent activities to enhance and push forward our cocoa production from the currently over 300,000 metric tonnes and expand our average low productivity from the present 350/400kgms is urgently needed. He noted that the Association participated in the 2020 Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) cocoa Anchor Borrowers Program where about 1,222 cocoa farmers benefited across nine cocoa producing States at N593,000 for three hectare cocoa farm maintenance per beneficiary. POLL He urged the beneficiaries to finish up their repayment to avoid any embarrassment from the Association and gives room for new beneficiaries to access the loan. Speaking further, he said the association is currently pursuing the improvement of the living income of the smallholder cocoa farmers. “It is very poor and unacceptable, where cocoa beans pricing is still in tandem with neo colonial mentality at the International market, that does not consider cocoa farmers investment on input vis-a-vis output cost price for the survival and sustainability of the cocoa production subsector. “We are currently demanding for $400 Living Income Differential (LID) as being collected by Ghana and Ivory Coast cocoa farmers above their floor price farm gate for the cocoa farmers of Nigeria. “It is therefore, our belief that this Cocoa GAP Hand book would be given to all the cocoa farmers across the cocoa producing local governments and communities in conjunction with our traditional rulers in CRS, for us to comply with international best practices and due diligence needed in the sector. “This book has taken care of the noticed gaps in our cocoa affairs and provided our cocoa farmers with smart adaptation strategies to mitigate the challenges. He also said that the book is free and should not be sold, stressing that the association is preparing to distribute nothing less than 10,000 copies of the book per the major cocoa-producing States in the country.