CIG Motors, exclusive distributor GAC brand in Nigeria has entered into a partnership agreement with Polaris Bank to make vehicle acquisition and ownership affordable to Nigerians. The scheme: ‘Easy Buy,’ the two companies said is open to all automobile enthusiasts across the country. The bank and the auto giant announced the scheme, over the weekend at a joint press conference in Lagos with improved incentives that would afford customers and prospects the opportunity to acquire affordably priced brand new vehicles. Chief Diana Chen, the Chairman, CIG advised prospective auto patrons to seize opportunity of the scheme and acquire brand new automobiles that can stand the test of time. According to her, the scheme is launched because “we want more and more people to buy new cars in Nigeria and this will benefit the owners, the industry and the country.” Mr. Segun Opeke, Polaris Bank’s Executive Director, Lagos Business, who signed the Easy Buy scheme Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Polaris Bank and CIG Motors, expressed delight at the partnership with the auto company, which he observed would make brand new vehicle acquisition, and ownership seamless for Nigerians. “We appreciate Management of CIG Motors for this Partnership, as we reiterate that Polaris Bank Easy Buy Scheme offers the most valuable and seamless auto finance opportunity for those who wish to acquire and own brand new cars effortlessly”, Mr. Opeke enthused. Giving details of the details of auto finance plan, Mrs. Adebimpe Ihekuna, Polaris Bank’s Group Head, Products and Market Development said: “The Easy Buy scheme is a seamless plan for desiring customers – Individual and SMEs. Leveraging our technology capability, processing time is swift, less than 24 hours” POLL Ihekuna further noted that the ‘Easy Buy’ scheme is to give Polaris Bank customers the opportunity to secure low-interest bank credit for the procurement of at a hugely-discounted CIG Motors’ GAC range of vehicles. “You can now walk into any Polaris Bank branch to apply for credit to buy your choice GAC cars and thereafter, pay conveniently,” she affirmed. On his part, Mr. Jibril Arogundade, the General Manager, Sales, CIG Motors, said, “The partnership with Polaris Bank is in line with our strategy and direction of making vehicle acquisition, a seamless experience for Nigerians and essentially to assist prospective customers to buy brand new vehicles. “The Polaris Bank/CIG Motors partnership is intended to ease vehicle acquisition and assist customers to take advantage of the offer. What we are simply doing, is to help prospective buyers eliminate the burden of sourcing funds in one fell-swoop to buy a new car,” he added. Both establishments brokered the agreement in Lagos to ease challenges associated with securing low interest bank credit to acquire choice cars. The two organisations explained that the ‘Easy Buy’ scheme has convenient monthly repayment tenor of up to 60 months. While also adding that there is a zero per centinterest freeze between 6-12 months on the GAC Motors models would apply from date of funds disbursement of the ‘Easy Buy’ scheme which customers would enjoy in addition of free comprehensive insurance for the first year, free vehicle registration and five years’ warranty, among other mouth-watering benefits. The ‘Easy Buy’ auto scheme offer is applicable to GAC models, which includes; GA4, GS3, GN8, GS4 and GS8 models can be accessed in all CIG Motors accredited dealers nationwide. While GAC auto models have won various awards including the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) Awards, Polaris Bank, adjudged the Digital Bank of the Year, is a future-determining Bank committed to delivering industry-defining products and services to individuals and businesses.