ABUJA – The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote has stated that there are opportunities for increasing Liquefied Petroleum Gas penetration in Nigeria. He spoke at the commissioning Selai Gas Limited’s 30 metric tons gas refilling plant in Lagos, where he also noted that domestic consumption of LPG in the country exceeded 1million Metric Tonnes (MT) in year 2020, Nigeria has one of the lowest per capita LPG consumption in Africa, he said, adding that Selai Gas Station Ltd will benefit from that window of opportunity in the cooking gas market He described Selai Gas as one the front-runners that are taking practical steps in the Federal Government’s ‘’Decade of Gas’’ journey. He expressed delight that the firm is led by a female, noting that the Board is keen to support women entrepreneurs in the Nigerian Oil and Gas industry. According to him, the firm is well-positioned to benefit from the US$40m Women in Oil and Gas Intervention Fund deployed by the NCDMB and Nexim Nigerian Export-Import Bank. Represented by the Manager Projects Certification and Authorization (PCAD), Engr. Adewale Adenugba, the Executive Secretary explained that the Board had in recent years partnered with private sector players to invest in the gas value-chain, including the development of LPG storage terminals and jetties, inland gas processing to produce LPG, infrastructure for gas gathering, manufacturing of composite LPG cylinders and other projects. The NCDMB boss also highlighted that the economic, social and environmental benefits of switching from solid and liquid forms of fuel to gaseous forms are equally enormous. “The deaths and illnesses caused by smoke and wood fumes are nothing to be proud of for a country sitting on 203tcf of proven gas reserves. This gas station will bring the products closer to end-users,” he affirmed. POLL Ms. Damilola Owolabi, the Chief Executive Officer, Selai Gas Station Ltd, in her remarks, stated that the company sited the plant in Agege part of Lagos to take advantage of the dense population. The intent is to provide an outlet where the residents can easily refill their cooking gas and get encouraged to stop the use of dirty energy sources like firewood, charcoal and kerosine. She stated that part of the company’s market entry strategy is the introduction of a cylinder programme for women. Under this scheme, certain categories of women would get gas cylinders at reduced costs, to encourage them to switch to cooking gas, which is safer, cleaner and cheaper. The company also plans to engage men who ride tricycles to deliver refilled cylinders to customers’ homes she added. Speaking on the long-term plans, Owolabi said Selai Gas would go into the manufacture of gas cylinders and had already secured a suitable location for the purpose. Stakeholders of the oil and gas industry, who attended the event, described the commissioning of the facility as a win for diversity in the industry as well as for cleaner energy.