Crisis is presently rocking the Edo North Senatorial District of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the alleged endorsement of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as the party executives of the six Local Government Areas of the senatorial district in the Senate. The party executives in a communique signed by 24 members of the six local government areas of the senatorial district after their meeting in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State on Monday and made available to newsmen in Benin on Tuesday rejected the said endorsement. The communique had the following as some of the signatories: Francis Ozoya, the Youth Leader Ward 3, Owan-East), Onaivi Alabi (Auditor, Ward 1, Akoko-Edo), William Patrick (Asst.Secretary Ward 8, Akoko-Edo) and Chief Lucky Agbu (Chairman Ward 3 Etsako-East), They stated that the alleged endorsement of the former national chairman of APC was the figment of imagination of Jarret Tenebe who is the State Deputy Chairman of the APC and Alhaji Abubakar Akhokia, Etsako West Chairman of the party without consulting the executives of the Senatorial District. They further stated that what is being described as endorsement was only a response to invitation to the 70th birthday anniversary of Oshiomhole by party faithfuls across the district and nothing more. “The only significant thing that could be likened to an endorsement at the event was a motion to zone the senatorial seat to Etsako West which was resisted by some of the Executives present at the occasion. “The argument was that you can’t rotate the senate seat between Etsako East and West, what about the Owan that last had it between 2007 and 2011 and also Akoko-Edo last had it between 2011 to 2015 while it has been in Etsako since then. “If what happened at Iyamho is what have been turned into purported endorsement of Oshiomhole for senate in 2013, then we are very surprised. POLL “It would be undemocratic for Oshiomhole to fall for this shenanigans because it is the turn of Owan to get the senate seat if at all it will be taken away from the present occupant, Francis Alimikhena from Etsako East. “Efforts to challenge the sinister declaration was met with brutality on some party excecutives including Mrs.Oikelomen Alice (LGA Woman Leader, APC Owan-West).” it stated. The communique further stated that rather than blanket endorsement of Oshiomhole, all interested persons from the district should subject themselves to an open primaries to decide the party’s ticket for senate. According to the communique, those attendance at the meeting were drawn from Owan West, Owan East, Etsako East, Etsako West, Etsako Central and Akoko-Edo.