Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, a social activist, is the General Secretary, Federation of Informal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON), as well as Co-Convener, Coalition for Revolution (CORE). In this encounter with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the recent terror attacks on major infrastructure and several presidential declarations for the 2023 election, among other issues. Excerpt: One of the nation’s airports in Kaduna as well as an Abuja-Kaduna train witnessed terrorist attacks few days ago, which claimed several lives. How do you see the developments, bearing in mind the acclaimed efforts of the federal government and security agencies to end terror in the country? The spate of terrorist attacks all over huge swathes of Northern and central parts of Nigeria, Borno, Yobe, Kebbi, Katsina, Zamfara, Kaduna, Niger, Kogi, Kwara calls for serious concern. Kaduna particularly has witnessed sustained relentless attacks by these terrorists. The Nigeria Defence Academy (NDA) in Kaduna has been attacked, the Kaduna-Abuja train has been attacked and now the Kaduna Airport. At the same time, thousands of people are being mowed down by herdsmen in Southern Kaduna communities. Meanwhile, the political leaders are busy hunkering all over towards perpetuating their bloody hold on the country. It is a pitiable situation. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, one of the top cops in the country and some other officers had been involved in a drug scandal in addition to his case with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the USA concerning Hushpuppy, a Nigerian arrested suspected fraudster. With what has happened, what is your view on the integrity of the nation’s top security agents? The arrest of Abba Kyari, the police officer nabbed after a sting operation by men of the NDLEA demonstrates the extremely parlous state of our security system. What is most worrying was that Abba Kyari, with his gang of police officers, was still allowed to continue to operate with wanton impunity by police authorities despite the damning allegation of abetting fraud, Hushpuppy hanging over his head for over a year now. But for the forthrightness of the NDLEA, especially since Gen. Marwa (rtd) took over, Kyari would still be perpetrating his crimes with a police uniform on his body even now. The Kyari case calls for a total overhaul of the entire Nigeria Police Command superstructure. How do you see the characters that have so far emerged as presidential aspirants in the major political parties? Recent developments in the political terrain in recent months demonstrate the fact that the dominant parties, the APC and PDP, and their multiple clones have learnt nothing and, in fact, have further degenerated into absolute opportunism. The APC, following its convention recently, has a new leadership composed of the vilest, most compromised politicians of the much vilified PDP. If these men are so good to be worthy of APC leadership at the highest levels, why did we have to vote at all. PDP should just have continued ruling! And they say, the new men, all from PDP, were the president’s candidates! It is also not too surprising that a lot of PDP leaders are drawn from the APC as well, validating the fact that as long as these two parties, actually two sides of the same bad coin, continue to dominate the political landscape, the Nigerian quest for real change and transformation will remain a pipe dream. To make the situation even more hopeless, the leading aspirants from both parties are old, tired, compromised men with different degrees of failing health. It is clear that their only drive and motivation is personal aggrandisement and continued looting of national resources. Comrade Omoyele Dowore recently declared his interest in the 2023 presidential election under his party, African Action Congress (AAC). How widespread and formidable would you say his structure is to give him victory bearing in mind that he has been judicially confined to Abuja and is undergoing trial for treason charges? POLL The declaration of Omoyele Sowore as a presidential candidate of the AAC is an opportunity and a breath of fresh air. He represents the quest of Nigerian youth for genuine change and social transformation. He is untainted by the extremely corrupt and compromising political culture. But, there is a lot of talk about the absence of ‘political structure’ and that is said to be a weakness. But, I ask: What are the political structures of APC and PDP? Other than parading the same old, mostly men who have held up Nigeria in the jugular since 1960, with massive bribery, intimidation, and militarisation of the political process, what ‘political structures’ do these mainstream parties and politicians have? I think the urgent task for the AAC is to embark on serious political organising and mobilisation of the electorate. It is a daunting task given the level of mass apathy and skepticism of most Nigerians about anything political right now. But, even that is an advantage for the AAC as it cannot be associated with the terrible rot everywhere. Would you say that Nigerian youths are ready to take their political destiny in their own hands? I think Nigerian youths, as demonstrated during the #EndSARS protests, are very vehement about the need for change. And rightly so. They are the worst victims of the crisis. Most basic social facilities critical to youth development have been destroyed. Education, the most powerful tool of readying the youth for today’s knowledge driven economy, has been destroyed at all levels. University lecturers are on strike as we speak. No jobs. And for those trying to survive in the informal sector, there is no electricity. Potable water, sanitation and healthcare services are nonexistent, while the politicians have corrupted large numbers of the youth population with their clientele, prebendal politics, into violent cults, drugs, and degeneracy. But, most of the young people still remain decent and eager for change. How do you see the recent court decision ordering the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) to delete a certain part of the recently signed Electoral Act that has to do with the participation of appointed public officers in party primaries? Well, it is not new that the judiciary often ends up with very political decisions which often calls into question the independence of the judiciary as an impartial arbiter. Political appointees ordinarily lack the authority of the mandate derived from direct votes of the electorate, the very basis of democracy. They are just appointees that could be dismissed at any point and so should have no right to now select candidates for election in primaries. But, it is what it is. With the number of presidential aspirants that have emerged from the South, how serious would you say the South is to produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor? Honestly, I am indifferent to whether these guys are South or North. They are the same as far as I am concerned. What is your take on the ongoing protracted Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike which is on the second month now? What does it say of government’s attitude towards education in the country? The ASUU strike has brought into sharp focus, once again, the problem of gross underfunding of Nigerian educational system. And it is not surprising. Nigerian elites spend billions every year to educate their own children abroad and so have nothing left for the vast majority who cannot afford similar form of education for their own children. They are simply indifferent. Nothing, even with approaching elections. Just shows how banal and arrogant our ruling elites are. It is clear that something just got to give!