Of the N40billion claims filed as a result of ENDSARS protest which engulfed the entire business space in Nigeria shortly after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown in 2020, insurers say they have, so far, paid over N11billion while a number of fraudulent claims have also been recorded. This was disclosed by Mr Ganiyu Musa, Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) during Businesstoday online event in Lagos recently. According to him, some of these fraudulent claims were either not covered up or there was no cover extension for strikes and the rise in civil commotion, but deliberately, some elements filed claims to defraud the insurance firms. “We also do have a major issue with fraudulent claims. Like I said, just on the ENDSARS protest alone, the destruction that went with it, the industry, so far, has paid more than N11billion. Just on the destruction that came from the protest. “We had more than N40billion of reported claims a number of them actually fraudulent claims. Either there was no covered up or there was no cover for strikes and the rise in civil commotion but deliberately filed claims to defraud insurance firm. Musa, who is also the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Cornerstone Insurance Plc, noted that not only about the ENDSARS protest that fraudulent claims have been recorded by operators that some insured sometimes deliberately misled underwriters to insure products that do not exist in order to make claims. On claims, the NIA boss encouraged the insuring public to always take advantage of the National Insurance Commission’s Complaint Bureau to report issue of unpaid claims to the Commission, adding that such notification would cost an insured nothing as the NAICOM would take it up and ensure that the underwriter involved is made to settle such claims without cost. He said: “Unfortunately, not many of our customers or insured are aware of facilities they have with the NAICOM. They have a complaint bureau which is very active and it’s at no cost to the insured. If you have an issue with any underwriter regarding unpaid claims, all you need to do is to write to NAICOM and they take it up at no cost to you.” Said the NIA boss. POLL Musa noted that aside the three firms expelled from the association on account of inability to settle claims, there are other companies currently on suspension for the same issue. He said the association has been trying to enforce discipline among operators bearing in mind that the key selling point for the industry is by way of prompt settlement of genuine claims. “There are some instances where we are trying to enforce discipline among our operators. Because we know that the most important selling point for all said and done, is the payment of claims. What we do we sell a promise to pay and we make it a very key hard disciplinary protocol. “Again, we took an extraordinary step a few months ago of not just suspending but actually expelling from the association three of our members that we felt have continued to engage in an act of taking the industry to a disrepute by repeatedly failing to pay valid claims to their customers. That is the highest punishment available under our constitution. They were expelled completely from the association. “As we speak, we still have some that are undergoing various stages of disciplinary intervention. Some of them are on suspension and of course, based on our constitution we cannot come public with the identities of those that are on suspension.”