LAGOS  – The Address Homes Limited, a real estate company engaged in the acquisition, development and management of luxurious contemporary homes across Nigeria has assured that it would not relent in reducing the housing deficit in the county. Besides, the organisation said it would continue to make a difference in the real estate sector of the economy by delivering exceptional homes at budget costs with a human face. Mr. Bisi Onasanya, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the real estate firm, gave the assurance over the weekend, during a tour with journalists of its completed homes, construction sites, and visit to the firm’s flagship homes called the Luxuria maisonette, penthouse and flats along Alexandra road, Ikoyi. The CEO declared that the bold entry of The Address Homes into the real estate sector was to fill the need to inject the next level of integrity and international quality standards into the industry. “The Address Homes is set to change the face of Real Estate Development in Nigeria by delivering homes that combine high class contemporary architectural design with high-level finishes. “Our Homes are highly diversified concerning design and styles. From inception, we at The Address Homes have made it our policy to build the best homes at the most economical prices throughout Nigeria, thus delivering optimum value for money. “We are encouraging and attracting Nigerians from the Diaspora to have a feel and replica of the quality homes they lived overseas here in Nigeria. Quality has no boundary and we believe we need to address observable deficiencies in quality and we need to speak to some level of international standards irrespective of where you are coming from. “We are in the industry to put a structure that is called homes and not houses in all aspects of quality, but affordable living to Nigerians and generally to the citizens of the world here in Nigeria,” he said. POLL Speaking in terms of affordability and cost, Onasanya affirmed that the organisation despite the luxury of its homes on the Island has been competitive, while offering more value for money against the competition. He added, “More importantly we are flexible with our payment terms and costs. We allow people to dictate to us within a particular time frame about how they want to structure their payment. “Often people ask what the payment plan is, and we tell them what is important is to spread the payment all through the construction. Let us know what is convenient for you and we tailor it towards that. This is because the cash flow cannot be the same. “We have instances where the project is completed and people express difficulties making the final payment. They make special requests to allow them to move into the property without completing the payment yet we oblige them. We edge our risk by making sure that you don’t have the title document and this has endeared many clients to us.”