AKINWUNMI KING In less than 11 months’ time, Nigerians are expected to cast their ballots in another general election but they are already expressing fears over the disturbing state of security in the country, doubting whether the election would hold as scheduled. Days ago, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, warned those killing themselves ahead of 2023 general elections to desist from such an act. This is even as he categorically stated that he didn’t know whether or not there would be an election next year. The cleric said he was more concerned about the Kaduna killings, oil theft, Nigeria’s depressing debt profile, and other current national challenges. For a long time now, most Nigerians have dreaded travelling by road because kidnappers and bandits have taken over the highways, and increasingly killing and maiming innocent citizens while taking some of them away for ransom. Thus, for those who have the means, traveling by air has been the safest and for those who have the phobia for flying and others whose resources are lean, the train becomes their alternative to achieving safety in their journey. But a few days ago, this new hope and feeling were shattered as terrorists attacked the Kaduna Airport and a Kaduna-Abuja bound train, killing scores, injuring many while taking others hostage. Sliding Into Anarchy Analysts are of the view that Nigeria is rapidly sliding into the abyss and it is believed that this is due largely to the inability of the Federal Government to pull back the nation from the brink of disaster. POLL This recent development has also continued to be a major source of concern to the citizens who are losing hope that the menace of mindless killings of innocent people by bandits and terrorists who have seized the state by the scruff of the neck is going to end anytime soon. Even though the hues and cries about safety remain a talking point in the polity, the Muhammadu Buhari administration, which promised security as its main agenda during the electioneering, appears to be at a loss in its search for a solution. A few days after the bombing, the joint intelligence service announced that it had uncovered scores of makeshift facilities and forest settlements serving as camps for armed bandits and kidnappers terrorising travellers along the Abuja-Kaduna highway and train routes. However, pundits maintained that security agencies could have gathered the intelligence long before the disaster. Worried by the recent development, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, last week, declared that the President Buhari-led government has been overwhelmed by insecurity. Obasanjo spoke in the light of the recent deadly attack on a Kaduna-bound train which killed seven passengers while 21 others are reportedly missing. “I believe that all right thinking Nigerians must know that we have a situation that has overwhelmed the present administration,” he said at his penthouse residence in Abeokuta, Ogun State, while receiving a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Dr. Ugochukwu Williams. Describing the attack as “a serious situation”, Obasanjo lamented that Nigerians are “no longer safe on the road, in the train and at the airport.” This was as pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, expressed concern over threat by Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, to invite foreign mercenaries to fight terrorism, describing it as an ominous sign for the country. In a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi, the group said: “Hiring the services of foreign mercenaries is certainly beyond the powers of any state governor, according to the Constitution. And el-Rufai knows this so well. “So, for him to assert that he (and a few of his colleagues) will resort to this option could be a pointer to certain things that had hitherto not been so clear to members of the public. “Among those could be the possibility that perhaps armed foreigners are already in our midst. It could also be a pointer to the fact that el-Rufai saw some kind of unwillingness on the part of the Federal Government to confront this problem headlong, hence his desire to seek help his own way – even when the manner is constitutionally beyond his power.” In January 2015, when the presidential campaign of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was formally inaugurated in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, Buhari had promised to tackle corruption, insecurity and economy, if elected. “The fundamental issue facing this country is insecurity and the problem of the economy which is being made worse by corruption. I assure you that we are going to finally assemble a competent team of Nigerians to efficiently manage the country. “I am appealing to you, the damage done to this country is great. The level of unemployment, level of insecurity is intolerable. The journey has begun. It will take time, it will take patience, it will take support from you to make sure that we succeed,” Buhari had said at the campaign ground. During the electioneering campaign, Buhari had specifically vowed to defeat Boko Haram insurgents in the north of the country by providing government forces with better equipment, more training and more accurate intelligence. “I, as a retired general and a former head of state, have always known about our soldiers. They are capable, they are well-trained and patriotic and always ready to do their duty to the service of their country. “You can bear witness to the gallantry of our military in Burma, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Darfur and many other parts of the world, but in the matter of the insurgency our soldiers have neither received the necessary support nor the required incentives to tackle this problem,” Buhari had said at the Royal Institute of International Affairs at Chatham House in London prior to the 2015 general elections. He added that the Nigerian parliament had been thwarted in its attempts to find out what had happened to the “trillions of naira” allocated to defence procurement. He called it “a big disgrace” that the army could not secure the 14 local government districts lost to Boko Haram. Seven years down the line, the administration of President Buhari have continued to issue press statements to condemn incessant attacks on innocent Nigerians and still promising to defeat insurgency without being able to do so. However, the two recent successive audacious attacks of bandits on a Kaduna-bound train barely 24 hours after their invasion of the airport in the metropolis have, therefore, opened fresh discourse on the vulnerability of the nation’s security architecture and the way forward. The development has forced analysts and stakeholders to challenge the administration and pick holes in its anti-terror war approach. FG Receives Flak On Monday, the Apex Islamic body, Jama’atu Nasir Islam (JNI), headed by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, came down hard on the Federal Government, accusing it of failing to curb insecurity. The JNI queried: “Why are attacks experienced all over the place, continuing unabated without any deterrence? Why must the security budget and expenditure remain so secretive, despite the reported release of funds?” It further noted: “The mind-boggling train attack of Monday, March 28, 2022, the kidnap and sporadic shootings that ensued need to be seriously investigated and punitive measures are taken.” In a statement by its Secretary-General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, JNI, asked further: “Why can’t the government proactively take the battle to the criminals’ hideouts and wipe them off? Why should the government wait until people are attacked, life and property lost, before it strikes and issues empty orders and the usual condemnation? The whys are endless?” JNI lamented that terrorists now “operate in any area of their choice and at any time they wish,” adding, “They even operate for up to eight hours non-stop, as it was reported to have happened in Niger State last Monday, without any fear of being confronted or apprehended.” The group said: “Terrorists do what they wish, knowing there is no gun powder or authority that will defy them. With all the reported resources allocated to relevant security agencies; intelligent gathering mechanism, military arsenal and tact, can’t the government provide any convincing justification on why the security situation in the country continues to deteriorate?” It admitted: “Without doubt, security men exhibited capacity, resilience, determination and dexterity during the rescue operation on the ill-fated train attack.” It, however, affirmed: “The government is expected to know the enclaves and hideouts of these criminals, especially, as the only government has absolute control on the use of force, and by extension, it also has machinery to generate genuine information.” Similarly, the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) condemned Federal Government to arrest the situation immediately. In a statement in Abuja by its National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, the party said: “We have not had it so bad since independence in 1960. It is a sad commentary on our emerging democracy.” It added: “Nigerians need a compassionate government with the milk of human kindness and ready to deliver dividends of democracy to assuage the sufferings of the people in accordance with Section 14(2) b of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, which states that security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. “It is unfortunate that this basic constitutional requirement of government at all levels has remained a mirage as fellow compatriots are being killed daily as if there is no government in place.” Experts and concerned Nigerians have reinforced their calls on the Federal Government to stop handling the current security challenges with kid gloves and devise pragmatic means of restoring peace, especially in the northern part of the country. According to a former Director, Department of State Security Services, Mr. Dennis Amachree, the time has come for President Buhari to declare a state of emergency on insecurity and deal with the situation. “Nigeria is really bleeding. President Buhari has always directed the military to deal with the insecurity situation decisively, but it looks like the bleeding is not stopping. The president should have the political will to stop the hemorrhage. The president should declare a state of emergency and deal with this situation before the general elections,” he said. Call For More Arms The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ado Doguwa, recently called for firearms permits for Nigerians willing to defend themselves in the face of the failure of security agencies to protect lives and properties. Doguwa, who made the call during a debate on a motion of urgent importance moved by Hon. Shehu Balarabe on killings in Kaduna State, penultimate Thursday, said, “If the agencies of security have failed, then Nigerians should not be seen as failures”, he said, just as he noted that the option would be for Nigerians to be allowed to defend themselves. Speaking further, the House Leader said if the issue of insecurity could not be addressed democratically, “Nigerians should be allowed to return to the jungle.” Doguwa, who usually defends the executive on the floor of the House, said Nigerians could no longer run away from fight but must be given what it takes to defend themselves. “With all sense of responsibility, I think Nigerians should at this moment be allowed to also take arms. Nigerians must be allowed to take up arms in defence of their innocent souls, defend their hard-earned properties because it is like a monumental failure. “If the agencies of security have failed, then Nigerians should not be seen as failures. Let Nigerians organise themselves in the way of civil defence. Let Nigeria organise defence for their innocent souls because if the responsibility of the government cannot be carried out democratically, then we return to the jungle,” he said. For its part, the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), also urged the Federal Government to rise to its responsibility of arresting and prosecuting those terrorising innocent Nigerians, rather than playing the ostrich on matters of insecurity. In a solemn statement signed by the President and Archbishop-Elect of Owerri, Most Rev. Lucius Iwejuru Ugorji, the CBCN called on the government to take urgent steps to unmask the marauding terrorists and their sponsors without further delay. The statement, titled: “Nigeria: A Nation Groans in Pains”, read: “The news of the recent attacks on trains by terrorists has attracted public outcry, outrage and grief. Nigerians are still mourning over the brutal slaughtering of fellow citizens during those bloody attacks. We unequivocally condemn those brutal acts of barbarism and brazen assault on our sovereign dignity as a nation. “The train route from Abuja to Kaduna has been the safety net for thousands of travellers commuting between both cities. Now, the terrorists have proven that no one is safe on that route anymore. “Just last week, there were also reports that over 200 terrorists on motorbikes brazenly rode through the runway of the Kaduna International Airport in broad daylight, killing at least one person. All these occurred shortly after the incessant brutal attacks and killings by faceless terrorists in the communities of Southern Kaduna and many other parts of the Middle Belt. “That all these atrocities against the people and the nation happen without a single arrest or prosecution seem to give credibility to the widespread belief that the government is complacent, helpless or compromising. “Considering the billions of Naira appropriated for security and the fight against terrorism in recent times, it is difficult to imagine that a large number of terrorists, who unleashed terror on unarmed and law-abiding citizens, can disappear in broad daylight without a trace. “It is, indeed, very hard to believe that our security apparatus lacks intelligence or the ability to fight and defeat terrorists in our nation. Nigerians are sick of flimsy excuses and bogus promises of the government to deal with terrorists. “As a mark of honour, the government should rise to its primary responsibility of protecting the life and property of its citizens. “Our country has long teetered on the precipice of a failed state. Government should therefore, stop trying to play the ostrich as the nation profusely bleeds and take urgent steps to unmask these marauding terrorists and their sponsors without further delay. “At this moment of nationwide sadness and sorrow, the Catholic Bishops of Nigeria stand together in solidarity with the bereaved, the wounded, and those still missing. “We pray that God grants eternal rest to the departed, consolation to bereaved families, healing to the wounded and a safe return to those still missing.” Taking FG To Task A coalition of civil society organisations (CSOs) recently called on the federal government to take urgent steps to fulfil its responsibility of securing the lives of Nigerians. In a statement, the CSOs said the escalating attacks and killing of Nigerians in different parts of the country have become worrisome. They said the recent attacks in Kaduna, the Kaduna-Abuja train bombing and the insecurity in the South-East show a total collapse of the country’s security architecture despite government claims of defeating insecurity. “We, as civil society organisations and citizen groups across Nigeria note with concern the worsening state of insecurity in Nigeria,” the statement read. “We, therefore, call on the government to take urgent steps to fulfil its constitutional responsibility of protecting lives and property as enunciated in Section 14 (2) (b) and Section 33 of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended). “This call has become necessary in the face of escalating attacks and wanton killing of thousands of Nigerians in different parts of the country. “All of these signal a total collapse of the country’s security architecture. The apparent nonchalance by the government evidenced by its unending fruitless statements raises concerns about its commitment to ending this siege that continually compromises our individual and collective security as Nigerians. “Nigerians are increasingly living in constant fear and are apprehensive of becoming victims of mass atrocities both in public and private spaces. They can no longer sleep at home in peace or travel without fear of being abducted or killed.” The CSOs condemned the refusal of the service chiefs to honour the invitation of the national assembly, adding that it shows their lack of accountability to the people that they have sworn to protect. They also asked that the country reviews its security architecture, build the capacity of intelligence agencies as well as conduct an inquiry into the cause of terrorism and sabotage of government efforts. The statement was signed by Accountability Lab Nigeria; African Centre for Leadership; Strategy & Development (Centre LSD); African Centre for Media & Information Literacy (AFRICMIL); Alliances for Africa. Others are Amaka Chiwuike-Uba Foundation (ACUF); Building Blocks for Peace Foundation (BBFORPEACE); CEE-HOPE Nigeria; Centre for Accountability and Inclusive Development (CAAID); Centre for Community Excellence (CENCEX); Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), among others. In all of this, the Buhari’s administration believes that it is not overwhelmed by the security challenges in the country. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed while reacting to a statement credited to former President Obasanjo, stated that the former Nigerian leader was wrong to have said the government was overwhelmed by rising insecurity in the nation. The minister said that the Nigerian military had successfully flushed out terrorists from the North-East and the North-West will also be rid of criminal elements soon. He said it was important not to politicise the security situation so as not to deflate the morale of the military. He said, “The Federal Government is not overwhelmed at all and we are very proud of our military. The string of successes recorded by the military against Boko Haram is what has led to the decimation of their camps and the surrender of thousands of rebels.” Mohammed said the government had trained at least 25,000 constables in police duties and intelligence gathering which will improve crime fighting. He said the government was boosting the morale of security personnel by providing military hardware, including 150 trucks and 60 Armed Personnel Carriers, in recent times. “Also, 10,000 army personnel were recruited recently. People should understand that we are in an asymmetrical war and when such war is on, the other party doesn’t have to abide by the rules of engagement but we should stop dampening the morale of our soldiers. What the soldiers need is encouragement. What the government needs is more collaboration especially at the state and local government level.” Despite these assurances, the unpredictable wave of attacks on innocent citizens has gone on much too long and Nigerians are now being haunted by the spectre of national disintegration.