EMMANUEL OBETA Lead generation is another good objective of content marketing especially as it has been shown that content marketing generates over three times more leads as outbound marketing and costs 62% less. Webinars are wonderful tools of lead generation especially as the people who register to participate become warm leads for future prospecting, sales and cross sales. The key strategy in generating leads is to focus your content marketing on issues or topics that people are actively searching for which should be targeted towards decision makers and not just the practitioners. When such information is gated with only the registration of details of the participants as the access point to the content then you will be able to generate a whole lot of leads. Content marketing is also a wonderful means of establishing your brand or leaders and top management personnel within the organization as thought leaders within the industry. This is so because thoughtful, incisive and well researched contents go a long way to establish the pedigree and authority of the writers as leaders of thought within the industry. Personnel whose thoughts and opinions or services or the brands that they represent should be sought after within the market. At the end of the day content marketing is meant to operate in a cooperative or symbiotic capacity where it is used to fuel and complement other marketing efforts in line with the overal business goals or objectives and not in a vacuum or as a replacement for other marketing or promotional techniques. According to Neil Patel, content marketing efforts can be categorised into three main groups; online, offline, and hybrids. POLL Online are the combination of the various content marketing materials that are communicated via online platforms like Facebook, Instagram posts and videos, U Tube videos, blogs, vlogs, eBooks etc. The offline content marketing materials are things like printed comics, newsletters. Hybrid formats of content marketing are scenarios where you could use social media to drive awareness to an offline event or run an offline event and take it online. In as much as content marketing materials can entertain, enlighten and educate the customers the main objective of content marketing is to drive the customers along their buying experience or journey starting from the point of awareness of your brand through the point of consideration and conversion to the point of decision to patronize your products or services. An effective content marketing material will seek to first of all understand your customers/ audience so well that you can then create content for each stage of their journey toward buying your product. This you can achieve by first identifying their pain points or areas of concern, pushing those points to the point of agitating or highlighting those pains and concerns and finally solving their problem or providing a solution to these problems through your developed contents. The three basic stages in the customer or audience buying process on their journey to making a purchase decision are the awareness stage, the consideration stage and the decision stage. Each of these stages can be illustrated through the funnel analogy where 75% of the audience are looking or seeking for information which coincides with the awareness stage. 23% of these audience go beyond the point of obtaining information to the point of actually considering the information obtained or even comparing them with the previous information that is available to them or stored in their memory. Out of this entire population research has shown that it might only be 2% of the people that eventually get to the point of taking a decision or purchasing action. With this information in mind, it will then guide you on how to fashion your content marketing to each of these stages so as to achieve or obtain the maximum benefits from your effort. At the awareness stage people are just getting to know about you or your products and services. They are not even willing at this point in time to buy or even ready to opt-in to your email list or newsletter mainly because at this point in time, they do not have enough information about you to even give you or your products and services any form of consideration. The emphasis at this point in time should be on providing the necessary information that gives you an edge in the market to the consumers or audience. You should also not make the mistake of assuming that with just one or a few information about your organization no matter how well written will be enough to give you a positive consideration in the minds of the consumers or audience. That is why at this point the key is the consistent delivery or high-quality information about yourself to the audience in a repeated and exciting manner. Over time this information will percolate in the minds of the audience and like a pendulum will gradually start tilting to your favour. The next stage is the consideration stage where as a result of the consistent and beneficial experience they would have had with the content you have been delivering consistently they will start giving some positive attention and thought to your messages. The critical issue here is that you have started a conversation process with your audience at the awareness stage. As you keep deepening the conversation and engaging their attention you will gradually earn the right to try and convince them about your product or service offering. The eBook, blogs and other tools like online videos which gives the audience an opportunity to truly assess you so as to determine your genuineness and transparency are key. These tools will give the consumers and audience an opportunity to find out where you stand on several critical issues that are dear to them as they see through your presentation and the genuineness of it as well as your integrity trust will start to form and build up. With these ongoing consumer conversations, you will earn the right to direct and guide their thought process at the point of consideration as your point of view will start weighing heavily on their minds. The last stage in the process is the decision stage. At this point the consumer/ customer would have made up their minds to patronise or give you a chance. Your role in content marketing is to provide positive reinforcements to them to further assure them of the rightness of their decision. This is where the issue of endorsements and positive testimonials of other customers as well as the provision of authenticated evidence will come into play in reinforcing their decisions and to also dissuade the issue of buyer’s remorse if any. In summary you could also define this customer buying or decision-making process as one of attracting, captivating and eventually leading to the conversion of the customer through the process of creating and distributing valuable, relevant, and consistent content to the clearly defined audience. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com