By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba), first published in January 2018 Last week, this column repub­lished, The Dilemma of Sub­sidy and Fuel Scarcity which discusses the effects that vari­ous bodies have on fuel scarcity in the nation. The republication can be found by accessing the link below. (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) Today’s article which also lies with­in the fuel scarcity theme discusses the impact of crude oil prices, and output, on the exchange rate of the Naira and forex reserves. It examines how these factors have formed a cycle that leads to what the author identifies as sub­sidy fraud. Unless something is done to break this cycle, it will continue for many more years to come. To learn more about this elaborate scheme that leaves the Nigerian people at the hands of a merciless system created by those in power, for the benefit of those in power, kindly read on. As you read through the below article taking note of the events and rates, keep in mind its initial publica­tion (2018). The acute scarcity of petrol, nation­wide, may have receded significantly, but issues relating to steady supply, ap­propriate pricing and fuel subsidy, ob­viously still remain very contentious. Government and NNPC XE “NNPC” have invariably blamed private mar­keters for the fuel shortage, while mar­keters have conversely, demanded the immediate payment of over N720bn that NNPC owes them as refund of subsidies on their fuel imports. The debt may also include govern­ments compensation to marketers for trucking fuel, from the ports, to all nooks and crannies, so that fuel will sell at governments regulated price of N145/litre nationwide. The signifi­cant degree of fraud inherent in this arrangement has become a regular menu for professional rent seekers; for example, petrol cargoes officially registered for delivery in faraway KauraNamoda XE “Kaura Namoda” , could still be sold ex-depot in Lagos XE “Lagos” , while fake waybills will be presented, processed and approved for payment by NNPC. Consequently, the governments equalisation strate­gy for uniform fuel price nationwide compounds the hundreds of billions of Naira lost to the subsidy fraud; in­explicably, however, equally critical agricultural produce, do not enjoy such subsidy to ensure that yam, for example, sells cheaper, at a uniform price nationwide. Arguably, the beneficiary cabal of this scam will aggressively oppose any attempt to abolish the petrol bridging fund, and this may explain govern­ments seeming lack of enthusiasm and foot-dragging to build an efficient rail delivery system which would facil­itate cheaper fuel transportation and will certainly also, do less damage to our already poor road network. Ev­idently, deregulation is bad business for treasury looters. POLL Nonetheless, with abstention of marketers from fuel imports, NNPC’s forced import of all of Nigeria’s motor spirit requirements, according to Ibe Kachikwu XE “Ibe Kachikwu” , regret­tably induces a daily loss of between N800m-N900m to the Corporation. However, last week, Wednesday, Jan 17 2017, the Senate rejected a report on fuel import values and subsidy present­ed by the Committee for Petroleum Resources, led by Senator Marafa XE “Senator Marafa” , APC-Zamfara Cen­tral. Senate President, Bukola Saraki XE “Bukola Saraki” noted with appar­ent concern in his address, that if we are consuming 27 million litres of pet­rol daily, while the NNPC brings in 40 million litres, according to the report, What about the difference? It is criminal! Indeed, Marafas Committee was mandated to investigate the allegation that a surplus of 5.9 billion litres of pet­rol (i.e., about N900m daily) could not be accounted for in 2017. Notably, however, Senator Marafa had reportedly, inexplicably, deliber­ately barred the Minister of State, and other NNPC Directors from answer­ing any question on the allegation of illegal subsidy payments during his committees formal hearing. Consequently, Senator NafadaBay­ero XE “Nafada Bayero”, APC-Gombe State XE “APC-Gombe State” \t “See Nafada Bayero” , ironically observed that this looks like a report of the NNPC . according to Bayero it looks like a report that was imported into the Senate, and the Senator therefore advised that the Senates Petroleum Resources Committee should go back and bring its own report. Ultimately, based on the general condemnation of Marafas report, the Senate President re-assigned the investigation to the Senate Committee on Public Accounts, to probe subsidies paid, without the Legislators endorse­ment. However, despite the seemingly patriotic grand standing and brag­gadocio, of the Senators, sadly the cultist loyalty of esprit de corps, may ultimately prevail and these matters of urgent public importance, and ac­countability could fade away, as usual, without consequences. Unfortunately, the problems of sub­sidy, scarcity and higher petrol prices, have subsisted for decades, and yet, we are clearly, no nearer a solution to this oppressive and suicidal game-plan for supplying Nigeria’s petrol needs. Invariably, if government cannot readily access the huge investment, employment and revenue potentials and opportunities, in a fully deregulat­ed market space, then, further increase in petrol price, well beyond N200/litre will be inevitable and increasing sub­sidy values in excess of N1tn ($3bn) an­nually, will be recklessly flushed down the drain, while intermittent scarcity and the related social pain and angst will endure. Expectedly, in a regime of fixed pric­es, rising crude oil prices should tech­nically propel higher fuel prices which will invariably induce public demand for increasing subsidy values, that will compound Nigeria’s steep climbing fis­cal deficit, and our already crushing debt burden. Conversely, however, if petrol price remains fixed at N145/litre, for exam­ple, lower crude oil prices and output would ultimately reduce our forex reserves to also weaken the Naira ex­change rate and ultimately restrain our capacity to settle our imports bills. Invariably, however since petrol, as an international commodity is priced in dollars, weaker Naira rates will in­stigate higher fuel prices which will ultimately compel public demand for price subsidy. Sadly, the above scenario depicts the ultimate national dilemma of reg­ulated pricing and subsidy in the fuel business. Instructively, in addition to the odious collateral of increasingly op­pressive subsidy values that price regulation induces, higher subsidy values will, evidently never attract private investment in new refineries to replace fuel importation. Ultimately, intermittent scarcity and rising public angst caused by NNPC’s inadequate ca­pacity to solely fund and deliver Nige­ria’s petrol requirements will become inevitable. Indeed, the underlying objective in the preceding 4 titles published in this column in recent weeks, was to explain why a consciously and delib­erately misaligned Naira exchange rate is actually the real spoiler in the business of petrol supply and price, deregulation, and subsidy. (See www.lesleba.com-Is Petrol Still Sub­sidised?-25/12/17; The Dilemma of Subsidy and Fuel Scarcity-1/1/18; The Mother and Father of Fuel Pric­es-8/1/18 & Fuel Pricing: Kachikwu’s Desperate Options-15/1/18). It is certainly inexplicable and possibly reckless and fraudulent that the Nai­ra rate remains relatively static even when forex reserves become extremely bountiful. Clearly, unless the Naira exchange rate is appropriately realigned, the de­bacle of fuel pricing, scarcity and in­creasingly oppressive subsidy values will be sustained to invariably distort best practice resource allocation and deepen poverty nationwide. It is a reasonable expectation, in any disciplined economy, overtime for ex­change rate to fluctuate, in unison with higher or lower forex reserves, but the problem arises when, for example, Naira exchange rate remains static or worse still weakens, despite fortu­itously relatively bounteous reserves, higher petrol prices will be instigated since, crude oil is also the base material for petrol. It is inexplicable that the Naira still officially remains static at N305/$ de­spite a significant 50 percent rise in crude oil price from below $40/barrel for part of 2017 to beyond $60/barrel. Conversely, if fortuitously bounte­ous reserves, expectedly, translate to stronger Naira exchange rate, the price of petrol will either remain stable or ac­tually fall in proportion to the increas­ing level of foreign exchange accretion, from the stronger Naira exchange that is evolving. In such event, higher crude prices will actually become a blessing as it will boost reserves and also re­strain or even reduce petrol price. However, Nigerians have hardly enjoyed the benefits of a stronger Naira for decades. The reason for this anomaly is traceable to CBN’s style of fixing the Naira exchange rate, by first capturing the export dollar revenue and then deliberately increasing do­mestic money supply, by fraudulently substituting bloated Naira allocations for export dollar earnings, at its own unilaterally determined exchange rate, before proceeding thereafter, to auction small rations from the earlier impounded caché of dollars in a mar­ket that the same CBN unashamedly decries to be highly inflationary, be­cause it is already overwhelmed with too much Naira supply!! Expectedly, in such auctions, dollars will be sold to buyers who offer to pay more Naira per dollar. Instructively, with such a price model, no matter how high large reserves become, the Naira rate will, invariably, always weaken to precipitate rising fuel pric­es, which will ultimately compel pub­lic demand for a subsidised fuel price. Evidently, our monetary history in the last three decades, or so, loyally mir­rors this observation. Consequently, unless CBN reviews the market paradigm determining Naira exchange rate, it would remain impossible to successfully deregulate the downstream sector of the Petro­leum industry. Save the Naira, Save Nigerians!!! The link in the above article has been re­placed by www.betternaijanow.com