An Edo High Court has barred the Edo State government and its agent, Edo State Traffic Control and Management Agency (EDSTMA) from impounding vehicles, auctioning seized vehicles and demanding payment of penalties for alleged traffic violations without recourse to the court. The court presided over by Justice P.A. Akhihiero, also awarded N5 million as aggravated/exemplary damages against the defendant and N200,000 as costs to the applicant. Bar. Chukwuka Jonathan Enegide had dragged the Edo state government, EDSTMA, its managing director and three others to court after the agency had impounded his vehicle over alleged traffic violations and recourse to the court. He sought a declaration of the court granting absolute power to compulsorily take possession of citizens’ vehicles, impound same indefinitely, impose fines, penalties and auction same without affording them an opportunity of hearing let alone on fair hearing is unconstitutional, illegal and void. He also urged the Court to determine whether the relevant section of EDSTMA law granting absolute power to impound, auction vehicles or demand payment without recourse to the court is inconsistent with sections 1,3,35,44 and 72 of the 1999 Constitution among other declarations. In his ruling, Justice P.A. Akhihiero held that the applicant was able to prove his case and grant the declaration sought. “The relevant section of the EDSTMA law granting absolute power to impound and auction vehicles or demand payment of penalties without recourse to the courts are inconsistence with sections 1,3,36,44, and 75 of the 1999 Constitution and are declared null and void to the extent of inconsistency” The Court also declared that the respondent’s illegal act of extortion, unlawful forcible seizure and compulsory acquisition of the applicant’s vehicle and its detention was unconstitutional and a violation of his right to fair hearing and property as guaranteed by the Constitution. POLL The court however awarded N5 million damages against the defendants and N200,000 as costs to the applicant.