ABUJA – The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of suffering from leadership fatigue, as it described as “outrageous,” nomination fees for various positions, as published by the Senator Abdullahi Adamu led National Executives of All Progressives Congress (APC). NNPP said that the nomination fees “imposed on aspirants contesting various elective positions by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the 2023 general election is unfair, unjust, despicable and insensitive to the plights and sufferings of Nigerians who have been impoverished by the outgoing government.” A statement by the Ambassador Agbo Major, NNPP National Publicity Secretary, said the action shows that “APC is out to rip off its aspirants, sell its tickets to the highest bidder, encourage godfatherism and shut out patriotic and resourceful aspirants particularly women, youth and those with disability to continue its infamous recycling of retired, tired and docile party stalwarts with no agenda for a better Nigeria.” He lambasted the party, insisting that “Only those who have looted the national treasury and eager to loot more that can afford #100 million nomination fees to run for president and #50 million for governor in a depressed economy run by borrowing from foreign countries and institutions. It is obvious that Nigerian democracy is under constant attacks by the outgoing APC government.” While calling on the Anti-Graft agencies to probe the source of wealth of those who purchase the forms, NNPP decried that “the era of hoodwinking the masses by falsely claiming that a group has purchased a nomination form for an aspirant is over. Anti graft agencies should also investigate members of the purported group to ascertain the sources of the funds raised. This is the only way the nation’s electoral process will be sanitized of money politics that has imposed clueless leaders on the populace. The consequence is the lingering political upheavals, insecurity, economic depression, moral decadence, religious disharmony and ethnic division across the country.” The opposition party accused the outgoing APC government of already suffering from leadership fatigue and confused on the way forward. It urged Nigerians to seize the opportunity to “effect a change through the ballot and return power back to the people. We are all in it together to make Nigeria the great arsenal of democracy in Africa.” APC has peged its Presidential nomination form at N100 million, N50 million for Governor, N20 million for Senate, N10 million for House of Representatives and N2 million for State House of Assembly.