LAGOS  – Residents of Amoo/ Adalemo in Orile Agege Local Council Development Area of Lagos State have expressed their happiness at the commencement of the upgrading of the road in their area. The residents bore their minds at the Stakeholders meeting held at Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Alausa where they commended the Sanwo-Olu Administration for bringing the infrastructural project to their area. Ganiyu Adele Ayuba, the Special Adviser, Urban Development, said that the stakeholders engagement was in line with the Administration’s bottom-up approach to developmental issues, adding that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had mandated that every infrastructural development project began with the engagement of beneficiaries. He explained that the aim of involving the people was to acquaint them with government intentions concerning the project and seek their understanding and input. He said that Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu was doggedly executing the THEMES Agenda of his Administration as progress recorded in the infrastructural renewal of the State, just as in other pillars of the blueprint, was remarkable. Ayuba called for the cooperation of the people at every stage of the project, including the establishment of the Right of Way and actual construction of the road, while urging them to own and protect the facility. Honourable Member, Lagos State House of Assembly, Oluyinka Ogundimu appreciated the State Government for the life-impacting project in the axis and pledged the cooperation of his people. Engr. Olufemi Daramola, the Permanent Secretary, Office of Infrastructure, while speaking about the scope of the job, said that the construction would span 12 months and involve the relocation of services, delivery of Right of Way, provision of service ducts, crushed stone base course and paving stones as well as street lights among others. POLL Hon. Johnson Babatunde, the Chairman Orile Agege Local Council Development Area, also commended the administration of Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu for the acclaimed efforts in infrastructural development, while making a case for such laudable projects in other parts of the Council Area.