Jurgen Klopp has signed a new deal at Liverpool that ties him down until 2026, the club have confirmed. The Reds boss was due to leave Anfield in 2024 when his previous contract expired and had spoken of his plans to pursue other activities in his life. However he and his staff have signed new deals that will keep them on Merseyside for a further two years. Klopp joined Liverpool in 2015 and claimed Champions League glory in 2019 before ending the club’s lengthy title wait but winning the Premier League a year later. This term he has claimed the Carabao Cup for the first time in his tenure and has the Reds on the cusp on an unprecedented quadruple. Upon signing a new deal the German told the club’s website: “There are so many words I could use to describe how I am feeling about this news… delighted, humbled, blessed, privileged and excited would be a start. There is just so much to love about this place. I knew that before I came here, I got to know it even better after I arrived and now I know it more than ever before. “Like any healthy relationship, it always has to be a two-way street; you have to be right for each other. The feeling we were absolutely right for each other is what brought me here in the first place and it’s why I’ve extended previously. This one is different because of the length of time we have been together. I had to ask myself the question: Is it right for Liverpool that I stay longer? “Along with my two assistant managers, Pep Lijnders and Pete Krawietz, we came to the conclusion it was a ‘Yes!’ There is a freshness about us as a club still and this energises me. For as long as I have been here, our owners have been unbelievably committed and energetic about this club and it is clear that right now this applies to our future as much as I’ve ever known.” He finished by saying: “When the owners brought the possibility to renew to me, I asked myself the question I’ve mused over publicly. Do I have the energy and vibe to give of myself again what this amazing place requires from the person in the manager’s office? I didn’t need too long to answer in truth. The answer was very simple… I’m in love with here and I feel fine!” Klopp’s immediate focus is chasing down Manchester City in the title race. The champions have a one point lead over the Reds as they aim to retain their crown. The German is also eyeing a second domestic cup success this season with Chelsea their opponents in the FA Cup final. POLL Liverpool saw off Villarreal on Wednesday night in the semi-finals of the Champions League at Anfield. A 2-0 success in the first-leg puts the Reds in pole position to make the final in Paris, where they will face either City or Real Madrid.