LAGOS – Tragedy struck in the early hours of Friday in Lagos when multiple auto accidents left two people dead and several others injured. The accident happened along the Maryland – Ojota axis of the state. Daily Independent gathered that the crashes which involved different vehicles occurred at Odo Iya Alaro located on the bridge linking Maryland and Ojota on Ikorodu road. The accident, it was revealed occurred at about 2.15 am Friday. Eyewitnesses said that a commercial bus coming from mile 12, after early morning purchase goods by six women in the bus was part of the accident vehicles. It was gathered two victims died instantly. POLL One of the deceased was, at the time of filing this report, said to have been taken to the mortuary by SHEMU, for autopsy,  while the second body simply identified as Blessing had some of her family members on the ground to take her remains away. Further investigation revealed that the other vehicles involved in the accident are a gasoline tanker, a Toyota Camry car, whose only occupant escaped unhurt and a tipper/lorry load with sharp sand. It was further revealed that the tipper rammed into the Toyota Camry from the rear and spilled the sand it was conveying on the Camry car. The inventory of the auto accident includes an empty tanker with registration number FKJ-506XM, an articulated flatbed truck laden with metal coils, a grey coloured Toyota Camry with registration number ABC-261AJ (Abuja), a tipper with registration number T-12015LA laden with 30tons sharp sand and 2 commercial busses (danfo).  It was revealed that the tipper truck lost control while at a high speed and ran into the vehicles, thereby resulting in multiple auto accidents. Unfortunately, two adults (one female and a male) were confirmed dead at the scene. The male adult was handed over to SEHMU at the scene, while the female was taken by her immediate family. Several persons were also injured and taken to nearby hospitals by men of the Federal Road Safety Commission  ( FRSC),  LASAMBUS,   LASEMA, NEMA, LASTMA and Nigeria Police who participated in the response teams.