MAKURDI – Troops of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), the military spike operation in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states have arrested, Leggi Jibrin, a notorious kingpin of a major bandit group that have been terrorising Nasarawa State and its environs. Competent sources at OPWS Headquarters in Mak­urdi told Daily Independent that Jibrin was arrested at Agam/Gidan Bawa Village in Nasarawa Local Government Area (LGA) of Nasarawa State by their troops last Wednesday. Also, the troops deployed in Ugya in Toto LGA of the state rescued five kidnap victims from their abductors on Thurs­day last week. It was however gathered that when the kidnappers sighted the troops, they aban­doned their victims and fled the area. The sources said the in­crease in crackdown on ban­dits in the operational area of Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states was informed by the directive of the Force Com­mander, Major General Kevin Aligbe, following the surge in the activities of bandits. “Troops of OPWS deployed to Ugya in Toto LGA of Nasara­wa State received credible Intel and responded swiftly to a dis­tress call of a kidnap incident at Zaure forest. “On arrival at the forest, our troops saw three trucks loaded with illegal timber that were abandoned in the forest. Ac­cordingly, the troops combed the forest, stumbled on the kidnappers camp and rescued five of the kidnap victims,” the sources said. The victims rescued were given as Abdulkafar Nuhu, Adamu Dagana, Emmanuel Osasede, Jacob Amaku and Danladi Amaku. POLL Similarly, OPWS troops ar­rested a notorious kingpin at Agam/Gidan Bawa village in Nasarawa LGA of Nasarawa State. “The bandits were raiding the community when OPWS troops swooped on them. The troops engaged the bandits in a gun duel, which resulted in the arrest of Jibrin and the killing of one of the bandits. “When the troops came to the location of the raid, some of the bandits who were carrying high caliber weapons fled the area, immediately they sighted the troops. “Our troops then engaged the bandits in hot pursuit and engaged them in a gun battle. They shot the kingpin on his leg, before he was arrested and killed the other bandit,” our source said. Furthermore, he said, “The success of the attack on the bandits was made possible based on credible intelligence we got that the kingpin and oth­er armed bandits were raiding some settlements in the area. “The troops pounced on the bandits, based on confirmatory intelligence missions that re­vealed the presence of the ban­dits and several other armed bandit groups in the area.” He explained that the troops also recovered from the ban­dits’ one AK-47 rifle, one AK-49 rifle and 106 rounds of 7.62mm rounds of ammunition as well as a mobile phone.