Chieftain of the ruling All Progressive Congress  (APC) and former Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism in Niger state, Mr. Jonathan Tsado Vatsa has vowed that he would quit politics should former President Goodluck Jonathan accept the offer to dump main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and join the ruling party just to contest the 2023 Presidency. Vatsa said he held the former President in high esteem and believed that what he is hearing about Jonathan is one of such rumours. “I pray it is a mere rumour or fake news but if former President Goodluck Jonathan accepts to contest the forthcoming election and under the APC, then I will agree with a former governor who once said there is no morality in politics”. Vatsa regretted that “We told all manners of lies against Jonathan just to demonise him and frustrate him out of power, now we know better who is what. I will not only leave the APC but I will quit politics and go back to my farm”. Reacting to the news of Jonathan joining the Presidential contest under APC, however, he added that is aware that the ruling party is desperate not to allow power to return to the opposition PDP in 2023 but never he envisaged that the cabals would go to the extent of pulling someone from another party to actualize their agenda. The former APC Publicity Secretary in Niger State regretted that, “After our seven years of a disappointing performance in all aspects, the option of Jonathan should not be on our table”. Vatsa recalled, “We told Nigerians in 2015, that Jonathan was a devil, Jonathan was corrupt, Jonathan was incompetent to address insecurity in the country, Jonathan is from a minority tribe, and all manner of dirty propaganda against him and the PDP, seven years after he is now an Angel”. The APC, according to him, lied to Nigerians in 2015 in desperate moves to get the power by all means, including threats of violence which has today caused more division among the segments of Nigerian society along ethnic and religious lines. “This country has never been so divided as it is today”, Vatsa said as he attributed the wave of killings and tension across the country today to what he referred to as a ‘hatred campaign’ by the ruling party ahead of the 2015 general election. POLL “It is very unfortunate, today there is no mutual love and trust among the various ethnic groups in the country, and this started from what we sold into the minds of Nigerians just to ease out Goodluck Jonathan and the PDP in 2015”. “The desperation at which we want to bring Jonathan back is a confirmation that there was nothing wrong with the Goodluck Jonathan government, rather some people wanted power at all cost even when they know that they are not competent and capable to provide the change we claimed we wanted to give Nigerians”. Vatsa further affirmed that “I have said it before and I will repeat it again that we as a party have nothing to tell Nigerians in 2023 for them to vote for us because we failed and have taken the country back 20 years. We must apologize to Nigerians because everything is now three times worst than we met it in 2015, and that is the truth. “Since 2015 we have continued to blame Jonathan and PDP for our inability to perform and fix the country, and now we want to give the government back to the same man we accused of destroying this country, this is a huge joke and amounts to taking Nigerians for granted. The outspoken Aide to Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello insists that “There is a complete lack of morality in Nigerian politics and will not be part of this deceit. Posterity will not forgive some of us. This country is in dire need of an honest leader”. On the chances of Jonathan winning the election if he eventually declared, Vatsa said “he cannot win under APC no matter the amount of rigging anybody wants to rig it. Nigerians can not sincerely vote for APC again no matter who is the candidate, is it those whose relations are with kidnappers that will vote for you or those whose loved ones have been killed by the kidnappers. Jonathan Vatsa said Nigerian electorates are now wiser and cannot be fooled anymore. “You can not rig an election when the people are not with you, it is the people that help you to rig an election and the people are not with us right except we are lying and deceiving ourselves that the people are with us”