ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors from the southern part of the country, have insisted that the 2023 presidency must be zoned to the South. This is against the backdrop of the zoning committee’s decision that the Party’s presidential ticket should be thrown open for all to contest. The governors stated this on Friday night shortly after their meeting in Abuja which lasted for some hours. The governors at the meeting were Abia, Enugu, Oyo, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa states. The governors of Delta and Edo were absent. Addressing newsmen shortly after the meeting, Abia state governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, who spoke on their behalf said that even though they are committed to the unity of the party, PDP should respect its zoning principle as enshrined in it Constitution. He said: “We have watched with keen interest the development in our party especially concerning the zoning. And our position is that, first, we are committed to the unity of our party and we have worked hard to make sure that this party remains strong and viable vehicle to rescue Nigeria come 2023. “Be that as it may, want to draw your attention to the fact that we had agreed as Southern governors in Lagos and also in Delta that this party has to respect the zoning principle as enshrined in our Constitution. And to that effect, we insist that the first thing to do is to zone the presidency to the South and we stand on that position. “We have not seen any reason to change that position, because the party was founded on the basis of equity and justice and we also think that equity and justice is an important pillar that will ultimately stabilize our polity towards our journey in rescuing Nigeria.” POLL Fielding questions from newsmen on the development that it has been thrown open and so many persons have already purchased the Presidential form, the Abia state governor said that one doesn’t look at problems on their face and take decision. He said: “If you want to take a decision on a policy, you don’t look at problems on their face and you make a decision, you make a decision and remain firm on that decision. We think that what this country lacks today is our ability to dispense equity and justice. It may be difficult, it may be a bitter pill, but we need to stand with the truth.” On the issue that some other governors are also pushing that the ticket should be zoned to the North, Ikpeazu said, “I want to reiterate what the position the southern governors on this matter is. It is not my duty to speculate on what others are doing, but you must ask yourself, what is the truth that if we do it today, we will serve the tenets of equity and justice?”