IBADAN – Members of the Tra­ditional Worship­pers Association of Nigeria, Oyo State Branch, have applauded the human rights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr. Femi Falana, for support­ing the call for a public holiday for traditional worshippers in Nigeria, saying that the law­yer’s position has shown that he is a true Nigerian who ab­hors religious bigotry. The group, however, called the attention of the Senior Ad­vocate to the fact that members of the Traditional Worshippers Association of Nigeria are not found wanting in cases of crim­inalities in the country. They claimed that those people called ‘Babalawos’ found culpable in cases of ritu­al crimes were not Babalawos (diviners) but spiritual herbal­ists who were not members of their association. Falana had advocated for public holiday for traditional worshippers like their Mus­lim and Christian counter­parts on Saturday, during an orientation and inauguration programme of traditional worshippers, under the aegis of ‘Ijo Babalawo Onifa of Eg­baland’ which held at the Val­ley View Government House, Abeokuta, Ogun State. Falana had on the occa­sion stated that traditional worshippers have the right to a special day as holiday as entrenched in Section 38 of the Nigerian Construction, which spelt out that there is freedom of religion of conscience. He said by virtue of Sec­tion 10 of the Constitution, the government is expected not to adopt any religion as official religion, which should make government at the cen­tre and in states to be neutral while recognising the rights of each individual to worship the God they believe in, saying traditionalists are also entitled to public holidays, just as those influenced by Christians and Muslims. In a statement signed by the Oyo State Chapter of Tradition­al Worshippers Association of Nigeria, Oyo State Branch’s Chairman, Surveyor Adefa­bi Dasola, and his Secretary, Mogaji (Dr) Fakayode Fayemi Fatunde, on Monday and made available to newsmen, the asso­ciation noted that the boldness of Falana is the recipe of great leaders that make developed nations in the world. They used the occasion to renew their call for Oyo State Government to look into the already signed legislative doc­ument on the need for special holiday for traditional wor­shippers in the state, just like it was done by the Osun State government. POLL “The voice of reason from Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) has echoed across the nation as a voice of truth from one who is bold enough to say it to those in power; how we wish most Ni­gerians can be this spirited in saying the truth and standing by it. Our country would have progressed better among other nations of this world. “As he has said, the holiday is our right, just as the various holidays approved for Mus­lims and Christians are their rights, but unfortunately, our political class never saw the need to be impartial in giving us our own dues, especially on this particular issue of public holiday. Muslims have more than three public holidays ap­proved by the federal govern­ment and state government, so for Christians, but ours is their problem. All we ask for is just a holiday that unites all tradi­tional worshippers, which we call ‘Isese Day’. “We once again give ku­dos to the legal luminary and enjoin other Nigerians with strong voices to please speak out for justice for our people,” they said. The group however called the attention of the Senior Ad­vocate to the fact that members of the Traditional Worshippers Association of Nigeria are not found wanting in cases of crim­inalities in the country.