OGUN – Ogun State Coordinator of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC, Alhaji Misediq Jimoh, has charged governors of Ogun and Lagos states, Prince Dapo Abiodun, and Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, respectively, to make sure there is effective inter-state security surveillance between the two states, especially along Lagos- Ibadan expressway, where he said, traffic robbers always have a ‘field-day.’ Speaking on Thursday in a statement made available to journalists, Alhaji Jimoh, expressed concern over the spate of insecurity in Ogun and Lagos states, saying the manner in which the traffic robbers attacked travellers along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway was a source of worry. He criticised the state governors for ignoring the request of the South-West Security Stakeholders Group (SSSG) to partner with the states security architectures to nip the insecurity challenges in the bud. “The SSSG under the leadership of the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, had written letters to the state security architectures of the two states on the need to partner with them to secure the major road connecting the two states. “But they ignored the request, giving highway robbers, cultists and ritualists a field day to operate along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway,” he said. Narrating how a Lagos-based chieftain of the OPC, Barrister Babajide Tanimowo, apprehended two highway robbers in Aseese, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Tuesday, Alhaji Jimoh said the robbers failed in their attempt to rob and dispossess him of his belongings, adding that the OPC chieftain outsmarted them and later got two of the robbers arrested. He said the suspected highway robbers were transferred to Ibafo Police Station and later to the Special Anti-robbery Squad at Ogun State Police Command for further investigation and prosecution. “Stories of traffic attacks on major roads have been very worrisome these days. Every day, travellers along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, travel along that section of the road with fear and uncertainty. POLL “Last year, Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, reportedly apprehended three persons for attempting to rob a motorist on a highway in the state. “The incident reportedly occurred when the governor was passing through the Ojota highway. The suspects were said to be attempting to dispossess a motorist of his vehicle, when the convoy of the governor arrived the scene. Traffic robbery has been a major challenge to road users and the governors must rise above this,” he stated.