Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court Abuja, on Friday, shifted the scheduled re-arraignment of Ms Precious Chikwendu, the estranged wife of former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode. Precious is being prosecuted by the police over the allegations of threatening the lives of Fani Kayode and their children. Other defendants in the trial include Anakan, Prisca Chikwendu and Osakwe Azubuike. They were earlier arraigned before the court on February 14 on a 13-count charge. However, on April 27, a day fixed for the commencement of trial, the police notified the court that it has filed an amended 14-count charge.In view of the above reason, the court adjourned to April 29, for the re-arraignment of the Defendants. At a resumed sitting on Friday, the judge directed that the re-arraignment be rescheduled to June 29. Meanwhile, police authorities had on Friday, accused Ms Precious of threatening the lives of its witnesses for the case. The offence, listed as count 14 in the amended charge, was alleged to have been committed by Precious and Emmanuel Anakan, on Wednesday within the premises of the Federal High Court, Abuja. POLL They were alleged to have “criminally threatened the lives of Bako Maina, Isah Kudaru and other witnesses in the case to eliminate them by death if they insist in testifying in the case.” The offence was said to be punishable under Section 397 of the Penal Code.In an amended charge marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/01/2022 dated and filed by John Ijagbemi on behalf of Commissioner of Police, FCT Command on April 28,, the Precious was alleged to have carried two kitchen knives threatening to kill Fani-Kayode, the children and other occupants of the house at Asokoro on Nov. 24, 2018, within the court jurisdiction. She was also accused of making false allegations on November 24, 2018, with doctored pictures with the intent to deceive members of the public and make them believe that the injuries in the pictures were inflicted on her by her ex-husband. Besides, Precious was alleged to have “criminally uploaded doctored/photo-shopped pictures” of her biological child, Liam Femi Fani-Kayode, who was four years old, in order to deceive members of the public that the child sustained an injury on his forehead. They were also alleged to have criminally used the internet to send abusive messages with the intent to bully, defame and harass her ex-husband. They were alleged to have fabricated false evidence by deposing to a series of affidavits that Chief Fani-Kayode physically and sexually assaulted members of his domestic staff in inhuman conduct by causing the same to be electronically published in a national daily. Chikwendu was also alleged to have, through her Facebook page, referred to Fani-Kayode as “Mr Short Fuse,” on Dec. 7, 2021, among others. The defendants were further alleged to have committed offences bordering on cybercrime, intimidation to kill the former minister by use of the Internet, through which they said he did not deserve to live. In a related development, Precious Chikwendu is also answering charges of defamation at the Federal High Court Abuja, brought against her by Senator Grace Bent.