ABUJA – Member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Lynda Chiba Ikpeazu, on Wednesday expressed heightened frustration and anger over insecurity across the country, describing Nigeria’s insecurity situation as one that requires drastic measures that include declaring a state of emergency in some states. This was just as other lawmakers called for drastic measures, as well as the resignation of the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno and the Minister for Defence, Bashir Magashi. The House also reaffirmed its earlier call for the declaration of a state of emergency on insecurity, over the murder of 92 people in Plateau State and other parts of the country The House resolutions equally called for the establishment of military bases and the deployment of troops in the affected areas in Plateau State. It also urged the Inspector General of Police to immediately deploy Mobile Police Force Squadrons to maintain law and order and provide Mobile Police Force Squadron formation in the affected communities. These followed the consideration and adoption of two motions on matters of urgent public importance during plenary on Wednesday. The motions were moved by Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau) and John Dyegh (PDP, Benue) over the killing of people in various communities in their constituencies by suspected terrorists a few days ago. Gagdi said, the attacks were premeditated as there were early warnings of which security agencies were informed but nothing was done to forestall the attacks. POLL According to him, houses and places of business have been destroyed or burnt down while over 3000 have been displaced from the affected communities. He, therefore, called for drastic measures and to hold those responsible for ensuring security accountable for their failure to secure the lives of Nigerians which was their constitutional responsibility. Similarly, John Dyegh while presenting his motion disclosed that about 19 people were killed in two communities between Monday and Tuesday morning. He added that the attacks are becoming frequent which may aggravate the already tense situation in Benue state. On his part, the co-promoter of the motion, Benjamin Ben Mzondu (PDP, Benue) said, the government has failed to protect the people of Benue State adding that, “every person appointed or elected in the state has run out of choice and tired of crying.” Contributing, Lynda Ikpeazu (APC Anambra) said that, Nigeria has failed adding that, the security issue must be addressed, and that the bucks stop at the President’s desk. She said: “I don’t think there is a week that you don’t find that terrorists have attacked and lives lost,” she said “It has actually become normal in Nigeria to hear these sorts of things. The point is, what are we doing about it?” ”The legislature makes laws so I don’t think the problem is lack of laws. Now the ball stops on the table of Mr president because he is the head of the executive. The unfortunate thing is that our security personnel are very well trained so we are not lacking that. “So I’m wondering, does it mean that they are not motivated? They are not very well equipped? That these terrorists have more equipment than them? So what is the problem? ”We have had cases where information was passed to the security agencies and still these terrorists overcame the Nigerian people. Mr Speaker this is a failed state. Nigeria right now is a failed state. What can we do? Nigeria is a failed state. It is a failed state where you cannot protect your people.” On his part, Usman Bello Kumo (APC, Gombe) called for the resignation of the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi and the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj.General Babagana Monguno for failing in their duties. He wondered why the President continued to retain the National Security Adviser despite his continued failure to change the security situation for the better. In his remarks, the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase who presided over the plenary lamented that, despite clear intelligence and resolutions including the one presented to the president after the security summit on the insecurity pervading Nigeria, attacks are still being carried out and lives are being lost.