LAGOS – Many Micros, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria are on the verge of closure or have already been forced to close shop due to harsh conditions in the country. Dr. Adams Adebayo, the Lagos State chairman of the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), while speaking on the situation, said that the high cost of diesel and non-supply of power are the main reasons why small business operators are bleeding in the country. He posited that the cost of diesel has gone up to the extent that most MSMEs cannot afford it. “Diesel is sold at over N700 a litre and most small businesses in the country cannot afford the commodity at that price. How many litres can a small business buy a litre of diesel at that price, he asked. He added that the situation is worsened by the non-availability of power from the Distribution Companies (DisCos), adding that most entrepreneurs get electricity from the suppliers for less than fours hours a day. “No small business can manufacture products with diesel that cost N700 a litre and the product will be affordable,” he stated. The Lagos State chairman of NASME disclosed that the situation has made small business operators that are still in existence to reduce their operations and sack their workers. “We only produce when we have electricity,” he stated. “We have also sacked many of our workers because we scaled down our operations. Indeed many of us are not operating. We are hoping that we will come back when the situation gets better,” he added. POLL Adebayo identified the rising cost of raw materials as another issue that is bothering small businesses in the country, adding that the challenges have a multiplier effect on business in the country. He said that traders have taken advantage of the situation to increase the prices of products because they know that manufacturers are not producing enough to meet demand. He called on the government to set up commodity boards that will buy the products and produce of entrepreneurs in the country. He also called for payment of subsidies by the government on products and produce of Nigerian small businesses, arguing that this is the situation in America; he said where the government subsidizes the produce of farmers. He argued that American farmers do not worry about finding buyers for their produce because the government buys up and subsidizes everything the farmer produces and argued that if this was done in the country, productivity level will increase, as producers will concentrate their energies on production and not worry about how to sell their products. Adebayo praised the resilience of Nigerian manufacturers in the face of a difficult operating situation. He argued that they still produce high quality products in spite of the challenges they face. “In China, entrepreneurs have the support of the government; they have power, water, good roads and other infrastructure; that is not the same situation in Nigeria where the infrastructure is close to zero,” he stated. He called on the government to create hubs across the country where entrepreneurs will go and produce at minimal cost. He added that the hubs should be equipped with the necessary infrastructure like power, water, roads and others. He called on the government to revive the economy by reviving the manufacturing by providing incentives to operations in the sector. He argued that it is wrong to export raw materials without adding vale to them, stating that adding value to them will increase their worth and create employment and generate more revenues for the country. The head of the Business Management Organization said that the erosion of the erosion of the purchasing power of Nigerians has also affected the fortunes of operators of small business in the country. Dikko Radda, Director-General of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), while speaking on the situation, said that number of micro, small and medium enterprises across the country dropped by about two million between 2017 and 2021. He said the country’s MSMEs reduced from about 41 million in 2017 to 39 million in 2021, as this was due to the impact of Covid-19 and other challenges on small businesses nationwide. He said: “According to the 2021 MSME Survey, there are 39 million MSMEs in Nigeria. This is a significant drop from 41 million MSMEs reported in the 2017 survey report. “The major reason for the drop in the number of MSMEs could be traced to the COVID-19 pandemic, the challenges MSMEs have in accessing funds to start or grow their enterprise and the problems of globalisation.” Radda, who was represented by the Director, Planning, Research, Monitoring and Evaluation, SMEDAN, Wale Fasanya, said both the public and private sectors had roles to play in the sustainable development of MSMEs in Nigeria. He also noted that the contribution of MSMEs to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product dropped by 3.5 per cent in 2021, adding that MSMEs accounted for 6.2 per cent of external trade in the same year. “According to the 2021 MSME survey report, the top priority areas of support that MSMEs need are power, funding/finance, tax and security. This could explain why the total MSMEs’ contribution to GDP dipped by 3.5 per cent in 2021 and only accounted for 6.2 per cent of external trade,” he stated. Radda added: “With these in mind, there is an obvious need for all the critical stakeholders to more than ever before put in place mechanisms to ensure that the potentials that lie within the MSMEs are fully exploited to create wealth, employment and reduce poverty in Nigeria.”