Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, has inaugurated the New Yenagoa City link bridge and projects in Bayelsa State just as he commended Governor Douye Diri’s ap­proach to governance, saying his leadership has positively impacted his state. Governor Tambuwal gave the commendation on Thurs­day while inaugurating the projects at Onopa in the state capital. The inauguration was in continuation of activities marking Governor Diri’s sec­ond anniversary, which was held in February. Applauding Diri for his ex­emplary leadership and devel­opmental strides, Tambuwal said it was incumbent on Bayel­sans to support him to provide good governance. He said Diri has displayed sterling leadership qualities, particularly in the area of com­pletion of projects initiated by his predecessor as well as run­ning an inclusive government regardless of political party affiliation. “This link bridge and road projects signify a lot. Continu­ity in governance is very im­portant. When some governors come in, they abandon existing unfinished projects. Governor Diri, I commend you for com­pleting projects started by the previous government because that is the way to go. “You are also bringing back together everyone and it is important to close ranks to provide leadership to our people. So it behooves on us to support good governance as exemplified by Governor Diri. Development is for everyone irrespective of political party.” The Sokoto governor, who is also chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Gover­nors Forum, urged politicians to play issue-based politics rath­er than attack personalities in order not to heat up the polity. POLL According to him, “you must play decent politics and go for issues. Talk about failures at the centre, which include in­security, failing economy and development of our people and not personality. Our differences should be resolved through dia­logue and not raising tempers and emotions.” In a statement signed by Daniel Alabrah, Chief Press Secretary to the Bayelsa State Governor, the governor Diri explained that the projects serve as a gateway to the new Yenagoa city and help provide security around the Govern­ment House area. He said in no distant time, the new city would be one of the most modern urban cities in the country. According to him, his ad­ministration was striving to construct another dual car­riage road from the Ecumen­ical Centre at Igbogene to the new city.