QS Ayodele Alao, Chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Sureyors (NIQS), Lagos State chapter, in this interview with DADA JACKSON, bares his mind on a number of topical issues: Excerpts: There is this feeling that a lot of rivalry exits among professionals I the built environment. How true is this? To be honest with you, there is nothing like that,not that I know. Perhaps, this is the figment of an imagination. I don’t think there is any contestation as to who is the leader in the built environment. In a nutshell, to the best of my knowledge, there is no rivalry amongst the seven professional bodies in the built environment. To a lay man, what specifically are the roles of a quantity surveyor? Let me say that a quantity surveyor is that person that is trained in the profession of quantity surveying and who functions within the building and engineering construction sector. He or she is that person that is concerned with cost and contract administration from conception to the close in any project be it in civil, building or engineering. POLL The concept of the quantity surveyor came about to separate the function of design in any projects in order to achieve efficiency, competency and the right value for money allocated to the projects. It combines the understanding of design, cost in the construction process. Our roles also include development and construction cost advisory on building, civil and industrial engineering projects. We also act as financial experts. We are often referred to as cost consultants, technical accountants or cost engineer in the construction process. We are the ones that have the competence. During projects, we play the role of an unbiased umpire by ensuring that clients derive value for their funds. In a nutshell, that is what we do as our contribution to the construction industry. Having said all these about the roles of the quantity surveyor in the construction process, how do you curtail the issue of quackery in your profession? Thank you very much for this pertinent question Since we came on board, we have put in place mechanism to address this ugly and worrisome development. But, let me say unequivocally, that the issue of quackery is not limited to any particular profession but in our case our major focus is hinged on creating awareness amongst members of the public as to the need to always patronise genuine quantity surveyors by way of reaching out to our secretariat to ascertain the genuiness of the person they want to engage for their jobs. In addition to that, a would be client should demand for the stamp and seal of such a person before engaging him or her. But the bottom line as far as we are concerned, is advocacy and awareness to sensitive members of the public on who to engage. What is your take on the non-passage of the National Building Code? I think we members of the seven professional bodies in the built environment should intensify our efforts in seeing that the National Building Code sees the light of day as it is the mandatory and regulatory document to regulate the construction process. I pray that the National Assembly expedite action on the early passage of the National Building Code. What is your take on the issue of building collapse? Let me tell you quite frankly, that the rampant incidences of building collapse nationwide, is a source of concern to professionals in the built environment and the earlier this ugly development is addressed, the better for the construction industry. It might interest you to know, that after the collapse at Gerrard Road late last year, most professional bodies in the built environment expressed grave concern over the unfortunate incident. My appeal to developers is that they should endeavour to engage the services of genuine professionals in building development. In addition, the use of substandard building materials must be discouraged, while every stage of construction should be professionally monitored and supervised. Every genuine professional should show a commitment towards ensuring that unethical behaviour is not encouraged by some unscrupulous developers who are hell bent on cutting corners in order to maximise profit at the detriment of the people. How has the journey been so far? Thank you very much. Since I assumed office on December 5.2020,it has been a mixed grill, some of the times, it has been interesting, while at some other times, it has been challenging. In a nutshell, it has been a success story so far I must say. The economic situation has hampered our activities in what we could have done. I must say in the past year, we have done about 90 out of 100 and we hope to do better this year. It may equally interest you to know that we are poised to deliver more on our promises before we exit office.