In his avowed commitment to win the forthcoming House of Representatives of Okene/Ogori Magongo Federal Constituency, Dr Abdullahi Sanni Ozomata, an aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has commenced the wards tours to woo party members to support his aspiration. Dr Ozomata kick off the tour from Okene Local Government Area APC Secretariat where he was received by a large crowd led by the party Chairman, Hon. Yakubu Gowon Jimoh and his Executive members. Speaking at the secretariat, Dr Ozomata noted that he is willing and ready to serve the people of Okene/ Ogori- Magongo Federal Constituency by bringing relief and the needed development to them. He assured the people of credible representation with robust interface through town hall meetings with constituents as well as ensuring transparency and accountability. According to him, everyone irrespective of party affiliation and location within the constituency will benefit from his planned infrastructural and human development aimed at bringing succour to the people based on equity, fairness and justice. He urged them to support his ambition by making his emergence a reality, noting that he will make them proud. In his response, the APC Chairman of Okene Local Government, Hon. Yakubu Gowon Jimoh commended Ozomata for providing equipment and renovation for the party secretariat. Hon. Yakubu expressed gratitude for the kind gesture, assuring the aspirant of their support as Dr. Ozomata is the first to visit the Party Secretariat. POLL The Party Chairman urged the people as well as other aspirants to ensure rancour free campaigns. Meanwhile, Ozomata who was led by Hon. Ibrahim Amoka made Lafia/Obessa ward his first point of call as he tours round the constituency to interface with the executives. Ozomata affirmed that he will foster a relationship that will outlive the primary and general elections once he emerges, saying a special atmosphere with the executives will be created where they can always reach and advise him. He urged them to properly evaluate and assess aspirants before giving their mandates, stressing that the executives are saddled with the responsibility to ensure effective representation that will add value to the people. Also captured in today’s ward tour include Orietesu, Bariki, Onyukoko, Otutu, Agassa and Idoji wards. The executives all attested to the credibility of Dr. Ozomata, promising to support his aspiration.