AKURE – No fewer than 20 armed robbery suspects were paraded on Thursday in Akure, the Ondo State capital, by the Ondo State Security Network, otherwise known as Amotekun Corps. Among the suspects were juvenile armed robbers who adopted names of renowned notorious armed robbers in the country. The leader of the gang, 16-year-old Ojo Sunday, who claimed he was named Oyenusi by people in his neighbourhood in Ijare, Ifedore Local Government Area of the state, having discovered his prowess is robbery, said they were usually armed by one Odeyemi Ayodele (20), who claimed to be a farmer. Timilehin Femi, also known as Anini, who was also arrested and paraded with his mother, Iyabo Femi, said it was his mother who usually fortified him and his gang with charms so that they won’t be arrested. Odeyemi, who also adopted the name of a notorious armed robber, Monday Osunbo, who terrorised the old Bendel State, admitted that he only released the dane gun to the boys and not the double barrel rifle. He confessed that he was usually given N2000 per every outing by the boys whenever they returned from operations. Odeyemi’s mother, Kehinde Ayodele, was arrested for allegedly aiding and abetting armed robbery. The Commander of Amotekun Corps and Special Adviser(Security) to the state governor, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, disclosed that the kid armed robbers were arrested two years ago and remanded in juvenile home where he was later released. POLL But, according to him, they have advanced in armed robbery enterprise as they robbed people on the highway. Akogun Adeleye disclosed that the formation had concluded investigation on the suspects paraded and their case would be forwarded to the Department of Public Prosecution for advice and arraignment. However, the Amotekun commander disclosed that the Corps has embarked on 24 hours operations to check criminals during the Easter celebration. He called on parents be cautious of outings they take the children and warned not to leave their children in the care alone whenever the go shopping. Akogun Adeleye revealed that some criminals lurked around public places and traced vehicles in which children were on board to their homes where they would kidnap the children when parents were about opening the gate of their homes.