ABUJA – Some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Plateau state have endorsed former Lagos state Governor, Bola Tinubu, as the party’s consensus presidential candidate. The group expressed their support for Tinubu at a massive rally in Jos, Tuesday. Speaking on behalf of the group, Hon. Solomon Ndam described Tinubu as a good omen for the country owing to his numerous contributions to the sustenance of our nascent democracy over decades. Addressing the party faithful, Ndam noted that the aspirations of the party’s national leader “presents us with a great opportunity to turn the fortunes of the country around for good, owing to his leadership style that speaks volumes of an unalloyed commitment to sustainable growth and development”. He, therefore, said it will be an error of judgment if the APC in Plateau state does not rally support for his presidential aspiration. Although conceding that the former Governor has shown love for the people of the state, Ndam added that he is a detribalized Nigeria that knows no tribe or religion but one Nigeria. According to him, Tinubu flaunts a towering credential and experience, comparable to none, that suits the purpose of addressing the myriads of challenges in the country. Ndam, however, urged other state chapters to adopt their national leader as a consensus candidate, noting that with him victory is certain in 2023. POLL “That we have all come out in our numbers indicates that the APC in Plateau state is in tune with the country’s mood about the presidential aspiration of the indefatigable Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “As critical stakeholders in the state, we are duty-bound to lend our voices to the great movement about to take the whole country by storm. “We are excited and elated because something good is about to happen in our polity. “We have seen the good, bad and ugly. We dare say that the coming on board of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a good omen for our great country because of his numerous contributions to the sustenance of our nascent democracy over decades,” Ndam stated.