As Nigerians prepare for 2023 general elections, which will afford the citizens an opportunity to elect or re-elect governors in some of the 36 states, new federal and states’ legislators and especially, a new leader that will succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, several aspirants have already signified interest in the race. By February 18, 2023, Nigeria will go to the polls and elect one of these individuals to take over the steering of the nation’s wheel for another four years. As these personalities continue to consult and talk to Nigerians about their plans, AKINWUNMI KING, EJIKEME OMENAZU and JOY ANIGBOGU take a look at their background and their individual chances. Bukola Saraki Born on December 19, 1962, Saraki had a meteoritic rise in politics, being a scion of the late Dr. Olusola Saraki, the then strongman of Kwara politics. He was the 13th President of the Senate of Nigeria from 2015 to 2019 and Chairman of the 8th National Assembly. Before then, Saraki was previously the governor of Kwara State from 2003 to 2011 and was elected to the Senate in 2011 under the PDP, representing the Kwara Central Senatorial District. He was then re-elected in the 2015 general elections under the APC. In 2003, Bukola Saraki ran for the governor of Kwara State on the platform of the PDP defeating the incumbent Governor Muhammed Lawal of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). On May 29, 2003, he was sworn into office and was re-elected in 2007. As governor of Kwara State, Saraki led reforms in agriculture, infrastructure, health, education, power generation and environment policy. One of his major achievements was inviting displaced white farmers from Zimbabwe to Kwara State and offering them an opportunity to farm. This led to the establishment of the Shonga Farms programme, now being replicated across Nigeria. He was also appointed as the chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ forum. Under Saraki, Kwara became the first state to complete the Nigeria Independent Power Project. In collaboration with the Power Holding Company of Nigeria, Saraki re-energised the Ganmo Power Station at Ilorin, and connected over 3750 rural communities to the national grid through the development and installation of 725 transformers and seven substations. As Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, Saraki increased his national influence and he led efforts for a more reformed and unified relationship with other states governors. The Forum also developed better and more extensive polio immunisation in Nigeria. POLL After the completion of his two terms as governor of Kwara State, in 2011, Saraki ran for the Senate, to represent the Kwara Central Senatorial District. He won and succeeded his sister, Gbemisola Saraki-Forowa. After his re-election in 2015 general elections, he was on June 9, 2015 elected as President of the Senate due to an alliance comprising PDP and APC Senators. During his reign as Senate President, Saraki faced stiff opposition from Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan who was the preferred candidate by a group of senators-elect within the APC. His deputy, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, emerged after a tightly contested election. As a very active Senate President, Saraki led a delegation of Senators to Maiduguri, Borno State on August 3, 2015 to get an on-ground assessment of the damage done in the North East by Boko Haram and to give hope to internally displaced persons. The delegation was the first of its kind by the leadership of the Senate since the insurgency began. The Senate under his leadership surpassed all previous Senate’s in Nigeria’s history, passing 201 bills and clearing 138 public petitions. On June 6, 2019, Saraki gave his valedictory speech at the final plenary of the 8th Senate. In the 2019 election, Saraki declared his presidential campaign for the PDP presidential ticket, but lost the primary to Atiku Abubakar. He subsequently became the Director General of Atiku Abubakar’s presidential campaign for the 2019 presidential election. Also, due to pressure mounted by the ‘O To Ge movement, Saraki lost his Kwara Senatorial seat to APC’s Dr. Ibrahim Oloriegbe. He polled a total of 68,994 votes against Oloriegbe’s 123,808 votes in the four Local Government Areas of Kwara Central Senatorial District, leaving a margin of 54,814 votes. Saraki has consistently fought and rejected all claims of corruption against his person, and has won a series of court cases to that effect. He described the allegations against him as political vendettas and witch-hunts. Unlike most of his political contemporaries, Saraki was significantly wealthy having earned a sizeable fortune from successful business ventures before joining politics in 2000. However, in November 2017 an investigation conducted by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalism cited his name in the list of politicians named in ‘Paradise Papers’ allegations. According to data released as part of the Panama Papers, Landfield International Developments Limited and Renocon Property Development Limited were controlled by Bukola Saraki, but at the time of these revelations, none of these offshore holdings were reported in Saraki’s official asset declarations. In July 2018, the Supreme Court of Nigeria absolved Saraki of all charges brought against him by the Federal Government – declaring that Saraki’s asset declarations throughout his public service career were ‘accurate and correct’. Analysts have described him as a politician who is anxious to become Nigeria’s president. Even if the PDP chooses to zone its ticket to the PDP, Saraki is not seen as a beneficiary and having declared his intent to run for the 2023 presidential election, will luck shine on Saraki this time around? If he is able to win the PDP primary, can he go on to win the election proper and succeed President Muhammadu Buhari? Only time will tell. Udom Emmanuel The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel is 55 years of age and he is from the South-South region of the country. He also declared his intention to join the presidential race after a group of Nigerians through a human rights media outfit, the Brekete Family, beckoned on him to join the 2023 presidential race. The group went further to purchase the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms for the governor which costs N40m. Udom took over the mantle of leadership in Akwa Ibom on May 29, 2015 on the platform of the PDP. He was elected for a second term on 29 May 2019. He had in the past, served as an audit manager of Price Waterhouse Coopers. He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria. He served as chief financial officer of Zenith Bank Plc. Emmanuel also served as group head of Income Optimization, Financial Control & Strategic Planning Department at Zenith Bank. He served as general manager of Zenith Bank Plc. He joined Zenith in 1996 from Diamond Bank Limited and was the pioneer manager of its Lagos Central Branch. He was in charge of the Telecommunications Sector, Income Optimization and Financial & Strategic Planning Group of Zenith Bank Plc. He has over seventeen years of financial services experience. He served as an executive director of Zenith Bank Plc. He is a Chartered Accountant and he trained with Price Waterhouse Coopers. He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Management. He has attended the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD, France. Udom holds a bachelor’s degree in accounting from the University of Lagos in 1988. Coming out as a presidential aspirant from the South-South under the platform of the PDP, Udom doesn’t seem to stand any chance of challenging the likes of Atiku, Saraki, Obi, Tambuwal, Mohammed and even Wike, who is also from the same region. No doubt, the governor has made remarkable achievements in his last six years plus in office but he is not seen as one of the serious and strong contenders in the PDP. There is a likelihood that Udom will withdraw from the race as time goes on. Yahaya Bello Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, declared his intention on April 2. He will be completing his second tenure as governor in May 2023. He has described himself as the most qualified person to succeed President Buhari and therefore would not allow the issue of zoning in his party to deter his aspiration. He said that he was not afraid of other people said to be jostling for the presidential ticket of the APC boasting that he is confident of emerging as the party’s flagbearer in 2023. For those who are close to him, the emergence of Bello as the Governor of Kogi State marked a new beginning in the Confluence state, and five years down the line, the has proven to be a round peg in a round hole. Prior to becoming the Governor of the Confluence state in 2016 to begin his first term in office, no one knew that Bello would occupy the driver’s seat of the state. The primaries of the APC had been won by the late Audu Abubakar and Bello had accepted his fate that becoming the governor might be a mirage at that time. But the rest is history as Bello, having come second in the primaries of the party, was put forward to contest the governorship seat of the state after the sudden death of Audu Abubakar, when the APC was coasting to victory. Bello was sworn in on Wednesday, January 27, 2016, as the fourth democratically elected Governor of Kogi State without a deputy having won the re-run election. Now, Bello is planning to slug it out at the APC primaries with the likes of Tinubu, Osinbajo. But the zoning arrangement of the party may likely not favour the Kogi State governor who is from the north. For some residents and indigenes of Kogi State, Bello in eight years as the governor has not achieved anything tangible for the state. Therefore, he may not do well if he becomes the president. Rochas Okorocha Former Imo State Governor, Senator Rochas Okorocha 59 years from the South-East region. He is a serving Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District and he’s one of those who believe that the time has come for Nigeria to have an Igbo president. Okorocha was a Commissioner at the Federal Character Commission and a member of the National Constitutional Conference. When democracy was restored in 1999, he competed in the primaries to be PDP’s candidate for governor of Imo State but lost to Achike Udenwa. He moved to the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) and ran for the party’s presidential nomination but a disappointing result in the primary in 2003 ended his ambition. He returned to the PDP, and President Olusegun Obasanjo appointed him as Special Adviser on Inter-Party affairs. Rochas Okorocha formed the Action Alliance (AA) in 2005, planning to become a Presidential candidate for the party in the 2007 elections but he left the party and again returned to the PDP, and in September 2007, indicated that he was interested in becoming PDP National Chairman. After Governor Ikedi Ohakim decamped from the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA) to the PDP in July 2009, Okorocha denied that Ohakim had taken over the PDP in the state, saying he was named as a leader since he was governor, but a proper PDP congress should be held to decide on policy. Okorocha decamped from the PDP to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), to run as an APGA candidate for Imo State Governor in the April 2011 general elections. A few weeks later, in December 2010, APGA suspended Okorocha from the party over what it described as anti-party activities pending an investigation of his conduct. It was reported that he had stormed the Imo State Secretariat of APGA with dozens of thugs, who beat up several top officers of the party. However, Okorocha went on to campaign as APGA candidate and won subsequently. Rochas in 2013 decamped to the APC. The final results had Okorocha of the APGA declared winner with 336,859 votes. He was followed by the incumbent governor Ikedi Ohakim of the PDP with 290,490 votes. Former Senator Ifeanyi Araraume of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) was third with 107,068 votes. On 2 March 2013, Rochas led an APGA faction to form the APC. He was later elected by his fellow governors in the opposition as Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum. Towards the end of his tenure as governor, Okorocha picked his son-in-law Uche Nwosu, who was the Chief of Staff, as his candidate to run for the office of the governor under APC, but Uche Nwosu lost the party’s governorship ticket to Senator Hope Uzodinma. Nwosu defected to the AA party after his loss and became their governorship flag bearer. On March 1, 2019, APC suspended Okorocha along with Amosun for anti-party activities. He contested the senatorial ticket for the 9th Senate representing Imo west Orlu senatorial zone during the 2019 National Assembly elections however the results are controversial and have not been ratified by INEC. Despite being declared the winner of the Imo West Senatorial seat, INEC removed his name from the final list saying that the result was declared under duress. The certificate of return was however issued to him by INEC on 11 June 2019 following the inauguration of the 9th assembly of the Nigerian Senate and declared him the winner of the Imo west senatorial district elections. Okorocha was sworn in on 13 June 2019 by the Senate President Ahmed Lawan. Under the APC, he contested for the seat of presidency in (2015). He has again declared his interest to vie for the same office of presidency under the same umbrella in 2023. No doubt he has been in the game for a while but Okorocha doesn’t seem to be in the picture even if the ticket of the APC will go to the South-East. He has some corruption cases to deal with. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in January, charged Okorocha with allegations he conspired with others, including an APC politician and five companies, to steal N2.9 billion from public coffers. Nyesom Wike The Rivers State governor declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election under the PDP platform last month. Since then, he has vowed to ensure that the PDP ticket is zoned to the South- East. Recently, the River governor said that he is the only presidential aspirant that can secure electoral victory for the PDP in 2023 general election. Speaking during his consultation with the delegates in Benin City, Wike said the PDP needs a candidate who can take power from the APC courageously, insisting that he is the one to do so. Having established himself as the most influential governor of the PDP, Wike orchestrated the removal of the then national chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, who he had handpicked three years prior to be the chairman of the party. Admitting his role in the ouster of Secondus to the BBC, Wike stated, “I have never denied being involved in the removal of Secondus. He was not doing well so his ward first suspended him and I am glad they did that. “I am not the type of governor that denies his actions. I know I have a hand in his removal and I’m not afraid to say it. I did that because if we allow him to continue as PDP chairman, the party will die.” With the PDP’s convention done and dusted, the new challenge became which part of the country would produce its presidential candidate. While many southern elements believe that the party’s next candidate should be from the south, given Buhari is from the north and has almost served two terms, the northern elements believe the north can still produce the party’s presidential candidate since Buhari is not a member of the PDP. They also argue that the PDP’s focus should be to win the election and the party’s chances of victory would be much higher if a northerner gets the ticket since the region has a superior voting power. Riding on this argument, some top northern PDP politicians have now joined the presidential race. They include Atiku, Tambuwal, Mohammed. They have also begun consulting with stakeholders across the country. Wike, who supported Tambuwal in the last primary, now seems to have shifted his support to Governor Mohammed. Speaking highly of Mohammed at an event a few weeks ago, the Rivers governor said: “I will prefer if God makes the ticket fall on him (Bala Mohammed), it means our chances are very, very bright.” The new found closeness between Wike and Mohammed has spun rumours that the two may be running on a joint ticket. If this is the case, it means things may have just got tougher for Atiku. Analysts argue that unlike 2018, the PDP governors now have firmer control of the party and are bent on ensuring that one of them emerges as the presidential candidate of the party while the likes of Atiku have been relegated to the periphery. Wike, who is popularly called Mr. Project for his gigantic achievements in Rivers State and for having transformed the state, will be finishing his second tenure as the governor of the state. From his latest comment, it is clear that Wike is giving it his all at ensuring that the PDP ticket is zoned to the South. He has said that it is only death that will make him step down. When asked in a recent interview with BBC Pidgin if he would step down for another candidate, Wike said, “Why will I step down for anybody? If you want to do consensus, there must be equity and fairness. Are the hands of those demanding consensus clean? People talking about consensus are the ones running the election. Is it the party’s decision? “It is not the party that is talking. In politics, there is something called shine shine bobo. The more you look, the less you see. Some people think they can deceive me with consensus. It’s a scam. I don’t like being deceived in my life.” Asked what could make him step down for another PDP candidate, he replied, “The only thing that can make me step down is death. If I am alive, we will run this thing, we will hold the primary on May 28/29.” Bala Mohammed Bauchi State Governor and former FCT Minister, Senator Bala Mohammed, 63, is from North-Eastern region of Nigeria. Prior to becoming the governor of Bauchi State, he was Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) from 2010 to 2015. He also served as a Senator from Bauchi State between 2007 and 2010. He is rated as a ranking member of the opposition PDP. He joined the presidential race on Thursday, March 24 after he obtained the PDP intent and nomination forms, saying that if given the opportunity to win the primaries and subsequently the general elections, he will be “Nigeria’s President for Nigerians”. Earlier in the year, Mohammed tackled Atiku, saying the former vice president is qualified to be president but age is not on his side. He spoke when he received a report from a contact and consultation committee he set up for his presidential ambition, insisting that Atiku is fatigued from his labour for the country. The governor said if Nigerians want Atiku to be president, he would support him because he is not desperate for the highest office in the country. “There is no need for us to be greedy. “Of course, my presidency will not cause division. You can see that at the time that my elder brother, Malam Adamu was going round, we invited our elder statesman, the one that we respect so much, the Waziri Adamawa (Atiku Abubakar), we named a road after him. “We invited him to Bauchi and we interacted and I told him that in this game, I know he is the most senior, he is very qualified but because of his age and fatigue that he has suffered so much for Nigeria. “He should allow his younger brother to be his spare tyre not to take over just like that. “But if Nigerians prefer him, I will support him. I am not too desperate but he should know that Nigerians like me too. And whatever he wants, I will do it for him, so this is our agreement, he has the highest respect from me.” Sometime last month, the Governor was quoted as saying that the vision of Wike, his Rivers State counterpart, is most needed at the national level, adding that Nigeria will be lucky to have him (Wike) as president. Mohammed said though he has declared his intention to run for President in 2023, Wike stands tall to rescue Nigeria from the maladministration of the incumbent apex government. He expressed the need for Nigerians to consider giving Wike the opportunity to serve them at the national level. Mohammed, who was in in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State, during the flag-off of construction work at the site of the Rumukwurushi-Elimgbu flyover, maintained that if Rivers was lucky to have Wike, Nigerians would be luckier to have a man with the vision of knowing how to harness resources in improving the quality of life of the citizenry. “On behalf of everybody here, I want to say thank you to you (Wike) because I wish you’ll be given the opportunity to bring this type of vision to the national level where you will be able to come and contribute your quota. “When some second term governors are busy preparing to go home, this man is even breaking new frontiers, doing new projects, and giving timelines and finances that will be able to be delivered during his tenure,” he added. Some analysts, however, have argued that Mohammed is not one of the serious contenders for the office of the president because he has really shown seriousness with his aspiration.