Chidozie Ogenyi, a governorship aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Enugu state, in this interview with PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU, unveils his vision for Enugu people if elected in the 2023 general elections among other issues. Excerpts: What will you do differently if you become the Governor of Enugu state? We will look at the things that Enugu state has comparative advantage over and maximize on those things, one of which is the political situation of Enugu, in the life of every Eastern person, not only Igbo’s but all that made up the former Eastern region. If you go to Kaduna today, every Northerner seeks allegiance to Kaduna and it remain a point for articulation of economic, political and growth programs, we must do that for Enugu and make her relevant again in the scheme of things in Nigeria. Drawing everybody to see his place and value and benefit in making Enugu become alive again. The second thing is to look at our advantage as we have landmass more than every other south East state and that calls for aggressive agro business. Agro business must be done to absorb the teeming youth and give them employment, train them in skills, train them abroad, build industries and grow agro chain where people who are not going to actually farm, will be able to do processing, marketing, packaging and exporting. In achieving that, the question to ask is how many tractors do we have in Enugu state? We must make this a business because that is going to generate a lot of money in Enugu state. We must build a government that will continue to access the needs of the people and build on that need to bring them out of poverty and establish them. We will also work on issue of youth empowerment. When people talk about youth empowerment, we blame them for all the problem that are happening today but we need to ask ourselves, what have we done? If you work around Enugu state like other Igbo Nations, you will see over 1,000 drinking parlors but there is no youth development centers , we much access the energy of the youth and positively channel that for positive growth, for development and their actualization. What I meant is that we need to get all the youths, even the one you mean are useless because I believe they have ability to succeed but no one has taken time to develop them so we must give them skills, not skills in shoe making but skills that are relevant in the world and once you develop those skills among young people, you will find them flying around the whole world , Enugu state will develop youth who will conquer the world, this will be a priority for me because I’ve worked on youth development for 26 years, no man across the world would claim they have not heard about Yordel Africa and what we have done, we will enlarge that on a scale that will shock everybody in Nigeria, we will make sure that youth do not become material that people waist away, butcher or lock up in prison. Aside these new things we are bringing on We will also look at insecurity. This is the foremost vocation of any legitimate administration. Our people cast their votes to elect not just a governor, but a shepherd. A leader who will be awake while they sleep. Obviously there is heightened insecurity in the country. Added to this, in the south east is the the guerilla tactics of herders at some soft targets within our borders. Tackling this plague is at the centre of my plans for our state. I was instrumental to the crafting of the working documents that created Enugu State Neighbourhood Watch security outfit. I was at each of the 17 LGAs of the state to inaugurate it. The impact of that section of our state’s security apparatchiks is undeniable. If elected, I will fortify the outfit more, through re-training of the members, re-jigging of its scope and equipping it more to meet up with current reality. In addition to Police and Civil Defence commands in the state, the vigilante groups in villages will be given attention for effective operations. Engaging the youths with gainful employment is another way of reducing insecurity to the barest minimum. The forest guard scheme of His Excellency the Governor will be improved upon. Community policing is a viable way of fishing out miscreants who wreak havoc within our communities; while we extend the present regime’s dialogue with settlers in the state. Here, I must acknowledge the efforts of our governor, Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, in this regard. He had always advocated for more commitment from the stakeholders. POLL A quarterly Town hall meeting will be hosted to chart better cause for adequate security. Also on welfare and human capital development, I have track records of championing citizens’ welfare and touching lives positively. I was among the few to whose name goes the credit of opening the doors for NGO interventions in governments of the southeast Nigeria. As far back as 1996, I have been the Executive Director of YORDEL Africa. We intervened massively in areas of human resources improvement. In 2010, I crafted the policy documents for the establishment of the ministry of Human capital development and poverty reduction in our state. This was what led to creation of this ministry in Enugu state till date. As the pioneer commissioner of the ministry, I have the history of numerous achievements recorded in the area of citizens’ welfare, and youth empowerment. If given the gubernatorial mandate I seek, I have in my kitty, the templates on women and youth empowerment. Human resource centers will be cited across the 266 wards through partnership with global donor agencies. Adequate budgetary allocations will be made towards that. Entrepreneurial skill acquisition programs will be launched using the state/community partnership scheme. Our health care system will also receive a boost. Nigeria is a consumer nation with a beggarly deficiency for indigenous top-notch health care and diagnostic services. Since the year 2000, Nigeria has consistently topped the charts among nations that spend excess in medical tourism. For eight years running, our government have cumulatively spend average of $12M on its officials in foreign trip seeking health care. It is noteworthy that over 80% of the reason why they embark on such trip were basically to get accurate laboratory and radiological diagnosis (i.e confirmatory diagnosis). Across Europe and America, there are countless Medical centres operating with international best practices. So they patronize them not necessarily to take therapy. Drugs can be shipped and delivered anywhere in the world. But first you must get tested to ascertain what you are suffering. Do you have any plan for women in the state ? We will also empower the women, I am in record to having spearheaded Girl child education advocacy in the southeast in partnership with NGOs and other civil society groups as far back as 1997. I had strong affinity to emancipation of womanhood from the shackles of cultural webs that is restricting their potentials from being fully expressed in our fast changing world. The 50% automatic slot for women inclusion in politics in Nigeria is not too much. It is advisable and due. Women are catalysts to integral development. I will establish women cooperative society in each of the 17 LGAs within the first 100 days in office will give ample hope that in four years, we must have touched at least 90% of our women in the state. To champion the cause of women empowerment, we must create and equip Ministry of women affairs in the state. Priority will be given to women education under my administration if elected. Each autonomous community leaders will be made ambassadors for welfare of rural women. Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) must be given a boost among our rural women. It is not rocket science that Lee Kuan Yew was able to shoot his country from Third world to First world within 16 years. He simply increased funding to SMEs and manured the country’s IGR. Are you in support of the zoning arrangement which has generated controversy among top politicians in the state? We all believe in zoning. Even the APC believed in zoning. If you look at the agitation of the Igbo’s asking to be given the Presidency, you will hear zoning, if you go to any village or community in Enugu state, you will hear them saying councillor came from this community during the last election, this time, it will be turn of this community, that means that zoning exist at the top most which is national, at the lowest which is the community level. Even in your town union they zoned the President of the town union, even the Igwe’s they zoned it to different communities so zoning is part of life, it’s part of Enugu state, it’s part of our culture, it’s sustainability and it’s what ensures that rancour and fighting are reduced.