Daniel Abia : Chinwendu Nnadozie Former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida, has reiterated the need for Nigerians to vote for a younger person with vigour as the next president of the country in 2023. Babangida, who has always insisted that the old politicians should give way for fresher blood, said that Nigerians would be better with the younger generation. Speaking on the occasion of a historic visit to him by the Rivers State governor and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nyesom Wike, Babangida said that Nigeria would be better with a younger and vibrant person. Governor Wike was accompanied by some of his co-governors to Minna, capital city of Niger State, to have a closed door meeting with General Babangida. Those with him were former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar; governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde; governor of Enugu State, Lawrence Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; former Benue State governor, Senator Gabriel Suswam; Senator Sulieman Nazif and Senator Olaka Nwogu. Deputy Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, and governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, spoke to journalists after the meeting. Dr. Ikpeazu said the delegation was in Minna to consult with the former Head of State in the build up to the 2023 general election. “I have come with my colleagues, the governor of Rivers, governor of Enugu, governor of Oyo, some members of the National Assembly and other stakeholders. POLL “First, to consult with the former Head of State and discuss national issues: economic development, security, and unity of our country. “And also to commend him for his support for the unity of this country and the discussions went very well and we will advance it from there,” he said. On what response they got from General Babangida, the Abia State governor said the former military president expressed strong concerns about the need for younger Nigerians to be courageous in taking up the challenge of providing leadership to the country. “He expressed concerns and said that he expects the younger generation to take up the gauntlet and rescue Nigeria.” Governor Wike and his entourage also paid a courtesy call on the governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, at the Government House, Minna.