Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has scored his administration high on addressing shortages associated with production and distribution of fertiliser in the country. He said upon assumption of office in 2015, one of the first things he identified was the persistent shortage of fertiliser, a key component for agriculture that was causing low yields for farmers. Buhari boasted that currently Nigeria has risen to prominence as Africa’s fertiliser powerhouse due to the right policies implemented by his administration. “With our over seventy blending plants operating, Nigeria is on its way to becoming Africa’s fertiliser powerhouse. And with our mega urea production facilities, Nigeria is definitely a global player in the urea space,” the president said at an audience with the Executive Committee of Fertiliser Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN). Speaking further, he said Nigeria, being a predominantly agrarian nation, ensuring an inclusive economy meant we needed to prioritise the enhancement of our agricultural value chain, hence we quickly identified the persistent shortage of fertiliser as a key reason for the low yields experienced in our farms. Buhari also took a swipe at past administrations, saying historical scarcity of fertiliser was due to our over reliance on imports and the inefficient participation of the government in distributing this essential commodity to the farmers. He stated, “As a government, it was very clear to us that these practices needed to change. Nigeria is naturally blessed with most of the raw materials needed to produce fertilisers. “Nigeria has all the skills and manpower required to convert these raw materials to fertilisers. With the right enabling environment, Nigeria has the entrepreneurs who are ready to invest in the sector”. Meanwhile, the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, described fertiliser as a key input to achieving food security. He said this realisation led the apex bank to place great premium on its availability and accessibility by farmers to improve yield, productivity and ultimately, output. Emefiele listed some CBN’s interventions to include the Real Sector Support Facility, Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme, National Food Security Programme and the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI). He disclosed that a total of over N114.09 billion has been disbursed to support the fertiliser industry in the last five years, adding that the interventions were long-term loans at concessionary interest rates to support domestic blending and distribution across the country. On CBN Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, the CBN governor said the bank has disbursed N941.26 billion to 4.2 million smallholder famers cultivating 21 agricultural commodities on 5.4 million hectares of land across the country. He added that for the 2021 wet season programme, the CBN disbursed N193.59 billion to 923,699 farmers cultivating seven commodities on 1.16 million hectares of land. According to Emefiele, the CBN currently has a balance of stock of fertiliser from the last planting season under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme to the tune of 1.95 million bags and have committed additional 2.6 million bags for use during the 2022 programme.