Ahead of the party primaries to choose the next presidential candidate, River State Governor and PDP presidential aspirant, Nyesome Wike visited Kaduna state to woo delegates in the state to vote for him. The Rivers State Governor who stated that he was optimistic that 60 out of the 78 delegates from the State would vote for him, while the rest 18 can be shared among other aspirants.said the party needs someone like him who can take back power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), and rescue the country from the mess it found itself. Wike who lamented the insecurity bedevilling the state and the hardship being experienced by the residents of Kaduna State as a result of the activities of terrorists, stated that any serious government will tackle insecurity 1st before anything else The presidential aspirant assured that the insecurity problems will be a thing of the past when he becomes the next president of the country. According to him, “I am here today to say that this country needs rescue, we came here to say we must not take the sentiment to 2023 election, we came here to tell you that what PDP requires now is to get somebody who is courageous, who can withstand this party and win this election in 2023, I am not here to tell you that am just a mere presidential aspirant, I want to win the election if you give me the ticket on 29 and 30 May 2022. “It is no longer a story the situation our country found itself under APC, take for example with the state we are today, Kaduna state is one of the most peaceful states, people travel freely, no leader In the north will say that he does not have a house in Kaduna state, people can leave Abuja 10 in the night and come to Kaduna when I was a minister I come by road, but today what is happening, Kaduna has lost its glory and it is because of the inefficiency of those in the government. “Every now and then, people are attacked, kidnapped, we cannot continue with that, there are all military formations in the state, yet it is still attacked, whether you are on the road, at home, you are been attacked, kidnapped, so insecurity does not know whether you are Muslim or not, hunger and poverty do not know same, one thing is to note that any person who is taking office will take an oath of office that you will protect lives and property when you cannot protect lives and property, there is no more governance,” Wike said. Wike said the Federal government has done nothing serious in the train bomb attack in Kaduna apart from condemning the incident. POLL According to him, “Kaduna state was once a peaceful state before the coming of APC thats why almost all leaders in the north build houses here. But The state has lost it’s glory. “As a commander in chief there is nothing like breaking news if you are meeting with security chiefs.What should be breaking news is that the bandits have been eliminated. If for 6 months you have not tackled security as a Service Chief you deserve to be sacked.On Agriculture, I will identify states and what crop they can produce and make them hub for that commodity. If I become the PDP candidate, APC will know they are in trouble.He then promised N200 million support for IDPs. In his response, former Governor of Kaduna State and one time National Caretaker Chairman of PDP, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, said he would make Governor Wike President if he had the power due to his contribution to the survival of the PDP during its trying moments. The PDP chieftain said, “Without collaborative efforts, PDP would not have been existing the way it is now, all these aspirations and declarations we are having today, we would have been doing it elsewhere. ‘When the Court of Appeal judgement came out against us, and we knew we were right, everybody was running away. Then-Governor Wike called me and asked me, are you ready for this fight? I said yes. He said, we are going to reclaim our party, what do you need? How do we go about it? And the rest is history. Yes, many other people contributed in so many other ways, but there is no single individual who contributed as he did for us to have the PDP that we have today. “If it is by an appointment, and I have the power to appoint, I would simply just appoint you and you will go home and rest, but it is a democracy, it is a convention, the delegates know those who have been with them and will continue to be within them, the party people know. And I am vigorously working for it. ‘Of all the investments you have made, you are not sitting back at home to say because I did ABC and D, this should come to me, day and night, you are working for it, that shows commitment, that shows the real desire. “I did not anticipate the enormous gesture you announced for the displaced and those affected by violence and banditry in Kaduna. ‘We are positively shocked by the huge donation you have done to the state of N200million to help the victims of banditry. We have not seen a single kobo from anybody in this direction. You gave this through the party for the respect you have for the party. We are happy to be the facilitators. We really appreciate you,” Makarfi said.