The member of the House of the Representatives representing Jos South/East Federal Constituency at National Assembly and Deputy Chairman of House of Reps Committee on Anti-corruption, Hon Dachung Musa Bagos has been conferred with the chieftaincy title of Talban Shere by the Shere Traditional Council of Jos East Local Government Council of Plateau State. The ceremony was attended by an array of dignitaries from within and outside Jos at the weekend. While conferring the chieftaincy title on the federal Lawmaker, the District Head of Shere, His Royal Highness, Ada John Haruna said, the conferment was an acknowledgement of the Lawmaker’s passion for the development of not only the District but the whole of Jos East as well as his political exploits that have brought fame to the local, particularly Shere District. The traditional ruler described Bagos as a reliable man who deserved the honour, saying, the chieftaincy title “TALBAN” means somebody who brings succour to the people, adding that the lawmaker has proven to be a trusted ally in the constituency. Also speaking at the event, the Paramount Ruler of the Izere Nation and First Class Chief His Royal Highness Rev. Dr Isaac Wakili who was on tour to the District, commended the lawmaker for his good representation at the National Assembly. He said the traditional title is in recognition of the lawmaker’s performance to do more. He tasks all titleholders to support the district head in developing the community. The federal Lawmaker who was excited about the honour, thanked Jos East Traditional Council which deem him fit to be honoured. POLL He said the chieftaincy title is an added responsibility to him and pledged to continue to work round the clock in giving his people a voice and good representation at the National Assembly Bagos added that ethe honour showed that his constituents in Jos East appreciated all he has been doing for them, especially since he was elected to represent them in the House of Representatives Bagos, assured his constituents that he would not relent in his efforts to serve the people of the constituency. Former Jos East member of the state House of Assembly , Hon. Isaac Arin on his part said Hon Bagos deserve the chieftaincy title. “Hon Dachung Musa Bagos has a proven track record, and the people can attest to this fact. I am proud of him and wish him goodness in all his endeavours. ” He is a good representative of the people, as evidenced in this event.” “we can only pray for him to go higher and higher,” he said.