P/HARCOURT  – In what may look like its biggest fight against the activities of crude oil thieves in the Niger Delta region, the Nigerian Navy said it has deployed 40 ships, five helicopters and 200 boats to battle bunkerers and illegal refiners. The Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo disclosed the deployments while fielding questions from newsmen shortly after flagging off the special operation codenamed ‘Dakatar Da Barawo (stop the thief) on board the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Okpabana in Onne, Rivers State last week. Gambo who was represented by the Chief of Policy and Planning, Rear Admiral Saidu Garba said the operation which would last for three months was in collaboration with the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Gambo said the latest operation was to intensify previous efforts by the Navy, with specific drive to identify the sources of the problem, smoke out the culprits and return the country to a healthy economic path, saying the nation was bleeding as a result of huge economic losses due to the illicit activity. “As an operation, it is for three months. You know that this is what we have been doing. It is only that this time we will intensify all efforts. “We will bring to bear all our assets. We are bringing everything the Nigeria Navy has to bear on this operation to make sure that within this time, the impact of this operation is felt and Nigeria will come back to a steady platform. “That, we are saying not less than 30 to 40 ships, with not less than 100 to 200 boats. We are bringing in about four to five helicopters. Some helicopters will be coming and going. Basically our special forces and all our units will be involved,” the CNS stated. He explained that the NNPC was essentially the owner of all petroleum products in the country, saying the corporation would be concerned whenever there is a problem, such as the challenge the nation was presently confronted with. POLL Vice Admiral Gambo said, on the other hand, the Navy was responsible for securing the maritime domain. “All activities that have to do with our petroleum products, crude oil movement, production as well as distribution along the maritime domain. “Now the NNPC is concerned because over the past few months, there has been reports of massive theft of our petroleum products from the nation’s maritime environment, purportedly through the pipelines, through frittering away of our products by vessels. “That has resulted in a lot of bleeding of the nation. We have lost so much in terms of revenue. From the reports we are getting Nigeria is actually bleeding. And there is a need to bring this to a halt. “That is why in collaborate with the NNPC, the Nigerian Navy has engaged in this operation in order to first of all trace where the problem is. “Secondly, track down those culprits that are causing this problem and try to bring Nigeria back to a very healthy economic and prosperous part,” he said. The CNS said the Nigerian Navy under his watch remains committed to eradicating all acts of criminality in Nigeria’s maritime domain and by extension the Gulf of Guinea for the economic wellbeing of the people. He explained that, “Operation Dakatar Da Barawo will involve dominating the nation’s backwaters through aggressive and intelligence driven patrols. “It would also be dedicated to monitoring pipelines, block identified strategic estuaries to prevent conveyance of stolen crude oil from inshore to sea and to maintain credible presence along the coastline of areas prone to crude oil theft. “The operation would also involve aerial surveillance as well as insertion of special forces to conduct clearance operations,” while soliciting the support of critical stakeholders to achieve the desired result. “As we are seated here, the Nigerian Navy is today taking delivery of a newly constructed landing ship tank- 100 named NNS KADA from the United Arab Emirates and will set sail on her maiden voyage to Nigeria later today.” Speaking with the newsmen, the Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari said the lingering crude oil theft and other illegal activities were having a serious impact on the operations of the corporation. Kyari who spoke through the Managing Director of the Port Harcourt Refining Company, Ahmed Dikko further said, following the development the NNPC reached out to the Navy, as the situation was getting out of hand. “So, the NNPC is really worried and reached out to the Nigerian Navy and we are ready to support the Navy in any way we can, so that we can conduct this special operation and make sure that this operation is successful,” Kyari stated.