Gillian Joseph, broadcaster with the Sky News at 10 has been selected for topmost media award. Gillian who has been selected in “news presenter category’’ by the impressive TRIC awards is said to have over three decades skill of broadcast and can be often seen across the rest of the output as well as reportage on the road. Gillian Joseph started her broadcasting career with the BBC in Manchester before becoming a radio reporter and producer with Radio Merseyside. A statement singed and made available to Independent by Executive Director NMO Management and PR Limited, Dr. Ngozi Omambala clarified that during Gillian time in Liverpool, she was one of the first to break the news of the global story- James Bulger murder case in 1993. The release however reads: “Gillian returned home to London in 1998, working as a reporter and newsreader on BBC Radio 1 and since then she has reported for the BBC’s Black Britain programme, both the One and Six O’clock news, News night and the Holiday programme . “She also presented a Sunday morning reflective news show on BBC London 94.9FM and regularly presented for 5 Live. “Prior to joining Sky News, Gillian presented the news on BBC Breakfast and on BBC London. She also worked as a presenter for BBC News 24. “Gillian played a major role in the coverage of the aftermath of the 2004 Asian Tsunami, and has reported from locations across the globe including Northern Ireland, South America and Africa. POLL “Accustomed to seminal stories, she presented live on air for several hours, the day Iraq went to the polls in the country’s first­­­­ democratic elections. “Gillian has covered the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee, the royal wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton, the funeral of UK first female Prime Minister: Baroness Margaret Thatcher and the death of Nelson Mandela. In 2016 she played a major role in the historic American presidential elections reporting for Sky News from both Washington and New York. She returned to Washington for the 2020 election and the aftermath. “She has covered every UK general election since 2001 and extensively reported on the EU referendum around the country”. The mother of three who is of Afro Caribbean heritage and married for 26 years to Nigerian Olutunde Adebayo in the statement prides herself on sitting on the board of Nigerian charity tagged, “JBS Elderly and Wellbeing Foundation that provides healthcare to elderly.