LAGOS – Quest Oil & Engineering Services, owners of Ascon Oil Company Limited, has won the 2021 Industry Summit Awards as the Best Oil & Gas Company in Branding and Marketing 2021 category out of four other organizations during the year under review. The Summit/Awards, organized by The Industry Newspaper, held at Sheraton Hotel & Towers, Ikeja on 26th April 2022. The event played host to many dignitaries from all works of life, including the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, and his Akwa Ibom counterpart, Udom Emmanuel, who were represented. This year’s Industry Summit/Awards with the theme: “Financial inclusion, digital payment and the challenges of banking the unbanked”, was designed to honour individuals and organizations that have made an exceptional contribution (s) to the growth of all sectors in the Nigerian economy, particularly marketing and marketing communication industry in Nigeria. The event featured a panel of discussants, including Chioma Afe, Group Head, Retail Marketing & Analytic, Access Bank Plc; Cherry Eromosele, Group Chief Marketing & Corporate Communications Officer, Interswitch Nigeria. Others included Chuma Ezirim, Group Executive, e-Business & Retail Products, FirstBank; Bridget Oyefeso-Odusami, Group Head, Marketing & Communications, Stanbic IBTC Bank and others. A team of assessors adjudged that Quest Oil & Engineering Services has repositioned her service stations across the country to the admiration of customers. Research carried out by a panel of judges showed that Quest has one of the most reliable pumps/meters in the sector. POLL Speaking after receiving the award, the Corporate Communications & Branding Manager for Quest Oil Group, Gerald Moore, thanked the organizers for being consistent over the years and expressed optimism that such recognitions would go a long way to boosting productivity in the oil & gas sector. In his words, “Every star needs a platform to shine, the Industry Summit/Awards has become that veritable platform to enable industry players to showcase their brand. This is crucial because such is needed to encourage healthy competition among the different players in the industry.”