LAGOS – After a decade of vacuum, the Osile of Oke-Ona Egba, Oba (Dr.) Adedapo Tejuosho recently presented Alhaji Ganiyu Kola Egunjobi (JP), the incumbent Executive Chairman of Agege Local Government as the new Otun of Egbaland. The apex monarch, Oba (Dr.) Tejuosho, accompanied by chiefs and elders from Oke-Ona, made the presentation to the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo at the Ake Palace amidst pomp and pageantry. This is coming 10 years after the passing on of the immediate past Otun of Egbaland, High Chief (Dr) Moses Majekodunmi. Introducing the new Otun of Egbaland to Alake, Oba Tejuosho declared that the search for a replacement from the Oke-Ona in the Egba Traditional Council had been a long and tortuous journey lasting a decade. Oba (Dr.) Tejuosho explained that it was, therefore, obligatory and according to the Egba tradition, for him to present the new Otun to Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland for endorsement as a bonafide member of the Egba Traditional Institution. In his response, the Alake congratulated Oba (Dr.) Adedapo Tejuosho and the people of the area for their ultimate successful decision in selecting a new Otun. Oba Gbadebo noted that although it took a long time in arriving at this historic conclusion, he pointed out that it was better late than never and prayed that the choice would be beneficially enduring to all the Egbas including the Oke-Ona. He urged the new Otun of Egbaland, High Chief Egunjobi, to live up to the expectations of his people at Oke-Ona and that of the Egba nation as a whole by contributing his quota to the peace and prosperity of Egbaland. POLL The Alake prayed for the new Otun, Osile Oke-Ona Egba and all the Egba Oke-Ona that their relationship with all other sections of Egbaland would continue to be mutual, with peace, progress and prosperity. Responding, the Otun of Egbaland, High Chief Ganiyu Kola Ogunjobi thanked Oba Adedapo Tejuoso, the Oke-Ona Chiefs and the people for their total and unflinching support for his selection and pledged to always work for the cohesion of the people of all the townships of Oke-Ona Egba. Besides, he vowed to use his new position to promote peace, understanding and cooperation for the benefit of all the Egba indigenes at home and abroad. Alhaji Ganiyu Kola Egunjobi (JP) is the incumbent Executive Chairman, Agege Local Government. He was born to Chief Aminu Egunjobi and Princess Mariam Tadenikawo Aduke Otelabi Egunjobi (née Adepoju) both late in the Lagos suburb. A two-time chairman and current Vice-chairman of Conference 57, an association of Lagos council bosses,  he was part of an eleven-man delegation (all council chairmen) from Nigeria that visited Morocco, the headquarters of United Cities and Local Governments of Africa, UCLA, in 2019 for a development programme. Ganiyu hails from Oke-Ona in Egbaland. While his late father hailed from Ilugun, his paternal grandmother was from Ikija, specifically Agbo-Ile Baba Onilu (the Shotunde and Somuyiwa family house). Ganiyu, a member of Abeokuta Club, had his primary school education at State Primary School, (now Ife-Oluwa), and his secondary school education at Iloro Grammar School, Iloro, both in Agege. He has a Diploma in Purchasing & Supply Management from the University of Lagos and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management. A sociology graduate from Lagos State University (LASU), he is currently a postgraduate student of the institution studying International Relations and Strategic Studies. Ganiyu attended several training programmes including a Nations Workshop for Political Office Holders & Key officials of the 774 Local Government areas in Nigeria at the University of Ibadan, and Leadership Trainings in both Dubai and Singapore. He also attended International Leadership training at the University of WolverHampton, UK, Advance Course on Environmental and Public Health at Cardiff Metropolitan University, UK, and Strategic Planning and Execution at Georgia State University, USA. Before his election as Council Chairman, he was the Chief Operating Officer of Taraco Investment, Nutrizone Resource Limited and Randvine Global Resources. The three companies are ongoing concerns with interest in farming, real estate and oil and gas.