The Social Democratic Party (SFP) standard-bearer for the June 18, 2022 Governorship Poll, Engineer Segun Oni. has warned any individual or group contemplating to launch an attack on his campaign trail to have a rethink. Oni, who dropped this warning while addressing his supporters at Ikere, Ado and Ekiti West Local governments in continuation of his consultations for the gubernatorial ambition. In a veiled reference to the recent attack on his convoy, the former governor threatened that whoever attempt to attack him shall regret his or her activity. “But if any of them should come for thuggery where we campaign, they will be dealt with accordingly. Whoever provokes us would get a reaction, so they should be careful. Why could they be stoning us? What are they afraid of?” Oni asked. “We are not going to take voters for granted. We will visit all the farmsteads in Ado-Ekiti capital city and other towns. We have to work hard, but we are sure that victory is certain. “If there are people that are threatening you, let us know. But let me beg you, if APC or PDP is campaigning anywhere, don’t go there and disturb them.” Speaking about his programme, Oni promised to upgrade the newly established  Ekiti State Polytechnic, Isan Ekiti to university status, if elected governor in the June 18 poll. Also, Oni promised to provide more facilities and competent personnel at the Bamidele Olumilua University of Education, Science and Technology (BOUESTI), Ikere Ekiti, rather than scrapping it, as being wrongly insinuated. POLL The institution, established by Governor Kayode Fayemi in his Isan Ekiti country home as a College of Commercial Agriculture, was recently upgraded to a Polytechnic status. Oni also dismissed the rumour making the rounds that he was plotting to scrap the  BOUESTI, saying he would rather strengthen the institution than do such. “If I am re-elected, my intention is to dialogue with the people of Isan Ekiti where our Polytechnic is and ask whether they want it upgraded or not. If they want it upgraded, we will make it a full-fledged university. “This goes to tell you that I will never scrap BOUESTI. It is only a wicked governor that will destroy any programme meant to bring development. I don’t belong to that class of destroyers, I will rather be a builder.” Speaking at Ilawe Ekiti, the former governor, said his government would tap the axis’ potential in a banana plantation, by attracting a cottage industry to the area for more incomes for the farmers and employment opportunities for the locals. While addressing a mammoth crowd of party supporters in Ado-Ekiti with his Deputy, Ladi Owolabi, Oni, said he won’t take the voters for granted despite his popularity. The former governor exuded confidence that the Ekiti people would stand by him through the rigors of election, saying no amount of intimidation can cow him in his resolve to free Ekiti from slavery brought by the present government.