Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, Udeze, who is also the Legal Adviser of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), speaks on his party’s readiness for the 2023 general elections and the vexed issue of insecurity in parts of the county. Excerpt: How is your party getting ready for the 2023 general elections? As one of the vibrant political parties in Nigeria, Action Alliance (AA) is well prepared for the upcoming 2023 general elections. That is why we have just released a time table and schedules of activities for 2023 general elections dated April 4, 2022 for intending aspirants willing to contest elections on Action Alliance (AA) platform to start buying their forms. To the Glory of God, they have started buying forms for various elective positions. We understand that your party slashed the price of Intent and Nomination forms for women, youths and people with disability (PWDs). To what extent are they embracing the opportunity to be part of the election? Women, youth and persons with disability (PWDs) are very grateful to the national leadership of Action Alliance (AA) under my chairmanship for slashing the cost of nomination forms by 50 per cent. They are embracing the opportunity by assuring us that they will run for the 2023 general elections under the platform of the Action Alliance and we are ready to give our ticket to those that are qualified to contest. Will your party go it alone or enter into alliances and arrangements for the 2023 elections? If so, what positions will such arrangements affect? Our party, Action Alliance (AA), will go it alone in all positions for the 2023 general elections, except the presidential ticket where our party is considering an alliance with likeminded allies to win the presidential election and form a Government of National Unity. However, that will depend on the character and competence of the individual presidential candidate. How formidable is the Action Alliance (AA) across the country? POLL The party is formidable and enjoys grassroots support. We have continued to make use of technology to run the day-to-day affairs of the party, responding online to hundreds of thousands of Nigerians indicating interest in joining the party. We have also met our constitutional standard in recognising both the card and non-card carrying members of the party. We have made sure that legal philosophy of compliance with the party’s constitution remains our guiding principles, hence, at all levels of party hierarchy and organ, information flows systematically and administratively in a vice versa mode that is, top to bottom approach of information dissemination and at some point; bottom to top approach of information dissemination. There have been agitations for the next president to come from Southern Nigeria. What is your take on that? Our party is only concerned about competency, irrespective of where one comes from. However, for equity and fairness, the president of Nigeria come 2023 is supposed to go to the South, especially South East of Nigeria. No zone can do it all alone. We need each other to achieve our ambitions. How do you think the quest for a president of South East extraction can be realised in 2023? It is realizable. But it can only be realised by a sophisticated and water tight understanding between South East and other regional blocs, particularly the old Mid-West, parts of South-West, North-West and parts of North-East and North-Central. But the greatest challenge to this will be an acceptable candidate amongst these geopolitical zones. Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi State is one of those who have declared interest to run for the presidency in the 2023 election. How realistic do you see his candidacy? As a party, we do not see it working out because we are at the forefront of projecting a Southern President as things stand now. He is very free to indicate his interest, which he is constitutionally entitled to like any other northerner. However, I don’t see him winning beyond Kogi State as political permutation exists. He cannot match the powerful political forces of the South in terms of men of all-round capacity. What is your take on the recent terrorist attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train, the attempt on the Kaduna airport and the dimension terrorism is taking in this country? The situation is very sad, my brother. What happened recently at the Kaduna Airport and Abuja-Kaduna train, where terrorists and bandits freely took charge of the airport and train is worrisome. One cannot go to Kaduna freely by road, air and by rail. Security in the country today is worse. The security agencies are doing their best, but their best is not enough. All hands must be on deck to win this war. Everyone should be involved to stop these senseless killings. The security agencies cannot do it alone. We citizens must play our vital role by giving information to security agencies and if they fail to act after information has been provided, then, there is sabotage going on in the camps of security agencies. The Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces must do something urgently to secure the lives of innocent and defenceless Nigerians. Apart from the terror attacks on the Kaduna axis, kidnappers and bandits have been having a field day in parts of the country. How do you think these criminals could be checked? This government needs to be straight with us, the people. There is this popular saying that if terrorism persists in a system, the hand of the government is in it. They should do much to prove to Nigerian that they are clean. How do you see the efforts of the new Anambra State governor, Prof Charles Soludo, to restore peace in his state and the South East? Do you think his efforts will yield fruits? Yes, the new Anambra State governor, Prof. Charles Soludo, has started well by inaugurating the Peace and Reconciliation Committee. That singular action of the governor will bring peace in Anambra State and South East in general. As an economist that was tested and trusted and as the former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, I strongly believe that Soludo will perform well as the governor of Anambra State. All that the good people of Anambra State need to do is to support him.