Eight times Nigerian champions, Enyimba International of Aba, will have their hands full when they file out against table topping Rivers United at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt. This is one match the Pride of Rivers must win to fully show their title credentials as they gun to win the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) the third time. Rivers United have won all but eight games so far this season. Of the eight matches, the former CAF Champions League campaigners have lost only once and drawn seven times. But against the two times African champions, Enyimba, it will be a huge task for them as they will bid to make it double over the People’s Elephants whom they defeated 1-0 at the Aba Township Stadium in the early stage of the season. Enyimba are seventh on the log with thirty two points from the same twenty two games while their weekend’s host, Rivers United, are setting the pace with 49 points from the same number of matches played. However, the Elephant’s prolific forward, Victor Mbaoma, is not less expectant of the match. The former Remo Stars player whose brace rescued the People’s Elephants against their Oriental brothers, Rangers International, in Aba last week, said he was anticipating the game, even as he admitted that revenge is out of the picture as they hoped to go to Port Harcourt and get the desired result. “We are very ready for the match against Rivers United. “You know we are not where we exactly should be but we are not giving up. “Rivers United have done well and are still doing well this season so we hope to avoid any kind of mistake. POLL “We are not going for revenge but going for the point(s) because we have to win to improve on the table. “On a personal note, I am looking forward to that match and I hope to give my best as always to make sure we get the result,” he said. However, matches between the two sides are always very tough with huge crowd. Rivers United, managed by the highly experienced Coach Stanley Eguma, has been on fire this season and are highly favoured to get the better of Enyimba in this match. They have been the best team on the road this season with more points garnered so far on away grounds more than any other side this season. Meanwhile, Enyimba, managed by the Rivers Stateborn former Super Eagles winger, Finidi George, started the season well but saw their fortunes dipped, particularly after they were eliminated from the CAF Confederation Cup after failure to honour away fixture against a Libyan side.