We started a series on the reasons for work. We used Anthony as a case study. “Oh, not another Monday again!” Anthony exclaimed. After an extended weekend of fun and relaxation, he wasn’t ready for another day of work, not to talk about another week of work. “Why do we even work?” he queried. “Can we not do without work and working? Must I even go to work today? Can they not do without me?” He asked himself. Thinking of taking the day off, he changed his mind and sluggishly and unhappily drove off to work. He muttered to himself, “I can’t wait to escape the bondage of work!” Over the last four weeks, we have covered the following concepts: 1. Work is the womb of greatness. Greatness is intricately tied to work as nobody ever achieved greatness outside the realm of work—whatever that work is. 2. Work as the Fulfilment of Purpose. Work is the medium through which purpose is accomplished, and destiny fulfilled. 3. Work as the medium for the expression of potential. Without work, potential dies unexpressed and dreams unrealised. 4. Work as the Channel of Blessing to Others. Our work, when delivered with excellence, becomes God’s gift to others through us. 5. Work as a contribution to society. At the heart of the growth and development of society or economic renaissance is the type and quality of work carried out by a large percentage of people in it. POLL Today’s article is the concluding part on the reasons for work. And if you are like Anthony, I hope the previous articles have helped to change your perspectives to work and working. The sixth point is like the icing on the cake. It is one reason for working. 6. Work as the Means to Financial Rest Everybody wants to experience financial freedom. No matter how much we deny it, we all need money. As some say, money makes the world go round. We need money to meet our basic needs in life. You see, there are only three ways to get money: begging, stealing, or working. We know that stealing is not an option, so also begging. Why? You can never beg your way to financial freedom because begging depends on the giver’s mood, discretion, and goodwill. What is the alternative? Work. The work of producing something for your world that becomes a medium of exchange for the money you want. This is the simplest and most fundamental definition of money—the medium of exchange for goods and services. It means that you must have something to give to your world to get the money you want. Begging and stealing fail in this regard; they take away without giving anything back in return. Hidden in this lesson is that only creators experience true financial rest. Consumers will always be at the mercy of creators. Examine the lives of the most successful and wealthy people, and you will find at least one creation to their names. There are businesses, patents, lyrics, or even books to their names. A creator thinks of something new to bring to the world for others to enjoy; a consumer searches for the next new thing to buy. Keeping up with consumer needs with new products or services is the work of creators; keeping up with the latest fashion or fad is the primary mindset of consumers. Innovate or produce is the keyword for a creator; acquire or impress is the keyword for consumers. And it is one reason they remain poor. While they want to impress others with their latest acquisitions, the creators are smiling to the bank. What product, service or patent will be in your name? What would you create for your world? For your organisation? For your generation? Someone will be quick to ask, “Must we all become creators? Is everyone wired to be an inventor? If we all create something, who will be the consumer?” These are valid concerns. My answer is: if you cannot create anything, then partner with someone else who can. Look for the next major trend or big thing and be a part of it. It is one reason we join organisations—to partner with them to render a service to society. Being part of an organisation is also a means to experience financial rest. We cannot all become entrepreneurs. Do not be deceived by the lure of entrepreneurship and the motivational speeches of motivational speakers. Entrepreneurship is hard work. If you are not wired to be an entrepreneur, do not force yourself to become one. Find a great organisation and join and give your best to it. Some people will work best in an organised environment while others will work best as business owners. Find the one that suits you, but please work if you are working as an employee! Next week, I will explore the role of leadership and work. This article is an excerpt from Chapter two of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.