LAGOS – In a bid to deliver on his administration’s drive for a cleaner Lagos, the Chairman, Lagos Island Local Government, Hon (Prince) Tijani Adetoyese Olusi, has summoned all market leaders in the Ebute-Ero Gorodom market after receiving the preliminary report of the sanitation corps. The meeting is to deliberate on the locked-up iron built on the drainages in the market, making it almost impossible for sanitation exercises. Speaking with the sanitation corps in his office on Thursday, Oludi, appreciated the work done at the Ebute-Ero Market and emphasized the need for a repeat from time to time. ” I appreciate the efforts of your team in the desilting of the Ebute-Ero market today. As regards the extension of the drainages, I need to see all the leaders controlling the market; because I will leave no stone unturned for a cleaner and safe Lagos Island. The environmental team, led by the Supervisor for Environment, Alh. Audu Raheem Atanda, on Thursday 14th April 2022, embarked on a general inspection and desilting of the Ebute-Ero/ Gorodom market. The desilting started from Oke-Arin behind the Modile Palace through Gorodom market, Ebute Ero and into the Lagos Lagoon. The massive wastes evacuated from the drains were plastic packs, pet bottles, ropes and other items apparently dropped into the sewage by people in the markets. POLL The Otun-Iyaloja of Ebute-Ero market, Alhaja Sidikat Mayegun-Yekin and the Iya-Oja Mrs Afinni gave kudos to the Mayor of Lagos Island on the initiative, stating that the marketers appreciate what the administration of Hon. (Prince) Tijani Adetoyese Olusi has done. “It is part of the social responsibility of the government to pack the drainages and we are happy and really appreciate what he did today, we have been expecting such and we hope that this won’t be the last”. In the area of weekly environmental sanitation, they stated that the factions in the market has whittled down the level at which they can emphasize authorities on the marketers, especially those in the other jurisdiction. Alhaja Sidikat Mayegun-Yekin also emphasized on the need for barricades at different intersections of the market.” the barricades will ensure that the areas where wastes are being poured into the drains will be identified”, and it won’t overflow to other sides. The market association are pleased, they are happy because the drainage has been spilling over and affecting them before now and it has been finally put to rest. The Supervisor for Environment, Alh. Audu Raheem Atanda appreciated the efforts of the newly selected drain gangs and the drain ducks who came all out to make the exercise a successful one. Alhaji Atanda stated that the drain was filled to the brim by the wastes generated and dumped into the drains by the marketers. He emphasized on the need for them to embark on regular desilting and maintenance of their drainages, especially during this rainy season, to combat floods. He also stressed on the locked-up iron over the drains by the marketers. “There were too many extensions which were made to block the walkways and no chance for people to move freely. Aside from the drainage, we still have a lot of work to do in the market in the area of sanitation and a clean environment”.