YENAGOA – The Senator representing Bayelsa West at the upper chambers of the National Assembly, Seriake Dickson, has sponsored a motion seeking to retain the name of foremost Niger Delta leader and activist, Harold Dappa-Biriye, in the new permanent national head office of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in Port Harcourt, the River State capital. Presenting the motion on the floor of the Senate, on Wednesday, Dickson noted that the late Dappa-Biriye has nothing to his name apart from the NDDC headquarters unlike his contemporaries who fought alongside him for Nigeria’s independence and whose names and faces are on national currencies and strategic assets. He told the senate that while the NDDC had since inaugurated and moved its personnel and operations to the permanent headquarters, “it has refused, neglected, or failed to transfer the name Harold Dappa Biriye House to it.” Dickson maintained that Dappa-Biriye offered crucial advice to the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration on the need to restore peace in the Niger Delta, and was one of the leaders who played frontline roles in the establishment of the NDDC. He said in his presentation that Dappa-Biriye collaborated with other leaders of Nigeria and former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (retd.) in managing the issues and agitations that culminated in the creation of Rivers State. The former governor of Bayelsa recalled that Dappa-Biriye, among others, was also the founding chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Ijaw National Congress with Edwin Clark as his deputy. Dickson, a one-time secretary to the Niger Delta leader and national legal adviser to the INC, further noted that all through his adult life, Dappa-Biriye fought for the people of the region and all Nigerians. He described Dappa-Biriye as a quintessential Nigerian who lived a good life-promoting national unity, understanding and cohesion. POLL Dappa-Biriye, he further argued, also negotiated the release and pardon of Ijaw struggle icon, Isaac Boro, who joined the Nigerian Army and died fighting for the country. The Senate, which agreed with the robust submission of Dickson, resolved to urge President Muhammadu Buhari to name the new national headquarters of the NDDC after the late Harold Dappa-Biriye. Dickson said, “Following the establishment of the NDDC, the Federal Government and the management of NDDC with the support of the Rivers State Government led by Sir Peter Odilli, who himself was one of the several protégés of Harold Dappa-Biriye, decided to name the NDDC temporary headquarters, donated by the Rivers State Government after him, as a mark of recognition for his services to the Niger Delta people and Nigeria at large. “He taught us how to serve Nigeria, work for the good of all in a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural society, not to stop raising the issues that must be raised.” He recalled when he became governor, he built an international conference centre and named it after him to immortalize him.