Celine wanted to have total control over her life. A kind of life where she determined her sexual preferences; the gains and game throes to be hers to deal with. She hooked up with any man that had the money to spend and ready to roll with her. Celine didn’t care who you were, all she cared was who would pay her to be their girlfriend for the number of hours they wished. She made a lot of money from it until she decided to quit to be with her boyfriend alone. Right now, she has gone bankrupt and is considering going back to her old trade. “I am contemplating leaving my boyfriend. Since we met, he has been over-controlling and abusive. He doesn’t give me enough money and he won’t let me pick other guys’ calls. He is always broke and with negative vibes. Before I met him, I was a call girl, and over time I have had friends that hooked me up with guys. Aside from that, there was a special group created for us and we got jobs now and then. I also sourced for clients on dating sites. Then I was making plenty money. I can travel as far as the North to meet a guy as long as he would pay well. I didn’t lack anything. Money was never my problem. But since I decided to leave that kind life and focus on one guy, I have been totally broke. Since I left secondary school I have never worked and honestly I don’t like working for somebody and be answering yes sir or madam. I like being the boss of myself. “I stopped being a call girl because of the experience I had with a client and I also felt I was committing grievous sin by sleeping with different men. At least if I did it with one man, my sin won’t be much. This were just my thoughts. I had an experience with a client. I didn’t know he was a wanted criminal. He picked me up in the mid-night and we went to a strippers’ club. We were there till 2 am. He went to make arrangements for a hotel but all the rooms were booked. We left the club to lodge in another hotel down the road. Immediately we left the club, we walked like two minutes down the road, we saw policemen on patrol. This guy was on dreads, and immediately he saw that the policemen were coming for him, he disappeared. I don’t know how he escaped. I was shocked; I was not expecting such thing. I made an attempt to run, too, but I was caught. “That night I saw hell. They accused me of being among the robbers. They said the guy I was with that night was a wanted criminal. Unfortunately for me, I got hooked up with him through a friend. In the business I didn’t really care about my client’s details. All I cared was the money the person would pay me. I slept in cell for two days. When they saw I had no concrete information to give them, they let me off the hook. There and then I decided to call an end to the business. That was when I met this my boyfriend. He was all caring and nice. Although I still do hook up jobs sometimes it is not like before when it was on a daily basis. I hide to see other guys. I am considering going back to call girl business fully. I thought my life would be better if I leave the business and have a relationship but I was wrong. As I write to you I am embittered and frustrated.” POLL Dear Celine, it was a right decision to quit sex hawking. I wonder why you want to go back to it. I must tell you, there are better things you can still do and still be the boss of yourself not necessarily selling your body. Also sleeping with one guy doesn’t make you a better sinner. Just that it is more reasonable to be with one guy than sleep with different guys for money. Have you considered making money with that thing you love doing best: I mean your talent. Don’t you think making money with your talent will be more profitable and at the same time honorable? And if you feel you don’t want to continue in your present relationship, you can end it amicably. Get yourself engaged in a productive work and be intentional about your life. For me, call girl, prostitution, or whatever name you give it has never been an option and can never be an option. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.