ABUJA – Former President of the Senate and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bukola Saraki has said that consultation with stakeholders on consensus was not about the Northern agenda but one Nigeria. Speaking while meeting with the governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on a consensus drive, Saraki, who led other Northern aspirants said that it’s a consensus for the PDP and one Nigeria. The other aspirants are; Gov. Mohammed Bala of Bauchi State; Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and a Businessman, Muhammad Hayatudeen. He said: “When we started about three weeks ago, most of the aspirants we had then were mainly in the North. We were talking to the aspirants across the country. Now, because more people have come out in the South and we are all going to meet. “All the aspirants are going to meet. We are talking about Nigeria. We are not talking about the Northern aspirants or Southern aspirants. “I have good news that already, moves are being made by the aspirants in the South to meet and eventually we will all meet and see one consensus, that consensus is a Nigerian that represents all the groups. “So, I just want to be clear about that, and be reassured it is not about just the issue of a Northern consensus, not at all it’s a consensus for the PDP and one Nigeria.” Saraki who described the meeting as a useful discussion said that the four aspirants were talking to colleagues and stakeholders about how to unite all the aspirants to ensure that they create a platform for the party to take over the government. POLL He also lamented the insecurity ravaging the nation and the hardship Nigerians are going through. Also lamenting the high cost of living, Saraki said it was clear that it was only a PDP that can reverse or rescue the country, adding, “to do that, we require unity on our side. That is why individually we have all decided that our interests and ambition is secondary to that of the party and of the nation. “The most important ambition now is how to begin to fix Nigeria and put Nigeria on the right course.” Saraki said that the aspirants were very committed to ensuring that they stand together on the consensus that would help the party win the 2023 election. He said that the group also believe that anything that must be done, either in the development of the country and the party must be based on equity, justice and fairness. In his brief remarks, Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State said that he believed in justice, equity and fairness in arriving at a consensus candidate