ABUJA – Former Abia State governor, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu on Tuesday disclosed that the Southeast may produce a con­sensus presidential candidate under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said efforts were in place by the region to end the age-long trend of multiple in­terests from the region vying for the President. Senator Orji Uzor Kalu dis­closed this during an interac­tive session with journalists at the National Assembly in Abuja. Describing the growing number of presidential aspi­rants in the APC as healthy, the lawmaker however frowned at some of the aspi­rants, calling them “jokers who have no pedigree to oc­cupy the highest seat in the land.” He said, “You people take politics as a joke whereby everybody says he is an as­pirant. What is their expe­rience, their public experi­ence, their capacity to build? I employ 13,000 workers in Nigeria and I can manage people. “Politics is the ability to make everybody happy, that is what it’s all about. President is about openness, is about the ability to manage journalists, ability to manage professors, legislators like Ahmad La­wan, you have to manage them, this is what politics is all about.” He also explained that “You should not just come to say you want to answer the name president, they are anxious to become president, are they ready to work. A President should be ready to work for Nigeria.” POLL On allegations that Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari imposed the National Chair­man of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu, and other members of the National Working Committee, on the party, the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, dismissed the al­legation. He said the president did not take the decision alone from his bedroom but consult­ed widely with stakeholders of the party. According to him, “It is not an imposition. It was a dem­ocratic agreement because there was consultation at ev­ery level of the party and if you have consulted widely it is democracy. “The president in his wis­dom was able to solve the problem, do you know how much money was saved from the pockets of the aspirant by that consensus? “The consensus was not just taken in the president’s bedroom, the president con­sulted the governors, he con­sulted the leadership of the National Assembly which I was one of them and he con­sulted other stakeholders of the party, the youths and all the rest of them and the aspi­rants themselves.