Cesc Fabregas has labelled Steve Rowley a “true Arsenal legend” in a glowing tribute to the club’s former chief scout, who has sadly died aged 63. Rowley spent over 20 years in the role before leaving in 2017 and worked closely with Arsene Wenger, unearthing many players who would go on to become Gunners greats including Ray Parlour, Robin van Persie and Gael Clichy. Arsenal confirmed the news of his passing in a statement released on Sunday and Fabregas was quick to respond on social media. The iconic midfielder, who plies his trade with Monaco, credited Rowley with “convincing” Wenger to sign him from Barcelona as a teenager. “What a sad day it is. A great man has left us, a true Arsenal legend,” Fabregas wrote on Twitter with two pictures of his former colleague. “I don’t know where I would be today if you didn’t manage to convince Arsene to sign me as a 16-year-old. I will never forget your advice and the confidence you gave me every day. You will be greatly missed.” Rowley’s decision to pursue Fabregas proved to be an inspired one with the Spaniard going on to make 303 appearances for Arsenal. He also inherited the captain’s armband before returning to Barcelona in 2011, later representing Chelsea and joining Monaco in 2019. Fabregas was one of many brilliant talents identified by Rowley, who spent an astonishing 37 years on the Gunners’ books in various capacities. In their statement released on their official website, Arsenal wrote: “Everyone at the Club is deeply saddened to announce the passing of our former Chief Scout Steve Rowley after a short illness. Steve, 63, had been associated with the Club since January 1980, when he began a part-time role in our youth scouting operations in Essex. “Notable early successes in the identification of talent – including Tony Adams and Ray Parlour – led to a full-time position during George Graham’s time as manager. Upon his arrival in 1996, Arsene Wenger appointed Steve as our Chief Scout, a position he held until 2017. During four decades with the Club, Steve and his network of scouts were responsible for identifying and securing many players instrumental in on-pitch success for the Club. “Our thoughts are with Steve’s family and friends at this time. Rest in peace, Steve.” Former Arsenal head of international scouting Francis Cagigao also paid tribute to Rowley, saying: “Steve Rowley. My friend. A true Football man. A true Arsenal man. Devastating news for all of us who knew him and loved the man. RIP Chief. You are now scouting with the angels.”