…Rolls Out Global Expansion Plan Sufferings and Offerings Music, a.k.a SANDO, has announced plans to host its music festival themed Afro Bash, as part of the company’s second quarter activities for the year. Speaking on the objective of the festival, CEO and founder, Uchechukwu Oribi Okwara, popularly known as King Uche, said the company is building on its success of recent years and improvement recorded in Q1 of 2022. King Uche explained that Afro Bash was born to create innovative experiences and spaces that unapologetically celebrate African culture and talents. According to him, SANDO’s mission is to provide opportunities, education and resources needed to creatives in Africa. He explained that as a Social Entrepreneur, the festival aligned with his goal to foster creativity and community growth by building innovative experiences that intersect music, art and social impact. “Our core focus to support local acts at every stage of their careers in Africa and Europe is no exception. The African market has become an import-first market, with streaming reshaping music consumption dynamics and international artists gaining further and further market share locally. Afro Bash will be held at Toprano Hotel, Ikeja on 23rd April. We would also be having a talent hunt, where the top 3 winners would be walking home with N150,000 cash prize,” he said. Touching on the recent strides of the company, Uche said the series of activities reflects the recent success stories, leap for growth and expansion. He said: “SANDO has seen a consistent path to success in the past few months, so this expansion and series of events are very necessary for our growth. Suffering & Offering is moving across the North American region set to expand in Africa with a new office in Lagos to serve as its hub in the region. The initial focus will be on developing services for its existing artist roasters, it will offer music publishing and recordings under one roof.” He noted that ‘Motivate’, a brand new song from the company is to motivate, and celebrate the hustlers. “More New music will be released in the coming months, including the highly anticipated 99Drizzy Album videos and collaborations with Martins Luv as well,” Uche promised. POLL Sufferings and offerings aka (SANDO) in an independent recording company and a full-service boutique management agency that curates custom brand relationships tailored to specific talent.