Giorgio Chiellini will retire from Italy duty after playing a final friendly against Argentina at Wembley in June. Wembley is the venue where Chiellini enjoyed his finest moment in an Italy shirt, captaining his side to EURO 2020 glory after beating England on penalties. However, Chiellini was also part of the Italy squad that failed to qualify for the 2022 World Cup, the second successive time they have failed to qualify for the tournament. The centre-back has not decided whether to prolong his club career at Juventus beyond this season. Announcing his international retirement after Juventus’ 2-1 win over Sassuolo, Chiellini told DAZN: “I’ll say goodbye to the national team at Wembley. “I’d like to say goodbye to the Azzurri with a nice memory. That will certainly be my last game with Italy.” The match against Argentina will pit the European champions against the Copa America winners, and has been branded as the Finalissima. Chiellini, 37, first featured for his country in 2004, becoming a regular member of the squad in the years following Italy’s 2006 World Cup win. POLL He has won 116 caps across 18 years, played in six major tournaments, and formed a famed defensive partnership with club teammate Leonardo Bonucci. He is joint-fifth in the list of all-time appearances for the Italy men’s senior team, behind Daniele de Rossi, Paolo Maldini, Fabio Cannavaro, and Gianluigi Buffon. Discussing his future at Juventus, where he has played since 2004, he said: “My love affair with Juventus is not ending, it will never end. “Of course, from now to the end of the season I do have to evaluate everything, talk to my family about what is best. “Let’s reach fourth place [in Serie A] first and win the Coppa Italia, then we’ll sit down with my two families — at home and Juventus — to figure out what is best for everyone. “It was the same last summer, I took time and didn’t sign the new contract until after the Euros. At my age, you can’t look too far into the long-term, but that’s only natural, it’s all fine.” Juventus are fourth in Serie A, eight points behind leaders AC Milan.