By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba), first published in JULY 2016 Last week, this column re­published, “CBN the Evil Genius Behind Higher Fuel Prices.” It dissects the relationship between the Nai­ra rate of exchange and crude oil prices. The republication can be found by accessing the link below. (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) Today”s republication discusses deregulation and the price differ­ences between petrol and kerosene. It includes excerpts from a previ­ously published article which the author saw fit to cite.The following text delves into relevant events, providing enough background for the reader to compare with the current fuel situation at hand. The vicious cycle continues, and until the proper policies and methods are set in place, things will only get worse. As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its initial publication (2016). The nagging question for any observer of the fuel business is whether or not it is realistic for diesel to sell above petrol and kerosene prices in a deregulated market space? In other words, how does NNPC account for the present huge price differentials for both products, when diesel sells for over N200/litre without subsidy? The following is a summary of an article published in May 2016, titled Why Petrol will exceed N200/ litre this year unless; nevertheless, with NNPC’s seeming helplessness and confusion with petrol and ker­osene prices, Fuel price: the bone in NNPC’s throat seems a more ap­propriate title for this piece. Please read on: The Minister for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu XE “Ibe Kachikwu” , recently, repegged petrol price from N87 to N145/li­tre; the NNPC GMD, was however, clearly cautious to avoid a definite declaration that the petroleum downstream sector had become fully deregulated with the fresh price increase; instructively, how­ever, NNPC”s seeming dictatorial price hike is clearly inconsistent with a deregulated market and certainly contrary to organized Labours position that Kachikwu’s unilateral price hike is judicially indefensible without PPPRA ap­proval. POLL Evidently, nonetheless, any cap on petrol and kerosene prices, will undeniably sustain rent seeking in the distribution chain at the expense of the public, and also negate any attempt to deregulate the market. Although, Kachikwu indicated that importers will source forex at about N280=$1, he did not explain how parallel market exchange rates will be restrained below this ceiling, particularly when fuel importers, who usually consume almost 40percent of CBN’s total forex supply, ultimately descend on a less liquid black market to source billions of dollars constant­ly required for fuel imports. The deregulation of the petrol market will remain inchoate with severe market distortions, if fuel price and the applicable Naira ex­change rate for imports remain centrally regulated. Furthermore, the surge triggered by fuel import­ers for parallel market dollars will certainly exceed supply and further spike the dollar exchange rate. Indeed, if for example, dollar sells for N300 and above, import bills will obviously also rise and make N145/litre petrol price un­sustainable. In fact, unless the price caps for petrol and kerosene are lifted, marketers will refrain from direct import, and NNPC may once again monopolise sup­ply as sole importer. However, if Naira continues to depreciate, the retention of N145/ litre petrol price, will inevitably bring back subsidy, and we may, once more require a supplemen­tary Appropriation bill to fund unbudgeted petrol and kerosene subsidies this year; consequently, the usual profligate annual subsi­dy provisions would inadvertently, sadly return with a vengeance of about 100percent of the current N145/litre regulated price. Consequently, we would ulti­mately require over N4bn/day subsidy for the estimated daily consumption of 40million litres, i.e., about N1.5trn provision annu­ally! Worse still, in place of relief, if crude oil price rises beyond $50/ barrel; we will, ironically, become apprehensive that such increased revenue will unfortunately insti­gate much higher fuel prices and bring back subsidy, if the price cap on petrol and kerosene remains. Consequently, if crude prices for­tunately further rebound, petrol and kerosene price must also be hiked beyond N145/litre to avoid funding subsidy. Indeed, in several African mar­kets, where deregulation exists, average pump price is about $1/ litre, irrespective of whether these countries export crude oil. Thus, if Nigerian importers access dol­lars at N280, they would in turn, probably sell petrol for between N240-N300/litre. Consequently, weaker Naira exchange rates will propel higher petrol prices and drive higher inflation rates in an appropriately deregulated market. In fact, if importers purchased dollars at N280=$1, it would be commercial suicide to sell their petrol stock for USD50 cents or N145/litre, unless of course, sub­sidy is again re-introduced, with its warts and all, in a macabre one step forward, two steps backward movement. Furthermore, domes­tic pump prices below USD80 cents will invariably encourage massive cross border smuggling of Nige­ria’s relatively cheaper fuel. Thus, a notably plausible reso­lution to the inflationary and op­pressive consequences of rising fuel prices and the avoidance of oppressive subsidy values, will in fact be a stronger Naira exchange rate. For example, if fuel import­ers could purchase dollar with N100=$1, fuel pump price may not exceed N100/litre; consequently, up to N45/litre (about N2bn from 40m litres daily consumption) can be recovered as petrol tax, if petrol price remains unchanged at N145/ litre; evidently the additional N800bn annual sales tax revenue (over 12percent of 2016 budget) in place of subsidy allocations of about N1.5trn, will certainly go a long way in remediating our de­cayed infrastructure. It may seem nonsensical to sug­gest a stronger Naira exchange rate, when it seems apparent that unless we earn more dollars, it would be inappropriate to expect a stronger Naira. Nevertheless, no one has satisfactorily explained why the Naira exchange rate re­mained almost static all through the preceding bountiful years of premium crude prices, when Ni­geria’s exceptionally high dollar reserves soared above $60bn. Media reports of the gross abuse of CBN’s farcical dollar liberalisation include the weekly funding of over 3,000BDCs with US$60k. Furthermore, CBN reck­lessly, liberally funded outflows of $150,000.00 annually for personal spending abroad, with Naira de­nominated debit cards, when in fact well over 100million Nigerians earn less than N1m ($5,000) annu­ally. Worse still, several Nigerian tourists have also been apprehend­ed abroad with Millions of dollars cash and dozens of debit cards en-route from Nigeria. Indeed, only an arch enemy of Nigeria could have come up with such a disin­genuous way of emasculating our currency and destroying our economy and values. It is regretta­ble and inexplicable that our best ever external reserves, which re­portedly provided over 20 months imports cover in recent years, in­explicably, never really promoted the Naira exchange rate beyond an extremely rare 3percent apprecia­tion at any time. Similarly, even if crude oil price unexpectedly spikes significantly, the expected increase in dollar rev­enue and reserves may not also, as in the past, translate to a stronger Naira. Indeed, the substantial ad­ditional export revenue expecta­tion from successfully diversifying our economy will unfortunately, realistically, still take between 3-5 years to materialise, that is, even if the pivotal, erstwhile elusive enabling monetary indices of in­flation and cost of funds below 3 percent and 7per cent respectively can evolve. Thus, if crude prices remain low, the pressure on Nai­ra exchange rate will persist for some time and higher and higher fuel prices in excess of N200/litre will invariably prevail to further drive inflation beyond limits that would promote economic stabili­ty and enhance social welfare and security. The Naira’s lowly fate will un­doubtedly remain sealed and fuel prices will continue to spiral for as long as CBN deliberately con­tinues its monopolistic auctions of dollar rations for higher Naira bids, in a market, that is ironically already, awash with surplus Naira liquidity. Unfortunately, the sys­temic Nuisance of excess Naira supply, invariably also, compels CBN to sterilise some of the sur­plus funds by borrowing same at unreasonably high cost; notwith­standing the inherent drawbacks of crowding out the real sector from cheap funds, and further re­straining the domestic industrial capacity to increase productivity and create more job opportunities. So, if we cannot strengthen the Naira by improving market dol­lar supply in the medium term, we urgently need to identify the main cause of the curse of the persistently surplus Naira sup­plies that instigate both inflation and weaker Naira exchange rate, when CBN deprecates Naira value at its invariably lopsided regular dollar auctions. The continued denial of CBN betting against the Naira will condemn any hope of inclusive growth or a diversified and prosperous economy. Thus, unemployment and inflation rates will sadly remain unbridled and pose increasingly serious threats to our social welfare and national security. Save the Naira, Save Nigeri­ans!!!