LAGOS – Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor has implored Muslims in the country to use the Ramadan period to pray for the country so that peace can reign. He said it is only in the atmosphere of peace that the nation can witness development. Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat his Deputy stated this at the Annual State House Ramadan Tasfir for Year 2022 held at the Lagos House Alausa, added that Muslims should pray fervently against shai’tan taking over the land as anti-social vices such as kidnapping, killing and many more are on the increase in the country. “I implore all Muslims to pray for this country so that we have peace. And that the spirit of shai’tan does not take over our land. All these killings, kidnapping, banditry and so on, we have to pray that Almighty Allah takes control of our country and bring back peace and happiness because without it nothing can happen. So, we have to pray for peace”Speaking further Sanwo-olu emphasized that in tackling the myriad of challenges facing the country, particularly insecurity, Nigerians need to seek intervention from all spheres and ensure that they do all things possible to restore peace and bring back humanity that the nation is known for. Prince Anofiu Olanrewaju Elegushi, Commissioner for Home Affairs, earlier in his welcome address, said the present administration has kept the tradition of identifying with religion as a great partner in governance and enjoined all Muslim faithful to commit Lagos State and the Country at large into the hands of God as they pray throughout Ramadan. He also urged all Muslim to avail themselves the training and serenity that Ramadan affords to cleanse their hearts, enrich their souls with virtues and dedicate themselves to the good of humanity and development of the nation. In his lecture titled “Building the society upon the principles and teaching of Ramadan, Professor Ahmed Adedeji of the Department of Pharmacology, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, stated that the oneness and goodness to one another exhibited by Islamic faithful during the month of Ramadan should be harnessed for the development of the nation. He further urged clerics to be more involved in governance, adding that religious leaders should support the government through picking areas of the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda set by the government and ensuring proper advocacy. POLL Also in his lecture titled, “And Spread Not Evil in the Land, even as you seek your sustenance”, the National Missioner of Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdur-Rahman Ahmad noted that all position in life is temporary and occupier of such post should use it for the good of all. He advised everyone to be good to one another, particularly in the position of authority stressing that they should not oppress the citizens as God hates such attitudes.