…Says He Has No Preferred Candidate Or Party Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) has declared that he has neither a preferred candidate nor a choice political party even as he insists that he is simply into his divine calling as a pastor; not even as a prophet. According to the octogenarian, RCCG is heavily populated by people from across all the parties. “So, I don’t have any preferred candidate. I am a man of prayer. And my standard prayer for anybody who comes to my for prayer. And that prayer is “Father, let your perfect will be done in the life of this your child.” “The only reason I do not vote is to ensure I don’t get unfair to anyone”. I am a father to all and I am happy about that.” Concerning the much-anticipated 2023 elections, the revered cleric has said that he does not know yet whether there will be an election. “If you are going to quote me, please, quote me correctly. I am talking personally. God might have talked to some of you who are prophets and are closer to God. I am not a prophet. For the last election, God showed me what would happen in June of the previous year. This is still April. So, it is not late yet. “Don’t go and write that Adeboye has said that there will be no election next year. I never said so. If you are quoting me, always add the ‘yet’. I don’t know yet. POLL “The evil of the day suffices for the day. We have a lot on our hands at the moment. We read in the news that 80% of our crude oil is being stolen. It is also in the news that love 90% of our revenue is being used to pay interest on loans. “This means that your children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren will be paying debts unless God intervenes. Remember God has intervened before. During the Obasanjo administration, our debt profile came to zero because those we were owing forgave us. God can still do the same thing for us. This is my concern for now. And that is why I and my prayer partners are praying to God for this nation and I am sure He will answer us.” Pastor Adeboye also expressed concern about the height of insecurity in the country with special emphasis on Kaduna. He showed his worries about why there is a particular concentration of attacks on the Kaduna axis; wondering why it is not safe to go to Kaduna by flight, by road and by rail; asking “why Kaduna?” and going further to wonder: “after Kaduna, where next?” These and other posers were the pastor’s worries while administering live at the RCCG headquarters auditorium this Sunday morning service, being the first Sunday service in April 2022. His short but punchy sermon was titled: Waiting Without Wasting.