ABUJA – Senator Owelle Rochas Okorocha has warned Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) that the party do not have the luxury of time to complete all that it needed to do ahead of the 2023 general election, including the conduct of primaries. He has, therefore, urged the NWC to hit the ground running, and take fast and big steps toward action that guarantee victory at the polls for the party at all levels. Okorocha, who addressed journalists at the APC National Secretariat Tuesday, shortly after a closed-door meeting with Senator Abdullahi Adamu, particularly harped on the need for APC to uphold the principles of Internal democracy as it moves to 2023 general elections. According to him the beauty of Internal democracy is that no Aspirant will feel left out or cheated even if he fails to secure the ultimate price, and expressed confidence that the new NWC will be fair to all persons in the party. “We literally have no time left to conduct party primaries, so this present working committee has a lot on their table to deal with and it requires faster and bigger steps to get this done; but as you know internal democracy is very key in this country and I believe that the present excos will ensure beautiful internal democracy where all will be happy and no one will feel deprive or cheated. “They will do their best and I have confidence in them that they will give us the best of candidates which includes; President, governors Senators and others.” The former governor of Imo State restated his desire to run for president on the platform of the party, adding that as a founding member and custodian of the vision of the party, he has something unique to offer to uplift the present depressed economy. “I have told the whole world and Nigerians that I will be running for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and I’m still in it. What is important at this stage is for all of us Nigerians to understand the mood of the nation which is very important. POLL “Aspiration is one thing yet the vision is another thing. I think Nigerians should be able to separate aspiration, and ambition from vision. If you have ambition without vision, you will be wasting time, you will contribute nothing but if you have vision then it is appropriate that you should lead the people because where there is no vision the people perish. “So I think 2023 has to talk more about vision and what people are bringing to the table especially given the mood of the election rather than circumstances, situations which have been pointed out to us by the happenings. “I think it is always appropriate that Nigerians should take a second look at vision, not ambition because definitely everyone can have ambition but not everyone has the vision to move this nation forward,” he said.