ENUGU – As the 2023 elections continue to draw nearer, the Nigerian American Political Forum has stressed the need for the emergence of a visionary leader that will rebuild the economic base of Enugu state. The group called on Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to defend democracy by ensuring that a visionary leader succeeds him in 2023. The group made this statement available to journalists in Enugu on Wednesday and jointly signed by Professor Eze Sunny Udeh PhD, Coordinator, Nigerian American Political Forum and Professor Jerry S. Chukwu PhD, Associate Coordinator, Nigerian American Political Forum. Nigerian American Political Forum is a group made up of democrats, independents, and republicans, in the USA who belongs to different political parties and organizations such as Nigeria in Diaspora, Enugu-USA, and World Igbo Congress, among others. The statement reads “We want a leader that mobilizes public and private resources to rebuild the economic base of Enugu State. Real estate plays a significant role in every economy. Apart from providing commercial and residential housing, it provides the greatest source of wealth and savings. However, in Enugu State, real estate and land management are mired in endless scandals due obviously to the lack of integration of the Geographical Information System (GIS) into the land records. “This erodes the confidence and trust of investors in commercial, industrial, and residential complexes. There is a need for leadership that deploys technology to land/real estate management to bring sanity to the real estate sector. “Unfortunately, the political development of Enugu State is not at par with the global standard or even a neighbouring state like Anambra in that the tenor of political discourse and disagreements is nothing to write home about. Discourse is not centred on how to take the youth off the street with gainful employment or on agricultural revolution, industrialization, general insecurity, persistent water scarcity, and power, among others. “The incessant contestation of sections of the state to produce political leaders is taking away the focus from the actual competencies and experience of potential leadership needed to take Enugu State to a new height. POLL “Free and fair elections, the rule of law, the ability to vote and be voted for, and commitment to ethics in political dealings, which hinges on what democracy depends on, are unfortunately being threatened and drowned by intolerant rhetoric. The era of arrogance and exclusion is fast resurfacing; hence Enugu State’s political prospect appears obscure. There is a need for leadership to redirect the ship. “We call on Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to defend Enugu state. As the Executive Governor of Enugu State, the ball is in your court. There are salient things you can do in the remaining months in defense of the threatened democracy and your own leadership legacy in Enugu State,” it said The group called on Governor Ugwuanyi to Ensure free and fair delegates, primary, and general elections in Enugu State where every eligible aspirant is allowed to contest unhindered. They also enjoined him to ensure that “the political party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), of which you are the leader in the Southeast and Enugu State provides a level playing field for all the aspirants “ “Help bring an immediate end to the divisive rhetoric and overheating of Enugu State polity, especially since all three senatorial zones have had the opportunity to be governor of our state for two terms each, with Your Excellency concluding that of Enugu North by 2023. “Ignore the sycophantic, self-serving calls and exclusionary antics to impose an aspirant on your party PDP and Ndi Enugu as some claim your predecessors had done. “While you reserve the right to endorse and campaign for an aspirant, which we expected you to have done long ago to forestall the prevailing confusion fanned by political operatives in the State, it cannot be at the exclusion of other aspirants or expense of democratic ethos and Igbo principle of live and let live. “Shun the temptation to deploy the resources of the Enugu State Government directly or indirectly to support any aspirant in the primaries and general elections, as such action would be in violation of relevant laws,” it said.