The All Progressives Congress(APC) candidate for the June 18,Governorship poll,Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (alias BAO) has promised  to work hard by ensuring that ,Senator Abdullahi Adamu records first victory in Ekiti as the Natiinal Chairman of the party . Speaking through the Director General, Biodun Oyebanji Campaign Organization ,Hon. Cyril Fasuyi, during an  interface with  Ward Executives across the Local Governments,the APC standard bearer maintained  that the party had resolved to ensure that Senator Adamu starts on winning note . Speaking  at  Ido/Osi local government Area of Ekiti State ,Hon Fasuyi hinted that the APC would be prosecuting the election with comparative electoral  advantages over other political parties in the race. According to him,”the APC as a political party is controlling about  22 states in Nigeria ,over 70 Senators ,over 200 rep members and about 40 Ministers.More importantly, our party also controls the Presidency. And we have harvested many former  PDP bigwigs. So,for me Ekiti Governoeship is not only a must-win but a done deal. We are not going to take any chance, we’re going all out with all our arsenals  to secure victory .The election would be won on ballots and it would be free and fair “,he assured Exuding  confidence in victory, Fasuyi explained that aside from the fact that the  APC is having solid structures across the wards and Local Governments in Ekiti, the  impressive performance of the outgoing governor Kayode Fayemi would be an added advantage at the poll. Hon Fasuyi ,who  dismissed the  candidates of the Social Democratic Party, (SDP),Segun Oni and the People’s Democratic Party,(PDP),Hon  Bisi Kolawole as political light weights,however said that  the duo shall  meet  “their waterloo on June 18 election day”. Fasuyi declared that the APC would record a landslide victory in the election,  calling on electorate to reject the SDP and PDP because they lacked the in-built capacity to make life abundant for them. He said: “The SDP candidate, Chief Segun Oni had had his times managing the affairs of the state and failed woefully to make meaningful impacts in the lives of the people. POLL “Go round the state, Oni and his party lacked the structures and wherewithals to secure victory in the poll, but APC is strong and well-entrenched across the 177 wards in the state. So, we are undaunted and waiting to make surprises in this election”. Fasuyi while also interfacing with party leaders in Ekiti Central Senatorial District in Aramoko Ekiti, Ekiti West Local Government , described the June 18 election as a “must-win” for APC, urging members to wake from their slumber and work hard. “You know we have 16 local governments and our candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, is from this council, so you must not fail to deliver. The SDP candidate is from Ido/ Osi , my own council. This election is a two-horse race, the third party, SDP, is  not in contention. “We have to be steadfast and work hard. We must bring back those who defected. We have 22 governors in APC, we have Ministers, we have about 71 Senators and even the President, is a member of APC, so we will all work together on election day to win this election free and fair”. In his remarks, former State Chairman of the party, Chief Jide Awe, urged them not to allow scrambling for tickets to divide the party and prevent APC from winning the coming election. Chief Awe said party stakeholders were also meeting to address the challenge of declaration of ambitions amongst members,stressing that the party would ensure equitable and fair distribution of both elective and appointive positions . Awe said “we have seen people fighting over State and  National Assembly tickets, but we wont allow this to divide us. We must know that the governorship election is more important that any other contest. If we get it right in the governorship, others will be easier”, Awe said. Also speaking, a youth leader and Vice Chairman, Eka Meta Local Council Development Area, Hon. Ebenezer Oluwabusuyi, said members are  confident of winning  and on ground mobilising themselves via house -to -house and market-to-market campaign strategies. “We know the value it will add to  our local government producing the next governor of our dear state. We are mobilising hard and calling our people to that consciousness that we need to work very assiduously to win this poll. We are also reaching out to those that are aggrieved to bring them back” .