“Oh, not another Monday again!” Anthony exclaimed. After an extended weekend of fun and relaxation, he wasn’t ready for another day of work, not to talk about another week of work. “Why do we even work?” he queried. “Can we not do without work and working? Must I even go to work today? Can they not do without me?” He asked himself. Thinking of taking the day off, he changed his mind and sluggishly and unhappily drove off to work. He muttered to himself, “I can’t wait to escape the bondage of work!” Last week, we started a series on the reasons for work using Anthony as the case study. We established the first reason for work: the womb of greatness. This article will look at the second and third reasons for work. 2. Work as the Fulfilment of Purpose Purpose is the original intent of a thing or the ultimate goal of something. We can also define purpose as the highest utility a product provides from the manufacturer’s perspective. Whatever definition you use is irrelevant. What is relevant is that between the concept of the thing and the production of that thing is work. Work takes purpose from a concept to a product, a mental image to an invention, and an idea to an accomplishment. It is the missing link between vision and its fulfilment, dreams and their realities. Work is your passport to fulfilling your purpose. It is the medium through which purpose is accomplished and destiny fulfilled. No matter what your purpose is, the instrument for its accomplishment is work. Ask any child what they would like to be when they grow up, and you will hear some of the following: doctor, lawyer, scientist, engineer, actor, police officer, and so on. But how many children grow up and fulfil their dreams? The jail houses are a silent reminder that many dreams are often derailed and aborted. To dream is good, but we must wake up and work. To dream and not work is to deceive oneself. I do not know your purpose, but I know that your purpose will not see the light of day or will end as a blighted ovum without work. But when work is infused into purpose, it makes purpose a potent force. Purpose is like an ovum and work, the sperm. When work fertilises purpose, a new creation is born. People who succeed are those who, after discovering their purposes, went to work until they accomplished them. Benjamin Disraeli observed that “nothing can resist the human will that will stake even its existence on its stated purpose.” Work yoked with purpose is the secret sauce of greatness! 3. Work as the Medium for the Expression of Potential. POLL Many books have been written about potential, but potential is nothing without work. Just as work is the medium for revealing greatness, it is the channel through which potential is harnessed and converted to skill. Without work, potential dies unexpressed and dreams unrealised. Your life is like an onion. Wrapped within you are gifts, talents, and supernatural faculties. However, without peeling the onion, you will not enjoy the benefit. You enjoy the freshness of the onion only by peeling and eating it. Admiring it will not do you any good. Similarly, to reveal all that you are and can be, you need to apply yourself to work, to unwrap your gifts for the benefit of humanity. Was I born a writer? I don’t know, but I have written over eight published books and have many more to write. I discovered that the more I applied myself to write, the more I found the grace to write. And the more people think I was born to write. Perhaps it is a gift, but the gift found expression through work. Had I not applied myself to write even when I did not feel like writing, I might never have discovered the gift and published any book. That is, work discovered the gift, and work is developing and refining it, making it look easy and natural for me. Anytime you see someone operating under an “effortless gift,” understand that years of work have made that gift look effortless. Hard work is like a refiner’s fire. It refines and purifies talents and produces a marvel for the world to behold. So how do you discover your gift? Just go and work. Find something to do and apply yourself. We often hear that practice makes perfect; unfortunately, many people want the “perfect” part without the practice part. They want to be good at something without working at it. They forget that a star is simply someone who started and stayed on the track until they were recognised and honoured by their world. Such people want to become stars without starting and staying the course. Many gifts are lying dormant within you. How do I know so? Because there are no giftless individuals. Everyone is born with bundles of potential and talents. What separates the genuinely great from the ordinary is not talent but work. To discover your talent, you need to get to work. Without putting yourself to work, you will never know how many talents or gifts you have in the first place. Only those who stoop to work will stand on the podium of life to receive the accolades and honours. Work will not only help you discover your talents, but it will also help you multiply your talent. The more you apply yourself to work, the more your abilities grow. Thus, work becomes the soil, water, air, and sunlight that causes our gifts to sprout and bud. This excerpt is taken from Chapter two of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.