Equity prices closed lower on the Nigerian Exchange for the week under review as volatility continued in the midst of selloffs and positive market breadth to extend the negative outing for four consecutive weeks on a less than average traded volume. Just as the market players continued to digest the 2021 corporate earnings performance ahead of the Q1 earnings expectations, while bargain hunters continue to cash on the recent pullbacks to position in undervalued stocks. The increased in the losing momentum recorded at the close of trading period was attributed to price adjustment in MTNN for final dividend of N8.57 and selloffs in blue chips that made the NGX index’s action to suffered this decline, despite the improvement in position taking and market liquidity as revealed by the money flow index, especially as fixed income market yield curve continues to expand. This is just as global and domestic cost-pushed inflation crisis continues to threaten economies around the globe. Analysts believe that the expected Q1 corporate scorecards will offer insights into what is to come for investors from the quoted companies in this pre-election year, especially given the level of uncertainties, so far. The mixed outlook for the month of April remains, as filing of first-quarter earnings reports in the midst of corporate actions of qualification, price adjustment, AGM, and payment of dividends by listed companies. However, there is need to watch the current trends, especially with bargain hunters still in the market cherry-picking fundamentally sound stocks. There is also the expected market reactions to the dividend announcements and numbers released in the hours leading to the end of March. These are likely to influence the market positively. Investors have continued to watch the nation’s economic developments and what is happening in the fixed income market, with yields and rates staying mixed and flattish. Already, all eyes are on the plans by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), as announced during the last Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting to fulfill its promised intervention in the distribution of premium motor spirit and diesel. POLL The aim is to ease the pains of the scarcity among manufacturers, SMEs, and households across the country, in the face of the epileptic power supply. Despite the corporate actions induced decline, investors and traders should watch their stop-loss and profit targets to adjust positions at any given time. Tentatively, the uptick in the fixed income market yields and oscillating rates of Treasury Bills may trigger the flow of funds into other assets. Also unstable movement of oil price in the international market The ongoing war in Ukraine, and the mixed sentiments are having effect on the market in recent times, just as investors continue to keep their gaze on the 2023 general elections, amidst uncertainty and the heightening insecurity in the country, following attacks here and there, especially the recent attack on an Abuja-Kaduna train with over 930 persons onboard in Kaduna. The pullbacks as seen in the NGX index’s action during the earnings reporting season have created ‘buy’ signals for smart and discerning traders. However, we warn that market corrections are not over yet, hence the need to rely on your stop-loss effectively. This is because the oscillating trend signals that a major uptrend is underway, especially when it gets to the level where it is considered good enough for fixed income market players, among others, to jump back into equity positions. The week’s candlestick formation reveals that buyers are having the upper hand, a trend that may lead to a continuation or reversal, depending on market forces as all eyes are on companies’ Q1 results. As NGX index’s action trades below its 20-day moving average and slightly under 50DMA, as volatility and bearish sentiment persists, just as the downtrend towards the next support level is sported around 46,500.16bps. Should the index break this point, the next visible level is 46,412.72 points. Technically, the NGX index is making higher lows, as the session witnessed mixed sentiment that could be linked to the repositioning of portfolios ahead of Q1 numbers and reaction to corporate action dates. The possibility of the market sustaining this trend is a function of an inflow of impressive Q1 numbers and improved economic condition during this Q2, following which we advise investors to play defensive with sectors having strong demand and dividend stocks to reduce investment risks around the market. Meanwhile, trading for the period opened slightly on the upside but pulled back to oscillates on buying interests and profit taking that pushed the NGX’s index to an intraday low of 46,524.68 basis points from its highs of 46,806.53bps, before closing below its opening point at 46,543.51bps. Market technical were mixed and weak as volume traded was lower than the previous day, in the midst of breadth favoring bulls on selling sentiment as revealed by Investdata’s Sentiments Report showing 33% ‘buy’ volume and 67% ‘sell’ position. The total transaction volume index stood at 0.71 points, just as the impetus behind the day’s performance remained weak with Money Flow Index looking up at 33.40pts, from the previous day’s 30.23pts, indicating that funds entered the market, despite the down market. For you to successfully invest and trade in this volatile market, order for Investdata’s video on Buy & Sell Technical Analysis Toolbox to navigate the volatile market profitably, enhance trading decisions and boost your bottom line. Also, to up your game in stock trading and investing, understanding the key to trading price and index action will go a long way to make the difference in your trading results, check out the video materials below. Index and Market Caps At the end of the week trading, the composite index NGXASI shed 211.40bps to close at 46,631.46bps, after opening at 46,842.86bps, representing a 0.45% decline, just as market capitalization similarly lost N118bn, closing at N25.14tr, from the previous day’s N25.27tr, which also represented a 0.45% depreciation in value. Attention: If you have not signed up for INVESTDATA’s buy and sell signal setup, don’t delay, because the number of stocks entering their buying range has just increased to 30 as they build a new bullish base and positive chart patterns to be on our watchlist. These stocks have double the potential to rally, considering their earnings prospects and the oscillating moves in a recovery market and economy. To become a member, send ‘YES’ or ‘STOCKS’ to the phone numbers below. Take advantage of this service to buy right and sell right at the current oscillating market in the midst of earnings season, portfolio reshuffling, and repositioning as we await an economic reform policy that can stimulate and re-track the economy to the path of growth and development. This session downturn was driven by selloffs and profit taking in UACN, Wapco, ETI, GSK, Dangote Sugar, Accesscorp, FCMB, Champion and Nascon, among others. This impacted negatively on Year-To-Date gain, which reduced to 9.17%, while market capitalisation growth stood at N2.10tr YTD, representing a 13.03% rise over the opening level for the year. Mixed Sector Indices Performance indexes across sectors were mixed, as the NGX Energy and Banking closed 3.14% and 1.51% higher respectively, while NGX Industrial goods led the decliners after losing 0.42%, followed by Consumer goods and Insurance with 0.35% and 0.21% respectively. Market breadth turned positive, as gainers outnumbered losers in the ratio of 33:31; just as activities in volume and value terms were down, as investors exchanged 1.14 billion shares worth N10.81bn. Volume was driven by trades in Fidelity Bank, Transcorp, Zenith Bank, UBA and Access corp. Meyer and Regency Assurance were the best-performing stocks of the session, gaining 56.94% and 19.35% respectively, to close at N1.13 and N0.37 per share respectively on market forces and sentiment. On the flip side, NPF Microfinance and UACN lost 16.06% and 13.68% respectively, closing at N2.09 and N10.10per share, on profit taking. Market Outlook We expect a mixed sentiment on bargain hunting as players digest the 2021 audited financials to reposition for Q1 2022 earnings expectation. This is expected to support an uptrend during this earnings season, amidst the oscillating oil prices, just as the market continues to interpret economic data in relationship with the crude oil price and other factors, in the midst of profit-taking and portfolio rebalancing. This will result in market players targeting fundamentally sound and dividend-paying stocks in the hope of dividend announcements, as 2021 Q4 GDP up at 3.98%, while the International Monetary Fund is calling for a hike in the interest rate and further devaluation of the Naira. Meanwhile, the home study packs on Comprehensive Stock Market trading course video, Stock Market Analysis Beyond Fundamental & Technical Analysis, 2022 Actionable Trading Plan and Opportunities in Q1, INVEST 2022 Traders & Investors Summit materials and 10 Golden Stocks for 2022, Strategies and How to invest profitably in this Changing Market Dynamics/ Recession, Mastering Earnings Season For Profitable Investing and Trading in any market situation/ cycles, Life Beyond COVID 19 Investment Opportunities In The Stock Market are now available. To obtain your pack send ‘Yes’ or ‘Stock’ to 08028164085, 08179547605 now.