P/HARCOURT – No fewer than 100 persons were reportedly roasted by explosion from suspected illegal refining site in Ohaji-Egbema, a boundary community between Imo and Rivers State. Witnesses said the victims were burnt  beyond recognition, with their charred remains littered everywhere, while several vehicles waiting to patronize the illegal petroleum products were razed A ‘community source narrated that the site of the unfortunate incident was one of the largest illegal refining sites in the boundary community. “It was one of the biggest illegal refinery sites in Rivers. It is located in a boundary between Imo and Rivers state. The place attracted many buyers of illegally refined products. It is like a big market “They were already there with the vehicles waiting to load the products when an explosion occurred and fire rapidly spread and killed all of them. “Many burnt bodies were all over the ground and some who attempted to climb trees for protection were burnt with their bodies hanging on tree branches. Some who were running were caught up by the fire which spread fast. It was a major disaster,” the source who pleaded anonymity stated. Reacting to the incident,  a Non-Government Organization, Youths and Environmental Advocacy Centre (YEAC) confirmed that over 100 persons died in the fire incident. he Executive Director of YEAC, Fyneface Dumnamene, said “Photographs and short videos sent to Advocacy Centre showed several dead bodies, most of them burnt beyond recognition on the ground with those of others who may have been attempting to run from the fire and explosion hanging on some trees branches.” POLL Dumnamene recalled that similar recent incident in Rumuekpe Community in Emohua Local Government Area of Rivers State that left over 30 persons dead and called on youths to desist from the illicit act. “The advocacy centre calls on youths in the state to stop artisanal refineries and work with YEAC, which is also the National Facilitator of Project with Artisanal Crude Oil Refiners (PACOR) for Modular Refineries in the Niger Delta to demand for the immediate establishment of Modular Refineries and the establishment of Presidential Artisanal Crude Oil Refining Development Initiative (PACORDI) among others as alternative livelihood opportunities for the youths. “We also call on the Rivers State government to reactivate the Committee on alternative livelihood opportunities for artisanal refiners headed by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Ipalibo Banigo. “It is worthy of note that with this and related massive loss of lives as a result of fire incidents and explosions from artisanal refining sites and products still happening in Rivers State that the Government’s war against artisanal refining in the state declared by the Governor on January 1, 2022 has failed to achieve its intended results. “Besides, security operatives in Rivers State and the Niger Delta should go beyond policing to advising the Government on ways of using the carrot and stick approach to address the problem of artisanal refining to save our environment, lives and revenue to government for socio-economic development of the Niger Delta and Nigeria at large,” he stated.