Tottenham face Brentford on Saturday evening, meaning they will come up against Christian Eriksen for the first time since his return to the Premier League. Antonio Conte’s side are still battling for a place inside the top four and are currently occupying the fourth spot, with six games to go. Pierre Emile Hojbjerg is one Tottenham player who has seen improvement under the Italian. The Dane started the season alongside Oliver Skipp but after the youngster’s injury and the arrival of Rodrigo Bentancur, the 26-year-old is now playing alongside the Uruguayan. Hojbjerg has had some inconsistent form but has provided leadership in the middle of the field and produced some solid displays. The midfielder knows Eriksen well, playing with him for the national team. That means when the 30-year-old suffered a cardiac arrest at the Euros last year, the Spurs midfielder was on the pitch at the time. “In my head, a picture of that moment is not too clear. Obviously that whole scenario was very heavy,” Hojbjerg admitted, in an interview with Sky Sports. The Denmark international went on to explain the horrific incident, where he quickly realised how serious the situation was. “There were so many questions going on in that period, in that situation. You just think it’s a bit surreal in the moment.” Eriksen has shown his bravery with not only his return to football, but with his return to the stadium where he suffered the cardiac arrest, which Hojbjerg described as “completing the circle”. Not only did he make the comeback with his country during the most recent international break, he scored in both games against the Netherlands and Serbia. “I’ve said it many times, the main thing is that Christian is with us today…It was beautiful – honestly, it was very beautiful. It was a fantastic goal as well. It was just nice, really good him for, for us,” the Spurs man admitted. “When it comes down to the game, Christian is a very important player for our country. His qualities are never in doubt, and he has so many which, in the end, help us achieve our ambitions as a country and as a team.” POLL Hojbjerg will now have to face his national teammate on the opposing team, with Tottenham’s trip to the Brentford Community Stadium on Saturday, whom Eriksen joined in the January transfer window. The Dane has already made a positive impact on Thomas Frank’s side, scoring a goal and registering two assists in his six league appearances so far. football.london understands that Spurs have discussed making a move for the Dane as a free agent this summer when his contract comes to an end with the Bees. In his pre match press conference, Conte praised Brentford for their work in getting Eriksen to join during the winter window. The Italian has also been asked about the prospect of a reunion with the 30-year-old and if he would like to see Eriksen back at Spurs. “To work again with Christian, is a fantastic opportunity,” the 52-year-old admitted in an interview with Sky Sports, ahead of Saturday’s clash. “I repeat, I enjoyed the time we spent together at Inter Milan. Despite the first time he didn’t play regularly with me, but then when I understood what I wanted about him he played.” However, when it comes to 5:30pm on Saturday, Tottenham will have to focus on securing the three points. With Arsenal playing Man United earlier in the day, Spurs could be knocked out of fourth spot before their match has even begun. It is a must-win game for the Lilywhites, not only in the top four race, but to help the positive bounce back after the 1-0 defeat to Brighton last weekend. However Brentford have recently beaten Chelsea and West Ham and Hojbjerg admitted the difficult task playing Frank’s side will be. “Brentford have a very good team, they are on a good run, they are well organised, their home crowd is fantastic. They are living in the moment and have a lot of confidence from this moment they are in. It will be a great challenge,” the midfielder admitted. “It’s important for us to stay calm and cool and to focus on what is important – to explore the weak points of Brentford, try to punish them, and gain the points we need because we want to keep going forward.” The Dane explained that there is “no hiding” from the battle for a top four spot and Spurs need that consistency and desire to secure Champions League football for next season. “It’s important our actions speak much louder than words. I trust my team a lot and I am sure we have the quality to achieve this,” Hojbjerg said. “That doesn’t mean we will automatically do it. We will have to suffer, to fight, to come through this challenge, but I believe we can do it.” With no fresh injuries, Conte will hope he can put his strongest side out and they can do enough to secure maximum points from a Brentford side who will go into the game, ready for a tough battle.