There is no doubt that all is not well with the All Progressive Congress (APC) Oyo State Chapter, this fact cannot be far-fetched as one of the Chieftains of the Mogaji Joseph Olasunkanmi Tegbe dumped the party for the ruling party in the state. Magaji Joseph Olasunkanmi Tegbe on Friday officially confirmed his defection from the All Progressives Congress, APC, to the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Oyo state. Recalls that Tegbe before his defection contested for governor under the platform of the APC at the 2019 general elections but was persuaded to step down for Chief Bayo Adelabu who later emerged as the consensus guber candidate of the party. Tegbe in a statement he personally signed a copy of which was made available to newsmen on Friday, said he had resigned his membership of APC and is now a PDP member. He attributed his defection to the inability of the National leadership of the APC to resolve the crisis rocking the party in the state. A copy of the statement obtained by Daily IndependentI reads in full: “Good people of Oyo state, “Many years ago, I made a commitment to always contribute to the development of our society in whatever God-given capacity. In 2018, after serving government in different non-political capacities, I offered to serve Oyo state as Governor, on the platform of the All Progressive Congress(APC). This decision was based on my commitment to offering my wealth of experience to the entrenchment of good governance and development in our dear state. “Though I was a frontrunner in the 2018 campaign, I agreed to step down as a team player and continued to make my contribution to the party. Unfortunately, the recent developments in the Oyo APC has become worrisome. We watched a minority hijack the party structure, backed by some powers at the top. We saw congress results, democratically agreed at Ward and LG level being altered to favour this minority group. Efforts to make the National Leadership of the party see reasons have yielded no fruits. A house divided against itself can not stand. POLL “After careful consideration and deliberation with my support groups, I have resigned my membership in APC and I am now a member of the People’s Democratic Party. This decision is in line with my commitment to serve our people, and contribute my quota to the development of our dear state with those who appreciate the power of a team. I thank the leadership of the PDP for welcoming us. “In the days to come, our next steps will be communicated. “Thank you for your understanding and continued support.” The statement ended.