Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, has commended MTN Foundation’s scholarship programme for outstanding Nigerian students. Adefisayo gave the commendation in Lagos on Friday during the 2021 MTN Foundation Scholarship Award and induction ceremony which was held at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. The Commissioner, represented by the Director, Science and Technology, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Grace Akinfoyewa, referred to the initiative as a step in the right direction in the pursuit of academic excellence for Nigerian students. She said that the Foundation has shown commitment to improving communities through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. “I sincerely appreciate the MTN Foundation for this impactful CSR project, especially in Lagos State. Indeed, this laudable initiative of awarding scholarships to young students is highly commendable for its derivable opportunities and how it aids the pursuit of academic excellence of the science and physically challenged students. “On behalf of Lagos State I happily appreciate MTN Foundation, organisers of this initiative and wish them the best as we collaborate towards adding value to the education sector of our state and nation,” she said. Besides, the Senior Special Assistant on Education to the Governor of Lagos State, Adetola Salau described the initiative as a beacon of hope and acknowledged the “MTN Foundation’s commitment to empowering youth and promoting academic excellence in public institutions through the scholarships.” Earleir, the Foundation Director, Mr Dennis Okoro congratulated the beneficiaries and the new MTN Alumni and encouraged them to create a future for their dreams by being resolute and committed to their visions POLL He said,” Today is a celebration of excellence exemplified by these exceptional young men and women. You must never grow weary of chasing excellence.” He assured that the platform would continue to encourage excellence and ensure some of the nation’s most brilliant minds maximise their potential. Speaking at the annual event where MTN Foundation awarded 370 scholarships to outstanding Nigerian students, the Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, Odunayo Sanya said hundreds of thousands of students applied for the scholarships and only the best of the best were selected. “Ours is a scholarship that celebrates the spirit of excellence. It is a call to do more. Whenever you feel down, always remember that every year the Foundation receives hundreds of thousands of applications and you made it as a scholar,” she said. A breakdown of the 2022 MTN Foundation award showed that 300 students received the MTN Science and Technology Scholarship; 60 students received the MTN Scholarship for Blind Students and the top 10 UTME candidates in 2021, received scholarships as well. MTN Foundation has awarded over N3bn in scholarships to 4,212 students from inception to date. Upon graduation, each scholar takes part in the MTNF Skill Up Training to ensure they are well equipped to compete and add value to Nigeria’s labour market. They are also exposed to other opportunities for training and certification from notable organizations such as Project Management Institute (PMI). Graduate scholars are also provided with information regarding job opportunities and other information of importance to their careers. Three alumni Musa Victor Ayodeji, Ariyo Phillips and Adeleye Kayode Stephens shared their experiences and the impact of the scholarships on their lives.