OWERRI – Indigenes of the16 villages of the Abizi Community, Egbema, in the Ohaji/Egbema council area of Imo State are still weeping and gnashing their teeth over the Friday, April 22 tragedy that claimed not fewer than 150 lives in the oil-rich community. The unfortunate incident which occurred around 11 p.m. at the Kpofire illegal bunkering / refinery site which situates at Abizi and its neighbouring Okwuzi village shook the community to its very foundation as it was the first time in the history of the rampant illegal bunkering business that such a gory incident has occurred. Daily Independent correspondent who visited the scene of the tragedy along with some sympathizers and inquisitive members of the public to see things for himself saw heaps of burnt corpses, vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles scattered all over the area with stinking odours oozing out. When our correspondent visited Uche Okwodu, a father of six from Etekwuru who lost his 17-year-old son, Onyekachi Okwodu, in the inferno, the old man was seen wearing a long face, brooding, sobbing and fighting back tears incessantly. The depressed Okwodu who managed to utter few words in Igbo regretted that his efforts and series of warnings to Onyekachi to desist from oil bunkering fell on deaf ears. He said the late Onyekachi took his WAEC examination last year but lost his certificate in the fire incident that razed his house last year. Okwodu lamented that the death of Onyekachi had dealt a devastating blow to his family adding that he had hoped that it was Onyekachi that would bury him when he dies. Nwawuihe Obodoukwu, a relation of Miss Blessing Ajie, who also lost her life in the calamity, said the late Blessing was a nursing student and a member of the Emmanuel Anglican Church, Abacheke. POLL “She just returned from school and decided to visit the site possibly to join others in the oil business but never returned to her parents,” he said, adding that she had been buried by her family. The father of the deceased, Bravo Ajieh, despite all pressure refused to utter a word but only said “what do you what to hear from me? It has happened and it has happened.” Some of the hospitals visited admitted having received some of the victims of the fire for treatment but refused to speak further on the matter. Meanwhile the Imo State Government has declared one Okenze Onyenwoke, owner of the illegal refinery site located at Abezi forest in the local government area wanted Governor Hope Uzodimma through the Commissioner for Petroleum Resources Chief Goodluck Opiah made the statement when he visited the site. Opiah, a former Speaker of the State House of Assembly and an indigene of Abacheke Egbema, said that the fire consumed the lives of so many youths, adding that apart from the calamity, the incident equally destroyed the aquatic animals in the community. He said the people before now were predominantly farmers and fishermen, even as he identified most of the people who are engaging in this act as people from Rivers, Bayelsa and other neigbouring states. “It is sabotage for the people to allow this illegal act to continue in this locality,” he said. The governor on behalf of the government and people of the state condoled with the bereaved family while praying God to give the family of those who lost their lives the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.