Abuja – The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, Mele Kyari, has disclosed that Nigeria lost a total of $1.5 billion between January and March of 2022 as a result of crude oil thefts in the country. Kyari, who was briefing members of the House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream), on Thursday in Abuja also called for the establishment of special courts to handle cases of crude oil thefts, vandalism and operation of illegal refineries in the country. The NNPC helmsman also commended the action taken by the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, to curb the activities of vandals and operators of illegal refineries in the state. Kyari, who took lawmakers through video and pictorial evidence and the scale of damages done to pipeline installations, also lamented the negative economy impacts of the ugly trend which, he said, was being handled by the joint efforts of security agencies as well as the NNPC and other industry players and regulators. “When you lose about 200,000 barely per day, even at an average price of 65 dollars per barrel, we lost close to $1 billion between January and March. From January till date, we lost an average of 250,000 barrels per day and at the current price of about $100 to the barrel, even within this short period, we have lost close to $1.5 billion. This led to decline in production from the Bonny Terminal,” he said. Kyari absolved the passage of the PIA as factor responsible for the activities of oil thieves, saying that the rise in the price of crude on the international market led to the increase in the rate of theft, just as he gave a timeline of one to two months within which the situation would have considerably been improved upon. “No doubt, it is a very difficult time and that’s why despite the good intentions of the PIA, no one will produce oil, recover zero and put money back into the business. And that’s why investments are very weak despite the good environment that the PIA has brought. I have answered questions and they asked you if you bring money, how are you sure they will not steal the oil? It is very difficult to give a straight answer. But what we are doing now will bring sanity back. “I can share with you. There is a massive activity going on by some government security agencies in collaboration with the industry, NNPC, two regulatory institutions and the Nigerian Army, Navy and Air Force and DSS with the collaboration of other agencies including NIMASA and others. They are all working together to contain this situation. “All we need to do is to increase the advocacy so that the legal process takes its course, prosecutions are done timely. I will recommend that we set up a special court for this. Such cases will be speedily dealt with, so that it is not just the ordinary ‘small’ people that you see at those locations that are prosecuted. We know that to sell crude oil in the international market, it is not the business of the ordinary people that you see in these illegal refineries. It is an elitist business and we must have the courage to set up very independent special courts to try cases related to this. Otherwise, the impact it has on our economic outlook – our ability to generate foreign exchange and in terms of energy security for this country – is threatened by a very few people. “Clearly, they are a very few people. It is not beyond us and I am very confident that the leadership being given by the Chief of Defence Staff alongside the service chiefs and others will, probably in another one to two months, bring some sanity. We are also working on sustainability, not just recovery but to have a sustainable framework,” Kyari said. On the action of the Rivers State governor, the NNPC boss said while he commends the action, it is important for other political leaders and chief executives of oil producing states to join hands and replicate same in their various domains with a view to achieving sustainability. “The action taken by Governor Wike really helped. I want to congratulate him for what he did on that. But it needs to be sustained by all other political leaders especially in the oil producing areas because the danger to the environment will be localised to all our people in the oil producing areas. Otherwise, we will be living in a much challenged environment as a result of mass degradation of the environment and at the end of the day, it will become a big challenge. Of course, it will expand and affect all of us wherever we are in the country,’ Kyari added.