…FG Deploys Relief Materials To Victims, IDPs ABUJA: The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq on Wednesday has described the attacks by suspected bandits on five communities in Plateau state as evil. The Minister who sympathized with the state government and the victims, also described the dastardly act on Nigerians in Garga District of Kanam Local Government Area of the state as satanic. While frowning at the crime which was carried out during the Ramadan Fasting, Umar Farouq instructed the relevant government agencies to embark on an immediate deployment of relief materials including food, water, blankets and sleeping nets to the victims. A statement by the Special Adviser on Media to the Minister, Nneka Anibeze, disclosed that that relief materials were already on the way to being delivered to the victims. POLL The statement also revealed that “the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) under the Ministry accompanied by SEMA, Joint Military Task Force, Community Leaders, Local Government Council Members and the Media are already in Plateau state for an on-the-spot assessment to ascertain the level of destruction and advice the agency appropriately. The Coordinator, NEMA North Central Zonal office Jos, Mr Eugene Nyelong who led the team confirmed that profiling and assessment of victims have begun.” It said that the assessment which commenced on Tuesday, April 12, 2022, revealed the loss of many lives and destroyed property. “The number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) is said to be over 4800 comprising mostly women and children. The local Government Health Department through the dispensary in Garga Town is however offering skeletal medical support to the displaced persons while the Director General of NEMA Ahmed Mustapha Habib is working on prompt delivery of emergency humanitarian support ahead of full intervention,” the statement added. Five communities including Kyaram, Gyambau, Dungur, Kukawa, and Shuwaka villages under Garga District were attacked by armed bandits on Monday while scores were reportedly killed during the mayhem.