ASABA –  If there is one parliamentary seat in Delta State for which the contest promises to be very stiff, it is that of the predominantly Urhobo speaking Delta Central Senatorial District currently occupied by Obarisi Ovie Omo-Agege, the Deputy Senate President and son of the late Justice James Omo-Agege, Chief Judge of the state between 1993 and 1998. Omo-Agege of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the ruling party at the centre, wants to make history once more as the first opposition party candidate to be elected governor of the state since the advent of the Fourth Republic in 1999. He hopes to upset the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which he successfully upstaged in 2015 when he was first elected to the red chambers, defeating then incumbent Senator Ighoyota Amori. He repeated the feat in 2019, after which he was elected Deputy Senate President. Indeed, the emergence of Omo-Agege as Senator representing Delta Central at the National Assembly was one of the biggest upsets in the 2015 election in Delta State, after the Court of Appeal sitting in Benin declared him, a candidate of the Labour Party, winner of the March 28, 2015 elections. The Senator decamped, thereafter, to the APC before the 2019 general elections, paving the way for his emergence as Deputy Senate President. Now, the DSP and his supporters believe he can do it again, with his eyes, this time, trained on a higher office: the governorship. There is great expectation among his supporters that Omo-Agege can secure the coveted office for the major opposition in the state, the APC – which would make it the first time in 24 years, especially as the governorship ticket has been seeded to his Delta Central, according to the existing zoning arrangement. In view of Omo-Agege’s entry into the governorship race and the fact that he may ultimately get the APC ticket, using his influential position as Deputy Senate President, Olorogun O’Tega Emerhor recently resigned his membership of the APC, a party he helped nurture in the state in the heady days. Emerhor is a long-standing contender for the governorship seat and, despite the lingering crisis amongst leaders of the party in the three senatorial districts, has been on the forefront of the struggle to entrench peace for the progress of the party. As if to prove that he means business once more and can still upset the political applecart in the state in 2023, Omo-Agege – who is set to become the consensus candidate of the APC in the race – has promised to end the 24-year rule of the PDP in Delta State, one of the party’s major strongholds in the country. Retaining The Seat A significant fact is that there is no incumbent in the governorship election in the state in 2023, and many candidates from Delta Senatorial District – seen as the hotbed of political activities among the three zones in the state – have expressed interest from the two major parties, the APC and PDP. While the APC hopes it can retain the Delta Central Senatorial seat with the influence of Omo-Agege, the PDP wants to reclaim what its members say rightly belongs to them, becoming the dominant themes running through various stakeholder permutations among the major political parties in the state on elective positions ranging from the OVIE OMO-AGEGE State House of Assembly, the National Assembly and the Office of the governor. It is yet to be seen whether Omo- Agege, who will be 60 on August 3, next year, can unseat the ruling party for the hotly contested position of the governor, and even help influence the retention of his seat by his party at the all-important election, which promises to be a make-or-mar duel. He will be testing his popularity, banking on the federal government projects and appointments he has attracted to the state, using his position. However, there have been mere statements without actions in terms of campaign, raising concerns over his true intentions, unlike major contenders in the ruling party, whose posters and billboards occupy every major point in the state, such that the government would garner a lot of money should it decide to task the aspirants for their various signage. Between Asaba And Senate There are however analysts who noted the fact that Omo-Agege is not making much noise about his governorship ambition which, they say, possibly suggests that he could still be weighing his options, especially given the possibility of the senate presidency being zoned to the southsouth by his party in the next political dispensation, a situation they believe would put him at a vantage position. There are those who also note that, from an x-ray of all available indices, Omo-Agege has greater chances of returning to the red chambers than becoming a governor at next year’s election under a factionalized Delta State APC. In February 2022, during the Delta PDP rally, Governor Okowa, in a veiled reference to the DSP, categorically expressed pity for “those who think they can come from Abuja and win election in Delta,” saying “I advise them not to bother wasting their money.” But for Emerhor’s exit from the party, he was largely seen as a credible APC candidate good enough to replace Senator Omo-Agege, with political watchers arguing that another unpopular candidate could spell disaster for the party. The Contenders Over the past weeks, Senator Amori, a major political factor in the Delta Central PDP and National Chairman of Delta Central 2023 (DC-23) governorship lobby group, declared his intention to return to his seat in the National Assembly, after almost eight years. The former Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Delta State on Political Matters, Amori has assured that “If I win, I shall raise Urhobo nation to an enviable proportion at the National Assembly.” Amori, 70 on August 8, who made the declaration in the presence of thousands of party faithful in his Mosogar country home in Ethiope West Local Government Area of the state, said: “Give me your votes and I will attract development and substantial dividends of democracy to Delta Central and the state.” The candidature of Senator Amori for the Delta Central Senatorial District in 2023 received huge backing, following his declaration of intent, as former governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori, who is also from the zone, charged the people to back him with their votes. Amori who, at various times since 1999, has also been state party official, Commissioner for Education, and later adviser to the PDP national chairman, immediately became the frontrunner to win the election due to the strength of support garnered with the support of Chief Ibori who has on two occasions produced his successors. While endorsing Amori as his preferred PDP candidate, Ibori noted that as a stakeholder in the party and the Urhobo nation, he should have a say on who becomes what in his senatorial district. According to him, “I am behind and I will support Senator Ighoyota Amori every step on the way, and anybody, anyone conspiring – anybody that thinks that because I am now a former governor they want to conspire to disgrace me – God will disgrace all of them.” Continuing, Ibori stressed: “This is my senatorial district. I am a stakeholder in this party (PDP) and I am a stakeholder in Urhobo, this is my place of birth. I am with Senator Amori all the way. “I want to assure you that if you give Senator Amori your support, he will not disappoint you… I want to guarantee you that Senator Amori will perform beyond expectation because we know his capacity, we know his reach, he has contacts and knows how to use it… and that seat befits Amori, so let’s support him.” However, the Delta Central Senatorial election could yet be in the grasp of slighted governorship aspirants who were screened by the lobby group headed by Olorogun Amori. Threats Former Senator Emmanuel Aguariavwodo, Former Commissioner of Works, Chief James Augoye, Olorogun Fred Majemite, amongst governorship aspirants of Urhobo extraction screened out of the 2023 governorship primaries, could very well pose a threat to the anointed candidate. Most interestingly, it is the stakeholders of the PDP that Delta Central would be keenly watching earnestly for how to muscles power from APC in the 2023 elections.