In the first part of this report by SIAKA MOMOH, published last week Thursday, we noted we have, for a long time, had a long standing problem with steel manufacturing, and recalled recent hiccups the industry is entangled in. We bring you the rest of the steel story today. The original story was first published in realsectornow.com years back (this is an updated version). The academia In a paper titled ‘Abuse of Import Duty Waivers in Nigeria’ authored by Nwanneka Modebe, Okoro Okoro, Chinwe Okoyeuzu & Chibuike Uche of the University of Nigeria, they argued: “An increasingly popular but disturbing method of misappropriating government revenue in Nigeria is the practice of granting all manner of indiscriminate waivers of tariffs and duties on imported commodities under the directive of the Presidency.” The paper critiqued the law, use and abuse of duty waivers in Nigeria. It argued that although the President, on the advice of the Tariff Council, has powers to grant waivers, such powers are neither supposed to be granted indiscriminately nor in secret. It added that the granting of indiscriminate waivers to individual operators in an industry rather than to the entire industry distorts national economic and industrial development which is normally the very essence of granting such waivers. The paper also raised questions about the implications of the granting of indiscriminate duty waivers by the Presidency for fiscal relationships in a federal state.” It noted that the practice ran through the administrations of Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan. It noted in particular that “It has for instance been asserted that in “the run-up to the 2007 elections, verifiable reports by the House of Representatives Committee on Customs and Excise indicate that Nigeria lost over N380 billion in import duties which were waived by the Federal Government to its crony importers.” The paper added that “it has further been suggested that, at least in part, such abuse of fiscal resources by the Federal Government has been used for the purpose of financing elections”. Buhari and waivers President Mohammadu Buhari had to axe waivers in 2016 to shore up government dwindling revenue. It did this to rev up revenue as the Federal Government continued to consider options to close the widening gap in the 2016 budget occasioned by the continuous fall in the price of crude oil at the international market. WEMPCO, among other challenges has now been hit by this and those who raised their voices against waivers bug have been proved right. POLL What to do now We know iron and steel industry is strategic to the development of any developing economy like ours. We know that the industry is needed for the takeoff and sustenance of the automobile industry and interestingly, there is an automotive policy on ground now. We know that machine tools and equipment of all sorts are products of the iron and steel industry. We are aware too that our oil and gas industry is, and will remain under the control of foreigners as long as the Nigerian iron and steel industry remain undeveloped because the entire gamut of infrastructure in the sector is made of iron and steel. Do we allow our iron and steel industry to go under and lose the advantages listed herein? The answer of course is ‘No’. Ajaokuta must be made to work. According to Bayo Kolade, retired Director of the Ministry of Power and Steel, there are two sectors in the steel industry – primary and secondary sectors. He explained, “Ajaokuta operates in the primary space whilst WEMPCO, African Steel Mills Limited, African Foundries Limited, Verod Steel Limited and the steel rolling mills in Oshogbo, Jos and Kaduna operate in the secondary space. Ajaokuta, the primary sector, whose raw material is iron ore, should be the source of raw material for industries in the secondary sector.” Jinx must be broken Very importantly, the jinx that is stopping Ajaokuta from working must be broken. If this is the case, the issue of importation of flat sheets, etc. by WEMPCO and co and waivers would not have come in and we would have been saved the problem of a huge steel company like WEMPCO shutting down and the compounding of our unemployment problem. The challenge now is to make Ajaokuta work and let there be a linkage to the secondary sector. For Basir Borodo, former President, Federation of West African Manufacturers Associations, “If you can get Ajaokuta right, WEMPCO and other rolling mills will benefit. The rolling mills and Ajaokuta should integrate.” The WEMPCO is worth $1.5bn and capable of producing 700,000 metric tonnes of steel annually and employs over 14,000 hands mostly Nigerians. According to the company’s group managing director, Lewis Tung, the production capacity of the steel mill represents 65 per cent of the 1.2 million of steel used annually in Nigeria, mostly imported. Tung said during the plant’s opening in 2013, the mill, would begin the production of cold rolled (flat steel), and would depend on imported steel billets for raw materials “until it could work out how to transport iron ore from Itakpe in Kogi State”. The Ajaokuta Steel Story The plan to develop the Iron and Steel Sector began with the Yakubu Gowon Regime with the formation of National Steel Development Authority (NSDA) in 1971. Basir Borodo, former president, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria who has been a player in the Nigerian industrial sector for over 40 years, attested to this in an interview with this writer. The mandate of the Authority was essentially to develop the steel sector. What followed was the formation of various steel companies during the General Muritala Mohammed/Obasanjo Regime. These companies started realizing their potentials during the Shagari Regime. The companies include Ajaokuta Steel Company, Kogi State; National Iron Ore Mining Company Itakpe, Kogi State; Delta Steel Company Ovwian Aladja, Delta Steel; Jos Steel Rolling Company, Jos Plateau State; Katsina Steel Rolling Company, Katsina State; Oshogbo Steel Rolling Company, Osun State; National Steel Raw Materials Exploration Agency, Kaduna State; National Metallurgical development Center, Jos Plateau State; and Metallurgical Training Institute Onitsha, Anambra State. A mouthful. But they never realized their full potentials – the single story strand. West’s sham David Ricardo theory The Western World, through their Institutions, the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF), amplified the story: Development of the Steel Industry in third world countries which includes Nigeria, to them is uneconomical and so should not be touched, should not be considered. They drew on the sham David Ricardo theory of comparative cost advantage that Africa should not develop Steel Industry but should export their raw materials to the metropolitan West and buy finished Steel from them. The Soviet Union agreed to develop the Iron and Steel Industry for Nigeria; the civil works given to the West grounded it. Borodo corroborated this West’s sham stand when he recalled that some of his professors in Nigerian universities (professors from the West) in sixties said Nigeria should not consider having steel plants; that we were not right for it, “whereas they had steel plants in their own countries”. The many handlers of Ajaokuta Ajaokuta steel plant project and the adjoining steel rolling mills are thus stalled today. Ajaokuta has gone through many hands – The Ajaokuta plant was 90 percent built by Russia’s Tyazyproexport and designed to use local ore and imported coal. Nigeria signed a concession agreement with Ispat unit Global Infrastructure Holding Ltd. to revive the uncompleted 1.3 million tonnes-per-year mill after the collapse of an earlier $3.6 billion 10-year deal with UK-registered Solgas Energy Limited. What we witnessed thereafter was the plundering of the plant’s machinery.