The Enugu State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Dr Emeka Ononamadu has called on stakeholders to mobilize more registrants for the ongoing Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) in the state. Dr Ononamadu who made the call in Enugu on Tuesday during INEC Engagement with Critical Stakeholders on the Ongoing Fourth Quarter of CVR said that the registration figure of the state had remained low, adding that “after three quarters of CVR registration we are having about 31,000”. He said that in this fourth quarter CVR registration, INEC would move its CVR registration to political wards and open up more means of polling units transfer especially for the newly created 1,000 polling units in the state. He said, “The new polling units will make polling booths closer, polling activities seamless and easy; while INEC will publish the new polling units by next week and paste it in public places within the state. “We have done only 3,000 transfers in the state and our people should make more transfers to the new polling units to lessen distance and cumbersomeness. “I am appealing to the media, traditional rulers, President-Generals, religious leaders and youth leaders to help us mobilisze and enlighten our people on the need to go for their CVR registration,” he said. According to him, INEC had graciously added more time on days for the CVR registration in South-East to accommodate for the Monday’s disruption, adding “It is now from 9a.m. to 5p.m. but previously from 9a.m. to 3p.m.” He attributed the low turnout to CVR registration to fear, insecurity and some people with the old stereotype of votes not counting. In his address, the Chairman of Enugu State Traditional Rulers’ Council, Igwe Lawrence Agubuzu, said that the state needed to do better in the ongoing CVR in order to positively influence the electoral system. He said “I am calling on the people in general to take the issue of participating in the ongoing CVR seriously. We needed to increase the number of successful registrants in all wards in the state,” Agubuzu said. The fourth quarter CVR registration started on April 12 in Enugu State. Also, Igwe N.F. Ilochi, Traditional Rulers of Ihuonyia Community in Ezeagu Local Government Area, urged INEC to increase more registration centres at the community level and engage in more stakeholders’ advocacy.