A socio-political group, Yoruba Ronu, has tasked prominent Yorubas, particularly supporters of the two prominent presidential aspirants in the region, to help put an end to the ongoing mudslinging over declaration of the ambitions of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The Chairman of the group, Prince Diran Iyantan expressed concern over the development, calling on prominent Yorubas to join him in nipping the issues in the bud before they impugned on Yoruba’s value. This was contained in a statement signed by the group’s Director of Communications, Steve Bayode, and made available to newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Sunday. The leader of the group fighting the cause of the Yorubas, lamented all the narratives and warlike scenario created by those he described as ‘home-made Nostradamuses’, noting that “someone is profiting from this saga, and it is, surely, none of the two gladiators aiming at the number one top seat in the country.” Much often, home made Nostradamuses have predicted that the whole thing typify the political crisis between Chief Obafemi Awolowo and his political protégée Chief Ladoke Akintola in the 1962 election which led to the declaration of State Of Emergency in the southwest after a widespread political violence is about to repeat itself exactly 60 years after. The Chairman of the Yoruba Ronu Group, Prince Diran Iyantan lamented that with all these narratives and warlike scenario creation, someone is profiting from this saga, and it is, surely, none of the two gladiators aiming at the number one top seat in the country. As the leader of the group fighting the cause of the Yorubas, Prince Iyantan said he is very concerned over this and he enjoined everyone to join him to nip the issues in the bud before they impugn our value. Iyantan cautioned that the series of analysis that bordered on trust might undermine the acceptability of the region to lead the nation POLL The statement reads in parts: “The second broad concern links to issues around trust. We are worried that the regeneration of misinformation and disinformation may erodes public trust in our capacity as a people (Yorubas) to present the next President of our great nation. The ongoing disloyalty and other talks about us will be lowering our acceptability amongst other ethnic groups of clinching the APC ticket as its flag bearer in the forthcoming presidential election. “The use of the labels like betrayer or Judas Iscariot in political speeches or media analysis thus bears misnomer to the person of the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s ambition; and should not be considered in isolation outside the VP’s collective identity as a good man and a servant of God.” Iyantan disclosed that “Yoruba Ronu group is making effort to uphold dialogue with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo to consider the overall interest of the Yoruba race as he moves forward in his ambition to govern Nigeria in 2023. Everyone he said  should be circumspect of the wish of the soothsayers and prophets of doom’s prediction that the event of sixty years ago, which monikered us as the “Wild Wild West” will not repeat itself.” However, the group “called for urgent intervention of all Yoruba sons and daughters, the Yoruba political leaders, the Obas to step up and intervene, not to allow this political imbroglio between our two sons to escalate further into deep rotted crisis as it is gaining traction on daily basis. “No doubt, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is very competent and experienced to lead Nigeria, but the present issue surrounding the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s declaration to run as president does not just favour his ambition right now, unlike his political mentor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu whose ambition to govern Nigeria had been well known for a longtime, and the reason we, at the Yoruba Ronu Group, throws our support to him, immediately, he declared to run as Nigeria’s next President.”