As consultations by presidential aspirants with constituents continue across the country, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa has called on leaders and delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State to ensure the nomination and election of a man of integrity who must be courageous to salvage the country from its present predicament of insecurity and economic downturn. Mazi Ohuabunwa who made the call in Benin city while addressing the Edo PDP delegates also pleaded with them to make sure that the next president of Nigeria who he said was going to be himself must be enlightened, visionary, competent, and possess a positive character. These, he said, are the criteria for assessing leadership in Nigeria at the Presidential level, just as he decried the diverse injustice and insecurity in the country, arguing that they are all correlated. According to him, “anybody who wants to be president of this great country Nigeria must be enlightened, visionary, competent, and possess a positive character, be a man of integrity and must be courageous. These are the criteria for assessing leadership at the Presidential level”. Ohuabunwa, a pharmacist, who is contesting under the umbrella said he would deal with the economy if he becomes the President come 2023, to make sure all is working well, pointing out that the government does not create jobs but the enabling environment that will create private sector jobs. He affirmed that Nigeria is an investment haven and that he intends to make this manifest  by creating programmes and projects that could create jobs “which will drive away poverty,” “My administration as president of this country will make business proposals part of final year students in tertiary institutions’ projects and established the “Small Business Development Authority”, to assist the students financially on a partnership basis” The aspirant also promised to mechanise agriculture, and introduce “reversal tourism” where Nigerian cultural performances would be showcased overseas for financial gains to cut the nation’s dependence on oil revenues. POLL Ohuabunwa thanked the Edo state chairman of the party, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi for the reception accorded him by the state PDP, assuring that if elected president of the country he will never disappoint Nigerians. Responding, Dr. Aziegbemi told the presidential aspirants that Nigeria is in critical need of a president that would bring urgent sucur to the people of this country from May 2023 without much rhetorics, adding that with the present situation of the country, delay is dangerous as the entire citizens are running out of patient. Ohuabunwa also attended the 60th wedding anniversary of Solomon Asemota (SAN) and his wife, a ceremony which held in Benin City, the Edo state capital.