Against increasing clamour for the next Nigerian President of southern extraction come 2023, former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki on Saturday visited the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Niger State Chapter to solicit their support ahead of the party’s national convention. Saraki and Bauchi State Governor, Alhaji Bala Mohammed, and some northern elders on Friday met at the hilltop residence of former Military Head of State, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) where the two were said to have been endorsed as northern consensus candidates of the party. The spokesperson for the visiting northern elders, Professor Ango Abdullahi spoke to journalists about their recommendations and said Saraki and Mohammed have also been mandated to work together for further consultations and come up with one consensus candidate. However, Saraki while addressing supporters at the PDP state secretariat in Minna, the state capital said it is the time for North-Central to produce a successor for President Muhhamadu Buhari come 2023. Saraki was accompanied on the visit to solicit the support of Niger delegates ahead of the PDP national convention by the former National Secretary/Acting Chairman of the party, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, and Senator Suleiman Adokwe amongst others. What the country needed at the moment is a President that will stand for and serve the collective interests of all, not a President that is serving the interest of a particular tribe, region or religion, he said. Also speaking, former Governor of Niger State, Dr Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu described Saraki as a man that has the interest of the country and the north-central in particular at heart irrespective of religion, tribe, ethnicity or political inclinations. Babangida Aliyu, Senator Zaynab Kure and the state PDP chairman, Tanko Beji who took turns to eulogize Bukola Saraki described the aspirant as a dependent candidate who is not only capable but can stand the demands of the job of a President. Senator Kure who is the PDP leader in the state decried injustices against opposition members and the need for the party to return to power to ensure that Nigeria’s collective wealth is equitably distributed commended Saraki for deeming it necessary to come and discuss with the delegates. POLL State PDP Chairman, Barrister Tanko Beji commended Senator Saraki for donating N4 million to the state PDP. Beji however drew the attention of senators to the need to change many narratives if elected as President. The PDP chairman expressed concerns over the number of persons clamouring to become President of Nigeria come 2023 to ensure only people who are qualified and with proven integrity to lead the most populous black nation in the world.