ISAAC ASABOR It is not an exaggeration to say that since Mr. Babatunde Irukera assumed the leadership position of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), which he has succeeded in changing the landscape of consumer protection across Nigeria’s economic Sectors. Despite the paucity of resource base of the commission, as he once disclosed, he is not a leader that has the predilection to giving excuse for failure or non-performance. Under his leadership, the commission has continued to do what it has to do in the circumstances to resolve consumers’ complaints. One of the Successes recorded under his leadership is evidenced on the pedestal of the fact that prior to his appointment at the commission, about 700 to 1,000 complaints was being received per annum. At that time, the most intense aggravation with the commission was responsiveness and resolution of complaints. But today, the commission is receiving approximately 1,000 complaints in a week. Without gainsaying the fact, the dynamics have changed. The commission at the moment is receiving complaints from multiple channels, including Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, telephone lines, and complaints resolution portal online and emails. But, the criticism about the commission’s responsiveness and ability to resolve complaints has gone down significantly. POLL While speaking about the achievements recorded with his team, at a recent media parley, he said, “While we count that a great success, we do not see it as an incredible accomplishment. What we hope to leave behind is not a help desk, a multi-company customer service technical support desk. “A consumer ombudsman may be where consumers of goods and services may take their complaints to meet the people they are complaining about, but it should be a part of the role of a consumer regulator. “The unit that has the highest number of operatives in the commission today is Complaints Resolution. What we want to see is for the operatives and the resources we deploy in resolving complaints go down to the barest minimum, not because there are no complaints, but because service providers and companies get better at resolving consumer complaints”. According to Irukera, the commission’s most important role in complaints resolution must be to get service providers or producers to more actively and timely resolve complaints, because the commercial contract is between them and their customers and not with the federal government. When prices of goods are introduced, they have factored into it the cost of satisfying the consumers. So, it’s an obligation that they have to ensure they have robust mechanisms for a feedback, including dissatisfaction. The commission is not supposed to be ‘policemen’ in respect of resolving complaints, rather monitor the industry. When companies have to resolve complaints themselves, they deploy more resources and get a lot more feedback about what is going wrong; they carry the headache of unresolved complaints. That is what will make them better and truly reduce complaints at a real and dramatic level. It is against the foregoing backdrop that Irukera charged companies and organisations involved in the sale of products and services to ensure that they have responsible and responsive customer care services. Irukera, who made the remark at a media round table with FCCPC in Lagos pointed out that Nigerians today are far more demanding and insistence on better products and services from companies/ organisations than they were doing before, hence the need for a functional and responsive customer care units. Ostensibly noting that lack of a trusted pedestal for complaints have exacerbated the market situation, said despite the government in all its inefficiencies, that regulatory bodies have become more accessible and easier to reach as private companies who offer the products and services are only interested in making profits, and listed the efforts of FCCPC in tracking Shylock online money lenders said that there are approximately 70 to 90 online lending applications operating in Nigeria while some are legitimate but use the illegal approach in tracking their debtors’ others are operating illegitimately and efforts to track down the illegitimate ones from Google play store has been challenging. The FCCPC boss pointed out that unsecured lending has higher interest rates because the risks and security are high. He added that one of the challenges they are having in the telecommunication sector is transparency in billing particularly in the area of data. Mr Irukera, who noted that what FCCPC intend to achieve is to educate people about their rights maintained that the media is a critical infrastructure in the constitutional obligation of the government to protect the consumers’ interest. Against the foregoing backdrop, he says industries are under obligation to improve on their responsiveness to consumer’s complaints and dissatisfaction at any point in time and anywhere Irukera says industries are under obligation to improve on their responsiveness to consumer’s complaints and dissatisfaction at any point in time and anywhere. He said this while speaking to journalists on Thursday at a collaborative engagement forum to review and analyse the state of the market and what lies ahead where he mentioned that citizens have rights to be heard and prioritised, especially as they have developed loyalty to the brands overtime. “We need to get to a point where businesses recognise their obligations and understand that responsiveness is an important fundamental in business activities. It is not right that the commission even as a government agency is easier to access and is more responsive to consumers that are dissatisfied than companies,” he said. According to him, consumers were still battling the impact of COVID-19 which has been aggravated by other issues such as the ongoing crisis between Russia and Ukraine, consequently the prices of products and services have been surging far above their purchasing power. As a result, this has caused the commission to be more attentive to businesses in order to avoid consumer exploitation and dissatisfaction in line with its mandate of protecting consumer interest. “We are trying to strike a balance where everyone should compete fiercely for patronage; we will continue to encourage businesses and show understanding but not to the detriment of ethical practices or waiver of the law,” he said. He revealed that many individuals and organisations were being currently prosecuted by the commission for different offences bordering on consumers’ rights. Irukera revealed that the commission’s consumer protection activities cut across various sectors where they have actively established their presence and the need to ensure that companies are committed to providing quality services. Speaking on the activities of the FCCPC across various sectors, he highlighted the issue of digital lending services that functioned in a manner that negates consumer protection and satisfaction. Irukera said the digital lending platforms have between 70 and 90 applications on apple and google play-store while they operate in no less than 12 locations, adding that engagements are ongoing to delete these applications and also uncover their hideouts. Given the commission’s efforts to sanitise the consumer landscape, not few observers argued that that is expedient for FCCPC’s advice on establishment of complaint platforms to be heeded by companies