AKURE – The Department of Securi­ty Service (DSS), Ondo State command has been dragged to court over the alleged ille­gal detention of one Olupona Olusegun Adewale, who is ob­serving the one-year National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) service in the state. In the application with Suit No. FHC/AK/C5/29/2022, the attorney prayed the court to grant an order for immediate and unconditional release of the applicant. He also sought an order for the perpetual injunction restraining the respondents from further detaining and infringing on the fundamental right of the applicant. The attorney also prayed the court to grant N5 million exemplary damages in favour of the applicant for the viola­tion of his fundamental right by the respondents. The respondents in the suit are State Security Service (SSS), Director-General of the State Security Service and Director of the State Security Service, Ondo State. In an originating motion on notice filed by the attorney to the corps member, Tope Temokun Esq at the Federal High Court sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the applicant sought the enforce­ment of his fundamental right to personal liberty and right to freedom of movement guaran­teed under sections 35 and 41 of the constitution if the federal republic of Nigeria 1999( as amended). The motion states that the arrest of the applicant on Thursday, March 24, 2022, with­in the premises of Union Bank PLC, Alagbaka, Akure “for no justifiable reason/cause by the operatives of the respondents constitutes a violation of the applicant’s fundamental right to personal liberty and freedom of movement.” Moreover, the application was supported with a three-page affidavit disposed to by one Onifade Fayemi. POLL Meanwhile, in a letter written by the applicant’s at­torney on March 28, 2022 and addressed to the Director, State Security Service (SSS), Ondo State command entitled: ‘Re­quest To See A Suspect In Your Custody,’ it was stated that the family of Olupona was at the DSS’ office with a lawyer the following day he was arrested and detained seeking to see him and to know the reason for his arrest and detention but were allegedly denied ac­cess to him. On March 28, 2022, a lawyer from Tope Temokun Cham­bers also sought to see the suspect but was allegedly not allowed to see him. The letter revealed that one of the operatives in the office said a letter must be written to the Director for approval before they could be allowed to see the suspect.