Organisers of Corazon SPEAKS, on March 31, 2022, held their now historic maiden Award ceremony at the University of Abuja. Titled: The Corazon Award Conference 2.1, the award has gone down in history as the first-ever independent award conference for the university of Abuja community. According to the organisers, this year’s edition had the theme: The Reward For Excellence. The unique award was so organised in such an all-inclusive way that all the various bodies and cadres of the UNIABUJA community were recognised in their respective ways. Noteworthy among all were the lecturers whose record of service and conduct attested that they had done excellently in the discharge of their duties. Outstanding students of the university who are known for their hard work and innovativeness were not left out. The Corazon Award For Best Lecturers also recognised the outstanding achievements of lecturers in various high schools in Nigeria. POLL The Corazon Award Conference 2.1 recorded massive success despite the ongoing ASUU, NASU and SSANU Strike. A total of forty-seven (47) awards were given to deserving awardees at the event. There were different categories of the award ranging from lecturers to students.Three lecturers and a total of 43 students, including one security officer smiled home with various substances of awards. However, the awardee lecturers were not on to receive their awards physically due to the ongoing ASUU strike.The various awards due to them respectively were announced nonetheless even as they were celebrated in the proxy. Prof Nonyelum Mba emerged as the best lecturer at the University of Abuja in 2021 (Students choice) while Dr. Mrs. Rasheedat Kehinde Akanbi emerged as the Most Supportive Lecturer of the University of Abuja in 2021 while Dr. Oyali Uchenna bagged the Most Friendly Lecturer of the same university in 2021. For the students’ category, Akor Richards clinched The Best Course Representative while Muyiwa Esther Odunsi madeThe Best Public Speaker. The Best Writer Award went to Ater, Solomon Vendaga while Afolayan Iyanuoluwa Michael made home with the Best Poet Award. The Best Fashion Designer Award went to Abifarin Elizabeth Olushola. Two guest speakers in the persons of Mr. Egena Elvis, a public speaker and coach, and Miss Abigail Festus, the Founder and CEO of FAB Treasure Foundation graced the unique occasion. The duo delivered salient speeches on the theme of the event: The Reward For Excellence. Marshal Osorachukwu, the founder of Corazon SPEAKS was the convener of the Corazon Award Conference 2.1. Popularly known as Coach Marshal, Osorachukwu, a renowned public speaking expert and coach, has to his credit, over five hundred students whom he has trained and mentored in public speaking and communication skills. He founded Corazon SPEAKS in 2018 with the sole purpose of discovering young speakers and bridging the gap between speakers and event organisers. Corazon SPEAKS’ Mission is to connect speakers to their potential audiences and thereby become profitable speakers. It also aims to help members become transformational speakers in their various industries. The Vision is to become the leading public speaking organisation in West Africa. CORAZON SPEAKS ACHIEVEMENTS Among its achievement include: In May 2019, Corazon SPEAKS sponsored the Corazon Swimming Competition in Abuja. The first of its kind. In 2020, Corazon SPEAKS organised an online International Speech Writing Competition ( First and Second Editions). In 2021, Corazon SPEAKS organised a public speaking contest for the students at the University of Abuja in which Nwabuko Inana Bright emerged the Champion of the contest. 1n 2022, Corazon SPEAKS has recently organised the Award Conference for the University of Abuja community.