ABAKALIKI – The 2023 Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency House of Representatives elections has pitched the Chairman of Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Barrister Eni Uduma Chima, against his political godson, Mr Okenwa Uka. Just as Uka alleged that Chima had not been a good representative for his constituents, the local council boss dismissed him as not being fit to contest against him. Chima stated: “My attention has been drawn to the vituperations of Mr Okenwa Nnachi Uka. The summary of which is that I have made no achievements as a Political Office Holder and that I’m not popular enough to represent our people in the Federal House of Representatives” He said further: “The young man is entitled to his incorrect opinions. The feeble attempt to deny my usefulness in bringing him into Ebonyi Politics as a Management Committee Member of Afikpo South Development Centre is also noted, they always deny what God uses me to do in their lives but the important thing is that the people know who is who and which is which. Okenwa is my boy who has private reasons to prance about like a cockroach challenging a Cock to a fight. “He is a good example of what informed my reason to run for the House of Representatives so that a lacuna will not throw up dim wits to occupy political positions. The boy is an inferior replica of the likes of the current People’s Democratic Party National Assembly Members who climbed to power on the back of His Excellency Engr. Chief David Nweze Umahi turned round to the grandstand and wave their fists in his face. “Most people return small favours, acknowledge medium ones and repay greater ones with ingratitude. The boy’s political cancer was detected very early. At the appropriate time, he will undergo political chemotherapy. I hold nothing against him, he merely expressed his frustration and manifest incapacity, of course, he spoke for himself and the few jealous elements playing the evil Sanhedrin role in Edda politics. “For the records, my achievements in infrastructure, human capital development, functional and sincere representations e.t.c are glaring all over Edda and my popularity and capacity to win elections are palpable. These truths are immutable”.