Chelsea boss Thomas Tuchel has split from his wife of 13 years, according to reports. Tuchel, 48, has been dealing with an extraordinary situation at Stamford Bridge over the last month, with the club facing the fallout of sanctions imposed on Roman Abramovich. And he’s had no respite at home following the reported collapse of his marriage. According to the Daily Mail, the manager’s wife Sissi began divorce proceedings last week, with friends claiming there is no chance of final minute reconciliation. It is also suggested that Tuchel, who reportedly earns £7million a year in west London, now faces a multi-million-pound divorce deal. His wife stepped down from her job at the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung to raise their family and could be entitled to a share of his future earnings plus half of his current worth. However, sources say they want to keep the split amicable, with their two daughters the top priority. Mrs Tuchel moved to the UK in August, seven months after her husband penned an 18-month deal to replace Frank Lampard as Blues boss. Tuchel signed a two-year extension to his contract after winning the Champions League – with his wife then joining him in the country a couple of months later. Sissi, 46, has been credited with helping the German excel during a managerial career that has taken in stops in Germany, France and now England. The former Mainz man has won a clutch of major honours, including a pair of Ligue 1 titles with PSG and last season’s Champions League with Chelsea. In fact, Mrs Tuchel was seen running across the pitch in Porto before jumping into her husband’s arms after Chelsea bagged their season Champions League trophy with a 1-0 victory over Manchester City. There was none of that celebration on Saturday as the Blues fell to a shock 4-1 home defeat to Brentford. Tuchel struggled to explain the defeat after the match. “It was strange because we were working hard for the first goal and we know how hard it is to create chances against Brentford,” he said. POLL “They defend either very high and man-mark or defend very deep in a block of 10 men around the box. You need to be patient, have a fluid rhythm and intelligent and clinical to take little chances to have that first goal and break that block down. “Once we had [the opener] we stopped defending and gave three goals away in 10 minutes. It was very untypical and killed the game for us. I don’t know why we gave away a big chance straight after the goal and then the next one and from there we did not defend mature enough. We were not aware of the danger in these moments which is also very strange for us,” he concluded.