MAKURDI – Dr. Paul Angya, governorship aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state has said that he was baffled by the outcome of processes that led to the emergence of some governorship aspirants in the state. In a statement signed by Clement Tsar,Media Coordinator to Angya and made available to Saturday Independent in Makurdi on Friday, the aspirant said that the processes failed to take into cognisance the desires of those to be governed. Even though Angya lauded the efforts of Governor Samuel Ortom and other party leaders on their intentions, he advised the PDP leadership to ensure that equity, justice and fairness was restored. According to the statement, “Angya described the trimming process at the Local Government levels that led to the emergence of some aspirants as totally baffling as it failed to take cognizance of the popular yearnings of those to be governed. “It is on this note that he (Angya) has joined the majority of the aspirants, who have called on the party leadership to ensure that equity, justice and fairness is restored.” Angya further stated that apart from reports and public polls favouring him for the job, he possesses “The required qualities of hard work, diligence, tenacity of purpose as well as educational qualification, work experience, global exposure, Christian values, exemplary family life and commitment to the upliftment of Benue state” which stands him in good stead for the job by the grace of God. He lauded the efforts of Governor Ortom; Senator Gabriel Suswam, Benue North-East; Sir John Ngbede, State PDP chairman and other leaders of the party for kick-starting the process, expressing confidence in their ability to conduct a dispassionate and transparent exercise. The aspirant also said that he remains committed to offering credible leadership and leading PDP to victory during the 2023 elections. POLL He further stated that in response to spiritual guidance and the positive encouragement of the populace across Benue state and party faithful he was encouraged to purchase his Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms and is ready for the primaries, which according to the immutable promises of Christ, he is trusting to win. He therefore sued for calm among his teeming supporters and party men across the state, as PDP strives to nominate a consensus candidate to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 elections. Angya also called on his teeming supporters, loyalists and political associates to continue the consultations with stakeholders till the primaries where the ‘New Deal’ with the grace of God anticipates certain victory.