The ancient city of Ibadan will be hosting globally renowned athletes and personalities at the maiden edition of the athletic and aerobics event code name Ere-Ije 2022. The aims of the event according to the project coordinator, Mr. Adebayo George was basically conceived in order to discover talents and as well to project many unique tourist attractions in Ibadan to the global scene. The Ambiance Media Limited which is the major organizer of the Ere-Ije Ibadan marathon and aerobics has also unveiled the identity of the athletic and aerobics event. The principal of the team alongside the representatives of partnering bodies revealed the symbol at the historic Mapo Hall, Ibadan. While addressing journalists, the gathering of prospective participants, partners, brands and sponsors, George made it known that the maiden edition of the tournament has been scheduled for May 2022. He added that Ere-Ije is an all-encompassing aerobics and marathon tourney which will discover and as well nurture talents for international exploits. He noted that it’s the aim of Ambiance Media and the Oyo State Ministry of Youth and Sport to bring a crop of globally renowned athletes and personalities to spice up the competition in order to stimulate the social and economic activities of the State. Hence, a portal to register willing contestants will be floated by next week, he concluded. POLL In her remarks, the Executive Director, Ambiance Media Limited, Mrs. Omolade Adesokan thanked the Oyo State Government, while commending the administrative skill sets of the Executive Governor of the state, H.E. Engr. Seyi Makinde (FNSE) has made the state safe, enabling and friendly enough to attract investment and events of this nature. She further commended the rank and file of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State(BCOS), for their unflinching support and worthy partnership in making the competition a great success. Adesokan also used the medium to call on corporate entities to leverage on the Ere-Ije platform for advertising their goods and services to prospective customers and target audiences both at the local and international levels. Also present at the event are representatives of Malta Guinness (the brand that gave both guests and performers at the event a refreshing experience), World Lilies Hotel, Safe Boda and Unai-Consults Limited among others.