YOLA – Following the visit of Nyelsom Wike of Rivers State and the People’s Democratic Party PDP presidential aspirant, to Adamawa State angry delegates of the party have lashed out against the party Chairman Barrister AT Shehu. The party delegates have been have pouring their venoms on AT Shehu for drawing conclusions that all delegates in the state belonged to Atiku Abubakar. Drama started when the Rivers State Governor was briefing the delegates at the Banguate House Government House Yola, explaining his capabilities to deliver victory to the PDP in 2023 presidential elections when the lackluster called AT Shehu stood up and and disowned Wike drawing a conclusion that all delegates in Adamawa State belonged to former vice president Atiku Abubakar and one of the PDP presidential candidates. The delegates who lashed out at AT Shehu calling him unprincipled saying it was their rights to listen to every candidate vying on the PDP platform. Some of the delegates lamented that Adamawa State wing of the party is experiencing multiple problems with incessant decamped members going to other parties because of the lacklustre leadership of AT Shehu. Hon Mohammed was particularly pained that AT Shehu lack the finest of Joel H. Madaki and called for his immediate replacement with Sabo Mohd Bamanga or Abdulrahman Bobboi or the return of Madaki for the party to gain ground in Adamawa State. He said under the poor performances of AT Shehu the party is loosing ground with eminent personalities leaving the party because AT Shehu who is always elusive and does not attend to party affairs will sink the party with his failed leadership. A member of the delegate Hon Bello during an interview said if allow to remain the chairman AT Shehu will sink the fortunes of the party. The Rivers State Governor who was billed to sleep at the Presidential Lodge Government House Yola received the open shocker when the party Chairman made the statement and Wike stormed out of the hall frowning and headed straight to his private jet and left. POLL Wike was to interact more with PDP delegates in Adamawa State but the shocker sent him back to Abuja.Many PDP delegates who lambasted AT Shehu called for his immediate replacement.