Paul Scholes has called for Erik ten Hag to follow Mikel Arteta’s lead when he arrives as Manchester United’s new manager in the summer. Ten Hag is set to take over at Old Trafford at the end of the season, having been officially announced as United’s new boss last week. The current Ajax manager will arrive at a crucial time for the Reds following what has been a dismal season. With a number of players set to leave, and question marks over the futures of others, the 52-year-old is likely to face a major rebuild once he gets his foot in the door. Interim manager Ralf Rangnick has even suggested the club could need as many as 10 new signings. Speaking to talkSPORT, United legend Scholes feels Arteta is the perfect example for Ten Hag to follow as he makes his way to the Premier League. The Arsenal boss has got his side into pole position to claim a top-four spot this season, having made a number of big decisions over the last few months, including letting go of former captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Scholes wants to see Ten Hag take a similarly hard-lined approach to his time in charge of United. The former midfielder also warned the incoming boss he’ll face more pressure than he ever has in his career. “It’s certainly a big job for him, it’s a big job for anybody,” Scholes said. “I suppose there’s an element of risk about it, there’s an element of risk about any manager you appoint. “He’s done really well at Ajax, he’s got a really good pedigree working with Pep at Bayern Munich as well, but he just has to believe in his methods. “This job is ten times the job of Ajax. We know they’re the best team in Holland, and they’ll always be the best club, the biggest club in Holland, but Manchester United is a worldwide football club, and he’s going to have criticism at times because that’s the way it’s going to come. “I think he’s got a group of players that are talented, he just has to get this group of players to believe in his methods. I think it’s quite obvious this group of players, with the last two managers especially, haven’t believed in what they’re being coached and haven’t believed in the way of playing. POLL “He has to become a tough manager, a little bit in the way that Arteta has done at Arsenal. That was a big rebuilding job, and he’s taken no nonsense. I think this manager has to be exactly the same.”