The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirants that are jostling for the post of both the Oluyole state house of assembly and Oluyole Federal House of Representatives have rejected consensus candidates allegedly imposed on them by the leadership of the party. The aspirants at a press conference held in a popular hotel in the Odo-Ona area of Oluyole local government area Ibadan on Monday expressed their disappointment over the development. The aggrieved state aspirants comprising, Hon. Dikko Salami, Hon. Moruf Adepoju, Hon. Femi Bamigbola, Hon. Olawale Olatunbosun, Hon. Taofeek Ogunrinde, Hon. Kola Oladikun, Hon. Kolawole Tosin, Hon. Kemi Obanibaseri, Hon. Francis Adewale Adetunji and Alhaji Taofik, while the Federal Representative aspirants are Hon. Olawale Mogbonjubola ‘Jagaban’, Hon. Bolu Adebayo, Hon. Tokunbo Ogunbola, Hon. John Ogunsola, Hon. Bolu Olapade all called for proper primaries instead of a consensus candidate. Speaking on behalf of the state assembly aspirants, Hon. Femi Bamigbola who is eying the Oluyole State Constituency seat at the state assembly said there is no state consensus candidate for Oluyole at the state level. He said, the leaders called us for a meeting over the weekend and asked us to do the introduction of ourselves, which we did, including myself and other State and Federal Representative aspirants, shortly after the introduction, they asked us to one question each and at the end, they asked us to go home and that they will call us later but it’s unfortunately when I woke up this morning that I heard that they have picked one candidate for us.” “We did not discuss this at the meeting, our stand now is that we have not done anything, and we don’t recognize a consensus candidate here in Oluyole at both state and federal levels, we are all going for primaries, we want to go for primaries. Personally, I don’t want to go for consensus.” Honourable Moboluji Adebayo aspirant of the Oluyole Federal constituency, while speaking on behalf of the other federal aspirants also decried the process that produced the consensus candidate. He said, “We believe so much in the leadership of our party and because of that there was a meeting that we had which the Governor of the state held with the leadership of the party in Oluyole across all the wards in our local government, and we were called upon over the weekend to see the possibility of how we can arrive at a consensus candidate which I think is very good for our democracy. But the problem is that both the aspirants for the state and federal constituency in Oluyole local government there was no consensus candidate as far as we know. POLL “We did not agree among ourselves to pick one person as a consensus candidate as at the end of the meeting, even such issue was not raised, we did not discuss anything of such at the meeting we held over the weekend, so news filtering on the social media that a consensus candidate has been picked which is against what happened last night and that’s why we are here for this press briefing as aspirants, all aspirants are represented here, some might not be here because they have different schedules ahead of them and this is very urgent issues that need to address, so what we stand on is there is no consensus candidate in Oluyole both for the Federal House of Representatives or the state House of Assembly.” “Having said, that if there is any news filtering on social media we the aspirants still believe in the leadership of the party, so we don’t have anything against our leadership because we believe in the principle of our great party, be that as it may, our resolution is that we should go for primaries as a reflection of true democracy, the power belongs to the people an…