Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a Bishop of Methodist Church Nigeria, Umuahia East diocese, Rt. Rev. Godfrey Agupusi, has warned that Nigeria’s rotational Presidency must be maintained in the interest of fairness and equity for all. Agupusi, who gave the warning, while addressing stakeholders and church members during the 12th Annual Diocesan synod of the diocese of Umuahia East, said it was a joke taken too far for some people to give the impression that Igbos cannot produce a good and credible Presidential Candidate for 2023. He added that “those who have led this country cannot claim to be the best from their regions at the time just as the present President – Muhammadu Buhari cannot claim to be the best from his region.” He noted that until Nigeria’s democracy was fully matured, there was need to base leadership selection on the principles of zoning, rotation and federal character. According to the Clergy, Nigeria is a growing democracy and we are a Federation that believes in Federal Character. And we have so raised ethnic sentiment in our body polity in this dispensation that for there to be justice, fairness, equity and credibility in ourpolity, that factor should be respected “The next general Election in Nigeria would take place in 2023. The Political atmosphere is getting charged and all kinds of manipulations, permutations and intrigues would soon be taking the center stage. To talk of free, fair and credible elections, we must first talk of free, fair, just and credible minds and actions. In choosing candidates for the elections all the parties should engage in free, fair, just and credible actions. “Nigeria is a growing democracy and we are a Federation that believes in Federal Character. And we have so raised ethnic sentiment in our body polity in this dispensation that for there to be justice, fairness, equity and credibility in our polity, that factor should be respected. Before this present Government,Nigerians were not so kin to ethnic and religious cleavages. “Then anybody could emerge even if the Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates were of the same religious divide. But the truth remains that this present Government has so created a serious divide in the minds of the various religions particularly Christianity and Islam. And it is the same government that would insist that the President can come from any part of the Country. POLL “This is injurious as it is outrageous and hypocritical. The principle of zoning, rotation and federal character should of necessity be the instrument for choosing leaders now until our democracy matures. It would remain an insult on the intelligence of any region of this Country to imply that it cannotproduce a qualified, able, capable and adequately exposed candidate to govern Nigeria. “Those who have led this country cannot claim to be the best from their regions at the time just as the present President – Muhammadu Buhari cannot claim to be the best from his region. To give the impression that Igbos cannot produce a good and credible Presidential Candidate for 2023 is an insult or a joke taken too far. The Clergy, commended the National Assembly for the amendment of the Nigeria’s electoral Act, and tasked President Buhari to ensure its full implementation in 2023 general elections. “I commend the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for concluding the amendment of the Electoral Act and the President for signing it into law. This means that Nigeria now has a new or amended Electoral law that could lead to free, fair and credible election if the human elements, powers and principalities that hold this Nation hostage would allow it to work. “Let us hope that this Electoral Act would be a process of delivering Nigeria from such powers, both seen and unseen. My appeal therefore goes to the managers of our Electoral process, the powers that be and all the gladiators to cultivate a genuine spirit of patriotism at least for once. “Civil Society organizations and the media are here also immensely commended for contributing in ensuring that the Electoral Act was successfully prepared, passed and accented to, accordingly, in spite of the activities of “Yahoo Yahoo” Politicians. And now that we have the much expected Electoral Act, let us prove to the Democratic World that Nigeria can work and that we can get it right electorally. The Bishop further condemned the spate of killings of human lives and wastage of resources in Nigeria, saying, “The other dimension of Waste and wastage in Nigeria is in the area of human life. Life is sacred. But in Nigeria everything is wasted including human life. The level of human waste in Nigeria is unimaginable. “This happens on a daily basis whether by insurgency, banditry, herdsmen onslaught, kidnapping and other forms of carnage. A new dimension now is “ritual killings”. “A Country of waste of human and material resources”. The situation in Nigeria today is such that able bodied men and women would prefer going to Ukraine to fight the war against Russia. “They prefer going there to work even if it means death for them. It is as bad as that. Instead of addressing these maladies, our leaders keep acquiring and embarking on investments in other Countries that would amount to vanity and waste after their demise” he stated.