LAGOS  – The Customs Area Controller (CAC), Tincan Island Command, Comptroller Adekunle Oloyede, has said that on assumption of duty last six weeks at the command, he was given a daily target of revenue generation to the tune of N2.5 billion. The CAC who had declared a three-point agenda to guide him in achieving maximum result said they are discipline, increase in revenue and trade facilitation. The Comptroller disclosed this in Lagos, at a meeting with the executive members of the Association Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON), who paid a familiarization visit to the new controller. The Customs boss said that on resumption at the command, he was given a daily target of N2.5 billion from the earlier N1.5 billion he met on ground, when he took over six weeks ago. He said: “The revenue as at the time I got here was N1.5 billion per day, but I was given a new revenue target of N2.5 billion per day. “When I had the first parade, I told my officers the three key things in no particular order are discipline, increase in revenue and trade facilitation. “I am also in agreement with the World Customs Organisation (WCO) and the World Trade Organisation (WTO) article that says for West Africa and Africa generally, we should do low tax and high turnaround time. When you have low tax and high turnaround, you make the revenue. On the controversy over reduction in duty on imported used vehicles, the Controller clarified that what was perceived as controversy on the actual status of used in the harmonised tariff nomenclature, as to whether it’s 35% or 20%. POLL It would be recalled that the system had already populated 20% in the system as against 35% on manual valuation. Reacting to this, the CAC advised that the 20% on the system should be upheld. “Because when you check what is happening around, it is those high values, high rate of duty that allows smuggling through our ports. “Two three days ago, the duty of vehicles dropped to 20%, government is looking at it that why will new vehicles pay 35% and old vehicles also pay 35% when after giving backwards integration incentives to most of these assembling plants, we don’t have plans that can really satisfy the demands of transport sector. “I think that is why government in its decision decided to drop, and it’s going to drop further. From grapevine am hearing that there could be further reduction as to discontinue smuggling. We want to make smuggling not to be lucrative again that is the way government is looking at it. On revenue drive, Comptroller Oloyede said the management team of the command has started making moves to lure people back to the command for improved revenue generation. He said that the revenue generation drive had improved significantly, since he came to the command, due to engagement of stakeholders. “I can tell you, when we compare revenue from the time I came in up to now, we have over 25 billion extra export, compared to 24 billion it was before, because I have been able to lure back people that are into bulk cargo. I have been able to convince them to come back to Josepdam. “I visited Josepdam today, I told them that my doors are open, the doors of my D.C. enforcement, D.C. in charge of bulk cargo are open.” Earlier, the CAC admonished journalists on developmental journalism and reporting e from well informed judgment of issues before going to the press. He praised the group for carving a niche for itself, saying he noticed that there is a difference and balance in their reports. “Yes you may have one or two differences, but I will urged you to always ask from both sides before going to the press. This will give you a very informed judgment balance about what you disseminate to the members of the public. “When we are contacted, there are certain things we may need to correct that will give a proper impression of what is intended. We need to bring all parties to round table to solve problems. “It’s a great opportunity to meet you today because am barely six weeks here.”