Chris Kirchner being named as preferred bidder to buy Derby County allows manager Wayne Rooney to start putting plans in place for next season. The Rams have been in administration for almost seven months but now Kirchner, the 34-year-old American businessman, is working on a takeover deal. Rooney has spoken previously of his frustration over how the club’s plight has meant his planning regarding players’ contracts, shaping the squad and organising pre-season have had to be put the backburner. The contracts of a large number of the first-team squad are due to expire in the summer. Rooney says having a preferred bidder for the club means he can now start having talks with the players he sees as part of the club’s future. “I actually had plans in place with him [Kirchner] in December when he made the [first] bid,” Rooney said. “Now my plans from December have had to change. I have lost players since then so I need to re-adjust my plans and how I want to move forward, and it is something I will be working hard on. “It allows me to now start focusing on the future of the club and allows me to have conversations with players as well, and these are all things I will be getting on with. “I haven’t gone into any numbers with players but I have identified players I want to stay at the club and they over the next week will know exactly who they are, I’ll have conversations. “I need to make sure I speak to the players on an individual level and get their thoughts as well. I am sure some of the players will have interest from other clubs as well.” POLL As far as plans to add to the squad, Rooney said: “Myself, my coaches, and those in the analysis room have been looking constantly throughout the season at different situations if we are in the Championship or League One, so we know different players we want to try and bring in for whatever division we are in. “We have done a lot of work throughout the season but now we are hopefully in a position where we can put that into plan, present them to Chris [Kirhcner] but what we need is the completition of the ownership and exit from administration.”