ABUJA – One of the pressure groups agitating for the return of former President Goodluck Jonathan to the presidential Villa has issued a seven-day ultimatum for him to declare for president under the All Progressives Congress (APC). Youths Network for Nigeria Union (YNNU) who issued the deadline in a statement, warned that failure to heed the advice of the youth would attract the wrath of the 2000 -strong members who will be mobilized to picket his office. The pro-Jonathan group who turned up in their numbers at a rally in Suleja, Niger state, Wednesday warned that they will not vacate President Jonathan’s office if he fails to concede to their demand because the future of Nigerian youths depends on his decision. Ibrahim Saiki, Converner of the group who addressed journalists at the rally said, “You may recall that on Friday, 22nd April, 2023, we led over 7,500 members of our Network to ‘a private meeting’ with former President Goodluck Jonathan, urging him to contest the 2023 presidential election. “While responding to our plea, former President Jonathan urged the youths of Nigeria to get more involved in politics and asked us to “watch out” his next move. “Since then, the media space has been awash with reactions to ex-President Jonathan’s comments, with several persons giving different interpretations. To us in YNNU, what Nigeria needs at this period of our national life is a unifier. That unifier is President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. “To this end, we have been mandated to, most respectfully, urge President Goodluck Jonathan to immediately progress to pick a membership form of the All-Progressives Congress, APC, from his ward in Otuoke, Bayelsa State, within seven days after Ramadan. “If at the end of seven days after Ramadan, President Goodluck Jonathan remains undecided, we shall most respectfully repeat our visit to his office for a Second meeting with President Goodluck Jonathan. It should be noted that over 20,000 of our more than 500,000-strong members across the nation have expressed the unreserved desire to participate and encamp at ex-President Jonathan’s private office, and we shall remain there for as long as it may take for him to decide. POLL “In furtherance of our position, we have written President Goodluck Jonathan a letter to this effect, which was acknowledged and received by his office yesterday, April 26th, 2023. “We earnestly hope that President Goodluck Jonathan fully understands that our future depends on his decision. Therefore, we do not intend to relent in our pursuit of the true desire of Nigerians at this time- which only him can anchor.” Some of the placards displayed at the rally were emphatic on their demands. They include; ‘Jonathan you are wasting our time’, ‘Maigidan Goodluck Jonathan, our destiny in your hand’, ‘President Jonathan declare for President Now’, ‘Goodluck Jonathan You must run’, ‘We don’t care about the party, any party is Ok’, ‘Jonathan run under APC Now’ etc Also speaking, the secretary of the youth network Jonathan Akumobi and Women Leader, Mrs Ozi-Bello Sadiq said they have been protesting since morning because they want Jonathan to understand the urgency of their request and the need to answer them without further delay.