The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, said there was no turning back on the planned elimination of Apo-Dutse Pantaker, dubbed one of the country’s largest scrap markets, as the nation’s capital intensify raids on suspected criminal hideouts. The Minister said the ultimatum given to them, can only be extended by one week from today ( Friday), saying, the place harbours suspected criminal elements. Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah said in an interactive discussion with Pantaker market stakeholders on Friday that the Minister has given the market a marching order to be removed. He noted that Operators of the Pantaker market admitted that the place was riddled with several challenges, but pleaded for enough time to enable them to remove all their property. Attah noted that the decision to extend the ultimatum by one week was due to Ramadan. He explained that the Minister demonstrated magnanimity but insist that the location of the market was illegal and contravened Urban and Regional planning rules. According to him: ” FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello has given a marching order to clear the place, because criminals are largely hibernating their, even the people have admitted that the criminals have stolen some electrical installations there. ” We have warned them and given them an ultimatum before, but they pleaded that their pantaker is not like the other ones, but the biggest in the country. POLL They said that parking their things will take almost one month.  We reviewed it because of the Ramadan and agreed on one week after the Sallah to vacate the place”, Attah hinted. One of the leaders of Apo-Dutse   Pantaker Market Association,  Ambusa Umar, stated the operators have consented to the decision of the administration,  but pleaded for two weeks, instead of one. Umar added that the operators are law-abiding citizens,  working to eke out a living and also contribute to the country’s economic growth. He equally acknowledged that the place has had security challenges,  but urged the administration to consider their request.