UGHELLI – As the 2023 General elections draws closer, a frontline Senatorial aspirant for Delta Central Senatorial District and a chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Ede Dafinone said that the party has been repositioned towards consolidating on its dominance in the country. Chief Dafinone also vowed that the APC would claim most of the states controlled by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party including Delta State. He explained that the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and other stakeholders of the party in Delta State had continued to strengthen the party for overwhelming victory come 2023. Chief Dafinone, who addressed APC members at Okpe Hall in Sapele, during the official inauguration of the Dafinone Solidarity Movement (DSM), the leading contestant for the position of the Senate, the Nigeria Export and Import (NEXIM) Bank board member commended the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for what he described as an inclusive and effective representation of the Urhobo nation at the Red chamber. He noted that APC in the state was made up of qualified, reliable and dependable individuals who would redefine governance and change the narratives in the state hence he was contesting for the position of the Senate. “Come 2023, we will take over Delta State. We have the capacity to do so and will change the narrative by making Delta State an APC state” . Chief Dafinone said that it was only through the platform of the All Progressives Congress that the people of the state could earn the expected liberation, stressing that he was in the race to upscale the socio-economic growth and development of the good people of the Delta Central Senatorial District as well as ensure empowerment and human capital development. In his remarks, the Chairman of the newly inaugurated Dafinone Solidarity Movement (DSM) , Comrade Erikefe Obasievwie described the Delta Central Senatorial aspirant as the best choice for the Urhobo nation, saying that the pedigree of Chief Dafinone was quite commendable. POLL He urged members of the group to be fully ready to drum support for Chief Ede Dafinone. Obasievewie told the people that with the intimating profile and wealth of experience of Dafinone whom he also described as a philanthropist, Deltans are in for a better deal and improvement upon Senator Omo-Agege’s success story across Delta Central. Chief Tuesday Onoge who was the Chairman of the event, appealed to Deltans to Support Chief Dafinone who will be declaring his intentions to run for the red Chambers in a fortnight He told the people that with the current achievements of Senator Omo-Agege, he is very convinced that Ede Dafinone will consolidate on his achievements Present during the inauguration were Chief Tuesday Onoge , Dr. Patrick Akamovba, Chairman Sapele /Okpe community, Hon. Friday Erubasa and Chief Fred Arubi among other stakeholders of the party.