LAGOS  – A full complement of the management of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development and its Agencies converged at the Ministry’s Conference room to rejoice with Arc. Gbolahan Oki on his reinstatement as the General Manager, Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA), after over five months of suspension as a fallout of the Gerrard building collapse in 2021. Dr. Idris Salako, the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, said that the reinstatement of Arc. Oki, having been absolved by various panels on the matter, was a welcome development and a lesson to all in uprightness, dedication and faithfulness among other principles. He said: “For many years to come, Arc. Oki’s case will remain a reference point for all Public Servants in always doing the right thing and hoping in the Almighty” . Ganiyu Adele Ayuba, Special Adviser, Urban Development, enjoined Officers to take a cue from this Development and thread with caution in carrying out their assignments, as all eyes are on members of regulatory bodies whenever things go wrong. Dr. Olajide Babatunde, the Special Adviser on E-GIS, urged Arc. Oki to view his second chance as divine and seize the opportunity to uplift the Agency. Engr. Abiola Kosegbe, the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, noted that the built environment of Lagos State was a delicate terrain full of recalcitrant developers and requiring vigilance, while she enjoined Officers not to relent in their persistent monitoring of the physical environment to achieve the desired objective of sustainable environment. Among other personalities who rendered admonitions and prayers for the success of LASBCA and Lagos State as a whole in the Gbolahan Oki’s era are: the General Manager, Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA), Tpl. Kehinde Oshinaike; General Manager, Lagos State Urban Renewal Authority (LASURA), MS Ajibike Shomade and ; General Manager, Lagos State Planning and Environmental Monitoring Agency (LASPEMA), Tpl. Daisi Osho.