…Boasts He’s Next President Renowned activist and presidential aspirant on the platform of African Action Congress (AAC) Omoyele Sowore, has called on Nigerians to reject the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) and vote for him in the 2023 general elections. The publisher of SaharaReporters urged the electorate to vote for personalities with fresh ideas and competence to revamp the nation’s socio-economic and political sectors. He stated this at the Akure Airport, where he was received by his supporters on Saturday. Sowore called on Nigerians, particularly the youth, to challenge those seeking political offices and ask questions about their pedigree. According to him, “This is the right time to challenge those in power and bring those with fresh blood, ideas, and initiatives that can change the narratives for Nigeria. “Both APC and PDP are yet to have a candidate and they would never have a candidate that would be acceptable to Nigerians. The end of both parties has come. “The time to do for the people has arrived. The time for the nation to work for the Nigerian people has also arrived. POLL “Other political parties are even going into extinction and we would help to consign them into the dustbin of history as soon as possible. “For the people of Ondo State, and those who have not heard, I, Omoyele Sowore is going to be the next President of Nigeria.” Appreciating his supporters and people from his country home, Kiribi in Ese Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State, the AAC presidential aspirant described as waste of time his incarceration after his arrest by men of Department of State Services(DSS). He declared that he’s stronger and bolder having been released to move round within the country, insisting that he would not be gagged from speaking against injustice in the country. Sowore said: “It is a waste of time because nobody can fight history. No law court can find a justifiable reason to jail anybody that is fighting injustice and this country needs justice. “I have only one step to take to fight for what is just and right. Three years later, I have been proved right. They took me to Abuja, detained me thereby putting me in the DSS facility and Abuja city. They have now been disgraced and would soon be out of power and we are coming into the office very soon. “The Sowore that they thought could be cowed in 2019 has now become stronger, bigger, and more powerful. The young people that we have been fighting for have also become bolder.”