Some special people live such a fairy-tale life, achieving in a life-time what the ordinary John and Jane can’t do in three life-times. Yes, Dr (Chief) Austin Nonyelim Izagbo, the Ide of Ibusa who turned 70 years on Holy Thursday April 14, 2022 is that special. He is disarmingly handsome, has a charming smile, a well-sculptured frame of exquisite manliness that stands over six feet tall; a body early Greek or renaissance Italian sculptors would have used as model for their athletes or decorated warriors. As an icing on the cake, this notable orator is warm-hearted, even-tempered, soft-spoken and possesses a rich sense of humour. He is so personable that “thanks” and “sorry” come easily to his lips – even in discussions with those who work under him. Yes, and this is important; Chief Izagbo is among the most generous persons God ever created. I should know about this because since 1972 he and I have had a give and take relationship; he has been doing the giving and I, the taking. Then two years ago, just before the Covid-19 lockdown, Dr. Izagbo and I were at Ibusa attending the funeral ceremony of his former classmate and 1971 St. Anthony’s College, Ubulu- Uku, football team mate, alias Takpo Rascal (real name forgotten). Izagbo (alias Jaguar) was the school goalkeeper and St. Anthony’s College was a remarkable Mid-West state academic and sports powerhouse then. (Yes, the school had posted the best West African School Certificate result, produced the best Student in WAEC (Chris Ogbeche, now a Prof at the Lagos Business School), had won the Giwa-Osagie football cup, Adeola Table- Tennis cup, thanks to Chris Okasia, Vincent Onyemem and Charles Ejeko, now a medical doctor and remained un-dethroned for years until the competition was discontinued). POLL Then, a lady dragged her husband to Izagbo shouting animatedly “this is the man that helped me-ooooooo”, and tears streaked down her cheeks. Taken aback, Izagbo asked her what was the matter. She replied: “Are you not Chief Izagbo? I will never forget you. Don’t you remember when I couldn’t pay my school fees after my father died and just when all hope was lost, I met you, told you of my predicament, and you paid helped me out? That was how I was able to graduate from a higher institution. Thank you, Sir”. Chief Izagbo kept telling her to dry her tears and to stop her profuse thanks while the rest ex-students just ohhed and ahhed in admiration of such large generosity of heart towards a total stranger. Actually, things weren’t always rosy for Izagbo. When his father was killed in the North during the crises that snowballed into the Nigerian Civil War, a lack of school fees endangered his secondary school education. The then Principal of St. Anthony’s College, Chief P.A. Dunkwu came to the rescue, dreaming up a solution that helped the boy in Izagbo to achieve manhood quickly; he was allowed to remain in school on loan but to repay the loan after his secondary school education. Immediately after his fifth form, he began working in the school as a deputy bursar, and the moment he paid off the loan, he entered University of Ife (renamed Obafemi Awolowo University), Ile Ife. He was goalkeeper for the University Football team. At Ife, he founded the Scala Club (with the likes of Mike Ozekhome (SAN)) which organised the first Miss Acada Beauty Competition in Nigeria. The late founder of The PUNCH newspapers, Chief Olu Aboderin, a patron of Scala Club, impressed with Izagbo’s organistional ability, appointed him Managing Director of Skylark Records– Izagbo’s first job – and I think that was also during his NYSC year. Izagbo, a Commissioner for Sports, Youths and Social Development in the late Ibrahim Kefas administration of Delta state in the mid-1990s, superintended over the construction of the Asaba Asaba Arcade, the Ibusa land mark Ibrahim Kefas Centre just as he constructed the top-class Hockey Pitch inside the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. Oh, he was once President, Nigerian Hockey Federation (NHF). Izagbo stamped his giant footprints in the political terrain long ago; he contested for the post of National Chairman, National Republican Convention in 1990. He and Ibrahim Mantu lost narrowly to Tom Ikimi. Then, he became the party’s chairman, Bendel state chapter. In 1999, he contested the election that kicked in the Fourth Republic as Deputy Governorship candidate in league with Dr. Kraggar under the All Peoples Party (APP) but the team lost to the Chief James Ibori and Benjamine Elue of Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship and deputy-governorship joint-ticket. Izagbo, who holds a PhD in Public Leadership and Governance, has served his Ibusa hometown in various capacities. He is now President-General, Ibusa Community Development Union (ICDU) worldwide. How did I meet Dr. Izagbo? Oh, God brought him my way, fortuitously. It was, yes, 1972. I was in form one at St. Anthony’s College, Ubulu -Uku and was playing in a junior inter-house football match finals, for St. Anthony’s House and against St. Cyril’s. Ogbuenyi Anthony Okoba (alias Emperor Barbarossa) who retired as a CBN top shot, Collins Enwenwa (KC) who retired as a Director in the Delta state Civil Service, and goalkeeper Fidelis Ojeah, an insurance guru, were in my team. My cousin, Jude Okwuokei (now California, US-based) was in the opposing team; their goalkeeper, Austin (Bude) Eziashi, (the immediate past principal of the same St. Anthony’s College) frustrating our goal-scoring efforts. As were a goal down with ten minutes to go, and our House Master Mr. Louis Onwordi was walking away from the stands in anger, a team mate who had just fluffed away a golden opportunity for us to even the scores spoke to me and I angrily told him off. Izagbo, a spectator, beckoned on me, “handsome boy”, (he didn’t know my name and he was being nice as usual) and advised that the dying minutes were no time to be angry; that I should be cool and calculated and in synch with teammates so we could make the most of the least scoring chance”. Then the dreaded House Prefect, Wilson Mokobia, who rarely smiled, and whom I have never seen since the day he collected his West African School Certificate (WASC) result, wagged his finger at me and growled; “You may take Austin Izagbo’s advice or you may continue playing nonsense. But know that the person who just spoke to you is our own Jaguar, last year’s school goalkeeper. Once the match is over, I’ll be waiting for all of you at the door, that is when you will know that I’m different from Austin Izagbo. He even called you handsome boy. Handsome boy my foot!” I don’t know what did the magic, Izagbo’s kind words or the fear of Mokobia the 1972 “god” of St Anthony’s House, but Felix Ekeh scored our equalising goal and I supplied the winning one. As we filed in from the field, Mokobia handed a tin of Peak milk to each player and announced we were free to stay in the hostel during that evening’s “prep” and have a good rest. The following morning, Izagbo met me and asked for my name. “My younger brother is Tony, too, and Eluemunor is my mother’s name. Ah, this your hair (and he fondly touched the small out-cropping of hair in the middle of my forehead, pointing arrow- like towards my nose), my mum has it too. I will take you to see Mama on Saturday”. From that day Mama adopted me as a son. And Izagbo and I had remained “family”, his friends (the late Major Aminu Dahiru, late Ibrahim Kefas, former Gov. of Delta state, Mike Ozekhome (whom I first met in 1977 in Izagbo’s house in Ibusa the day Enugu Rangers contested for football glory against IICC football Club of Ibadan in Kaduna), late Chief Sunny Odogwu, late Chief Ikolodo (the Uwolo of Ibusa, once a member of the House of Representatives) Chief Edwin Igbokwe and his late wife, Christy Essien (the music star/actress), Omenei Sobotie, Mr Momodu whom everybody called “Scatter” became mine also and my friends such as the late Koma Omamuli, late May Ellen Ezekiel (MEE), Nosa Igiebor, became his. Senator Peter Nwoboshi represents Delta North, right? We met for the first time at the breakfast table in Izagboi’s house at Fola-Agoro, in the mid-1980s. You would have noticed that I gained more friends from him than he did from me; Izagbo is astoundingly likable even as an ordinary person and the Public Relations guru in him plus the first-rate business man, topclass politician and his astoundingly likable personality attract friends readily and his fidelity to friendship keeps them through time. In fact, Gov. Kefas employed Izagbo’s great number of friends and contacts in all the LGAs of Delta state to maintain peace in that trying period. Thus, it is no wonder that the moment Izagbo exited the PDP for the All Progressives Congress (APC), the party appointed him head of its reconciliation committee. Sincerely, I want to see the ever- effective Izagbo back in the PDP as the two parties prepare for a decisive 2023 state election. Izagbo is complemented by his comely (as in pleasurably conforming to notions of good appearance, suitability, or proportion) wife, the really gentle and kind-hearted business lady and Fiz-Fashions founder, Ify, the Okwesileze. For years, even before Covid-19 made giving to the under-privileged fashionable, organizing large-scale helping out of the poor and the motherless babies has been her second-nature. It is only natural that such an angel should become a Pastor. She and their children organised a surprise party at the upscale Orchid Hotel Asaba on his 70th birthday. The illustrious Dr Austin Nonyelim Izagbo, has been living out the challenging ideals with which the late USA President John F. Kennedy concluded his Inaugural Address, January 20, 1961: “With a good conscience our only sure reward, with history the final judge of our deeds, let us go forth to lead the land we love, asking His blessing and His help, but knowing that here on earth God’s work must truly be our own.” Izagbo the businessman should be applauded by the entire nation for his large social conscience and uncommon example. In 2015, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, over-paid his company by N75 million (and that is no mis-print). This exemplary Nigerian returned the amount immediately. For this, he deserves not just a national applause but a national award. He is of a special breed.