ABUJA – Honourable Kingsley Fanwo, the immediate past Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Kogi State, has pledged to sacrifice anything, including his ambition to run for Yagba Federal House of Representatives in order for Governor Yahaya Bello to realize his ambition to become Nigeria President. He claims that Bello has done so much for Kogi State and may go down in history as the best Governor to have governed the confluence state, adding that his desire is for him to export the leadership ability to the country. Speaking when he picked the All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination form to contest the Yagba Federal Constituency of Kogi State Commissioner for Information and Strategy declared that if he were to make a choice between his aspiration to the federal House and the ambition of the governor he would choose the latter. “I will easily choose that my boss, my mentor, my benefactor, governor Yahaya Bello become the president. I can sacrifice anything for him to become the president of this country. It is not about me. It is about our nation. It is about the person that can bring security and unity and he can do it. “I have learnt from the best in terms of politics, in terms of administration, in terms of humanitarian service, I have learnt from the best and the best is Alhaji Yahaya Bello. You know when you look at what he has done in Kogi State, all of us are proud of his giant strides. “This is a man that inherited a balkanized State. A State that was divided, a state that was disunited but he came and ensured unity in the State. And apart from that, our governor has been able to ensure security in the State. A State that was almost becoming a pariah State, a State that was the cesspit of kidnapping and criminalities, he has been able to put his foot down to ensure that our State today is one of the safest States in Nigeria. “Also when you look at prosperity, with all of his program that touched on the welfare of the good people of Kogi State, you will agree with me that he’s the best thing to have happened to the people of Kogi State. “And that’s why we are not surprised that Nigerians are calling on him, he’s the first to pay for the expression of interest form and nomination form to become the president of Nigeria. POLL “When he becomes president, I am not saying if he becomes president, I am saying when he becomes president, he will ensure security, he will ensure unity and he will enthrone prosperity in our nation. On his reason to vie for, he said his constituency has not done much in the area participatory representation “When you talk of the best educationist, the best in medicine, the best in engineering, you are talking of the very good people of Yagba, but unfortunately for us, we are not being represented in that capacity in the green Chambers. I am not saying the person there now is not doing anything, he has done some good things, but the reason why I’m stepping forward is because I can do it better. “What we are bringing is called participatory representation. You can not represent the people you don’t know. You can not represent the people you don’t even understand. You can not represent the people that you don’t even understand the challenges they are going through. You must know them. You must understand them before you can represent them and that is what we are bringing on board from 2023. “Yagba is blessed with agriculture, we don’t have to be chairman of Customs Committee, it is of no use to us except if you want to carry customs vehicles to come and distribute to your people, that is not what we want. To go to the house of Representatives you must be talking about the water resources Committee, you must be talking about the agriculture Committee. Those are the things that have a direct bearing on the people of Yagba.”