IBADAN – The launch of the national agenda by the National Prosperity Movement aimed at drumming support for the aspiration of Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi for president in 2023 suffered a major setback as prominent leaders of the ruling All Progressive Congress ( APC) in the South West shunned the gathering. The APC leaders in Ibadan and other Southwest states, according to some who spoke on why they stayed away from the group, described Governor Fayemi’s aspiration for president as dead on arrival. It was learnt that the gathering, which was organised to ostensibly mobilise support for Fayemi’s aspiration for President in 2023, saw leaders of the APC in the region distance themselves from the meeting in a show of sympathy for the APC National leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who has declared intention to contest for President in 2023 election. The venue of the event, the International Conference Centre University of Ibadan ( UI) was however largely occupied by attendees mainly from Ekiti state who were conveyed to the place by buses and cars belonging to the Ekiti state government. Also present at the event held on Tuesday at the International Conference Centre, ICC, are political aides of Governor Fayemi, and some politicians from Osun state as well as supporters of Kayode Fayemi for President lasted for about three hours. The Director General, Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) dedicated technocratic institution for sustainable development of the Southwest region, Mr Seye Oyeleye in his paper delivered at the event said the unity and progress of Nigeria as a Nation has been heavily marred by the systemic and structural deficiencies evident in the country prior to independence which was subsequently worsened by the intervention of the military. He explained the need to establish a relationship between the Nigeria Agenda, Civic Nationalism and Leadership, while also harping on the need for a broad-based constitutional development process for the sustainable development of the country. Expatiating on the issue of the national question, Oyeleye told the gathering that the national agenda is inconsequential without thoroughly investigating the ‘national question’. POLL He stated, “The national question in this context simply refers to deliberating on the efforts that will accommodate the competing and often, diverse interests and ideologies of several ethnicities, tribes, religions, cultures and some would say class, existing within one geographical entity. It is the debate as to the order of the relations between the different ethnic, linguistic and cultural groupings so that they have the same rights and freedoms, access to power and an equitable share of resources.” While bemoaning the present Nigerian structure, the DAWN Commission boss noted that Nigeria’s present and future need to be determined by the will of the people, adding that the country is currently being run against the will of the people, as the constitution serves as the social contract of the country is illegitimate without any input from Nigerians. Addressing Nigeria’s constitutional deficiency, he added that the first step to addressing the national question and consequently pursuing the Nigeria Agenda. “All other efforts aimed at solving our challenges are tantamount to putting the horse before the cart. The structural and systemic inefficiencies would continue to stall progress and breed disunity,” he stated.