Fresh intrigues are unsettling the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as leaders and members of the party await the recommendation of the 37-member zoning committee inaugurated on March 24 by the National Chairman of the party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu. State governors elected on the platform of the party and other leaders are also currently engaged in a game of wits over the mode of primary elections that should be used to nominate the presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections. According to a source who pleaded anonymity, said Direct primary is heavily favoured by the governors, while other members of the party are rooting for indirect mode. “The Ayu-led leadership of the party is under immense pressure on how to conduct the next presidential primary election. It is one issue that is capable of landing the PDP in a fresh crisis,” a source told The Nation. Some gladiators who fear that the decisions on zoning and mode of primary may eventually be referred to the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party for final discussion are understood to have already started lobbying state chairmen of the party for support. Sources mentioned supporters of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and those of Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. Sources also said the committee met twice in Abuja earlier this week but was unable to agree on the thorny issue of zoning, with members sharply divided on whether to cede the presidential ticket of the party to the southern part or throw the contest open for aspirants from all parts of the country. The last meeting was hurriedly adjourned when it became obvious that committee members were not going to agree on a position on the matter. Further deliberation has been fixed for Tuesday, April 5. POLL Another source said, “Nothing has been achieved because of a lot of intrigues that played out at the meetings of the committee. “It became clear last Tuesday that external forces were influencing the deliberations among committee members when members returned to oppose positions they had earlier agreed to in the earlier meeting. “With the way discussions ended at our last meeting, it will be difficult for the committee to conclude its task soon. We have received papers and petitions from various groups within and outside the PDP. “The arguments for and against zoning are very strong and both parties have genuine reasons.” Chairman of the committee and Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom, however, assured party supporters that they would come up with an arrangement that will be acceptable to all. “The meeting is yet to be concluded. We have adjourned till Tuesday next week at the same time, at the same venue. And until we conclude the proceedings, there is not much to say,” he said.