Nigeria’s leading political economist and Co-convener, National Consultative Forum, Prof. Pat Utomi, has said that Nigeria must not be allowed to go the way of Somalia. Utomi, who recently joined forces with others to form Third Force Mega Party Alliance, speaks with journalists on why the nation is at a crossroads. AKINWUNMI KING brings the excerpts: What should Nigerians expect from the third force you started with others? It is not a matter of what we expect, we have no options anymore. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are in close roads for Nigeria. These people are one and the same and they have done a lot to ruin a country of destiny. Over 20 years of continuous damage, the culture of politicking in Nigeria has to change dramatically or else there won’t be Nigeria in 2027, I can tell you that. We have dropped to becoming the poverty capital of the world. You have never been to hell and I have never been there too. But if you live in Nigeria in the last three weeks, you must have an idea of what hell is; no electricity, no water, no diesel, no petrol and nothing that makes life bearable. In the middle of these, people are being slaughtered all over the place, whether they are going back in the train to Kaduna, or they are in their homes sleeping in Edo or Nasarawa State, or Zamfara, this is a mass murder field. It is frightening, it is terrible. That’s not even where I’m going. In the middle of all these, look at the swagger of the people that are supposed to be running the country. Look at how they are spending public money to oil their ego. Nigerians are extra ordinary and wonderful people. In any other country, they would have lynched these guys. They would lynch them on the streets in any other country, because they are getting away with murder. We have no choice, we cannot continue, these guys, we must show them the red card, they must get out of the way. The question should be how well is the alternative getting ready to change all of these things? That is why we are not rushing out announcing candidates, announcing this and that, it is not business as usual. I went as far as calling for a transition government of national unity, that was last week. This mess cannot continue, it’s not sustainable. We might end up like Somalia, do you want to be like Somalia? This is what the conversation is, it’s not about third force, it is how can we get out of this mess that these guys constitute. They have no conscience – people are dying and they are talking in front of television cameras like emperors. It’s like when David told the people of Israel about the problem in the land and everybody tore his clothes and they sat on ashes. These guys should be sitting on ashes. People are dying and they are swaggering. Are they human beings at all? How do you intend to go about overtaking both the APC and PDP, because both parties are all over the country? It shows their insensitivity. People are dying and they are going all over the country to get votes. Are they human beings? We are meeting and planning to make sure that we have a collegial approach to leadership, not one Messiah coming, it’s not Pat Utomi, it’s not Attahiru Jega, it’s not Moghalu, it’s a collective offering of redemption to the country. We are trying to ensure that the structures and everything is properly put in place, so that this collective will carry the weakest, lowest and the strong together to fix a society fit for good, and fit for all. That’s what our continuous meetings have been about. In the next two weeks, you will see a roll out of different ways that this would be presented to the Nigerian people, beginning from this weekend. Political parties have begun various activities that will lead to the election while you still seem to be strategising. Is participating in the 2023 election still the target for the Third Force? How long does an election take in the United Kingdom, from when it is announced till when the polling takes place? It is usually not up to a month. When you are properly organised, you know what you are going after, two weeks is enough to execute a campaign. It is joblessness that makes us spend one year running around. The naked truth is that these things are already in place and we will meet all the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) deadlines and we will be on the ballot and the issues will be clear and we are already declaring it. It is in the eight opinion pieces I wrote last weekend from how to revive manufacturing to how to revitalize the youths of Nigeria to how to reform education, to healthcare to the finance sector, infrastructure and power. When the issues are clear and the values we are about are clear, what we will do from now on is to begin to communicate. By the way, the next election will not be won in front of your newspaper pages or on television; it will be won on the Internet, that is where the people are. I have had a television show for 22 years. For the last six years, I keep getting angry when I run into people and they ask if I am still running the television show. What it tells you is that there are fewer people watching television; they are getting information from some other medium. It is in that other medium that we will be the most and we will shock people who are going for television sound bits when the results come in. POLL Do you see the new Electoral Act bringing some form of succour to the ‘smaller’ parties? It begins a process but we must push INEC to reach a logical conclusion. Part of what these so-called big parties do is that they have thuggery machines; they have a domination of the means of violence and that frightens decent, ordinary people so they don’t participate in the electoral process which is de-legitimising the Nigerian government. This is because they become a government without the mandate of the people. Eventually, they cut the idea of legitimacy which is central to power and authority. You get to where we are where the state government, federal government has no control over the vast area of Nigeria and all kinds of bandits have taken over. It is because of the de-legitimising of the Nigerian state. If only the so-called small parties can organise themselves and tap into the soul of the Nigerian people. If the electoral act is then done properly, then you should be able to vote with your telephone, from your bedroom. If we can transfer millions of Nigeria from our personal account, with that telephone, how much more to cast a vote for a person you don’t even know or care about? The only reason they are not implementing that is because they know that if they have proper elections that people can vote from the convenience of their bedrooms, they will not be near power, they will all be voted out. We must continue the fight to push INEC to the logical conclusion of saying we can vote electronically, you can vote from your telephone, from your bedroom. You probably will get a 99 percent throw off of everybody running for office, they will all be gone. It’s like there is apathy among the people and they seem to be tired of failed promises. Don’t you see this affecting the 2023 polls? That is why it is not going to be business as usual. Anybody that promises let it be actionable and let us hold them accountable to their promises. If I am president, for instance, we will have double outputs in five years and it is doable. Many agree that Nigeria has a leadership problem and you have likened the 2023 election to Nigerians making a choice between life and death. How can a system change happen to bring about the desired leadership; what should Nigerians look out for in selecting their next president? It should be about the big issues not about big men. They are all running around saying they are the more deserving big man. Where are your ideas? How are you going to solve the problems? I have thrown down the gauntlet. I said the big issues in Nigeria are unemployment, hunger, power. I can’t sleep at night because three of my generating sets have broken down and diesel is out of reach. What kind of misery do people allow to happen? Power that was fixed over a hundred years ago but because an elite that cannot think is more driven by graft and greed than by solving simple problems, we are living in this misery. Anyone that does not have a plan to double the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) output in five to seven years should not even try to run for the office of president. I do not mean gleam talk; I mean plan. If you do not have a plan to fix power, you should not run. You cannot double the GDP if you don’t fix power anyway. What is the strategy for manufacturing, agriculture? What are going to be the implementation obstacles to your strategy? How will you circumnavigate those obstacles? If you can’t think through this and present logically, please stay in your house. Nigerian people are too miserable to be put through another mess.