Femi Ajala of Ikeja Golf Club, on Saturday, saw off the chal­lenge of over 100 other golfers to win the star prize at the sec­ond edition of the DStv Pre­mium Golf Day, which held at Ikeja Golf Club. Ajala’s stellar outing earned him a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel, one-year free DStv Pre­mium package subscription. He also won, courtesy of soft drinks bottling giants, Pepsi, a 12-month supply of Pepsi and Aquafina bottle water. The second prize at the event went to Jimoh Ogun­dare, who earned a business class ticket to a five-star hotel in Kigali, Rwanda; while the third went to Tony Onwu for a weekend stay at the swanky Marriott Hotel, Lagos. In his address at the dinner held to round off the event, Ikeja Golf Club captain, Mr. Taiwo Joda, thanked DStv and and Pepsi for supporting the tournament. He urged them to adopt the Ikeja Golf Club as the primary location for the DStv Premium Golf tournament. Head of Marketing, Mul­tiChoice Nigeria, Mr. Tope Osunkeye, congratulated the participants for a successful outing and assured the Ikeja Golf Club of his company’s commitment to the partner­ship. “We are happy to be inti­mately involved with Ikeja Golf Club. We hope to contin­ue to expand the scope and di­versity of this event and like you can see the SuperSport channel is present. We hope to continue to forge this part­nership,” Osunkeye said. he Chief Marketing Manag­er, 7up Bottling Company, Nor­den Thurston, also expressed delight at being associated with the event. “The reason we are here is because we believe so much in partnerships and friendships. We have had a strong partner­ship with DStv for a number of years sponsoring Big Brother Naija. “More importantly, Pepsi wants to grow a partnership with the Ikeja Golf Club. So, I hope this is one of the many events we are going to have here,” said Thurston. POLL He added that his compa­ny’s values align with Ikeja Golf Club’s motto “Half a cen­tury of growing friendships through Golf”. Pepsi also announced a special prize, 12-month supply of Pepsi and Aquafina bottle water, to be given to Mrs. Edna Aguslo who emerged winner of the Nearest to the Pin cat­egory (female) and Ladies category.