At least 10 killed, five Egyptians, 4 French tourists and a Belgian in a collision that took place between a tourist bus and a truck on the Abu Simbel Aswan road on Wednesday. Fourteen others — eight French and six Belgians — were taken to hospital with “broken bones, bruises and superficial injuries” but all were in a stable condition, the governor of the southern province of Aswan said. Maj. Gen. Ashraf Attia, Governor of Aswan, moved to the hospital to check on the 14 tourists who sustained wounds due to the accident. Attia supervised the provision full medical care and first aid to the injured, whose injuries ranged from fractures, bruises and superficial wounds. The necessary x-rays and medical examinations were conducted for them, as they were transferred by 35 ambulances equipped with medical teams of doctors and paramedics. The accident occurred in early morning when the bus collided with a truck as it was transporting the tourists on the 300 kilometre road journey between Aswan and the famed Abu Simbel Aswan temple further south. The cause of the crash was not immediately clear. Many bodies were charred, and the injured suffered from burns, bruises and fractures, according to a health official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief the media. Footage that circulated online showed a tourist bus in flames with people trying to put out the fire. “A guest is dying inside,” one person was heard screaming.The bus in the video bore the logo of state-owned Misr Travel. The Cairo-based agency did not respond to a request for comment. POLL Wednesday’s accident came five days after a bus crashed on a highway near the Red Sea, killing three including two Polish tourists. Road accidents are relatively common in Egypt, where many roads are in disrepair and traffic regulations frequently ignored. Some 7,000 people died in road accidents in the country in 2020, according to official figures. The Abu Simbel temple was moved from its original location in the 1960s under the rule of president Gamal Abdel Nasser to make way for the construction of the Aswan High Dam.