Ngozi Uma Experts in science and technology has tasked officials in the field of science and technology in the country to be innovative on the use of available science equipments and raw materials to enhance productivity and halt importation of daily consumables. The experts, Reesource Persons at the Federal Government’s capacity building workshop for technical and science officials noted that innovation should be a tradition among the officials. The workshop held at the vocational Skills and Entrepreneurship Study Centre (VSESC) the Polytechnic Ibadan, was organised by the Federal Science Equipment Centre (FSEC) Ijanikin, Lagos. The participants drawn from the staffs of the agency and other institutions, undergo trainings in chemical re-engineering, equipment maintenance management and solar panel development to broaden skills and for them to teach others in their various areas of influence. Speaking at the event, Prof. Oyetunji Akinlabi, Head, Department of Metallagical and Materials Engineering, Federal University of Technology Akure, Ondo State said that improved inputs to processes grantees products with advanced market edge. Akinlabi, an Engineer and Resource Person who delivered a paper on “Technical Manual”, urged participants to activate their trouble-shooting mechanism and use locally available materials to enhanced the nation’s productivity. According to him the country’s much needed ndustrial revolution is dependent on the technical known how of people especially youth. POLL “With the country still a net importer of daily consumables should be of concern to everyone of us here to begin to reason for a paradigm shift from that we are used to to innovative disposition. “Science and technology is evolving daily therefore there is every need for us to follow suit by looking inward to development methods that can be optimally useful to us,” he said. Also speaking at the event, another Resource Person Mr Azeez Waheed-Adebayo, said that availability of electricity energy was essential in the real sector. Waheed-Adebayo, delivered a paper on “Renewable Energy, Solar and Inverter System Energy” described solar energy as modules that convert sunlight into electricity. He added that the electricity generated could be either stored or use directly. Solar system were reliable and clean source of electricity that could suit a wide range of applications such as residence, industry, agriculture and livestock. The solar energy expert tasked participants to take advantage of the abundant sunshine in the country and materials to improve the nation’s energy generation for growth. Earlier in the programme, Mr Yekin Ismaila, Director in charge of the FSEC said that the programme was consciously packaged to challenge the instinct of the participants at profering solutions. The director however urged the people to take advantage of the training to broaden their scope and dominate the Nigerian market with locally produced goods.