The former Governorship aspirant and Commissioner for Works, Delta State, Chief James Augoye, has assured Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie House of Representatives aspirant, Rt. Hon. Evelyn Omavowan Oboro Esq., of his support. Augoye, gave the assurance when Rt. Hon. Evelyn Omavowan Oboro Esq., who paid him a consultative visit at his country home in Gbokodo, said when she first requested to visit him, he refused on the ground that it was him (Augoye) that will tell people about her political doggedness. ‘But when she insisted, I obliged her the opportunity. She is someone who believes in a course and goes for it. She is a dogged politician with incredible achievements. I can assure you like we have always done of our full support”, he added. Augoye recalled when he and another constituent visited Abuja and the care she (Oboro) gave them was second to none. “I pray that God Almighty who has been behind your victory will do the same again in the forthcoming primary and general elections. “Rt. Hon. Evelyn Omavowan Oboro Esq., you have my full support, there is no doubt about it”, he reiterated. Earlier, Rt. Hon. Evelyn Omavowan Oboro Esq., told Chief James Augoye and delegates present that she was in the race to further raise the standard of representation of the Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency. The former lawmaker said the visit was to officially inform Augoye of her intention to contest for a seat to represent the Okpe/Sapele/ Uvwie Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives and to seek his support, advice and prayers. She thanked him for the support he had given her when she won the party ticket to contest for the Senate which the party lost during the 2019 general elections for obvious reasons. POLL She noted that the constituency deserved to have the governorship come 2023 since Chief James Onanefe had been Governor from Ethiope Federal Constituency and the Late Senator Felix Ibru from Ughelli North/Ughelli South/Udu Federal Constituency. According to her, “now that we have taken a stand for Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly to be the next Governor of Delta State,” it would not be fair for her to run for the Senate when the Federal Constituency was agitating for the governorship seat. She noted that the state party chairman was also from Sapele Local Government Area while the Speaker of the State House of Assembly who would eventually be the next Governor is from Okpe Local Government Area, but Uvwie the baby Local government Area in the Federal Constituency did not have a major position; hence, her appeal to consider her aspiration. She added that Okpe, Sapele and Uvwie had all held the House of Representatives position twice each, appealing that Uvwie should be considered for the sake of equity. She pointed out that in her first tenure; she attracted a lot of projects which included street lights, water projects, electricity transformers, classroom blocks, health centres and many others. “On human capacity development, people were trained and given starter packs, cars, motorcycles, tricycles, sewing machines, hairdryers, barbing kits, among others. “I also sponsored the Federal University of Petroleum Resources Bill in the House of Representatives and it was eventually signed into law, just as petitions that came to me were adequately treated. “A good example is the Amuakpokpor Community that had oil spill issue with Nigeria Gas Company. When the petition got to my table, I took up the matter and succeeded in ensuring that they paid them in cash while I was still in office. “So, I gave Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency adequate representation. I was able to set a standard that is yet to be beaten by my predecessors and successor,” she added. She promised to set up another standard by bringing more dividends of democracy if voted for in 2023.