MAKURDI – Suspected herdsmen on Thursday invaded Waya community in Jato-aka, Kwande Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, killing about eleven persons, among them, a one year old and three year old child. The two children that were slain by the herdsmen were among a family of five that was wiped out by the herdsmen. Daily Independent learnt that the herdsmen had attacked the community at about 11am, when the farmers were working on their farms. The Chairman, Kwande LGA, Mrs Tartor Chianson who confirmed the incident while speaking with newsmen in Makurdi on Friday said a few days ago the herdsmen had attacked the area, killed some persons and abducted others. One of the locals, Lawrence Akerigba who spoke with us said, “The herdsmen invaded Waya community in Jato Aka at about 11am on Thursday when the victims were on their farms and were killing them silently from one farm to the other. “A family of five were completely wiped out during the attack, including a one year-old and 3 year-old kid; some persons are still missing. “When I heard about the attack, I quickly alerted troops of OPWS and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) who swiftly moved to the scene, but when the Fulani terrorists saw them coming, they abandoned their cattle and fled to unknown destinations.” Chairman, Kwande LGA, Mrs Tartor Chianson who confirmed the killings said, “Over 50 persons have lost their lives (to herdsmen attacks) in the area in the last three months.” POLL But on the Thursday attack, she said, “Mypeople went to the farm on Thursday, because it rained on Wednesday night so they went to prepare the land for planting and they were ambush and killed separately in their farms at Waya community close to Anwase. “So far, we have recovered 8 bodies from the Thursday killings, but the fear of being attacked by the herdsmen who are still in the area has not made it possible for us to go deep to see if we can recover more corpses. “When the incident took place yesterday (Thursday), I reported the incident to the Security Adviser (Col Paul Hembah rtd)who has inturn reported it to Governor Samuel Ortom. “The herdsmen are still in the surrounding bushes, so I reported the matter to the Security Adviser and OPWS, who currently searching for more corpses. I am now on my way to Màkurdi to laise with the Security Adviser to see how we can bury the corpses we have recovered so far.” On an earlier incident, Mrs Chianson said, “The herdsmen came few days ago, and set a lot of houses ablaze, they also kidnapped some other persons, took away their motorcycles and later brought their mutilated bodies and dumped it in their community. “All that they are doing is just to collect our ancestral homes as I speak with you five council wards are under seige, they include Mbachura, Kumakwagh, Yaav Moon and Mbaikyur.” The Kwande LGA chairman said the corpses have been deposited at themortuary in Jato -Aka. It would be recalled that in what looked like coordinated attacks, herdsmen had recently struck in three LGAs of the state, killing about 25 persons in the process.