The board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation on Saturday met in Lagos to chat the way forward ahead of the 2022 domestic and internationalbasketball season.* The meeting presided over by its President; Engr Musa Kida, lasted fourhours. It provided an opportunity for all members to come togetherphysically to chart a way forward for the next four years as the boardthanked the Federal Government for their usual support towards developing sports in Nigeria. While addressing journalists, he disclosed that things have started takingshape with the domestic activities set to tip-off after the traditionalstakeholders’ meeting. *“The fact that we can meet today and the Secretary-General who is aministry staff is here and the Assistant SG is also here means that theministry is already participating in what we do. Going forward, I think itis much brighter than we have experienced in the past, where we are going to have the desired collaboration with the ministry to execute ourprograms”.* *The federation maintained that it has no intention of contesting orcompeting with the Ministry of Sports in carrying out its statutoryfunctions as the supervisory body but is focused on working out a seamless synergy to accelerate basketball development and growth in Nigeria.* “I will want to make it clear that we, as a board, have no interestwhatsoever in contesting with the ministry in its sphere of statutoryinfluence.” “They have their supervisory and statutory job to do by way of supervising bodies like us but they have allowed us to constitute ourselves into federations that can run these activities within the territory of the country”, Kida said. “I do think we are helping them deliver on basketball development in thecountry. Going forward, I think the proof is very evident, we are all onboard here.” POLL Present at the meeting were Engr Musa Kida (President), Babs Ogunade (Vice President), Adamu Jalong (North Central Representative), Olumide Oyedeji (South West Representative), Ugo Udezue (South East Representative), Prof Musa Yakassai (NapherSD), Felix Awogu (Sponsors Representative) and Victor Okoro (Military and Para-Military Representative). The trio of Col. Samuel Ahmedu (International Representative), Prof.Florence Adeyanju (NAWISS Representative), and Alhaji Abba Kaka Abdulkadir (North East Representative) all joined via zoom. 