Soft drink giants, Pepsi, have announced sponsorship support for the second edition of the DStv Premium Golf Day. The event will be held at the Ikeja Golf Club on 23 April. This was disclosed in a statement released in Lagos on Monday by the organisers. According to Flykite Productions, the event organisers, over a hundred golfers from golf clubs across the country, will participate at the event, where golfers will play with only four clubs and a putter and winners will emerge via a stroke play format. Flykite Productions also disclosed that the first prize at the event is a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend stay at a fivestar hotel, while the second prize is a business class ticket to Kigali, Rwanda, for a weekend stay at five-star hotel. The third prize is a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Lagos. Mr. Akin Areola, Chairman, 2nd edition of DStv Premium Golf Day Organising Committee, expressed delight at the sponsorship support provided by DStv and Pepsi, saying it marks them out as genuine supporters of sports in general, golf in particular as well as healthy living in the country. “We especially delighted that these corporate giants, DStv and Pepsi, are supporting this event. It is a bold sign that they are committed to the development of sports in general and golf in particular. It also indicates that they are committed to the promotion of healthy living and are shining examples that other corporate organisations should follow. POLL DStv and Pepsi, it is important to say, have always been prominent supporters of various sports in the country,” said Areola, who is also a former captain of Ikeja Golf Club. Giving reasons for DStv’s sponsorship of the event, Tope Osunkeye, Head of Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, said golf is a sport that is popular among DStv Premium subscribers, who have access to the world’s most glamorous golf tournaments via a dedicated channel. General Manager, Marketing (Beverages), Seven- Up Bottling Company. Mr. Segun Ogunleye, described Pepsi’s involvement in the DStv Premium Golf Day as another step in the company’s contribution to sports in Nigeria.