While the 2023 presidential race is understandably a crowded field with so many people sig­naling their intentions to suc­ceed President Muhammadu Buhari, it is however quite clear that not many of them are presidential materials because they glar­ingly lack what it takes to be elected as the President of the Federal Republic of Nige­ria, especially at this crucial moment that is characterised by seemingly intractable problems of insecurity, economic distress and overwhelming social discontents that are generating mutual suspicion and con­flictual, if not bloody, inter-groups relation­ships in the land. If the 2023 presidential election is going to hold much promise for Nigeria, now is the time to begin to seek out a leader who does not suffer from too many of the polit­ical ailments that is presently plaguing the political class. In view of the abysmal failure of the APC-led government in several areas of modern governance, it would be a hard sell for the party to want to rule Nigeria any further, at least immediately after Buhari. Unfortunately, Nigerians do not have viable alternatives because the PDP, that is now angling to take over from the ruling APC is not in any way different from the APC espe­cially in terms of character and capacities. Afterall, majority of those running APC today are former members of the PDP who shamelessly jumped ship when the weight of their political transgressions was push­ing the PDP into electoral abyss. So, it is re­alistically impossible to separate the PDP from APC unless for those with short and perverted political memory. Choosing a leader in our present circum­stances cannot be a question of which party the particular candidate belongs. It should, instead, be based purely on the character and resume of the individual candidates. That is where the Osinbajo narrative be­comes very decisive in 2023. I should also make it clear that there are two critical is­sues involved in the making of a President in a proper democratic setting, namely, Eli­gibility and Electability. These two elements must be present before a candidate can say he is running for an elective position even though it is a practical psychological reality that every candidate considers himself a winner irrespective of the realities in the field. That is why the 11th of April 2023 early morning declaration by the Vice-President Osinbajo for the race is a major source of hope that carries with it the possibility of eventually changing the current frightening trajectory of Nigeria into a positive trend for the long overdue rebirth of this country in the critical area of qualitative leadership. Some may ask: Is he not a part and parcel the present administration? The reality that we face today in Nigeria dictates that we need a person who has not soiled his hands with corruption. Unfortunately, many of those angling for the Presidency have pending corruption cases before the EFFC. Nigeri­ans are not going to vote for contestants who through their past nefarious activities have made their lives miserable. Today, we shall briefly highlight ten (10) key factors that we strongly believe make the presidential ambition of Prof Yemi Osinba­jo legitimate contrary to what the nattery nabobs of negativism might be saying. The time has come for a decisive re-set of the Nigerian dream that has been faltering and fledgling for a while. VP Osinbajo’s aspira­tion is definitely one of the reassurances ur­gently needed at this very time of communal despondency and collective lamentations – a healing intervention. Factor No. 1: Vice-President Yemi Osin­bajo is by virtue of the law and political re­alities of Nigeria eminently qualified to be the next President as a matter of right which does not need the paternalistic approval of anyone. In the emerging presidential contest for 2023 so far, he is well ahead of many of his co-competitors who have over the years amassed enormous burdensome baggage due to their corruption-infested politics of the past. Even though he has also been in government like the rest, Osinbajo excep­tionally represents that much-sought-after “clean break” from the wayward practices of the past because he has not soiled his hands or marred his personal integrity. Factor No.2: Nigeria has for long been yearning for a leader who approximates, by virtue of his learning and erudition, to what Plato called the Philosopher-King, an intellectually endowed leader. This nation­wide desire is understandable in view of the universal awareness that the educational level of a leader invariably determines the scope and extent of his dreams, aspirations and accomplishments. In this connection, the exploit of Lee Kwan Yew, a Cambridge educated lawyer who transformed Singa­pore from a pitiable backwater City-state into being one of the prosperous nations of the world while his less-educated peers in other countries ran their nations aground is illustrative. POLL Factor No. 3: Electability and Nation-wide Acceptance. Osinbajo’s amiable personal reputation as a hardworking and thorough individual has endeared him to millions of Nigerians across the length and breadth of the country. He is unquestionably cosmopol­itan, urbane and open minded. Factor No. 4: His relative youthfulness and good health is a plus. Giving the bitter experiences of Nigeria in electing aged and ailing candidates, there is now unanimity amongst Nigerians that they will avoid such medically vulnerable candidates in the fu­ture. Lucky for Osinbajo, unlike many oth­ers, he is both physically and mentally fit. Factor No. 5: Nigerians have had the opportunity to consider and decide on the moral and operational qualities of Osinba­jo and there has been no personal blemish observed. The few occasions he acted for his boss clearly revealed his governing acumen and a demonstrable commitment to account­ability unlike the hanky-panky modality which is the traditional stock-in-trade of most politicians. Factor No. 6: He is patriotic and without any proven moral, ethical, constitutional and social encumbrances against him. He has safely walked around the ubiquitous ‘Banana-Peels’ that have undone some of his processors-in-office. This much even his reticent boss has severally and openly attested to. Factor No. 7: On-the-Job Experience. There is no Nigerian, dead or alive, that has been so exposed at the highest echelons of executive power play who has never actual­ly occupied the office of President. He has been vigorously tested and has discharged himself as diligently and competently as possible. If we now truly desire a person eminently capable of steering the wobbling ship of State to safe harbour, VP Osinbajo would be that proverbial “bird at hand” that is worth more than a dozen in the nation’s political forest. Factor No. 8: Humility. In spite of his remarkable achievements in both his aca­demic and professional careers, Osinbajo has remained perpetually himself and down to earth. He does not garrulously flaunt his personality and influence as most other pol­iticians are wont to do, the quintessential “Man of the people”. Factor No. 9: Preparedness. Unless we chose to ignore the obvious, after success­fully serving as Vice-President and for that long, what really is next for him in the con­stitutional organogram of Nigerian lead­ership? Unlike former VP Abubakar Ati­ku who continually battled with his boss, President Obasanjo, Osinbajo is the exact opposite and there is no condition under which Buhari would, in good faith, write a negative reference against Osinbajo’s candidacy. There is therefore a legitimate expectation that after serving meritoriously as Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for that long, the next logical aspi­ration is to become President. Factor No. 10. Moral and Ethical Stand­ing. Prof Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, is a man who serves and fears God. What else does Nigeria needs from a leader at this moment of un­certainty than someone who is committed to the service of all God’s children as a matter of faith? Time will tell.