Alhaji Idi Farouk is a former Director General of National Orientation Agency(NOA). In this interview with Juliet Oyoyo, he bares his mind on the agitation for zoning ahead of the 2023 general elections. Excerpts: Sir, you are one of the very prominent indigenes of Kaduna state, you must be aware of the happenings that have been taking place there. What is your advice, especially as it concerns security issues in the state? Unfortunately, it is not only in Kaduna state that you have these challenges. Insecurity abounds all over Nigeria, Kaduna inclusive. One of the mistakes the constitution has done, is giving the governors the title of Chief Security Officer, so to speak but, you really cannot be Chief Security Officer, without troops. You have no control over the Police and the Army and their position is therefore, made very uncomfortable for them. The advice that I have to give is that, I will wish that the federal government does more in the area of security. They came in, on the bases of solving problems including that of security but it seems that they are not doing well at all, as you can see. Therefore, my advice is not to the governor of Kaduna state or, to any governor for that matter but to the federal government, to do what it ought to do. if it needs more troops, employ. You cannot sit down and say that the governors are Chief Security Officers and yet, they cannot give any directives. They cannot even employ the services of contractors or mercenaries. They do not have the powers to do so even if they want to do so. Therefore, my advice is to the federal government. Recently, there have been calls for the zoning of the Presidency, to the South, especially to the southeast region. What is your take? I do not want to hear about this issue of zoning. If we are building a democracy and, you are into the game of taking over power from the other, this call does not even arise. I think that the people calling for it are non-actors in the field of politics. How can the APC and the PDP meet and agree on where their candidates should come from? They are opposition to each other. Therefore, that call is unimportant. I just pray that the parties do what is right for themselves so that they can be in a good position to lead; the APC to regain power and for the PDP to take over power. When the nation returned to democratic rule in 1999, was there any gentleman’s agreement on zoning? I hope you know that in APC, there was no zoning agreement in the APC Constitution. The zoning is in the PDP and, even if that should be the case, the last President from the PDP was from the south. Therefore, this matter is unimportant. POLL Actually, I do not even like to comment on it because, it is not political thinking and it is not even political, talking about it either. Many youths from the north have decried the economic downturn in the north especially as it concerns youth empowerment in the region. Do you share their view? It is not only the north. The economic empowerment is universal. The poverty situation; a poor man in the north and a poor man in the south, are the same people. It affects everyone. This government came in because they promised that they are going to improve on the economy. It is unfortunate that they have not done either of the things they promised. It is not a matter of northern or southern youths or youths from any section of the country. No, it is not. Everybody cries! It is not only the northern youths that have been crying, but also everyone. I hope you understand. The federal government should be up and doing in its responsibilities to us as citizens. How do you think that the northern youths can be empowered to go more into agriculture? The truth about it is that, I am not calling on northern youths to go into agriculture but I am calling on Nigerian youths, to go into agriculture. I hope you understand me. It is also a business. They should see it as a business. The more they put in their energy into agriculture, the better it is for them and for us. As you note, farming population is aging. Your parents, most likely, could have been farmers but it is likely that you opted out and embraced journalism. That is what that has affected every Nigerian home. While the parents and grandparents were farmers, their offspring went into other areas of endeavours. Do you agree with the zoning issue especially now that there are agitations from the south east which many say will put a stop to the issue of insecurity in the region? May be, your best might be from another region than the other region all together. So, we have to pray to God to guide us right in making decisions. I am not for heating up the polity with zoning or no zoning. People should appreciate it and they keep saying the north has had it for 8 years under Buhari. Yes, the APC north, has had it for eight years that is the fact. It is not the PDP north or the APGA or the other parties. we should be able to note this and, if they are going to the PDP; assuming, if they like, the last president from the PDP was from the south, if you are talking about zoning. But I am not for zoning. The north, under the PDP has had power for two years with Umaru Musa Yar’adua (may his soul rest in peace). I am not for that either. I am not for a northern candidate neither am I for a southern candidate. I am for a candidate that is for Nigeria and certainly, this thing is about marriage. Political parties are set to take power. It is my belief that, if I put up my party, APC that I will do best for Nigeria and the people will follow me there and some will follow you. At the end of the day, the electorate should decide but not on the basis of religion or tribe or any other issue but only on the basis of these people coming together. Look at the field as it is; Tinubu turned the economy of Lagos and they call Lagos the 4th largest economy. He is good. Peter Obi is an economist doing very well. He did very well for Anambra state. Atiku and Kwankwaso also have done very well. You have to look at their antecedents, for God’s sake, on the basis of who should take it. Therefore, am I for zoning? I am not for zoning. I am for choosing the best candidate that can do the job and, even if it comes to zoning, the south, should be talking about zoning, the APC does not have zoning in its programmes but I guess that they have a gentleman’s agreement that I do not know about and it is only the PDP that believes in zoning between the north and the south. And, it was going well until it was truncated by former president Goodluck Jonathan and that is why you have the north, doing only two years and the south, four. And if you are talking about the Igbo president, excuse me, I was in APP, the All Peoples Party, and in Kaduna, in 1999, the candidate of the APP chosen by the party was Ogbonnaya Onu. I want Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu to come and explain to me why he did not go into the election. The Igbos were coming, who wanted Ekwueme, were becoming unhappy and we were calling on them to come to this side. Before we know it, something had happened. Ogbonnaya did not contest election to which, I do not know why and I am sure that not all the APP people know why. Therefore, nobody has ever denied the Igbos from being president. Ogbonaya Onu, check your records, was the candidate elected. They did not allow Olusola Saraki to contest. He was denied, even to be an aspirant. As you know, the aspirant is the one who will go and pay money and when you win, you are then the candidate. They did not even allow him to be an aspirant. That again, we do not know why. Because of that, Ogbonaya Onu was voted for, in the convention. So, who has stopped the Igbos? In Jos, Plateau state, Ekwueme should have been the person that was the candidate. He had Mallam Adamu Ciroma, Lawal Kaita were all behind him. His campaign manager was Ali Baba, Dan Madami Yola; one of the finest political architects. Instead, it was given to Obasanjo. Why? It was because, some of the Igbos preferred Obasanjo. Then, they included Nwobodo and others and then, campaigned against Ekwueme. There has never been a time when the Igbos have been denied. This is just a statement of fact. 