Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has signed the Executive Order aimed at providing a minimum required 35% representation for women in both government and politics. The governor signed the Order in the presence of the Minister for Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen, wife of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mrs. Salamatu Gbajabiamila and wives of Ogun, Lagos, Kwara State governors, as well as representative of the wife of Osun governor. The action was taken during the flag-off of the relaunch of Oko’wo Dapo Scheme, in collaboration with Nigeria For Women Project (NFWP), held at the M.K.O Abiola International Stadium, Abeokuta, Friday evening. He declared that with the signing of the Executive Order, women in Ogun would have equal opportunities to achieve their aspirations as well explore their full potential through the establishment of the Ogun State Women Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Role. “Today, I will be signing the Executive Order. This Executive Order will be the high point of today’s activity and it is to demonstrate our commitment to the total and complete emancipation of women in Ogun State. “The Executive Order is for the establishment of the Ogun State Women Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Role. This will ensure that we have the minimum required representatives of women not just only in government, but also in politics”, the Governor explained. Abiodun explained that empowering women is not a favour to their gender, but one of the vast approaches towards achieving a Sustainable Economic Development, adding that financial independence was important for women who had historically been marginalised. He disclosed that the state government would support over 100,000 women under the Nigeria for Women Project (NFWP), which was test run in the local government areas of Odeda, Yewa North and Ijebu-North East. He added that the programme would be extended to the remaining 17 local government areas of the state. Abiodun noted that the project conceived by the World Bank in conjunction with five other states with the support of the Federal Government, is focusing on taking women in the state into affinity groups which is the lowest level in the community.