Chief Martin Onovo, an engineer and seasoned politician, is the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and currently Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the frighten dimension the acts of terror has taken in the country, even as he touched other crucial issues in the polity. Excerpt: How do you see the recent terrorist attack on Abuja-Kaduna bound train and the attempt on Kaduna airport, bearing in mind the efforts of the Federal Government and security agencies to end terror? The efforts are cosmetic and deceitful. There are no real efforts to end terror in the country. Even the Governors’ Forum has stated that it is a failure of governance. The following facts must be noted particularly; the terrorists are Fulani and Muhammadu Buhari is Fulani. The terrorists were brought in from Mali, Sierra Leone, etc. by the ruling party and Buhari is the Leader of the ruling party. The terrorists are land grabbing and the Buhari presidency has repeatedly requested for lands for the terrorists. The terrorists are well funded from diverse sources including from ransoms paid by the Buhari regime, Gov. Nasir El-Rufai and many victims. Our Armed Forces are conniving with the terrorists that are killing citizens and Buhari is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Terrorists that were arrested and some that surrendered are being rehabilitated by the government, but their victims are abandoned at subhuman and overcrowded IDP camps. Brig. Sani Usman (rtd) confirmed on national TV that the Armed Forces have the capacity to overwhelm the terrorists. El-Rufai and Sheik Gumi both confirmed publicly and independently that the terrorist camps are known to security forces. We can simply ask our Armed Forces why they have not surrounded the camps to force the terrorists to surrender. We can also ask our Air Force why it has not bombed all the known camps of these terrorists. We must remember that many victims and Gen T.Y. Danjuma (rtd) have confirmed that the Armed Forces are conniving with these terrorists that some prefer to call bandits. Please, remember that. Buhari is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. We must remember that the Nigeria Police in Plateau State recovered a Nigerian military rifle No. HC2614 from a herdsman that was arrested. Also, Nigerian military rifles were recovered from the terrorist Fulani that were repelled when they attacked communities in Ogoja. We must ask ourselves how these Fulani terrorist acquire weapons from the Nigerian Army. As confirmed by Brig. Sani Usman (rtd), Commodore Olawuni (rtd) and many other military experts, our military has the capacity, but there is no sincerity of purpose. Therefore, it is very clear that there is no real effort to end terror in the country. On the contrary, there is great effort to secure lands for the terrorists and rehabilitate them. DCP Abba Kyari was involved in a drug scandal in addition to his case with the FBI concerning Hushpuppi. Based on Kyari’s example, what is your view on the integrity of the nation’s top security agents? Evidence abounds that many top security officers in Nigeria are very corrupt, particularly in the Nigeria Police. Earlier, we had the case of the former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr.Tafa Balogun. Recently, we had the cases of the former EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, and DCP Abba Kyari. We are all aware of the fraudulent multi-billion US Dollar procurement of military equipment by the Nigeria Army. After we have spent over N4 trillion on the defence ministry in the last few years, we have not seen any significant operational improvements. Insecurity is still growing and spreading to more states. How do you see the characters that have so far emerged as presidential aspirants in political parties? Mr. Peter Obi and a few other good aspirants declared after Barrister Dele Farotimi had described the earlier aspirants as representing a ‘gallery of rogues’. His Excellency, former President Olusegun Obasanjo had also insisted about the same time that many of the aspirants would have been in prison if the EFCC and ICPC were very effective. We agree with both former President Obasanjo and Barrister Farotimi. We are aware that many good candidates are still consulting and will soon declare. We are optimistic that Nigeria will get a few good candidates to choose from, even if the corrupt candidates remain in the race. Comrade Omoyele Sowore recently declared his interest in the 2023 presidential election under his party, AAC. How widespread and formidable would you say his structure is to give him victory, bearing in mind that he has been judicially confined to Abuja and is undergoing trial for treason charges? POLL Mr. Sowore is a courageous, experienced and brilliant politician and activist. However, he has many barriers and constraints, including his trial for treason and confinement to Abuja. We are convinced that he will have to review his interest strategically soon and align with others to achieve the same objectives of good governance that he desires. Would you say that the Nigerian youths are ready to take their political destiny in their hands? They are willing, but they are not ready. Public activities organisation is critical to success. They must first get organised, but that is very difficult considering the costs and the prevalent lack of integrity and trust in Nigeria. We wish that they had used the opportunity of the #EndSARS protests to get organised nationally after the protests were brutally dispersed. How do you see the recent court decision ordering the Attorney General of the Federation to delete a certain part of the recently signed Electoral Act that has to do with the participation of appointed public officers in party primaries? It is a High Court decision. The National Assembly has decided to appeal against the decision. So, we must be patient till the courts finally determine the issues. With the number of presidential aspirants that have emerged from the South, how serious would you say the South is to produce the next president? Southern Nigeria should produce the next president as a matter of justice and as a matter of democracy. Southern Nigeria is most definitely serious and able to produce the next president. There are no saints here on earth. Saints are in heaven. The best you can get on earth are aspiring saints. According to His Excellency, the late Alhaji Balarabe Musa, every local government area in Nigeria can present a suitable candidate for the position of the president of Nigeria. So, Southern Nigeria has too many suitable candidates and some like Mr. Peter Obi have declared their interest in the position. Naturally, the process will produce many candidates and we will choose whom we prefer, if the elections are not rigged. We must note that most elections from the pre-independence elections conducted by our colonial masters to the 2019 presidential elections were rigged. Therefore, we must all individually and collectively as good citizens, take all appropriate steps to check rigging. The new Electoral Act, with its provision for the e-transmission of election results from polling units, creates a good opportunity to check rigging at collation centres. What is your take on the ongoing protracted ASUU strike? What does it say of the government’s attitude towards education in the country? The protracted ASUU strike that has continued is a confirmation of how irresponsible we have become as a country. While the executive arm of the Federal Government irresponsibly ignores ASUU, the National Assembly is silent on the issue and then, the mass media that is constitutionally required to hold the government accountable has not prioritised the ASUU strike and the phenomenal cost to national development. The greatest resource on earth is the human resource and we neglect the development of our own human resources and yet, we expect to be able to compete in the world. How? ‘My people perish for lack of knowledge’ – Hosea 4:6. We clearly cannot afford to ignore the accumulated cost of the ASUU strike on national development in Nigeria. But, with an unpatriotic and destructive government, we must suffer consequences of this avoidable strike and the massive corruption, the insecurity and the economic ruin that the Buhari regime has brought to us. What a country! What a people! When will you make your own presidential declaration and on which platform? Making a presidential declaration for a serious candidate is a very big issue and is not the decision of one person. We must look before we leap. If eventually we have to make a declaration, it will be at the right time and on the right platform. We are conducting our strategic assessments of the current situation and the likelihood of our electoral victory.