Saheed Ajadi is an Ibadan born international renewable energy expert, an accountant and a humanitarian psychologist. Ajadi was the Accord Party guber-candidate in Oyo State at the 2019 general elections. In this interview with KAZEEM AWOJOODU, the technocrat, who is still contesting for governorship under the same party in 2023, talks about his zeal to transform Oyo State into ‘paradise on earth’ within four years. He also talks about Asiwaju Tinubu’s chances of becoming the next Nigeria President among other sundry issues. Excerpts: You once contested for governor in 2019 under Accord Party, are you contesting again and why? It is because we have seen over the years what this present government has been able to offer us and we have also seen the lapses and there is need for us to act quickly before it is too late for Oyo State. I intend to run on the platform of Accord Party just like I did in 2019, because I do not believe in hobnobbing and adding no values. We have to put value into the system, that is why I’m in Accord Party. We established Accord Party in 2010 and by the grace of God, we are still waxing stronger. Your reasons for contesting and why you’re in politics? The reason why I’m in politics basically is to serve my people and the reality is that we have seen a lot of things that are aberrations in government. I’m a business man, I run a company and I’m a renewable energy expert.  I’m a project manager and an accountant, and also I’m a humanitarian psychologist. All these were learnt in order to serve the people of Oyo State and Nigeria at large. My call is accounting but I had to do my masters degree in humanitarian psychology in order to understand how to govern. We have seen governance and we have seen example through Lagos State in transformational leadership. However, we have not seen the followership act in the way they ought to act. So, we have seen that we have to mentor leadership so that the followership will understand their roles and responsibilities. In what areas do you think this present administration in the state is lacking that you think you can amend if you’re given the opportunity to serve? Firstly, we need to address the insecurity in the state. Currently, the state government is investing the state funds in buying vehicles for Amotekun and establishment of Amotekun and all that. If you fail to plan, you will plan to fail. Having vehicles is not the solution to the security; it is about having proper plan and infrastructure for our security personnel. If there is no adequate security, there will not be peace and if there is no peace there will be no progress and the state will not develop. POLL For instance, if you’re giving a vehicle to security personnel without a proper security training, things will not work out perfectly. This is because we have to train people properly for them to be able to understand what the security is all about. You’re giving people guns but they do not understand what the security entails. We’ve seen the state of day light robbery, kidnapping and others in the state and this is on the increase on a daily basis yet we’re buying vehicles. What is the purpose of those vehicles, because recently the governor just bought hundred vehicles for the Amotekun that don’t even know how to tackle crime. Secondly, we need to look inwardly into the economy of the state. I have been able to chronicle the economy of the state. When we were debating in 2019, the governor of Oyo State suddenly stood up and said he had an appointment and the question that was asked then is about governance. He was not there to listen, someone that doesn’t know the loan profile of Oyo State cannot be insisting in governing the state. It’s so sad, and unfortunately we are here. We have been able to keep quiet for three years. It is time as INEC has told us to come out and I will say we don’t have any economic growth nor development in Oyo State, so what have we done in three years so far? The questions is that what have they been able to contribute so far in last three years for the aged, the middle men, for the youths, for the professionals, and others? What hope have they given the downtrodden, the poor masses? I drive around Oyo State, especially Ibadan everyday and our people have turned to beggars to feed, and the agrarian state like our own we expect that the fore bearings of our forefathers like Awolowo would have been worked upon to develop our agricultural values but it’s unfortunate we have not even seen any scratch. If we produce in excess of our needs, then we will have more than enough to eat and there will be no inflation, and that is the part of policy they are lacking. Next year 2023, Nigerians will be choosing who will rule them for the next four years. Who do you think is the most qualified presidential candidate so far among all the present contenders? Nigerians must love themselves, they must start working for the development of the country right from their various homes. Parents must go back to teach their kids morals, values and purpose. If you throw caution into the wind, the future is bleak. That is why the likes of us are in politics today to serve, and the only person that has served among all these people contesting for president is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He is a transformational leader, he has been able to show the leadership in Lagos State and now Lagos State is on auto pilot. Believe it or not, bring anybody to Lagos as governor, he will succeed because there is a benchmark. Unlike Oyo State, here where we are just giving contract to someone to print a notebook at the rate of N2,100 each, the three companies that bided for this contract are same people. We know about all these because we are concerned about the future of Oyo State and our people. That is why I want to take power from the current governor in the state so we can teach them how to govern. I’m ready to serve this state. If the people give me the chance of only four years, I will turn this state to heaven. Just four years, I will not seek for more than four years. Our people will be begging me to stay beyond that four years, they will be the one that will tell me to continue, four years is enough to transform the state, to make any meaningful development. Why did you pick Asiwaju over the rest contenders jostling for presidency? Let’s take Lagos State, for instance. Today, Lagos is the only progressing state, and it’s because Asiwaju and his team then left a standard, a blueprint and that is exactly what we need at the national level. Someone that can do it better, someone that can make use of intellectuals to turn things around. Whoever that doesn’t have the standard should not be part of them. We need someone that has the capacity to lead us to promised land and Asiwaju has that intellectual capacity to lead us right. He knows how to manage people, he knows how to bring out the best in them. He knows how to source for the best, we need people that can make things happen. There are so many solutions to our problems. Please in 2023, let us think very well by voting foe the right people that can lead us alright.