A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Hon Yaaqub Olugbenga Daranijo has decried the alleged poor global rating of Nigeria’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) under the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government. Daranijo, the PDP aspirant for Ikeja Federal Constituency in a statement made available to Daily Independent on Sunday said that the Ikeja Federal constituency has never had a good and quality representative that truly represents the people in the last decade. The PDP man said that he is very confident that he will be given the mandate to represent the People’s Democratic Party as her candidate in the general elections next year. According to him ” the current occupier, Hon. James Faleke only represents himself and not the people of Ikeja, alleging that Faleke’s preoccupation has been jockeying for positions between Lagos and Kogi State. It is no longer news that Ikeja residents are not sure if he represents them or not.” The House of Representatives hopeful, however, said that the constituency cannot afford an elusive representative any longer. He said the core of his legislative activities will focus on women, youths, children, and the physically challenged. He said “How can you explain that this constituency has anyone representing us in Abuja with the level of impoverishment, poverty, and lack of government impact here? In all honesty, Hon. James Faleke may be representing himself and his godfathers definitely, not us”. Daranijo said the people of the constituency are yearning for true representatives and he has offered himself to lead them out of the woods. “ Obviously, the Hon is now preoccupied with the Presidential bid of some of his leaders rather than facing the rigours of representing his constituency. Enough is enough!” POLL Asked Daranijo why is the nation’s global SDG rankings are still so unimpressive after 8 years of APC rule. According to him, he has promised to be an advocate for the actualization of the Sustainable Development Goals and upon resumption of office in 2023 he will be called “Mr SDG”. The PDP chieftain said if given the opportunity, power will be truly given to the people and not any power cabal and that development will be even across the constituency as he intends to be very vocal in advocating government presence in Ikeja. He urged the delegates and leaders of the party in Ikeja LGA to give him the opportunity to lead the rebirth of the constituency by voting en-mass for him at the primary elections coming up in less than a month’s time.