BAUCHI – The Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has said that the establishment of the Court of Appeal in the state will assist in hastening the dispensation of justice thereby reducing taking cases to neighbouring states, namely Plateau or Gombe. The Governor who made the call while hosting High Court Judges, Sharia Court of Appeal Judges and other principal officers of the state judiciary on a Ramadan breakfast held at Government House, Bauchi, stated that his administration was ready to support of the project in the state. “Bauchi deserves to have the Court of Appeal in order to be able to enforce and enshrine the dispensation of justice in a manner that would be conducted within a timeline” “Bauchi is one of the most populated states in Northern Nigeria where we have a lot of migrants, increased in population and therefore we are advocating to have one in our State to reduce our volume of judicial cases” . “I believe that, Mr President will listen to us, Judicial Council and the CJN for the people of the state to have the opportunity to get quick and speedy dispensation of justice”he said The Governor who welcomed the reforms being introduced in the judiciary, promised to support the move and other needed facilities especially official vehicles for Judges and conducive working environment for better service delivery and for the image and integrity of the judicial arm of government. On his earlier engagement with PDP stakeholders across the 20 local government areas of the state during the Ramadan breakfast, Governor Bala Mohammed expressed satisfaction that his all inclusive approach in governance is yielding positive results. “I am very happy that we are enshrining good governance, collaboration, community engagement with local government stakeholders, judiciary and the parliament so that we can serve the people of the state well who voted us into office” . POLL “My discussion with them is part of the effort towards ensuring inclusive governance, fostering security, understanding, communication and feedback and I have become the most accessible Governor because people are happy telling me the truth and is making governance very very easy and I thank God for assisted me to come up with the initiative since I come on board and it is working for me.” ; he said. On his part, the Speaker, the Bauchi State House of Assembly, Abubakar Y Sulaiman called for continued working synergy and understanding between the 3 arms of government for the rapid development of the state. Earlier, the State Grand Khadi, Khadi Umar Liman assured that the judiciary will continue to ensure justice in the discharge of its constitutional duties. He then applauded Governor Bala Mohammed for his support of the judiciary and in particular his respect for the rule of law as contained in a statement by Muktar Gidado, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Bauchi Governor.