LAGOS – Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State  and a presidential hopeful has said that if the All Progressives Congress  (APC) considers consensus as an option during the 2023 presidential primaries, the party will consider him The governor said this during the second annual GYB Seminar for Nigeria’s political and crime correspondents/editors, an annual event sponsored by the governor, with the theme, “Setting the Agenda for 2023” which is taking place in Abuja. Bello said that what informed the choice of the theme is in view of the fast-approaching general elections in the country and the need for the media to shape the process through patriotic, professional and unbiased reportage. The presidential hopeful said that the party needs an experienced and strategic person to win the 2023 presidential election, pointing out that the quality has been found in him. “We have mobilized over 41 million into the party. APC is very strategic and needs an experienced and strategic person and that quality has been found in me.  We need certain qualities to win the election in  2923. APC is aware that youths and women are very vital, and they want that person who can bring them in, a destabilised Nigerian, someone who can speak the language of the youths. If consensus will be the option, APC will consider Yahaya Bello,” he said. The presidential hopeful took time to give an account of his stewardship to journalists drawn from the print and broadcast, across the country, stressing that Kogi  State was once a crime capital in the country but through his leadership, he has been able to change the narratives. “I refused to play politics with insecurity. It is true that the state of security is not what it should be in the country. President Muhammadu Buhari loves the country and no leader will want his country0 destroyed. You can agree with me that he has made some progress. In 2014 we cannot be sitting like this and having this kind of workshop without being afraid of having one bomb or the other detonating. Insecurity didn’t start with President Buhari but was inherited from successive governments. POLL “President Buhari spent a lot of money to buy equipment. He has been able to push Boko Haram to the enclaves. I will not come out here and call out the flaws of the government. If I see any lapses, I will talk to the President personally. Mr. President has been helping me to succeed. If other governors are doing their part and not sit down and pass bulk, there will be an improvement. I have been able to succeed in fighting insecurity in my state and I am sure that other state governors can do the same. The majority of the crimes are politically motivated,” Yahaya Bello said that if he becomes the President he would deploy the use of technology to combat crime, pointing out that sentiments have been the major hindrance to the fight against insecurity. “People sometimes fail to report these criminals because they are from their religion, ethnic group or region. We still use the Nigeria police, Navy and Army to secure Kogi because we have chosen to have a safe environment. When we get criminals we bring them to justice in less than 24 hours. We will use the same template to secure Nigeria,” he said. Dignitaries at the event include former Minister of Aviation,  Femi Fani Kayode, Commissioner of Information in Kogi State, Honourable Kingsley Femi Fanwo, Chief Chris Isiguzo, President Nigeria Union of Journalists, Hallam Mustapha Isa, President Nigeria Guild of Editors and a host of others.