Several people have been injured following a crisis that erupted at Aninri and Nssuka LGA of Enugu State during a meeting of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). It was learned that weapons were freely used by the invading thugs who threw chairs and bottles at Nsukka on Saturday just as women and some others jumped the wall in an attempt to escape. A source who spoke on condition of anonymity told our correspondent that the issue of who represents the people of the Nsukka/Igbo-Eze South in the House of Representatives position was said to have sparked off the crisis during the meeting Also at a political meeting at Ndeaboh in Aniniri LGA, many were critically injured while others were hospitalized following a violent attack during the PDP political meeting. In a swift reaction, Former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, condemned in strong terms the violence that marred the expanded stakeholders meeting of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Aninri Local Government Area (LGA) of Enugu State at the weekend as well as the violent attack on his political supporters and associates during the said meeting at Ndeaboh. Ekweremadu recalled that the attack left many, including the Member representing Aninri State Constituency in the Enugu State House of Assembly, Hon. Chinedu Okwu, critically injured and hospitalised, called on the security agencies to ensure that the culprits were brought to book. In a statement by his media adviser, Mr Uche Anichukwu, on Sunday, Ekweremadu said: “I received with utmost sadness the news of the violence that marred the expanded stakeholders meeting of the PDP in Aninri LGA at the weekend, as well as the brutal attack on my supporters and associates at the said meeting. “The attack, which left many, including the Member representing Aninri State Constituency in the Enugu State House of Assembly, Hon. Chinedu Okwu, critically injured and hospitalised, is at variance with the peace-loving nature of Aninri. Therefore, I condemn in strongest terms this attempt to stoke fire and political violence in our LGA. POLL “I also condemn any attempt to pollute the processes leading up to the 2023 elections in Enugu State with acts of political intolerance, intimidation, violence, and destruction of lives and property. That is not what Ndi Enugu, the Wawa people, is known for. “I, therefore, call on the security agencies and the relevant authorities to swing into action to ensure that the perpetrators and masterminds of this brigandage are fished out and brought to book to serve as a deterrent to future troublemakers. “Meanwhile, my sympathies go to Hon. Chinedu Okwu and many others, sustained various degrees of life-threatening injuries during this act of political brigandage. “However, in the midst of this clear affront and provocation, I urge our teeming supporters and the good people of Aninri and Enugu State to maintain the peace. We have been through this road before and the Good Lord, who saw us through it all, will surely see us through this and to victory, once again”.