Skoda will reveal a brand new design language referred to as Trendy Strong as a part of a brand new positioning that executives say would be the model’s greatest technique shift because the Czech automaker grew to become a part of Volkswagen Group greater than 20 years in the past. Martin Jahn, Gross Sales and Advertising Chief at Skoda, mentioned the model is redefining its positioning and buyer teams — and the change signifies that a “complete design overhaul” is required. “It will probably be the most dramatic change for Skoda because it grew to become a part of Volkswagen Group and can put together the model for the digital and electrical period,” Jahn mentioned throughout Skoda’s annual media convention, recently. Skoda has been a revenue powerhouse for VW in recent times by providing cheaper, bigger and extra sensible vehicles than equivalents from the VW model however its success has introduced it highly effective enemies within the VW Group empire. VW model labour leaders say Skoda is attracting too many potential VW clients and have demanded that the model mustn’t get the most recent expertise from VW, in keeping with German media stories. Herbert Diess, VW Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) has said that he desired to make sure that there’s minimal overlap among the many group’s quantity manufacturers, resulting in fears that Skoda can be compelled to go down-market to compete with finances producers like Dacia. Christian Dahlheim, VW Group’s Gross Sales Chief, said that Skoda won’t compete with Dacia. Skoda will proceed to compete with the French manufacturers and Ford, aiming at clients who search performance from their automobile and aren’t capable of afford larger priced vehicles; Dahlheim mentioned final year throughout a web based presentation to analysts specializing in the positioning of VW Group manufacturers. POLL SUV design teaser Throughout its annual media convention final month, Skoda teased its new look with a blurred image of a chunky Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV)-styled automobile, presumably an idea, with a squared-off grille. Skoda mentioned it’ll reveal its recent styling within the second half. On its Twitter feed, Skoda mentioned it’s “turning its focus in direction of household and out of doors life,” without explaining how the brand new styling will differ from its present design. Skoda gave no indication of which autos will probably be first to make use of the brand new design language, its subsequent launches will probably be three new electrical vehicles positioned under the Enyaq iV full- electrical compact SUV, together with a small automobile. Skoda’s styling for vehicles such because the Octavia, its bestseller, has usually been extra restrained because it seems to be to maximise price efficiencies and put extra emphasis over house than type, though the model’s not too long ago launched Enyaq Coupe iV full-electric SUV presents a particular and daring design. The brand new design language will give clients and rivals alike “an actual wow second,” mentioned departing CEO Thomas Schaefer, who’s leaving the model to move the VW passenger vehicles enterprise. “We wish to align ourselves extra carefully to their (the customers’) life,” Schaefer mentioned. At VW model, Schaefer will succeed Ralf Brandstaetter, who has been promoted to move VW Group’s China enterprise. In his new position, Schaefer will probably be tasked with stopping overlap between the VW Group’s quantity manufacturers whereas discovering extra synergies.