Niger Deltans Campaign For Development and Progressive Governance (NDCDPG) has endorsed Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for President come 2023. The Group, in a statement signed by Comrade Mike JK Tiemo, Comrade Lucky Ohwahwa Ovigue President and Secretary respectively, in conjunction with 28 others and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, stated that Vice President Osinbajo has all it takes to move Nigeria’s economy out of the woods if given the opportunity to become president. Comrade Tiemo, the President of the Good Governance Advocacy Group, who spoke in Warri Delta State during a press conference noted that the nation’s economy rebounded briefly when Osinbajo took over the reins of power as acting President in 2016 and visited the market Women and other people of the low estate without segregation, which in practical terms demonstrated to Nigerians that Osinbajo is a man of the people. The Group President in the press statement assured Nigerians that support for Osinbajo will translate into better dividends of democracy to the grassroots based on his previous visitation to markets and willingness to interact with the people without qualms to know their pains. Tiemo stated that if Osinbajo is given the opportunity to lead Nigeria based on the pedigree of his wealth of knowledge, he will use the people’s mandate to the benefit of all Nigerians at home and in diaspora without any clannish or ethnocentric inclination because Yemi Osinbajo is tested and trusted. Speaking further, Tiemo explained that Osinbajo has done well in the administration, particularly in the area of his recommendation for the establishment of modular refineries in the Niger Delta in order to eradicate illegal bunkering activities so that the crude oil can be refined for the growth and development of the Niger Delta and Nigeria in general. Tiemo described Prof Yemi Osinbajo as the Cicero of Africa, said: “We have seen his intimidating curriculum vitae which made me refer to him as the Cicero of Africa. Indeed he is an embodiment of knowledge who will deploy his cognitive resources to retool and rejig our economy and address other predicaments facing Nigeria in the next dispensation.” Tiemo, who argued that Nigeria will be better with Yemi Osinbajo at the helms of affairs reiterated saying: “When Prof Yemi Osinbajo was acting President, he visited the aggrieved Niger Delta Vengeance, the South-East, the North-East and also the North-West for the unity, peace and development of the nation, we are all witnesses the tour produced positive results.” POLL Continuing, he added: “l urge and enjoin the youths, the women and the general public, particularly, the APC leaders and all parties at home and in the diaspora to support Prof Yemi Osinbajo to achieve the goal as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the overall interest of all Nigerians, come 2023 because he is a generous man who can be trusted to discharge his constitutional obligations and responsibilities with the fear of God.”