ISEGHE AJAYI Relying on a particular source of income in this present economy cannot give you that financial freedom you really desire but other profitable sources of income which could either be your skills/ passion and trading can. That is why it is pertinent not to allow any profitable opportunity of making extra money to elude you to avoid regrets later in life. Also, always ensure to take advantage of business/career seminars that will influence your financial well-being positively. It is significant to enroll in an empowerment or acquisition skills if the opportunity arises especially when you are finding it hard to get a white collar job after graduation to avoid being in financial bondage. Do you know that venturing in to entrepreneurship despite being a paid employee can enhance your earnings? Besides, either you believe it or not, several individuals after retirement delve into entrepreneurship for survival. So, the earlier you venture into it as alternative source of income especially if your monthly take-home is nothing to write about or irregular, the better it will be for you. There is no doubt that it is really the desire of everyone, especially graduates to secure a good white collar job but if it is taking too long to get that dream job, why not engage in skills or passion that excites you the most to make a living. POLL But then, many people do not want to go into entrepreneurship because they have this concept that with a good monthly package, their finances would be secured. The truth of the matter is that there is no security in an income that prohibits you to plan for your financial future. Mind you, you can be relieved of that job anytime and if it occurs, where will you fall back on or start from? That is why while working, you try as much as possible to have an extra source of income, which entrepreneurship proffers and if peradventure, you lose your job, the adverse effect on your financial life will not be devastating because you have something to fall back on. Financial success often results from the capability to successfully run your business and execute a long-term, personal financial strategy. An entrepreneur’s drive to grow his/her business and develop it professionally often surpasses the diligence needed in his personal investing. The following tips if adopted can help you to create wealth through entrepreneurship: Be Patient Several entrepreneurs were opportune to start out in families that instilled integrity, prudence, and hard work. If that is your experience, you can be thankful. But, if not, then it is still within your power to develop those qualities now. Not only, will that make the conditions for your own financial success, it will also be to the advantage of everyone around you as well. All through, you will need patience as the personal and financial decisions that will pay off in the long run entail sacrificing a little today. Patience helps you live with the reality that true rewards usually require some short-term discomfort. Define Your Objectives At the initial stage of a business venture, it is difficult to draw a distinct line between your business and personal expenses. For example, meeting payroll in the early years may imply forgoing a paycheck yourself in order to continue building the business. However, understanding your current financial situation for both your business and your personal life will allow you to define clear objectives for your money. Financial independence is achieved by managing your personal wealth with the same persistence as your business such that to achieve personal wealth, you must first spend less than you earn. Oftentimes, we run our businesses with effective cost controls in place, reducing the amount of needless overheads in order to increase profitability. Engage Competent Financial Mentor You need to have competent and loyal professionals to help in the operations of your business, with the intent of creating an effective team since entrepreneurs are faced with many decisions to make each day. Engaging a financial planning professional should be no different in that, as part of your team, they should provide objective and comprehensive advice for your needs and objectives. When choosing an advisor, consider their experience, investment management approach and compensation platform in your selection process. Take the time to understand the fees associated with your advisor-client relationship. Your financial advisor will help you build long-term diversified portfolios that will generate the rate of return you need to help you reach your individual goals. Broaden Your Financial Horizons Having a steady approach to investing requires that your portfolio is diversified into asset classes and not simply comprising just one asset class, for example stocks. How much weight should be given to each asset class depends on the level of risk you are willing to take and your targeted rate of return. The investment mix that bumps into your objectives today may not be suitable in the future. Thus, it is important to evaluate your portfolio’s asset allocation each year to make sure it reflects your needs and objectives. A diversified portfolio positioned for your long-term financial goals works to provide growth opportunities for your future even during periods of market volatility. While it is important to diversify your investments, entrepreneurs also need the ability to access money from other sources. As new business opportunities arise, you will need to maintain a certain level of liquidity for investment. Shield Your Investment Entrepreneurs do not plan for failure because in their minds, it is not an option. For this reason alone, seeking qualified advisors for guidance on maintaining adequate insurance coverage will provide a more objective view on protecting the financial future of your business and family. Conduct a risk analysis of your business by working with insurance professionals who have experience with your type of business and are knowledgeable in recognising your insurance needs. Moreover, they can help you determine the value of your growing assets to make sure you have adequate coverage in the event of loss. Redefine Your Purpose Flexibility and vision are two vital qualities of today’s entrepreneur. While growing your business, you strive to remain open to new ventures, redefine your products and services to the changing needs of the consumer and maintain a pioneering vision for the future growth of your organisation. As entrepreneur, you must endeavour everyday to be successful. Success is not just attained through the generation of substantial wealth and through the understanding of the purpose for such wealth. Understanding also where your financial freedom is leading you enables you to work even harder toward those objectives.