Yes, since 1930 when the FIFA world cup came into being, so many Europe and American countries have dominated the championship train winning the trophy each period the fiesta is held. Some have won it several times, even for keeps; while some twice or once, even clinching other laurels such as the silver and the bronze medals as it were. There are other honours such as the ‘Golden Boot’ for the highest goal scorers, et al. It is the joy of every country to qualify for this world’s most popular and glamorous sports event; hence, every country wants its flag hoisted in the land of the host nation. Hosting the world every four years is enough time for preparation as the event comes up under the aegis of FIFA for the world to enjoy classical football. Nigeria as a country in Africa at this level of its free age soccer category only made her debut in the the 1994 USA FIFA Mundial under the military regime of late General Sani Abacha having coaches Clemens Westerhof, Jo Bonfrere and Christian Chukwu for the Super Eagles. After the Eagles’ victory in the CAF championship in Tunisia the same year, they proceeded to US’94 where they consolidated on their Tunisian exploits. The Eagles were very remarkable in that championship, scoring classical goals against top European nations until the team was sent packing from the second round of the tourney by the Italians, who Nigeria was already leading one goal to nothing in the first half before the Azzurri stars turned the table around in the second half of that tough duel to beat Nigeria 2-1. And that was how Nigeria gloriously exited that famous fiesta! Nigeria did not win the world cup in that championship and had never won the trophy (Gold), and did not return with a silver medal, neither did the team win a bronze medal and not any other honour in that FIFA Mundial but their representation was superlative. The Eagles of Nigeria became the toast of the world football every nation wants to have a friendly match with. In every four-nation tournament across the globe, Nigeria definitely will be amongst the countries to be invited. POLL The country at that time paraded so many arrays of stars both on the pitch and on the bench, with each of the players knowing what to do at any point of call up. So, it’s usually a marvelous thing in the eyes of every Nigerian to see that the Eagles qualify for any world cup. Not that Nigeria is qualifying to win any laurel but it’s a mark to show that the country is moving ahead towards getting past her only record of the second round of the world cup; therefore the cliche making the rounds in some quarters that “it was a blessing in disguise that Nigeria didn’t qualify for Qatar 2022 because of the shabby nature of the team” as being sold to Nigerians is just a mere show of abstract apology over the huge shame of what Nigerian football had become with its incompetent and bereft sports governors! It would be recalled that after the U.S.A’94, Nigeria was 5th atop the FIFA world chart and 1st on the CAF chart. This positioning on the FIFA table was indeed genuine aside from the fact that the same year; the Eagles lifted the Unity cup in Tunisia in a very grand style! Therefore, nobody should glorify failure as an excuse for what one consciously caused to a nation like Nigeria in the area of football mismanagement. If Nigeria had beaten Ghana, it would have been a different song of victory. The question of “it was better Nigeria didn’t qualify” will not have arisen. But today, that’s the consolation song and prize for absolute failure against the Black Stars of Ghana! Nigeria is a country where a farm tool like the “spade” is preferred to be called “go-to-hell”. No truth, as honesty, discipline, commitment, patriotism, and modesty of purpose has been thrown to the marines; hence, our football lacks genuine leadership. It will continue to dwindle more and more if the leadership of the NFF does not reevaluate itself for a better matrix of governance. Recently, coach Eguavoen stepped down as Eagles’ coach after the AFCON woeful outing but was reappointed as technical adviser, while Amunike and Yobo were retained as head coach and assistant respectively. The administrators who employed these failed coaches are still seated tightly with Eguavoen going back to the NFF to occupy his seat as the technical director, while Amunike and Yobo have been sacked with ignominy over the failure to beat Ghana in Abuja! What an irony of fate! If this is how the federation is run with trade by barter policy of dealing with failure, I must confess here that the federation is a huge joke of all time that will always trade injustice for insanity! It is recalled that the former skipper of the team, who was appointed interim coach for the CAF 2021 in Cameroon came back empty-handed and was reappointed for the second time to help qualify Nigeria for Qatar against all odds; then, I began to question the rationale behind that decision. Hitherto, nobody has been able to unravel the sense behind that unjustifiable action. I have never seen thoroughbred administrators taking such decisions over a crucial assignment for a nation, even though, it has to do with football where they know that Nigeria’s qualification was at stake. And those who made this blunder are the ones sacking people here and there to justify their incompetence! Nigeria as it were is like a “Banana Country”, otherwise, which serious nation will rub this kind of failure over her face without giving a marching order to all the found culprits but the country is just moving on like that as if nothing was at stake? This failure is sounding mild from both ends of their mouths as if this is the first-ever blunder this federation has ever made concerning the country’s football, especially at qualification for major tournaments across the globe. These administrators don’t have any penchant for remorse for the Nigerian people. Football is one major tool of reconciliation, for collective happiness, I mean it without prejudice that this beautiful round leather game is Nigerian’s only source of amicable unity of “one nation, one people”; that has held us bound as one people in time of adversity of all diverse forms. Everybody in the federation is just paying lip service that it was a blessing in disguise that Nigeria was beaten by Ghana! If this is the real case, where lies our sense of patriotism? Was Nigeria going to Qatar to win the FIFA world cup in the first place? The answer is an emphatic NO! The federation and the sports ministry should know that Nigeria and Nigerians are still bleeding over this colossal football failure! But the truth remains that the few matches they could have played, there would have taught the Nigerian coaches some lessons and would have justified Eguavoen’s reappointment and that of his crew and the late sack of German-born Gernot Rohr. The players would have been able to contact one or more connections for them aside from getting bonuses and allowances from matches played. And most importantly, Nigeria’s flag would have been hoisted in Qatar with the rendition of the national anthem each time the Eagles are filed out for a match. This is the crux of patriotism. It begins from here, if we don’t know, we should know now! The Nigerian sports press would have been on the ground in Qatar for their usual reportage, which in most cases comes with advertorials, radio and television jingles! Though some Nigerian sports journalists will definitely find their way to Qatar for the forthcoming world soccer festival and perhaps too, our referees may have been appointed by FIFA (Perhaps God knows) for one or two assignments likewise some administrators of the NFA who will by FIFA providence make their presence conspicuous in Qatar but the ” killjoy” in all this is that Nigeria’s flag will be absent amongst another comity of football nations gathered! Here again, we failed our country, we failed our citizens, we failed patriotism! Thank God it’s a world without end. Good Morning Nigeria!