LAGOS – In a bid to promote effective implementation of citizens ‘ human rights and media freedom in Nigeria, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has launched its first semi-annual Civic Space Monitor and 14-point programme. Mr Adetokunbo Mumuni, Director of SERAP, at the launch, which was titled “Shrinking Civic Space: Growing Assault on Freedom of Expression and Media Freedom in Nigeria” said it became necessary to launch the programme as there has been an increase in the crackdown on Nigerians and media in recent times. DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that a report presented by SERAP at the launch programme urged the Federal and State governments as well as other relevant agencies to review the laws and policies relating to the operation of civil society actors to ensure that there is respect for legal guarantees of freedom of association as recognized under international laws. The Organisation also called on the government to ensure that bodies carrying our registration and oversight are independent and transparent administrative bodies are free of political interference while the international partners have also been admonished to advocate with federal and start government in Nigeria to make a progressive environment for CSOs a priority. The reviewer of the 14-point programme, Dr. Bunmi Afinowi, a lecturer of the University of Lagos, Faculty of Law, said the organization recorded 153 cases of abuse of human rights from July 2021 to December 2021 during the research of the programme, adding that shrinking civic space makes it more difficult for people to live, and in some contest to claim their right to a better life. Nigerians and media should not allow the shrinking of public space as the new normal that Nigerians need to adapt to. The situation is reversible through harmonised action. Civic society actors often act as buffer against excessive statist interventions; they also play a watchdog role and exert pressure to demand accountability. “As SERAP’s core purpose is to empower people to fight poverty and injustice, shrinking civic space threatens everything we do. Nevertheless, civic space does not shrink in a linear way. Spaces are formed and shaped through the dynamic interaction or diverse actors,” she stated.