ABUJA – Stakeholders from the South-West geopolitical zone of the country have called for the emergence of a purpose-driven and visionary leadership for the country, in 2023. The Nigeria Agenda (TNA), a good governance group, in a statement said that political stakeholders across the six states of the region made the call when they met in Ibadan. The statement which was signed by Niyi Akinsiju, TNA Chief Advocate, revealed that former Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Philippines, Yemi Farounbi, who was the facilitator at the advocacy session of the meeting, lamented that the country’s problem has always been leadership, adding that Nigerians need to vote for a younger, intelligent and forward-looking candidate as the country’s President in 2023. His position was re-echoed by the former Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Chief Iyiola Oladokun who insisted that it was time a young Nigerian under 60 years took over the reign of government at the federal level. According to him, the country has “capable young Nigerians with impressive pedigrees in political administration, peoples’ and resources management that can drive the Nigerian growth trajectory on faster momentum. That is why I am calling on Nigerians to search out young people with such qualities and support them to get into high offices of state like becoming the President.” The Director-General of TNA, Mallam Ahmad counselled Nigerians to be deliberate about the political recruitment process in 2023 because of its serious implications for the peace, unity, economic prosperity of the country and ultimately, its development. To this end, he enjoined delegates from the Southwest to actively engage in spreading the message and objectives of The Nigeria Agenda to the grassroots as Ambassadors of the advocacy that will birth a new Nigeria. Niyi Akinsiju, Chief Advocate of TNA canvassed the urgent need for a change of attitude by the voting public as they exercise their primary constitutional duty of recruiting political office holders through the ballot box. POLL “The leadership of a society is a reflection of the ethos and outlooks of the people of the society. The emergence of dependable and promise-keeping leadership must, therefore, be the outcome of the collective insistence of the public to invest their votes in individuals that have track records of dependability, integrity, capacity, decency and pedigree of service,” Akinsiju noted. Surveyor Abiodun Aluko, former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, echoed his Oyo State counterpart’s submission by demanding of voters in the Southwest to actively search for the right kind of leadership. “We have passed that period when we wait for politicians to declare interest in particular offices and they get there only for them to serve their selfish interests. From now on, we must determine the people that lead us by deliberately identifying and searching them out for support. We have determined the character traits of leaders and ensure individuals that tick the boxes in terms of value orientation are recruited by us to serve us,” Aluko asserted. For Julius Ogunro, Consultant to TNA, the right kind of political leadership is more important than all the mineral resources that we may have been blessed within the country. Other speakers at the event, included the Director-General, DAWN Commission, Seye Oyeleye; Professor Tunde Adeniran, who sent a representative; Lola Fagbemi and the Osun State Commissioner for Political Affairs and Inter-governmental Relations, Taiwo Akeju, all called for the right leadership to steer the ship of the country.