Following the statement made by Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State that if the Federal Government fail to rescue the state of banditry that he will hire foreign mercenaries to help in tackling terrorism in the state, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has outrightly faulted the governors move. Speaking in a statement issued on Saturday, the Kaduna State Chairman of CAN, Reverend John Joseph Hayab, urged the Federal Government to call the governor to order to avoid a bigger problem. Daily Independent had earlier reported that Governor El-Rufai has vowed to hire foreign mercenaries if the Federal Government failed to address the insecurity problem in the North-East region. El-Rufai who spoke shortly after he met with President Buhari in Abuja said that with the deteriorating security situation, governors ‎will have no choice but to take action to protect the lives and property of their people. Reacting to the development,  CAN said if any other Nigerian make such an idea in public space, he would have been accused or arrested by the government for undermining the security agencies and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. “The attention of CAN Kaduna State has been drawn to newspapers stories making rounds that Governor Nasir El-Rufai, threatened to deploy foreign mercenaries should the federal government fail to combat banditry and end terrorism. “While CAN agrees that terrorists have had a field day, CAN reckon that if any other Nigerian had made or muted such an idea in public space, such would have been accused or arrested by the government for undermining the security agencies and the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. “Accordingly, CAN doubts if any section of the Nigerian Constitution allows any officeholder, apart from the C in C, to invite a foreign combatant into the country. POLL “Moreover, it was a similar strategy that El-Rufai employed years back when he claimed to have compensated some herdsmen, which led to the escalation of the security situation, particularly in Kaduna state. “For CAN, the approach to give gunmen money so that they would stop attacking the populace has backfired and Kaduna state is paying dearly for such a miscalculation at present. “CAN acknowledge that what Nigeria needs currently is a sincerity of purpose from all stakeholders and the citizenry towards finding lasting solutions, not subjective statements that could further heighten the presence of bandits in Nigeria. “CAN will continue to pray and urge citizens to be on the watch against any erroneous direction that could do this country no good but harm,” he said.