We started a series on the reasons for work. We have covered the following: • work is the womb of greatness. • Work as the Fulfilment of Purpose • Work as the medium for the expression of potential This article will look at the fourth and fifth reasons for work. 4. Work as the Channel of Blessing to Others To understand this principle, we need to take a step back and ask ourselves, “What are the joys we derive from working?” There are so many joys we derive from working, but they can be classified into three. The joy of completion is the joy we derive from finishing a task like submitting a proposal, solving a customer’s problem, or delivering a baby. It is simply the joy of finishing, coming to the end of any activity where we can breathe a sigh of relief. POLL The joy of reward is the tangible benefit we get for our work. The joy of end user fulfilment is the joy we derive when the end user of our product is satisfied and even delighted with our work. The three are essential: it is important to finish, to get paid, and for the end user to be happy with the work done. But if I may ask, “Which of the three is the greatest or most important joy of work?” If you say the joy of completion, I will ask you, “What if you complete the job and the end user is unhappy because it did not meet their expectations?” You can see that the joy of completion is not as important as the joy of end user satisfaction. If the end user is not satisfied, then your work is not truly complete. If you say the joy of reward, I will ask you, “What is the source of the reward?” The answer is obvious: from satisfied customers. If you ever get paid for a poor job, chances are you might never be called again to do that job. True rewards come from satisfied customers. Therefore, I believe that the highest joy we derive from our work is the joy of delighted customers. Our greatest joy from work is the joy of satisfied customers. If we put money before satisfied customers, we will abort the purpose of work. Is money important? Yes, of course. Money is a great motivator but to put money ahead of satisfied customers is to lose the essence of this principle. It is satisfied customers that will open more doors in the future for you to earn more. If the greatest joy of work is the joy of satisfied customers, it means that work was designed to be a channel of blessing to others. Consider the following examples… A doctor performs a life-saving operation, and people are grateful. Some might even call him a miracle worker. A lawyer defends her clients and wins a multimillion-dollar payout, and the client is grateful. A mechanic fixes a troublesome car problem, and the owner is grateful. A teacher prepares her students for an international examination, and when they pass the exam, they call back to thank the teacher. What is the lesson here? Our work, when delivered with excellence, becomes God’s gift to others through us. When we do an excellent job, we give people the opportunity to bless God through our work. The reverse is also true: every time we do a shoddy job, we rob our world of the blessing that God planned for them. 5. Work as a Contribution to Society As an extension of principle four, our work is also our contribution to society. When we introduce ourselves, usually with our titles, as noted earlier, we silently inform people of our roles in life and contribution to society. And every society reflects the dominant type of work done in it. According to sociologists, there are four types of societies: tribal, agrarian, industrial, and post-industrial. The tribal society’s main occupation is hunting for food as a group. The agrarian society deals with agriculture and land ownership. The industrial society deals with industries and factories of production, while the post-industrial society deals with knowledge work. You can see how the development of society is traceable to the dominant nature of work in that society. Therefore, no society can outgrow the nature of work and the contribution of its workforce. At the heart of the growth and development of society or economic renaissance is the type and quality of work carried out by a large percentage of people in it. One of the primary roles of political leadership is creating an enabling environment for productive work to be done. Economists measure the output of productive work done in an economy through the gross domestic product (GDP). So important is this concept that great leaders boast about the number of jobs created under their leadership and the growth in the size of the economy (GDP). My work is my contribution to my nation. Through my work, I pay my taxes and my taxes are used to run the country. It is my own way of adding value to the nation. And the more I work, the more my consulting business grows and the more people I can employ. The more employment I create, the more value I am adding to the nation. This is one more reason I work. This excerpt is taken from Chapter two of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.