Former Manchester United forward Louis Saha has warned Arsenal that Gabriel Jesus is not the striker that they need as rumours persist over a summer swoop. The Gunners have been linked with a move for the Brazilian international over the past few weeks, with Mikel Arteta keen to add to his forward options ahead of next season. Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah are both expected to leave this summer, with their contracts set to expire – leaving Arsenal without a recognised striker next term. Jesus is just the latest in a long line of forwards having been linked with a switch to the Emirates Stadium – names such as Benfica’s Darwin Nunez and Dominic Calvert-Lewin also being rumoured to be under consideration. However, Saha has suggested that Jesus might not be the best option for Arsenal in the market. Speaking with Gambling Deals, he said: “Sometimes he’s been criticised because he doesn’t have the ‘killer instinct’, something that Ruud van Nistelrooy had, or (Robert) Lewandowksi and all those players. “He’s been working hard for other players, but this is the style of Manchester City. He’s maybe not as deadly as some of the world’s best, but he can improve. ‘If he works hard in front of goal. (Currently), the emphasis is on him to link play, be very diverse, going left or right, because that’s what City needs. They need a lot of movement and he’s not really been able to play as a number nine.” Whilst Saha is clearly not a fan of Arsenal making a move for the 25-year-old, his former Manchester United teammate Rio Ferdinand does not share the same view. He recently encouraged the Gunners to secure the services of the Brazilian in a short message on his podcast Vibe with Five. “If I was Arsenal, I would go and buy Gabriel Jesus,” he said. It of course remains to be seen whether Manchester City would be tempted to cash-in on the striker in the near future – or indeed whether he is interested in a switch to north London. Jesus has just over a year left on his current deal at the Etihad Stadium. Despite suggestions that he could be moved on, Jesus has certainly hit some of the best form of his City career thus far over recent weeks. POLL Having been a surprise selection in Pep Guardiola’s starting line-up for the clash against Liverpool, he found the net for City before following that up with a four-goal haul against Watford in the side’s last Premier League outing. Jesus continued his excellent recent form by also scoring in the thrilling 4-3 win against Real Madrid in the Champions League semi-finals. He currently holds a record of 94 goals in 231 appearances for Manchester City since his 2017 arrival from Brazilian outfit Palmeiras. In his time at the Etihad Stadium, he has claimed three Premier League titles, an FA Cup and four Carabao Cups. He could potentially be back in the Champions League next term should he become an Arsenal player – the Gunners embroiled in a top four battle alongside north London rivals Tottenham Hotspur.