A Senator representing Bayelsa West at the National Assembly, Seriake Dickson, has warned mischief makers against instigating needless division in the state chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Dickson said that politicians were out to cause disaffection among the leadership of the party over issues clearly not unconnected with the 2023 general elections to desist forthwith. The former governor enjoined them to remember the mercy and grace of God which blessed the party’s joint effort to retrieve its stolen mandate, in an effort led by him to midwife the advent of the current administration. Dickson, who spoke through a statement by his Media Advisor, Fidelis Soriwei, said, “My attention has been drawn by my media aides to a scurrilous, anonymous article making the around whose objective is clearly aimed at sowing a seed of discord in Bayelsa PDP.” He said that he had always made it known to political aspirants and indeed the PDP family that he does not have any preferred candidate outside of those to be endorsed and supported by Governor Douye Diri and the stakeholders. He said he believed the governor as the leader of the party would lead consultations with stakeholders and leaders to manage the aspirations of members and look into the emergent issues and resolve them accordingly in the interest of the party. The senator said he had decided to limit his role to the provision of necessary advice and guidance to the governor and stakeholders whenever it was required and no amount of blackmail would change that. He added that he and Diri were in regular consultations on “very important issues.” POLL Dickson further said, “I know that in a politicking period as this, a lot of grievances and disappointments will find expression, faceless articles or statements which if not carefully managed can create crisis and a negative atmosphere. “As I have always maintained, in a political period all ambitions are legitimate. People should pray, consult and work hard. “In my current position, I do not have any special candidate for the forthcoming election. As a father to all, in the PDP, candidates I will support are the candidates endorsed by the Governor and the stakeholders across the state. I know that a number of people may feel disappointed that I am not endorsing or pushing for them.”