ABUJA – Dr Andrew Kwasari, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Agriculture, has said Nigeria loses about $14billion annually to the incessant conflicts between farmers and herders in Nigeria. Kwasari revealed this in Abuja on Tuesday during his presentation at the Summit on National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) with the theme: “Positioning The Nigerian Livestock Sector For 21st Century Economy,” jointly organised by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Agriculture Correspondents Association of Nigeria (ACAN). To resolve the lingering crises between farmers and herders as well as reposition the livestock sector in the country, Kwasari, said the Federal Government in collaboration with States has begun the implementation of the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP)2019–2028. He noted that already 22 States have sent letters of expression of interest to the office of the Chairman of the National Economic Council and Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, adding that 10 States have set up the States Livestock Transformation Office. As part of the implementation strategy, he said four States have identified and mapped out the gazetted grazing reserves in their domain as well as taken off the implementation of the NLTP in earnest. These States, according to him, include Nasarawa, Plateau, Adamawa and Kaduna. Also speaking, Dr Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, explained that the two-day Summit was organised with the aim of enlightening stakeholders, investors and the general public on the inherent investment opportunities that abound in the livestock sub-sector, dispelling misconceptions about the real intentions of Government for initiating the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) and to stimulate active participation of Nigerians to reap the full benefits of NLTP in the short, medium and long terms Abubakar pointed out that the bulk of the Nigerian labour force is engaged in various forms of agricultural enterprises especially along the livestock value chain with over 30% of women and young adults depending largely on livestock for their income, livelihoods and sustenance, adding that the livestock sector remains a major component of the agricultural economy and plays a significant role in the overall national economy. POLL The minister revealed that the livestock sector accounts for about 2-5% of the National Gross Domestic Product(GDP) and 10% of the Agricultural GDP. He said: “Recent estimates show that the livestock sector is endowed with abundant livestock resources with about 26.4 million cattle, 88.2 million goats, 50.3 million sheep, 8.9 million pigs, 465 million chickens, 36.4 million ducks, 3.8 million turkeys, 5.5 Rabbits, 353,173 camels, and 1,234,284 donkeys (FMARD 2021), thus making the nation the topmost livestock producer in West Africa. “In spite of this potential, it is estimated that the per capita consumption of animal source foods stands at 8 litres of milk, 9 kg of meat and 3.5 kg or 55 eggs per year which are very low consumption levels when compared with the global averages of 44 litres of milk and 19 kg of meat, respectively.” Abubakar further identified the challenges plaguing the livestock sector which include low breed quality, poor animal husbandry practices, limited access to quality inputs and finance, weak animal health and extension service delivery, livestock herder and crop farmer conflicts, cattle rustling, banditry, and other security challenges. As part of the challenges, he mentioned inconsistent government policies, poorly functioning institutional settings, linkages, regulations and standards, which have failed to bring about significant and sustainable transformation in the sector and limited impact on the livelihood of actors along the sector’s value chains. Abubakar, said NLTP is being implemented through requisite programmes and projects of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development which include the National Livestock Breed Improvement Programme; National Animal Identification and Traceability System; National Dairy Development Programme (NDDP) and National Pasture Development Programme (NAPDEP), among others. In his remarks, Mr Fred Kaferro, FAO Representative to Nigeria and ECoWAS, underscored the need for a strong institutional set-up to drive national-level implementation in a coordinated manner. Kaferro called on the Federal and State Governments to review the implementation arrangements with a view to clarifying the roles and responsibilities of States and Federal level actors, development partners and the private sector, including on areas of funding and resources mobilisation. He said the measure will fast track its implementation, monitoring, evaluation, learning and accountability for the results. He further called for the strengthening of advocacy and public awareness about the NLTP, which is critical in building stakeholders’ understanding and clarifying public perceptions about the Plan. In his welcome address, Chairman of ACAN, John Oba, said the livestock sector is a pillar of the global food system as well as a contributor to poverty reduction, food security and agricultural development. Oba said Nigeria’s livestock sector has a huge economic potential worth over N33 trillion, adding that it is a sector that should not be relegated to the background. He expressed optimism that the Summit would showcase Nigeria’s livestock sector to investors and the business community, with a view to attracting investors and also highlighting modern and global best practices in livestock management for maximum returns.