The Lagos State Government on Tuesday said that it has set up Special Mobile Courts along the Apapa/Tincan corridor to curb traffic gridlock and illegal extortions in the axis. The State Government also said that it has reached a consensus with the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) on how to streamline check points along the corridor. A statement by Oluwatoyin Fayinka, Special Adviser on Transportation, Lagos State at a stakeholders’ meeting with transport unions, assured that the government would enforce zero tolerance on illegal extortions and activities of miscreants along the corridor through the Special Mobile Courts created to address the challenges. Fayinka warned unions and hoodlums extorting motorists along Tincan axis to desist from the act, insisting that their activities would no longer be allowed on the corridors. He insisted their activities were also inimical to seamless traffic flow in the axis. Fayinka further explained that the collaboration with NPA was part of the state’s efforts at eliminating the menace along the corridors and feeder routes. Fayinka also explained that in streamlining the corridor, illegal extortion points would be disbanded and the agencies charged with the role of managing traffic flow along the axis have been clearly defined and assigned to prevent any illegal activity that can hinder the smooth port operations for all Stakeholders. The Transport Special Adviser further stated that trucks would no longer be stopped for ETO at Ijora Badia (LPC axis), Mile 2 Under and Over the bridge, UBA (TCIPC corridor), adding that Truck movement will not be interfered with at NAGAFF, Area B, RRS Marine Bridge, 7up, Fidelity Roundabout, Etisalat Roundabout (LPC axis) and RRS (TCIPC corridor). POLL Fayinka also revealed that the agreed checkpoints have been assigned to specific agencies. He explained further that some checkpoints would be manned by the NPA alone, while some other checkpoints would be assigned to NPA and the Lagos State Government. In the same vein, the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Rapid Response Squad and the Nigerian Police Force would manage some points independently without interference from the other agencies, while Military Checkpoints would no longer exist along the port corridors, the statement added. The Special Adviser urged all stakeholders to cooperate with the new strategy and coordinate themselves accordingly as this would improve movement along the port access roads, which would better economic activities.