LAGOS  – The La Casera Company Plc, one of the leading carbonated soft drink (CSD) companies in Nigeria, recently unveiled a new packaging for Nirvana Premium Table Water during their dealers’ appreciation event held at the Lagos Continental Hotel, with over 500 dealers from Lagos State in attendance. Bottled with utmost care to provide the best quality and cater for the innovation needs of esteemed consumers and trade partners. The new Nirvana Premium Table Water which comes in 75cl now has a new label, sleek bottle that answers to some basic consumers’ demands and small cap that eliminates spillage during consumption. Mr. Chinedum Okereke, Managing Director of The La Casera Company Plc, while speaking at the well-attended event,thanked all the dealers for their partnership and support over the years even as the business continues to grow. He reaffirmed that, “the new Nirvana Premium Table Water is an answer to our market research and dealers request to provide more innovative products, thus we have answered by investing resources to relaunch the product and make it unique”. He further stated that Nirvana Premium Table Water is a known brand before now that has already cut its teeth in the Nigerian market but what we’ve done is to take it back, re-engineer it, rebrand it into the new ecofriendly bottle and kept the price unchanged to remain affordable to our users. The packaging now has a better shape, better dressing and of course with lots of investment in terms of capacity, so we are very confident that it will drive growth for the brand, especially as people continue to advocate for a healthy lifestyle. Mrs. Funke Adepoju, the Executive Secretary, Lagos State Water Regulatory Commission, while speaking at the event, acknowledged the efforts of The La Casera Company Plc in providing affordable water to the people and stated that it’s in line with the Health and Environment agenda of Lagos State Governor BabaJide Sanwolu who is very particular about delivering potable water to the citizens, be it public or private.