The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has reiterated the importance of getting feedbacks on weather forecast issued to stakeholders and clients. Prof. Mansur Matazu, the Director-General, NiMet, stated this recently during his welcome address at the opening ceremony of the 2022 Edition of the workshop on Agro-Hydo-cimatic characteristics of the major rainy season in the Sudan and Sahel countries (West Africa sub-region including Mauritania and Chad) PRESA-SS. Represented by Engr. Mailadi at the occasion, Matazu observed that most of the times, stakeholders care less about the performance of the forecast. He said: “Many times we don’t bother about what happens at the end of the cycle of our predictions. We solely rely on the same scientific methods we employ in developing the forecasts to evaluate their accuracy.” Matazu further stressed that it is important that a framework is developed that can be deployed to independently monitor the forecasts and report back in order to assess their accuracy. Earlier in his opening remarks, Dr. Abdou Ali, Head, Department of Research and Information, at the Centre for Agricultural and Hydrological Meteorology (AGRHYMET) in Niamey, Niger Republic, disclosed that many actors were waiting for the outcome of the forum to plan their activities. Ali stressed that the workshop was important because it was “where we are going to do the co-production and expect commitment of all the participants.” He assured that with the cooperation of the department of AGRHYMET, they would do their best to strengthen the commitment. POLL Ali recognised and lauded NiMet for its commitment to the association over the years. The objective of the workshop is to strengthen the capacity of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services NMHSs, through the co-production of agro-hydro-climatic forecasts for enhance productivity, sustainable development and disaster risk reduction. It also aimed at strengthening the capacity of participants on the techniques of analysis and characterization of agro-hydro-climatic risks related to the main rainy season for the Sudan and Sahel regions.