Magnus Onyibe Even more stunning is that the heads of some of the arms of government charged with protecting lives and properties as well as enforcing and sustaining law and order are increasingly appearing to no longer have the capacity or ability to guarantee the protection of all Nigerians from terrorists, kidnappers and unknown gun men who now rule the roost, which is a clear case of abdication of duty. That apparently lack of confidence being exhibited by our leaders in the security space, which Nigerians can discern, is not only evidenced by the horrific socioeconomic indices which l had earlier highlighted, but it is reinforced by the statement credited to the minister of defense, Major general Bashir Magashi (rtd) who reportedly stated that ending security of the lives and properties of Nigerians requires divine intervention. If that statement attributed to the defense minister is true, then l would like to plead with readers to allow me indulge in a bit of cynicism by stating (in a tongue- in-cheek manner) that Nigeria does not need an army general as her minister of defense, if divine intervention is the main identified panacea to insecurity in our country . Instead of a retired senior army officer,  our defense ministry requires the leadership of a man like Dr Daniel Olukoya, general overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, MFM who is a renown prayer warrior that can confidently lead Nigeria in prayers for rapid divine intervention, if that is only what is required. Even the very daring sheik Ahmad Gumi, a Muslim cleric in the north who has been reaching out to the terrorists in their forest abodes could also be a perfect fit for the job of our defense minister as he too has demonstrated confidence by venturing into the forests to dialogue with Boko haram insurgents, and as a cleric he has the ability to invoke divine intervention to extricate our country from the clutches of the nefarious ambassadors holding us in the jugular. The recommendation fantastic recommendation is on the basis that our political leaders have decreed that divine intervention is what it would take to restore peace in our nation. While we still on the predilection of the defense minister abdicating the constitutionally assigned responsibilities of protecting citizens of Nigeria from harm and conceding to ‘divine intervention’, it should not be forgotten that our former head of state, general Yakubu Gowon has in the past half a decade, been backing up with prayers, the work of our men and women in the armed forces charged with  protecting us, with his Nigeria Prays movement , which is a multi denominational group. That means that a combination of prayers and work is what is required to emancipate our country from the stranglehold of the marauding gangsters. POLL When the hopelessness of the utterance by the minister of defense is taken beyond its comical realm , the most incorrigible optimists amongst us would realize clearly that we have been hoping against hope that an early redemption of our country from the chaos that currently defines it, is in the horizon. So , it is such a shame that in the territories under siege by the terrorists, stretching from Zamfara, Yobe, Kebbi, Gombe and Bauchi states in the northern region, to Benue and Plateau states in the Middle belt as well as Edo and Delta states in southern Nigeria, our security and law enforcement agencies armed with some of the most sophisticated weapons in the world, formerly not available to Nigeria due to U.S policies that made it impossible to sell such armaments to us (based on Leahy doctrine) are now in our arsenal, yet our military has been unable to route the animals in human skin (apologies to Obasanjo) that have been tormenting our compatriots and putting our country in a perpetual mourning mood. With respect to unknown gun men saga in the south east, of which Anambra, Ebonyi and lmo states are the ground zero for the human carnage as government institutions and security personnel are being burnt down and killed as the case may be, what would it take apart from military force to stabilise the region? It is no comfort that efforts by the newly minted governor of Anambra state, Chukwuma Soludo to restore peace in that region has been rebuffed with more violence. It is owing to the horrifying level of violence being unleashed nationwide in our country, that it  currently ranks second only to Afghanistan in the survey of the countries in the world where innocent civilians are being killed wantonly by the devil incarnates in the underworld. An intriguing phenomenon that l have observed is that the more government tries to assure Nigerians that it is in control of the security situation , the more brazen terrorists and outlaws become by invading military and police formations to kidnap military and law enforcement officers who are supposed to be protecting law abiding people of Nigeria. Against the backdrop of the latest marching order from the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, president Buhari to the military services chiefs, and Inspector General of Police, IGP, my fingers are crossed as to whether or not the terrorists would do something extra ordinary in the coming days to counteract his order. Having totally overwhelmed the hinterland by crippling farming in most parts of Nigeria, particularly in the northern region, and after converting expressways across the country into highways to the early graves of commuters as scores of innocent Nigerian travelers are killed on a daily basis in cold blood; and with the enforcement of stay-at-home order by unknown gun men in the eastern parts of our country; the outlaws that are acting as a de-facto government, have now extended their violent attacks to railway passengers. And they have twice struck  the Abuja- Kaduna lines with success in their evil enterprise that is further exacerbating the state of insecurity in our beloved nation. Buoyed by their recent success in inflicting severe damage on the railway system , coupled with the increasing act of terrorism around airports , ( Kaduna airport was recently breached) is that not a situation that should be worrying our security operatives? If per adventure, the nihilistic minds of terrorists are getting fertilized by the thought of bringing down a passenger airliner to validate their impunity, should we be caught napping like the unfortunate Kaduna bound train tragedy? In light of the projectiles or rockets that they recently fired into Gujba local government area office in Yobe state , setting ablaze a column of vehicles in the complex , the obnoxious act of trying to bring down an airliner is not beyond the terrorists whose deranged minds appear to be nothing,  but the devil’s workshop. The sordid state of insecurity is so scary that the aphorism: the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom , is fast being replaced by the faint hearted,  with a new  conventional wisdom ‘the fear of terrorists is the beginning of personal safety.’ Evidently, it is not even debatable whether Nigerians fear terrorists more than their government. That is an indisputable reality. And Nigerians also do not doubt the reality that the outlaws tormenting them do not fear God. They rationalize that belief with the notion that if the criminal elements were God fearing , they would not engage in the orgy of killing of harmless children , defenseless women  and even ripping open the bowels of the pregnant ones,  as we have been witnessing. It is in the context of the foregoing chilling and horrific narrative about the terrorists/members of the underworld including religious insurgents, bandits,herdsmen militia, unknown gun men etc, that it can be concluded that they have succeeded in the imposition of a parallel government on Nigerians. I will dwell further on that reality later . But in the meantime, l would like to emphasize that the Abuja-Kaduna rail line that has been wantonly attacked twice resulting in the loss of about 8 lives with legions still in captivity, even as ransom is being demanded and paid,should be a serious cause of concern to our leaders. Due to my precarious nature, l am led to wonder if the ransom money being collected would not be invested in anti aircraft armaments sooner than later ? And if that becomes the case, would air travel which is the current safest mode of transportation in our dear country, (so far not disrupted by terrorists) not also be in jeopardy ? Given the sheer number of casualties that an attack on a passenger airplane could result in, are those charged with securing our country thinking ahead of the terrorists and are they demonstrating that they are equal to the task? Yes, President Buhari has given a marching order to the security agencies to rescue the innocent Nigerians kidnapped during the train attack. Is that enough? It may be recalled that a similar order was issued by the same commander-in-chief of the armed forces to the same security agencies to rescue the Chibok school girls stolen over seven years ago by terrorists from their dormitories. As if in defiance of Nigerian authorities , and if not even mocking our government , Chibok girls have not only remained in captivity, more school boys and girls have been seized by the same members of the underworld . What does that tell us? And governance is not only shambles in the security space, but a similar scenario has taken hold in the economic environment that is also in a similar state of disarray. Check out the economic indices: inflation is hovering around 33%, unemployment rate is about 15% and naira exchange rate to the US dollar is in the region of N590-N600-$1. On top of all of this , economists are warning government about the danger of spending about 92% of the entire income generated annually in servicing debts. Yet, we are adamantly budgeting four (4) trillion naira for petrol subsidy in budget 2022 and a mere two trillion more than fuel subsidy for capital projects. The irony of it all is that petrol , that is being subsidizing up to the tube of N4 trillion in the current budget circle is a commodity that we import into Nigeria with hard currency. And it is being smuggled across our borders to practically all the countries in West Africa. Does that not imply that Nigeria is subsidizing the cost of petrol for the entire west African sub region? What could be the reasoning behind this apparent economic suicide? While one is still trying to wrap his head around the incomprehensible policies and programs highlighted above , our production and export of crude oil that  is responsible for about 80% of our foreign exchange income, and which could have been our saving grace , is also facing headwinds. That is a result of our country’s inability to meet its OPEC allocated quota of crude Oil production of 1.7 million barrels per day. So we are losing the opportunity of earning more foreign exchange income to patch up our budget deficit. Although, we are able to produce more crude oil, we are unable to export it. And that is because of the absurdity that even gets worse with the knowledge that over  80% of the crude oil produced in our country is stolen along the pipelines before it gets to the tanks where it is supposed to be stored for refining or export. Although finance minister Mrs Zainab Aliyu has assured the world via a Bloomberg television interview on the sidelines of the ongoing world bank meetings in Washington DC USA , that Nigeria would meet its OPEC quota in the coming days, or weeks , the path way to such a sea change is not immediately clear to industry watchers, even as security agencies are claiming to have made progress in reining in crude oil thieves. The fall out of all of these grim statistics is that Nigerians are hungry and desperate. With the growing inability of government to introduce effective policies and enforce rules/ regulations to ensure that law and order prevail to guide members of the public in their daily activities of pursuing their objectives of earning their livelihood in a stable atmosphere, (which are conditions that are currently absent in our beloved nation) how can we honestly say that we have a government ? That is a question that l have been pondering. Perhaps, we have two countries. One being led by those we elected , and the other driven by men of the under world imposing their will on hapless citizens through brute force. And the assertion above is validated by the brutish state of life that has been foisted by members of the underworld on our compatriots in the hinterland, especially the northern end of our dear country,where the victims of terrorism are not feeling the deserved impact of government that should have protected them from the mayhem that they are  faced with on a daily basis. It is common knowledge that the reign of terror which has been disrupting life and decimating lives mainly in the rural areas,  is slowly but surely encircling cities like Maiduguri, katsina , Kaduna in the north to the south east cities in Awka, Nnewi, owerri, Aba etc. It could have been less worrisome, if I am talking about the threat of the Republic of Biafra or Oduduwa Republic promoted by Nnamdi Kanu, currently in incarceration for allegedly committing treasonable felony and Sunday lgboho, also recently released from the custody of Benin Republic prison authorities at the behest of Nigerian government for an offense similar to that of Kanu. These unhappy Nigerians, that are speaking up are well known. But the alternative government that l have in mind is the Government Of Terrorists being operated by members of the underworld in the manner that black market operators in the foreign exchange business control naira/dollar exchange rate, which prompted the governor of central bank of Nigeria, CBN Godwin Emefiele to proscribe the ubiquitous Aboki .com a platform that he accused of arbitrarily fixing the naira /dollar foreign exchange rate. It is also in the manner that the activities of smugglers of rice, petroleum products and other essential commodities into Nigeria from across our porous borders from neighboring countries that is distorting local prices and causing inflation in our country, until the same CBN governor, Emefiele also influenced the closure of Nigerian borders to enable Nigerian farmers of the items to develop competitive advantage locally . The border closure which is also aimed at preventing the influx of small arms and ammunition aiding the reign of violence in our country, have also inflicted collateral damages on the economy and by extension exacerbated the poverty situation of Nigerians. With all of the above activities happening outside the control of the incumbent government, there appears to be another government in our country riding roughshod with Nigerians. That is the optics with which the incumbent government must view the terrorists to galvanise it into action of giving them fire fire for fire. When you consider the zeal with which the ruling party at the center , APC  is fighting to return to power in 2023 and imagine,  the war against insecurity would  have been worn,  if similar vigor of thinking and executing plans was invested by all stakeholders, (not just the military) in the effort to restore law and order in our country? Below are the other reasons for the assertion or presumption that there may be a parallel government by terrorists different from the one that we voted into office in 2015 and 2019 respectively. In a situation where terrorists, bandits and unknown gun men, who are all gangsters are collecting taxes from Nigerians , like  federal inland revenue services, FIRS; and they holding thousands in captivity until ransom money is paid, like Nigerian Prison(Correctional)Service , NPS and they are determining the dates that Nigerians can stay at home or go to work, like the ministry of eternal affairs that issues notice for public holidays; what else is left for the members of the Terrorist Government(imagined) to do to prove that they are operating a parallel government in Nigeria? And it is all a fall out or the consequences of our politicians being derelict in providing governance, hence the descent to the current state of anomie. While members of the political class are immersed in their plot for the next state capture in the name of elections, which comes up every four years, and based on INEC time table, has commenced since last February, and would end in February next year, God forbids that the underworld, which now appears to be acting like a de-facto government deals our country a blow that is capable of throwing the nation into national mourning? That is question that must be paramount in the minds of those in the corridors of power Aso Rock Villa. Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.