The Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun has officially declared his interest to seek re-election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the 2023 general elections. Governor Abiodun made the declaration at the Executive Council chambers of his office at Oke-Mosan Abeokuta when he received the nomination form bought for him by his kinsmen and women under the aegis of the “DA Mandate 2023”. Abiodun who said that he remains undaunted and resolutely committed to achieving more for the state also announced the re-nomination of his Deputy, Engr (Mrs) Noimot Salako-Oyedele, as his running mate. The governor recalled how the journey began four years ago when he called out the citizens of the state to join him on a journey of selfless service to build a secure and prosperous state driven by a vibrant economy and supported by quality service, equity and justice, saying it was gratifying that the people believed in him and gave their support. Abiodun, who expressed surprise at the gesture, recounted the many trials he and his team had to pass through in the quest to lead the state, adding that some people did everything to discourage him while “many people did not believe in us.” “This gesture touches my bone. It is like a balm that soothes all the pain that we suffered in the course of our campaigns. I am happy particularly that this is coming from my home base.” Speaking about his plan, he said, “We were planning on how to go to Abuja to get the form. I am happy that nobody prompted you, you did this out of your own volition and the belief you have in us. I promise you that the trust you have in us will be built upon. “Today is a significant day in my life and because of this gesture, I am officially declaring my intention to run for the second term and, in the same vein, I am declaring my deputy as my running mate. You are investing in an administration and I want to assure you that you will not regret it, as the only way I can reward you is by more superlative performance.” POLL He said his administration had made an impact on the lives of the people, noting that the gesture would inspire him to do more. According to the governor, “In the last three years, I have fulfilled my promises to you to make Ogun work for all. With your support, we have made this (Ogun) state a better place and changed the face of our state. I did not do it alone; we did it together because you believed. “Our state has remained steadily prosperous because of your positive outlook. I urge you to always stay positive in your personal and communal lives and continue to aspire to great things.” He congratulated the executive members and all other members of his team who have worked tirelessly in the last three years, noting that “they are the stars of this administration.”