Dr Salami Lukman Adisa popularly known as Adamawa has emerged as the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) consensus Candidate for Saki-West, Saki-East, and Atisbo Federal Constituency. The development sequel to the recent meeting held at the Government House Agodi Ibadan which was presided by the incumbent Governor of Oyo State, Engr. Oluwaseyi Makinde and other party stakeholders in the state. The meeting according to a press statement made available to journalists in Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo State was instructive at the conclusion in respect of best practices of selecting the most acceptable consensus candidate for various political office representatives comes general election 2023. A copy of the statement jointly signed by all the stakeholders at the end of the meeting on Sunday stated that “On this basis, the Saki-West, Saki-East and Atisbo (Old Ifedapo Federal Constituency) had organized a free, fair and credible consensus meeting under a peaceful atmosphere. “The meeting was conducted and the sitting ratified the most acceptable candidate in the federal Constituency that had the highest support of stakeholders.” “On 3rd of April, 2022, Saki-West, Saki-East and Atisbo nominated stakeholders whose had their consensus meeting at Saki West Local Government Legislative Arm chamber, the meeting which was presided by Alh Siju Lawal, the Honorable Commissioner for Establishment and Training Oyo State.” “The meeting had in attendance the nominated stakeholders that are accredited to perform the consensus exercise from their various Local Government Areas such as; Alhaji Siju Lawal, the state Commissioner for the establishment,& Training Oyo state ( Chairman of the Meeting), Alhaji Mudashir Awujoola ( Full Time Commissioner TESCOM Oyo state, the General Collations officer.” POLL “Others are Alhaji Sarafadeen Hammed Omirinade ( Chairman Saki west local Government), Alhaja Adeniran Ramat Mosunmade( Chairperson saki- East Local Government), Alhaji Fasasi Adeagbo Amifas (Chairman Atisbo Local Government), Mr Aremo Femi Adetola from Atisbo Ago are(former youth Leader South West), Alhaji Adesina Jimoh( Organizing Sectary PDP Oyo North), Mrs Arewa Nike(Current part-time Commissioner Local Government Service Commission) from Atisbo, Alh Folaranmi Adams ( Former Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources Oyo state.” The statement also maintained that the meeting also had in attendance all the three Party chairmen in the federal Constituency and other notable PDP stakeholders in the constituency. Adamawa emerged through the results stated below;SAKI-WEST.ADAMAWA – 6 supportsONIJO – 8 supportsELDER DEBO – 0NAJEEM OMIRINDE – 1 supportOLUBORI – 0 SAKI-EAST.ADAMAWA – 9 supportsONIJO – 0ELDER DEBO – 2 supportsNAJEEM OMIRINDE – 0OLUBORI – 0 ATISBO.ADAMAWA – 5 supportsONIJO – 0ELDER DEBO – 1 supportNAJEEM OMIRINDE – 0OLUBORI – 0 SUMMARYADAMAWA – 20 supportsONIJO – 8 supportsELDER DEBO – 3 supportsNAJEEM OMIRINDE – 1 supportOLUBORI – 0 The concluded part of the statement maintained that the Collation officer of the consensus meeting, Alh Mudathir Awujoola thereby announced Dr. Lukman Adisa Salami popularly known as Adamawa as the most acceptable of the consensus meeting with total 20 votes. It was unanimously agreed by all in attendance that Honourable Dr. Lukman Adisa Salami “Adamawa having the highest number of votes (20) is the Federal House of Representative PDP flag-bearer candidate for the forthcoming 2023 election for Saki-West, Saki-East and Atisbo Local Government Areas.