The Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu has identified strict adherence to safety orientation and training as a panacea to frequent accidents amongst Nigerians. The aviation expert gave this admonition after he was inaugurated as Corporate Member and “Fellow” Member of the Occupational Health and Safety Association (OSHAssociation)  at the NCAA headquarters, Abuja . OSHAssociation, an international safety professional body, with a strong local presence in Nigeria is much determined to impact industries and communities positively as it continues to work acidulously towards its mandate of stunting fatalities, accidents and incidence across all sectors. Speaking at the occasion, Nuhu pointed out the importance of getting every sector on track with safety. While describing the high level of risk in everyday day life and the aviation sector, the NCAA Boss noted that fatalities, and accidents especially on roads could  be drastically reduced if drivers, as well as the layman on the street, have Health and Safety orientation. He attributed   most accidents  on Nigerian highways  to recklessness and lack of safety orientation and training. Capt. Nuhu  however promised to be a Safety advocate who will reach out to many Nigerians with the gospel of Health and Safety. In his opening remarks ,the  Nigeria Regional President of  OSHAssociation  Ambassador Olusegun Aderemi said the  conferment ceremony was in recognition of the world-class automation of the aviation sector, the strict adherence and compliance to safety and standards by operators in the aviation sector in Nigeria . POLL According to him, Capt. Nuhu’s instrumental contribution to the enactment of a template for global aviation restart programme post-COVID-19. The regional President explained that the investiture of the Director-General as Fellow and Admittance of NCAA as a corporate member will play a catalytic role in accelerating the NCAA to align her operations and activities with international best practices in Safety, Health and Environment as they relate to the Aviation Sectors in Nigeria. Dr Aderemi assured that the NCAA as a Corporate Member of the OSHAssociation is now in a better position to obtain maximum support from OSHAssociation adding that the Association can now deploy its foreign technical expertise for employees’ training support, the inspection and audit of their facilities and engage in other necessary retainership programs to enable NCAA to further maintain high-quality standards in the Aviation Industry.