UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has apologised for breaking the law after he was issued with a fine due to the lockdown partygate scandal but he has refused calls to resign. The prime minister said it “didn’t occur” to him that the gathering in the Cabinet Room on June 19, 2020, that marked his 56th birthday was a breach of coronavirus rules. Mr Johnson is the first sitting prime minister to be censured for lawbreaking, sparking calls from all sides of Parliament, including some in his own party, to step down. His wife, Carrie, and Chancellor Rishi Sunak were also fined for lockdown parties held in and around Downing Street, where they all live and work. Mr Johnson said: “Today I’ve received a fixed penalty notice from the Metropolitan Police relating to an event in Downing Street on June 19, 2020. “And let me say immediately that I’ve paid the fine and I once again offer a full apology and in the spirit of openness and humility I want to be completely clear about what happened on that date. “My day began shortly after 7am and I chaired eight meetings in Number 10, including the Cabinet committee deciding Covid strategy. “I visited a school in Hemel Hempstead, which took me out of Downing Street for over four hours and among all these engagements on a day that happened to be my birthday, there was a brief gathering in the Cabinet Room shortly after 2pm, lasting for less than 10 minutes, during which people I work with kindly passed on their good wishes. POLL And I have to say in all frankness at that time it did not occur to me that this might have been a breach of the rules.” He said he takes “full responsibility for everything” but that he “couldn’t be everywhere at once” when asked about the widespread nature of the gatherings across Whitehall. “Of course I take full responsibility for everything, but don’t forget the Downing Street is about, you know, 15,000 square feet. It’s got a lot of officials working in it — hundreds and hundreds of officials — I couldn’t be everywhere at once. “But clearly, once it became obvious what had been happening, the types of behaviour that unfortunately, sadly, we’d seen, we’ve taken steps to change things and Downing Street has been radically transformed. “It’s a much … it’s a very different organisation and we’re focusing 100 per cent on delivering our agenda.”