With just few weeks to the presidential primary election of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), leaders of the party are still at a loss as to who President Muhammadu Buhari will endorse as his anointed candidate, Daily Independent has gathered. The president, in an interview early this year had admitted to having a favourite candidate among presidential aspirants jostling to succeed him in the APC. He, however, declined to mention the name of the aspirant for fear of being eliminated. According to him: “I don’t have problem with 2023 elections. Let anybody elected come in, but nobody should call me to come and give evidence.” When asked if he has a favourite candidate to succeed him, President Buhari initially said “no”, but when prodded further, he said, “Yes, I have a favourite candidate, but I would not mention his name, he may be eliminated.” Since the president’s interview, several aspirants have publicly declared their interest to run on the platform of the APC. They include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State and his Kogi State counterpart, Yahaya Bello. Others are Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation; Rochas Okorocha, former Imo State governor and Orji Uzor Kalu, former Abia State governor. Godwin Emefiele, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is also rumoured to be interested in running on the platform of the APC but he is yet to open up on whether he will also join the race. Daily Independent also gathered that outgoing governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi and former governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, will also announce their desire to run for the presidency on the platform of APC in few days’ time. When asked who among the aspirants is President Buhari’s anointed candidate? A presidency source said nobody in the party knows as he (Buhari) is still keeping it close to his chest. POLL According to him, what played out during the party’s national convention may occur again when President Buhari endorsed Senator Abdullahi Adamu as his preferred candidate for national chairmanship position few days to the exercise. “To be sincere, nobody knows who the president’s anointed candidate is. But I expected that what played out at the last national convention may still happen. If you recall, all the chairmanship aspirants have been going about campaigning and getting endorsements but eventually, the president settled for Senator Adamu who he strongly believes has the capacity to consolidate on the gains recorded by the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee”. When asked why Buhari keeps giving his blessings to all the aspirants without any reservation, our source said not doing so would have plunged the party into more crisis as the rejected aspirants and their supporters would have accused him of being undemocratic. “As the father and leader of the party, that is what is expected of the president whenever any of the aspirants come to him to notify him of their intention to contest and seek his blessings. The best he can do is to tell them he has heard and they should go ahead. Imagine if he tells any of the aspirants that he is not supporting him and that one comes out to say that, people will accuse him of being undemocratic and that may plunge the party into further crisis. “From the looks of things, more aspirants might still come out to contest and as usual, the president will still give his blessings to them to go ahead. When the time comes, he will surely inform those concerned about the direction he is going”, he said. Also on Tuesday, Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi, described as senseless falsehood, the trending speculations in the social media that he had dropped his 2023 presidential ambition to contest Ebonyi South Senatorial seat. In a statement on Tuesday, Governor Umahi reiterated that his presidential ambition was on course, and will soon be realised because, according to him, majority of Nigerians who want good governance and accountability were working and praying very hard for him to emerge the president in 2023. The statement which was signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Uchenna Orji, further accused the opposition elements of fabricating the falsehood in order to score cheap political points. “Our attention has been drawn to a senseless falsehood being irresponsibly shared on social media platforms by opposition forces and mischievous minds who are idly making mendacious propaganda against the presidential ambition of the governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Nweze Umahi. “Contrary to their cowardly fabrications against the well thought and nationally accepted presidential ambition of Governor Umahi, we restate for the pleasure of progressive Nigerians home and in diaspora, that the falsehood trending currently in social media that Governor Umahi has dropped his ambition for Senate is nothing but empty and vaunting architecture of political charlatans who are intimidated by the tall and admirable hallmarks of leadership excellence recorded by Governor Umahi and which has put him forward as a frontline presidential material that can win the hearts of Nigerians in 2023 general election. Governor Umahi’s presidential ambition is unwavering and is alive in the hearts of Nigerians. “We advise the opposition forces and their agents to desist from all these fruitless and bizarre orchestrations against God’s servant and accomplished leader, for that is bringing more ostracism to their own organisms. We assure them that no matter the secrecy and potency of their plots, God will bring it to naught as we come in the name of God”, Orji said.