As part of the Easter celebration, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai has felicitated Christians all over the world. In a Facebook message congratulating Christians, Governor Nasir El-Rufai wrote, “On behalf of the Kaduna State Government, we felicitate with the Christian faithful on the occasion of Easter. In these difficult times, the example set by Jesus Christ, the pain, the sacrifice, the triumph, and the message of hope echo with timeless resonance. “We congratulate the Christian faithful on the completion of Lent and the great feast of Easter. This festival of triumph follows the holy season of Lent, during which the Christian community engaged in fasting, prayers, and works of charity. As people of faith, let us continue to practice in our daily lives the lessons of sacrifice, care for the poor, deep spiritual reflection, and love for all humankind, irrespective of tribe or religion, observed during the fasting. “Easter symbolizes the triumph of hope over despair and an affirmation that darkness cannot trump the plans and wishes of Almighty God. Jesus Christ set an example of sacrifice that has moved men and women through the ages. As we celebrate the triumph of Christ, let us embrace all the lessons of Easter, never losing faith in the will of Almighty God, and the triumph of good over evil. Let us uphold each other in our common humanity and pray for peace in our land. Let us do our best to promote harmony in our communities and reject strife in our land. Let hope never depart from our hearts.” He saidHe called on everyone who calls Kaduna State home, to work together to uphold the state, its hardworking people, and their accomplishments from those who seek to destroy it. “We pray God Almighty that the blessings and lessons of Easter will spread all through our State, and move us all to be better people, that the Almighty will comfort all our people who have been affected by the security challenges that confront us. “May the good Lord bestow His grace upon us, bless our state and its people, reward the endeavors of our citizens and protect us all from danger and discord,” he added.