The Plateau State Government has expended over N9 billion into the ongoing construction of the British/America flyover bridge. The State Government has also provided jobs to thousands of youth in the state through the many infrastructure projects it has embarked upon in recent years. Hon. Yakubu Dato, the State Commissioner for Land, Survey and Town Planning, stated these to journalists over the weekend in a statement. According to Dati, when completed, the British/America flover bridge would increase safety in the state, while also easing traffic congestion. Dati hinted that the British/America flyover and the Jos Main Market were sure to play a significant role in aggregate economy of the state in terms of its contribution to revenue generation, capital formation and employment creation, which ultimately support the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and socio-economic development. Dati also said that the State Government was ending drug trafficking and other illicit activities among the youths by absorbing them in the many construction projects going on in the state. For instance, Dati hinted that the governor is expanding, modernising and rehabilitating the popular Jos Main Market, stressing that these efforts by the government were not only to transform the infrastructure of the state, but to provide jobs for the youths. He noted that this is very critical as idle youths engage in crime, fuelled by drug addiction. POLL “The menace of drug trafficking and abuse coupled with its spiraling effect of cultism and crime, is a cankerworm ravaging the youthful population in Nigeria, with Plateau State feeling the brunt. “This concern formed the nucleus of discourse with the Plateau State commandant of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Mr. Umar Yahuza where he lamented a surge in the use of narcotic drugs as evidenced in the arrests and convictions of drug traffickers lately”, Dati said. Dati said with this initiative, the teeming youths in the state were already being engaged in various ways as construction superintendents, project engineers, construction estimators, construction inspectors, journeyman electricians, plumbers, pipefitters, carpenters and artisans. He expressed that the engagements of the youths by the government was the beginning of the mission by the Lalong administration to rescue the state from unemployment and poverty, which he noticed fuelled youth restiveness. Dati explained that the construction of the Jos Main Market was another well-thought out project that would double the domino impact of these benefits. He emphasised that the wages and personal income earned by these workers would improve and enable citizens to pay their sales and property taxes. With these, the internally generated revenue of the state, he insisted was bound to increase astronomically in the coming days, as Governor Simon Lalong reinvented the civil service state into a pool of budding entrepreneurs. He recalled that it was in the year 2015 that Lalong, then the All Progressives Congress APC) governorship candidate in Plateau State, made a vow at the Nenpun Arena in Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau state, to rebuild the Jos Terminus Main Market if elected into office. He stated that after several preliminary works that included a survey on the site and later bringing the old structure down, the Governor awarded the contract for the rebuilding of the market in February 2022, thereby ending the search for a viable investor, which started in August 2016, but yielded little results until Jaiz Bank PLC came with an offer to fund the construction with acceptable model. The concept designs and financial projections was subjected to a rigorous process by relevant government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) made up of the Attorney General and commissioner of justice, Ministries of Commerce and Industry, Housing, Bureau of Public Private Partnerships, Debt Management Office, Plateau Investments and Property Company Ltd under the meticulous lense of the Harvard trained Chief of Staff, Noel Donjur, according to Dati. He emphasised that after robust engagements, the state’s Executive Council approved the engagement of Jaiz Bank in tow with their recommended contractor, to deliver the project in 12 months at the cost of N9.412 billion.