Encumbered by recessions, multiple taxations, and corruption, the collapse of Nigeria’s national grid and its attendant electricity shortfall is forcing hundreds of businesses to close down with its negative effects on the country’s economy. CHIDI UGWU writes Clearly, Nigerians are truly suffering from numerous afflictions ranging from insecurity, economic downturn, fuel scarcity, corrup­tion, inadequate infrastructure and deceases to mention a few. Although the people have some­how been managing to survive with all these, the latest, which is the unavailability of electricity and total blackout, is no doubt taking a huge toll on Nigerians and indeed the economy of the country. Not that the people had ever enjoyed sufficient electricity supply compared to other countries when one consider the fact that South Africa, with a population of 60,756,135 persons boasts of a total domestic electricity generation capacity of 58,095 megawatts (MW), while Nigeria with over 200 million population, still struggles to keep a steady 5000MW. Nigeria’s aging grid provides only about 5,000MW of power to its 200 million citizens — roughly the same as the city of Edinburgh provides for its 500,000 residents. Seemingly, keeping a stable 5000MW appears to be a herculean task for Nigeria vis-a-vis the incessant grid collapse, the latest of which had thrown the majority of the country into darkness. Since 2013 when the power sector was privatised, the grid has cumulatively failed electricity consumers nearly 200 times! On each occasion, the incidents practically grounded Nigeria and its economic activities. It is not surprising, therefore, that the economy is on a nosedive and companies are shutting down. Despite the fact that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has in the past seven years spent over N1.5 trillion to keep the nation’s power sector from collapse, the sector appears to be bedeviled by corruption and administrative inefficiency showcasing darkness as the hallmark of its service delivery. “We at Apo get to have power 30 minutes in 24 hours. Buying of water has become a norm,” said Ellakeche Adah, an Abuja resident while lamenting the development. Electricity consumers residing in Lugbe, Kuje, Area10, Central Area, Kubwa told Saturday INDEPENDENT during the week in Abuja that the poor power supply had affected their sources of income as well as their health. POLL Miss Esohe Omohe, a Fashion Designer said that in the last two months, the power situation had worsened thereby, affecting her business. Omohe said that the fuel scarcity had compounded the situation as she could not get fuel to power her generator. According to her, most fueling stations have refused to sell in jerry cans. “There is no light, no fuel, the situation is terrible and we are appealing to the Federal Government for quick intervention before people die of hunger,” she said. Mrs. Uche Okoro, an Ice block seller described the light situation as “bad and worrisome.’’ Okoro said that the electricity supply was not as regular as it used to be in the past, saying that the power supply had been epileptic for more than a month. According to her, “the beer parlour I am operating to assist my family is no longer thriving as most nights there is no light to power the freezers to cool drinks. I am appealing to the management of AEDC and the Federal Government to do something urgently about this so we can get some respite,’’ she said. Recession, multiple taxations, corruption and now lack of electricity are forcing hundreds of businesses to close down with its attendant effects on the country’s economy. The Nigeria Consumer Protection Network expressed disgust over the unending interrupted power supply in Abuja and other parts of the country in the last two months. Kunle Olubiyo, the president of the group, described the situation as a marathon race of institutionalised vicious circle of darkness, in a Save- Our-Souls letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, a copy of which was obtained by Saturday INDEPENDENT. Olubiyo, who wondered how Abuja and neighbouring states are fast gaining prominence in terms of poor electricity supply revealed that over three thousand business concerns, embassies and ministries are being affected lately with severe economic implications. The Director of the Economic and Statistics Department, for the Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria, Oluwasegun Osidipe, was once quoted as saying that 196 manufacturing companies shut down their operations between 2015 and 2017 due to the biting recession. Between 2020 and 2022 this figure, he said has doubled. April last year, the World Bank stated that businesses in Nigeria suffer an annual loss of $29 billion as a result of an “unreliable” power supply, which has led to a situation where consumers refuse to pay their bills. Presenting the bank’s Power Sector Recovery Programme (PSRP) fact sheet at the ‘World Bank Dialogue on Fostering Knowledge-Sharing and Dialogue on Power Sector Issues in Nigeria,’ World Bank’s practice manager, West and Central Africa Energy, Ashish Khanna, said the majority of Nigerians are reluctant to pay for electricity because the bills are not “transparent and clear. “Businesses in Nigeria lose about $29 billion annually because of unreliable electricity. Nigerian utilities get paid for only a half of electricity they receive,” the report read. It added that for every N10 worth of electricity received by electricity distribution companies (DisCos), about N2.6 is lost to poor distribution infrastructure and through power theft while another N3.4 is not paid for. “Six in 10 of registered customers are not metered, and their electricity bills are not transparent and clear. This contributes to resistance to pay electricity bills.” The Bretton Woods institution on its part noted that only 51 percent of installed capacity was available for generation, as an average Nigerian consumed four times less energy than his/her counterpart in a typical lower middle-income country. The bank said every one in 10 people without access to electricity resides in Nigeria, Muhammad Wakil, senior energy specialist, World Bank, said. He added that “Nigeria now has the largest number of ‘un-electrified’ people globally and the trend is worsening. Of the electrified, the supply is very unreliable with widespread blackouts.” He said Nigeria now has 25 percent more ‘un-electrified’ people than the second most ‘un-electrified’ country in the world, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The World Bank described the PSRP as a comprehensive response to Nigeria’s power challenges to renew the country’s economy by rebuilding a functioning and fair power sector. In its support, between June 2020 and February 2021, the World Bank board approved $1.25 billion in funding to support the Nigerian government in its efforts to reset the power sector. But, while this is going on, there appears to be no solution in sight with regard to addressing the electricity issues as sector players have resorted to shifting the blame and passing the buck among themselves. On March 14th, 2022, the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, convened an emergency meeting towards the restoration of the normal supply of electricity supply nationwide and the development of a framework for sustainable improvement of supply. While giving updates on the progress so far made to address the recent challenges in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI), Aliyu, an engineer, recalled that the national grid lost about 1,100MW generation capacity as a consequence of simultaneous disruptions in gas supply to the Okpai, Calabar and the Afam VI power plants. He added that the available generation capacity was exacerbated by the ongoing water management regime at the Kainji, Jebba and Shiroro power plants. The Minister listed the progress so far made to include, amongst many other initiatives that the gas pipeline affected by acts of vandalism has been restored and the Okpai power plant has resumed power generation and currently contributing an average of 300MM. Also, he said the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) Plc has been directed to enter into fast-track negotiation with NAOC on an interim energy sales agreement with a view to bringing the new Okpai Il power plant on the grid thereby contributing an additional 400MW of generation capacity among other things. However, it is obvious from the press conference addressed by Dr. Joy Ogaji, the Executive Secretary, of the Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), that the current situation was not as the power minister explained but as a result of payment issues between NBET and GenCos. Ogaji had called for the urgent defrayment of no less than N1.64 trillion outstanding debts owed to GenCos, and the fixing and better management of the national grid, which she said is crippling the operations of the generation companies. She said that the low water levels were a seasonal thing and if the Nigerian electricity supply industry was functioning as it was planned to function, the country should not be affected by low water levels because the thermal power plants would be working optimally to make up for the shortfall in the hydro GenCos and vice versa. Ogaji said the GenCos could generate up to 8000 megawatts to 9000 Megawatts of electricity if the power sector could get things right. But, in a swift reaction, NBET disputed the figures quoted by the GenCos, saying only companies with active gas supply and transportation contracts were paid for unutilised capacity, according to the Head Corpo­rate Communication, NBET, Henrietta Ighomrore. She ex­plained that in the country only five power generation compa­nies with active Gas Purchase Agreement were paid for un­used capacity. According to her, claims by Dr. Ogaji that the GenCos have the capacity to generate 9,000MW were not accurate as inspections by NBET have shown that the capacity does not exist. On its part, the Transmis­sion Company of Nigeria (TCN) insisted that the current load shedding or grid collapse being experienced nationwide is as a result of very low power generation by the Generation Companies (GENCOs) for TCN to wheel through the transmis­sion grid to distribution compa­nies nationwide. “The Transmission Compa­ny of Nigeria wishes to notify consumers of electricity that the current load shedding be­ing experienced nationwide is as a result of very low power generation by the Generation Companies (GENCOs) for TCN to wheel through the trans­mission grid to distribution companies nationwide” stated TCN’s General Manager, Pub­lic Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, in a statement. Continuing, she added, “Presently, the cumulative generation nationwide is low and generation companies have attributed this to several factors including poor gas sup­ply, fault in generating units of generating companies, sched­uled and unscheduled main­tenance, all of which have caused most power generating companies to limit their gen­eration, and sometimes not generate at all.” In all of these, the Associ­ation of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), the um­brella body of distribution companies, sometime in 2019, blamed the recurrent power collapse on the TCN’s analog system, describing it as largely responsible for collapses since the privatisation of the power sector in 2013. The Discos said these de­ficiencies of TCN were cap­tured in a July 2017 System Adequacy Report published by the Independent System Operator, a section of TCN that oversee the operations of the system. “A properly protected trans­mission system will always iso­late faults,” ANED said. “But, unfortunately, the resultant effect is that we have experi­enced the ninth total blackout in Nigeria this year, a rate of transmission failure that is in excess of one blackout per month – far beyond any inter­national standard.” NERC Chairman, Sanusi Garba, who gave comprehen­sive explanations, however, assured electricity consum­ers that most of the problems were being sorted out, adding that the normal power supply will soon be restored. He enu­merated that the problems include that electricity gener­ation has dropped from about 5300 MW in October 2021 to about 4300 MW in March 2022, the drop in power generation by the hydro plants from 1350 MW in October 2021 to about 1100 MW, vandalisation of gas pipeline, cleaning of liquids in the gas pipeline, among other hindrances. According to Garba, “In terms of quality of supply, supply of electricity genera­tion has dropped from about 5300 in October 2021 to about 4350 in March, a drop of about 1000 megawatts.”