House of Representatives Member representing Pankshin, Kanke, Kanam Federal Constituency at National Assembly Hon Adamu Yusuf Gagdi, on Thursday said he had moved a motion for the setting up of permanent military bases and a Mobile Police Squadron station in Kanam, Plateau State. Gagdi said his motion that he moved on the floor of the House of Representatives received approval and a military base would be established in strategic areas, particularly where Kanam share boundaries with other states. The federal Lawmaker made this known when he paid a courtesy visit to the Chairman of Kanam Local Government, Alhaji Dayyabu Garga at Dengi Headquarters of Kanam LGA of the state. He described the Sunday night attacks in Garga district as a sad and difficult moment for the Kanam people. The Federal lawmaker told the chairman that he sought the establishment of a Mobile Police Squadron to be situated in the area. Gagdi who is the House of Reps Committee Chairman on Navy said that prior to the attacks, Kanam used to be the safest and most peaceful area on the Plateau. “We don’t know why they attacked us but we are people of faith and we will take it that God is testing our faith. “My late father use to tell me that if you are a faithful man, God will test you through hunger, hardship or through war to know whether your faith is genuine.” POLL “As House Committee on Navy Chairman, I can say that other areas in Nigeria have experienced similar attacks but the response given to the Garaga attack is unique. “The swift deployment of the military to affected communities is unique,” he stated. The lawmaker further stated that his motion to fix the road linking Wase through the affected communities by Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) was also approved. He added that the fixing of the road would soon commence. “On my part, I took 100 mattresses to Garga, 50 bags of rice, 50 bags of maize, 100 bundles of zinc an 400 pieces of clothing materials. “For those whose motorcycles were burnt, we took 10 motorcycles to them as well as N2 million donation to the affected people,” he added. Gagdi commended the Chairman of Kanam and Wase for showing leadership in the difficult moment. Responding, Kanam Local Government Chairman, Dayyabu Garga commended the lawmaker for abandoning his lesser Hajj to return home to assist the people. Garga told the lawmaker that they have so far buried 106 people while others were still missing. The chairman added that many people were severely injured and were receiving treatment in different hospitals across the state. According to him, the attackers were camping at Kamabari Forest in neighbouring Taraba State. “We must flush them out of our forest, the Kambari Forest in Taraba is like their village where they moved freely AK47s and other weapons. “They want to turn the forest like Sambisa. If they are not flushed out, we will not be safe,” He called on all sons of Kanam to unite and defeat the common enemy. He stressed that the local government on its part is taking charge of the hospital bills of the injured currently receiving treatment in hospitals across the state.