OSOGBO – Men of the Osun State Police Command have arrested a hotel manager identified as Joseph Adeleye for allegedly raping a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member. The incident reportedly occurred in Osogbo, Osun State capital. Police effected the arrest on Friday after series of investigations and search for the suspect, who was working with a hotel as manager located around Government Reservation Area (GRA) in Osogbo. The NYSC member, who spoke with our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said the rape incident occurred on Friday, March 25, 2022, around 8.30 pm. She stated that she was attached to the hotel as her Primary Place of Assignment (PPA) and served as the administration officer of the organisation. Narrating her ordeal, she said on that Friday night when she was on duty, the manager instructed her to bring a bottle of beer to his hotel room, which she did. After the delivery, she said the manager started to ask her plan after she might have completed her service year. She maintained that she was not too comfortable with the questions because they were in enclosed room. Few minutes later, Adeleye started to touch and rough-handle her, which she resisted by pulling his hands off her body, but as she was helpless, he raped her. According to a copy of the statement she made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT: “The manager, Mr. Adeleye requested that I should bring a bottle of beer to his room, After he collected it, he started to inquire from me my plan after NYSC. “I was not too fine with it because we are in enclosed room. Few minutes late, he started touching me and I resisted, pulling his hands off my body. “Bu, suddenly, he pulled me closer and turned my face on the bed and put his hands in my trouser and inserted it in my private part. “He then pulled my trouser from behind, turned my face up and wanted to penetrate into my private part, I was resisting him. He was too heavy for me. I even bit him. Yet, he carried on. “I shouted on top of my voice, but no one could hear me because the room was a bit far from where other members of staff are.