…Warn IPOB Against Jeopardising Process Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC), on Thursday stated that Federal Government has embraced a political solution in regards to the case of the incarcerated leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. The group in a press release warned IPOB to desist from any form of violent action that would cause more harm than good to the case of Kanu. The statement read, “Stop taking any action that will result to further incarceration mazi nnamdi kanu. “Today, Southeast has become a semi-battle field as a result of how Nigerian government had approached IPOB when they launched the Eastern Security Network (ESN) in 2020. “As we have been made to believe, from the sense of history, Gen. Yakubu Gowon and Gen. Emeka Odimegwu Ojukwu could have tactically avoided the event of 1966 to 1970 in Nigeria. “Unfortunately, we the new generation and the present government of Nigeria have lost the sense of history; we are now making the worst dangerous mistake like Gen. Yakubu Gowon and Gen. Emeka Ojukwu. ““But fortunately for us, recently the Federal government has embraced the political solution to Nnamdi Kanu case, as initiated by Prof. George Obiozor, the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide. We, therefore, advise IPOB and any sprinter group to shun any form of violence especially at this Easter period, when Christians gather in celebration of the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. POLL “This will also pave the way for peace as the process of the unconditional release of leader of IPOB is being perfected with Nationalistic and Patriotic approach by President Mohammadu Buhari’s led federal government. “Simeon Ekpa should know that any more violent action in biafra land will lead to the delay of the release of Nnamdi Kanu. Umuchineke and Ndigbo all over the world will have no reason to believe that Simeon Ekpa is working for our enemies to indict mazi nnamdi kanu and make him to remain in DSS dungeon. “Its no longer news that the leadership of IPOB had in the year 2020, launched their security outfit, the ESN in their quest to cushion the menacing activities of Fulani herdsmen killers in the region.”