BAUCHI-The Association of Professional Women Engineers(APWEN) in collaboration with NNPC at the Sarki Ahmadu Central Primary School in Misau, Bauchi state, has commissioned a multi-million Naira well equipped Science and Technology Laboratory with a motorized borehole. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony on Friday, the General Managing Director NNPC, Mele Kyari Kolo said that the program is targeted at primary school girls, ages 8-10 to promote the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) as well as girl-child education in NNPC. Represented by the Chief Innovation Officer, NNPC, Engr Betty Ugona, he said that in living up to it’s corporate social responsibility, the NNPC responded to the call, and few months after the historic meeting, APWEN and NNPC collaborated in what was one of the largest and most ambitious attempts to encourage more girls across the country to pursue careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. He stated that the series of events, organized across the six geopolitical zones in Nigeria, led to the establishment of Science and Laboratory centres in selected schools. Mele Kyari disclosed that the maiden edition of the flagship Programme- “Invent It, Build It,” sponsored by NNPC, which has touched the lives of Nigerians in many positive ways, was launched at Sarki Ahmadu primary school, Misau in Bauchi State on 21st April 2018. He further said that on the same day, the foundation was laid for the construction of an ultra-modern Science and Technology Laboratory at Sarki Ahmadu primary school, also sponsored by NNPC. “It s important and heartwarming to remark that the Laboratory was named after the illustrious son of Misau, the immediate past Group Managing Director of NNPC, Engr. Dr. Makainti Baru, who was also an alumnus of this school” . POLL “We make bold to state that the construction and equipping of the Science and Technology Laboratory will encourage not just the young girls, but also the boys, to study Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, (STEM), and hence make them Economic Drivers and Problem Solvers in our dear Nation, Nigeria”he said The NNPC GMD stressed that the membership of APWEN has indeed shown itself as a ‘force for good’ and as an effective platform for cooperation and for promoting development. We believe that the utilization of this laboratory will produce tangible outcomes that will shape our career choices and positive impact on our children.