Foreigners are in control of the Nigerian oil and gas industry, yet the Iron and Steel Industry is a strategic industry for Nigeria, just like oil and gas, energy, coal, military, agriculture, transportation and communication. But the question is, how much have we made of these industries? How much have we made them live up to their status? Not much, nothing to write home about. The only exception is in the telecommunication sector which jumped from 500, 000 lines in 2001 to 66 million today. The subject of interest here, however, is the iron and steel industry as it relates to the oil industry. If you wonder why we remain strangers in our oil industry, the answer is not far-fetched. Our lackluster attitude in developing our iron and steel industry is responsible. Iron and steel industry is strategic to the development of any developing economy like ours. The industry is needed for the takeoff and sustenance of the automobile industry. Machine tools and equipment of all sorts are products of the iron and steel industry. Road and rail infrastructure as well real estate industry that a country is dead if they are not available or in bad shape if a nation’s iron and steel industry is not thriving. Our oil and gas industry is and will remain under the control of foreigners as long as the Nigerian iron and steel industry remain undeveloped – it is one sector that is very fundamental to the growth of this industry that is currently the heartbeat of Nigeria. How? Oil rig and gas tanks are largely products of iron and steel. Oil and gas-bearing pipes and vehicles (oil tankers) are products of the iron and steel industry. And of course, oil and gas cargo carrying vessels are products of this industry. Therefore, if our iron and steel industry is down it follows that we have no grip on our oil industry (which is what it is), it follows that our oil and gas industry is dependent on imported iron and steel, on foreign technology. It does and we know. But do we care? I doubt if we do, not with what our rigmarole on the proper take-off of Ajaokuta and related rolling mills all these years. Let us go through the story. The history of steel development in Nigeria dates back to the 1950s. In 1958, initial efforts were made towards the establishment of a metallurgical complex. At that time, action was directed towards the establishment of mini mills that would substitute the limited quantity of imported steel materials which Nigeria was consuming then. Market surveys were carried out on steel demand and projections were made and it was agreed that an integrated plant would be suitable for the country haven’t taken cognizance of the availability of iron-ore in the Agbaja and Udi areas of the country. Coal was also available and with the construction of the hydroelectric Kainji Dam, it was expected that electricity would be available in sufficient quantity. Investigations revealed that raw materials suitable for steel production abound in the country. These include iron ore deposits, estimated at over 200 million tons at Itakpe Hill, near Okene; cooking coal, estimated at 120 million tons at Lafia in Nassarawa State; marble at Jakura and Ubo in Kwara State, limestone at Mfamosing in Cross River State, dolomite at Barum and Osara, and refectory clays at Onitbode/Oshiele, etc. With these discoveries, the basis for setting up steel plant was established. POLL In 1973, Messrs Tiajprom export of the USSR was commissioned to prepare a preliminary project for the establishment of the first iron ore and steel plant in Nigeria. Government decided that Ajaokuta should be the site for the steel plant and Ajaokuta Steel project, as is now known was born. To date, the Ajaokuta steel dream is yet to be fully realized. Another bold and giant step for steel development projects was taken in the 1975/80 development plan. This step gave birth to the Delta Steel Company, Ovwian, Aladja near Warri, in January 1982. The Aladja plant was set up to take advantage of gas, which at the time was mostly being flared. The Aladja plant is a direct reduction process plant. What followed was the establishment of rolling mills at three key market centres of the country, namely: Oshogbo, Jos and 210, 000 tons of steel for each mill per annum. Katsina, with a production capacity for They were commissioned in December 1982. These have since been privatized. The Ajaokuta Steel Company produces integrated blast furnace of bars, shapes and medium structural with planned capacity of 1.3 million tons per year. However, the estimated tons per year from Delta and Ajaokuta are 2.2 million tons. As at 1987, the Federal Government had spent over N5 billion on the Ajaokuta, Delta, Jos, Katsina and Oshogbo projects while the same amount was also being expended between 1988 and 1998. Part 2 to be published next week Thursday