IFECHI OKOH Thursday 24th March 2022, will never be forgotten in haste as Nigerian top showbiz shots took time off to identify with Righteous man Erhabor, whose first and only son, Stefan Erhabor who turned 30 years on the same fateful day wedded his heartthrob, Pretty Grace Umoh, now Grace Erhabor. The couple undoubtedly had a double-barreled celebration of a lifetime at the same moment. Interestingly, the wedding came first with a surprising appearance of Mr. Fantastic, Sunny Neji who welcomed guests with his hit item, “Oruka” to the Porshe Kulture Yard, Lekki, Lagos, owned by multiple award reggae gospel icon, Buchi. With that song, he set every guests in the mood for the goodies to come. The mounting of the stage of Buchi, complemented Neji’s outing in no small way, as he served guests with his kind of reggae gospel music. That gathering was simply a who-is-who matter on the showbiz podium. From Nollywood, came well build actor, Keppy Ekpeyoung, veteran actors, Nobert Young, Fred Amata, Tony Akposiri a.k.a Zacky, and CEO Ejiro who were on ground to identify with Righteous man during such a historic moment. Haymakers from the music circle was not left out as COSOM President, Chief Tony Okoroji and some board members stormed the occasion. Also at the gathering were MCSN Chairman, Orits Wiliki, former PMAN President, Tee Mac, Afrobeat legend, Dede Mabiaku, Elder Emma Ogosi, who flew in from Asaba, Delta State capital, top female gospel acts Kenny St. Brown aka KSB, IceK of the Artquake fame, MTN Project Fame Voice Coach Ige Sings and her entrepreneur husband, Duka Kachi. Others include no. 1 African Gospel disk jockey, DJGosperella, First World Entertainment USA CEO, Kris Ojo, Ambassador Felix Duke, CEO of CYTech Prosound, Cyril Atie, Bishop Amos McRoy, formerly of the Jahstis Band which produced the late Majek Fashek, and Mr. & Mrs. Amos Gagar (Righteous man’s elder brother), who did justice at chairing the occasion. The joining of the couple was done by Pastor David Edet of Transmission Christian Church, while Bishop Solomon Erhabor of House of Grace Power Ministries presented the exhortation.