Tolani was jilted by the guy she loved most, but she never allowed the breakup to affect her as she quickly moved on with other side guys she always hung out with. She loves cruising with guys not particularly her boyfriend. After few months, the guy wanted her back but she had already moved on. Since he wanted them to be just friends, she treated him exactly like one. She did not hide her other sexual escapades from him. She told him everything just as she would tell a friend. She probably wasn’t expecting him to get angry or jealous since he told her they should be just friends. But it looked like her guy is not happy with the way things have turned out, he gets angry when she sleeps with another man. “My guy served me a cold breakfast. It happened so suddenly that it shocked me down to my spine. We had no quarrels that period, although I noticed some changes in his attitude I thought there were other things he was dealing with. Then one day I went to his house and he told me that he was no longer interested in the relationship and would prefer that we remained just friends. “This was somebody I chose as my main guy. I had other guys I went out with but had nothing really serious with them. They were just guys I hung out with. I like clubbing and catching fun and these guys were fun seekers, too. But he was the one I loved most. “Among all the guys, he was my main guy and I accorded him that respect, but he didn’t trust me when I told him I loved him, he thought I was just playing games with him. “He was serious and cool headed. My parents knew him and they liked him. They had already accepted him as their son-in-law. That was why when he told me he wanted us to be just friends, I was surprised. I couldn’t remember doing anything wrong to him and didn’t know why he ended the relationship. “In all my life, I don’t put all my eggs in one basket. I don’t date only one guy. I always have options just in case the main one misbehaves, I would quickly move on with the next preferable one. “I accepted to be his friend since that was what he wanted because I was already tired of his negative vibes. POLL “Four months later, he started chatting me up again. Besides, we work in the same company and we usually bumped into each other. He said he wanted to see me and I didn’t object, we hung out often, just as friends. He would take me out to eat catfish pepper soup and other munchies. “Since he said we should just be friends, I stopped going to his house unlike when I used to go to his house to cook for him and warm his bed, too. Crazy right? And right now I am seeing other guys. Anytime he sees me with another guy he becomes angry. I don’t hide anything from him as my friend. I tell him about my sexual relationships, and this upsets him most. I wonder why he is angry after he had told me he is not interested in a relationship and that we should be just friends. Even if he wanted me back, I was expecting him to also use his mouth to reverse what he said.” Dear Tolani, I don’t know your motives or intentions of revealing your sex life to your ex-turned-friend. I think it’s not always healthy to do that since both of you still feel something for each other. Except you just wanted to make him jealous and you are sure both of you are not getting back together again. When you told him about the guys you slept with – first, he would see you as a cheap girl and even if he wanted to continue with you he would never trust you and may just use you as a play thing till he finally gets tired and jilt you finally. Most guys don’t want to be seen as an option. Even when you are seeing other guys, which is not advisable when you are in a serious relationship, you have to do it discretely. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.