LAGOS – Otunba Adesunbo Onitiri, a renowned socio-political activist and critic, is set to contest Lagos Central Senatorial seat in 2023. Announcing this to newsmen in Lagos yesterday, Otunba Onitiri said if elected, one of his priorities would be to lobby other National Assembly legislators to get special statutes for Lagos, being the economic capital of Nigeria. According to him special status should be supported with incidental infrastructural development to make it world- class standard, he stated. He  promised to ensure that the Lagos Stste  people enjoy free medical services and free education from primary school to university level because, according to him, the state is buoyant enough to foot the bills. The politician who has purchased a form at the National Headquarters of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has also listed a ten- point agenda to execute if elected. Onitiri, a reputable Estate Surveyor/Valuers said he would work with others to ensure that local governments, state Judiciary and state Assembly get their full autonomy from the executives. Other Hhgh points and cardinal issues include pushing for legislation to eradicate toll gates along Lagos/Epe Axis; legislation on election financing so that citizens don’t need to  be billionaires before contesting election. “One of my legislative assignments would be to ensure legislation that would provide universal basic health care in  Lagos and nigeria as well as provide universal basic education in Lagos”, Onitiri stressed. POLL To expand the Lagos state financial base, there is the need to develop water ways and blue sea economy, he added. Otunba Onitiri is a senior Fellow of NIEVS, FNIVS, member of FIABCI, Rating Valuation Associate of Britain, had played significant roles in the struggle for the present democratic emancipation in Nigeria, especially the June 12 struggles. He obtained the historic landmark judgement of June 12 that enabled the election to hold. He also initiated and organized the Epetedo Declaration of Late MKO Abiola as president in 1994. He is an ardent believer of politics of quality service to the people as opposed to the politics of looting the common wealth of the states and Nigeria. Onitiri is a prominent Member Island Club; Ikoyi Club; Metropolitan Club; Nig British Chamber of Commerce (NBCC); Nig American Chamber of Commerce (NACC); NSAC; LCCI and NACCIMA. His father Chief Samuel Akanbi Onitiri was a renowned politician of the first Republic. He was a close associate of the political sage, late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and was charged and jailed for treasonable felony along with Obafemi Awolowo, Chief Anthony Enahoro, Alhaji eLateef Jakande and others. Lastly, Otunba Onitiri implored all Nigerian voters to overwhelmingly vote out during 2023 general  elections, APC candidates for deceiving Nigerians with their change mantra and retrieve our country, Nigeria, from the party.