ASABA – Police Operatives have rescued a kidnap victim and thereafter nabbed James Michael, a mem­ber of a kidnap gang terroriz­ing Oleh Community, Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State. Daily Independent also gath­ered that the notorious gang of five who were operating in a blue Toyota Camry abducted their victim (name withheld) on 29, March 2022 in Otor-Whe Community. It was learnt that the police in Oleh were alerted about the incident through a distress call from an anonymous caller in Igbide community, Oleh that some hoodlums suspected to be kidnappers numbering about five abducted a man while they were spotted heading towards an isolated bush path in Igbide. It was gathered that the DPO Oleh Division SP Paul Obaware swiftly mobilised and led a combined team of Police/ vigilante’s in search of the ve­hicle with a view to rescuing the victim and arresting the hoodlums. Upon noticing that the Po­lice were closing up on them, the hoodlums attempted to re­locate the victim but were met with stiff resistance from the Police. It was learnt that one of the suspects named James Michael ‘m’ a.k.a biggy aged 29 years who had been on the command’s wanted list was arrested while others fled. Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect is among the syndicate that kid­napped a woman (name with­held) early this year in Oleh and also part of the syndicate that attacked policemen in Idu Roundabout two months ago. It was further learnt that the victim had been reunited with his family while a manhunt for the fleeing members of the gang is ongoing. POLL In a related development, 10 suspected cultists were arrest­ed Sunday during a raid of hideouts in Udu/ Otu- Jeremi, Ughelli South Local Govern­ment Area of the state. The suspects were arrested while 101 wraps of SK, four packs of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and 10mg of substances suspected to be co­caine were recovered from the suspects. Similarly, Police Operatives while acting on credible infor­mation raided Ogbe-Ogonogo Market area and Glory land both in Asaba, Oshimili South LGA, where a suspected drug baron named Amadu Musa ‘m’ age 55 and four other male suspects were arrested with illicit drugs. It was gathered that 436 wraps of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp, 30 packets of tramadol and some other illicit drugs were recovered from the suspect.