LAGOS – As the 2023 general elections draw nearer, the People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCo) has challenged the three geopolitical zones in the southern part of Nigeria to unite in a bid to produce a presidential candidate from the Southern part of the country. A statement by Dr Emeka Kalu, the National Coordinator, PDPCo, said that it was pertinent for the party’s leaders in the south to work in unison for the emergence of a presidential candidate from the zone for 2023, stressing that anything short of this was inequality. Kalu advised major stakeholders, business class, elite and all the aspirants from the South to assemble under one umbrella to succeed in having a southern candidate for the top job in 2023. He said: “The 2023 general elections are fast approaching and PDP is making every necessary plan to ensure it succeeds in clinching power at the centre following the conduct of the Presidential election next year. “Be that as it may, we keep clamouring for zoning and equity, but the situation at hands demands that Southern Nigerians in PDP build a bridge of unity and oneness in order to secure the presidential nomination at the convention where aspirants would be contesting for the presidential ticket. “Our coalition office as a wing of advocacy for the official People’s Democratic Party would continue to voice out in support of equity and justice in the land. Therefore, all the presidential hopefuls from Southern Nigeria are called at this point to unite themselves by rallying support for one person in the political show. Within their mindset, it may be difficult to absorb this life-changing truth due to human sentiment, but it is realistic if we truly shun individuality and selfishness by working towards collectively supporting one aspirant.” Kalu emphasised that reports emanating from the media on Thursday indicated that two serving Northern governors and a former governor from North Central who are equally vying for the same position had taken steps towards sacrificing their ambitions to stand by one aspirant. He called on aspirants from the south to emulate this in order to ensure victory in the party’s primary slated for later in the year. POLL He regretted that Individualism had been the bane of the south over the years and appealed to politicians from the region to give their support to a candidate from the zone.