ABUJA – As citizens continue to lament the worsening security situa­tion following the recent train attack in Kaduna State, the rul­ing All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused the opposi­tion Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of attempt to profit from the national tragedy. PDP, in its many exchanges, had accused the APC govern­ment of being complicit in these other security breaches that killed and maimed many innocent citizens. Morka, in a statement, how­ever, said PDP was striving to profit from the unfortunate events even as President Mu­hammadu Buhari has directed a change of strategy in miti­gating the worsening security problem. He said: “While our nation is in deep mourning over the recent terrorist train attack and other acts of violence per­petrated by avowed enemies of our nation, the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP) has sought to profit from our collective grief and tragedy in its desper­ate quest to seize power and plunge our country back into ruinous looting ways. “In one of its many irratio­nal outbursts, the PDP has sug­gested that the All Progressives Congress, APC-led government is complicit in the heinous train attack in which some of our compatriots lost their lives, several injured and others un­accounted for. “It is outright unconsciona­ble, insensitive and irresponsi­ble for the PDP to seek to politi­cise a terrorist attack that cut short the lives of our dear ones for its own base interest. Grant­ed that Nigerians have become accustomed to PDP’s arrant flippancy, the occasion of a na­tional tragedy is not exactly a good time for puerile rascality. “While the PDP digs deep in the mud trying to find electoral gold, President Muhammadu Buhari, in a swift response to this tragic event, met with Se­curity Chiefs and directed the immediate conclusion of all processes for implementation of the integrated Security Sur­veillance and Monitoring Sys­tem (ISSM) solution for Abu­ja-Kaduna Rail Line as well as the extension of the ISSM solu­tion to cover the Lagos – Ibadan Rail Line. “The President further directed the rescue of all kid­napped passengers and ordered a manhunt for the perpetrators of these acts of terror. The man­agement of the Nigerian Rail­way Corporation (NRC) was also directed to speedily repair the damaged lines and restore services without delay. POLL “Several senior adminis­tration officials visited and condoled with bereaved fami­lies and extended support and care to those injured in the at­tack while the PDP continues to engage in idle mudslinging