ABUJA – Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, during the 2021 Ministerial Press Briefing of the Federal Ministry of Transportation, stated that further interventions being proposed for rail security is awaiting cabinet approval. The Minister, who was represented at the event by Gbemisola Ruqayyah Saraki, the Minister of State, Federal Ministry of Transportation, said in the face of the latest attack on the Abuja – Kaduna Railway corridor, six High-Tech Toyota Hilux Patrol vehicles were donated by the Ministry to the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to safeguard the Abuja – Kaduna Rail Corridor. “Recently there have been series of vandalization and theft of Railway Assets and equipment. The latest is the attack on the Abuja – Kaduna Railway corridor. Within the period under review – 6 High-Tech Toyota Hilux Patrol vehicles were donated by the Ministry to the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to safeguard the Abuja – Kaduna Rail Corridor.There are further interventions being proposed for rail security awaiting cabinet approval” he said. The Minister also narrated various ongoingprojects aimed at reviving all Ports, including Sea Ports and Inland Dry Ports in the country in order to facilitate international trade. According to him, as the Maritime Administrator of Nigeria, NIMASA monitors and issues marine notices in accordance with relevant IMO conventions on the marine environment, adding that the agency has adequately sustained compliance with the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code Implementation thereby ensuring that Ships continue to call in Nigeria’s Ports. Amaechi said asides from the key rehabilitation works on major Ports of Apapa, and Tincan Ports, Calabar, Warri, Onitsha and Oguta River Ports, are also witnessing massive reformation projects, while Dala Inland Dry Port, Kano, Kaduna dry Port would soon begin operations optimally. According to the Minister, the Ministry has engaged procurement and deployment of Six Security Patrol Boats (SPBs) to all Pilotage Districts to address incessant attacks of vessels along the channels and at Ports’ waterfronts. Also, Amaechi said the ministry provided and installed 86 Buoys for Warri and Calabar Pilotage Districts, for proper channel marking and route mapping; ii. Survey and Installation of Buoys at Ijegun/Kirikiri water channel to boost patronage of the petroleum jetties along the channel as well as promote a hitch-free logistics chain for the availability of petroleum products. POLL “Standardization of Operational Procedures for Different activities such as barging, private jetties, pilotage, vessel berthing/sailing etc. “Enforcement of full compliance of trucks to E-Call Up regime and Minimum Safety Standard. This has significantly mitigated the incessant attack on private road users on the hitherto port corridor; “Significant reduction in the traffic gridlock along the main Port corridor and the internal access roads through enforcements, proper batching, continuous access control mechanisms and movement of cargo via barge operations; “Provision of 24 motorcycles deployed to aid effective monitoring of Truck E-Call Up operation at Apapa/TCIPC/Ijora axis to ease free flow of traffic; and Collapse of illegal checkpoints and merging of others along the port corridor to stem abuse and extortion as well as making traffic management more effective. Other activities of the ministry in the area of Port revival include engineering infrastructure meant for operational capacity strengthening. This, he said entails the creation of Forcados Signal Station to enable the Port to capture the movement of more Service Boats; Commencement of bathymetric Survey for the dredging of Escravos Channels; Construction and installation of 11/0.415 KV panels with Vacuum Breakers at Substation 2, 4 & 5 in Rivers Port to boost the compliance of the Authority with the concession agreement as well as prompt availability of power supply from the national grid; Increase Container holding capacity at Rivers Port arising from the conversion of unused space within PTOL Terminal into stacking area; and Upgrading of infrastructure at Terminal ‘B’, Berth 7 and 8, Onne Port Complex through PPP investment by Messrs WACT Nigeria Limited of above USD 110 Million over a period of two years. Amaechi noted that this has so far achieved 62% completion, with an overall target completion date of June, 30th 2022; and the Construction of a 6,000 metric tonnes Bitumen Tank in Rivers Port Complex for improved bitumen storage capacity, ease of operations and infrastructural development in the South-South, it is now at 58% completion; Others are Construction and Rehabilitation of Quay Infrastructure at Berth 15, Lagos Port Complex, Apapa; Completion of Road Network for the integration of Berth 9,10, &11 at Federal Ocean Terminal, Onne Port; Complete rehabilitation of NPA HQ Burnt Annex Building (100%); Approval for the construction and Rehabilitation of Control Towers at Lagos Port Complex and Tin Can Island Port. “Supply and Installation of One Hundred and Eighty (180 Nos) Marine Fenders Authority Wide. This is to boost the overall integrity of the quay facilities and serve as a precautionary measure to prevent any form of an accident arising from direct vessel impact on the quay wall; and Approval for the Consultancy Services for the shore protection and rehabilitation of the Escravos breakwaters. Other Port projects “Commissioning of the Dangote Urea Plant/ Dangote Quays Lekki, Lagos by Mr. President in March, 2022; “Inspection by Mr. President in March, 2022 of the project completion status at Lekki Deep Seaport, which currently has attained 90% completion (Phase 1) with an operational commencement date set for the fourth quarter of 2022; “Commencement of activities at the Pinnacle Single Point Mooring at Lekki; “Completion of the standard gauge rail lines into Apapa port; and“Securing of Mr. President’s directive that the Lekki Deep Sea Port be linked by Rail. “The Trade Facilitation and Price Stabilization stride of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council as the Ports Economic Regulator is unprecedented. Shippers’ have been protected from undue and unilateral charges/fees in the Ports. Today, the fixing of fees/charges has a protocol that must be followed and approved before such fees take effect in the Ports’ Community. “The Council has collaborated with the Private Sector Organizations in driving the establishment of Inland Dry Ports, Container Depots, and the Vehicle Transit Areas (VTAs) at various locations in the country. “This will promote connectivity with the ultimate goal of connecting neighbouring land-linked Countries. Within the period under review, the construction of the Dala Dry Port in Kano has seen tremendous progress. “The use of the Inland Waterways in the carriage of goods and persons is beginning to impact the National Economy” He said that some of the major strides in that subsector within the period under review include: Construction of Warehouse and completion of Jetty at Odekpe, Ogbaru L.G.A Anambra State; Construction of Jetty at Illah, Delta State; Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Warri Wooden Jetty to Concrete Jetty; Construction of Ferry Ramp at Jen, Taraba State; Construction of Ferry Ramp at Nzam, Anambra State; Shore Protection Works on River Niger at Jamata Inland River Port; Extension of Shore Wall Protection Works at NIWA Marina Jetty, Lagos; Fencing of Oguta Inland River Port, Oguta, Imo State; Rehabilitation of Jetty at Umaisha, Nassarawa State; Construction of 1 No Water Ambulance; Training and licensing of Boat Drivers across the country; Removal of Wrecks in River Nun in Bayelsa; Establishing search and rescue stations in Nine locations across Nigeria; Rehabilitation of Port Harcourt and Warri Workshops; Ongoing construction of permanent berthing facility for vessels at the Lokoja Dockyard; Construction and deployment of two Nos, 30-32 passenger Ferry Boats to Yauri; among other projects.