LAGOS – The Nigerian Youth and Diaspora Forum For Tinubu (NYD4BAT) has set a target of 5 million votes for the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu during the 2023 general elections. Speaking at the inauguration of the group and the launch of the e-campaign for the APC aspirant on Wednesday in Lagos, Tito Philips Jnr, the chairman of the NYD4BAT said strategies were being put in place to realise the objective. “We decided to lend our voices, skills, resources and energy to help educate and inspire Nigerian youths to vote Tinubu as Nigeria’s next president come 2023. “We are engaging the Nigerian youths both in Nigeria and in the diaspora into a formidable political movement during electioneering campaign for positive attitudes devoid of violence through a responsible campaign both on and offline by reaching out to other critical stakeholders. He added that the former Lagos state governor “is the only presidential aspirant that exemplifies the kind of democracy Nigeria needs.Of all the perceived reservations about BAT, his irrefutable results, most notably in Lagos state is never contested. Not only has he laid the master plan on which Lagos has been running successfully for the past 23 years, making it the 5th economy in Africa.” According to Tito, the e-campaign strategy would take the message straight to the youths across major social media platforms and mobilize them for offline activities. Speaking, Adeniyi Sanusi, the diaspora chairman of the group added the nation needed a visionary leader like Tinubu to improve the economy. POLL Guest lecturer at the occasion, Lanre Odubote, a former House of Representatives member from Epe, said Nigerians should be reminded that Tinubu has done much for the youths towards realising their ambitions. “During his administration as the governor of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu appointed young people into his cabinet; likewise, he encouraged his successors in office to follow suit. “I want to assure you that the APC fully supports young people like you to channel your energies, creativity and aspirations to become leaders in your chosen endeavours, whether in politics, governance, academics, science, medical line, law and so on” Odubote assured. Urging the youths to support Tinubu’s aspiration, he noted: “It is regrettable that despite making up more than half of the population, young people between the ages of 18 and 30 often find themselves marginalised from the mainstream politics and decision-making mechanism in the country.’ The Director of Media and Publicity of NYD4BAT, Dr. Ajibola Abayomi admonished Nigerians to shun politics of bitterness and opportunistic aspirants that were only relevant during election season. “Tinubu remains the best among those seeking to win the presidency. His profile dwarfs all of them both in terms of exposure and commitment to developing the youths and the nation” Dr Ajibola noted.