…I’m Not Aware Gov. Emmanuel Has Anointed Anybody – Akpan ABUJA – Former Minister of Power, Barth Nnaji, has said that zoning and rotation of power has brought peace to Enugu state. This is even as Obong Umo Akpan said he’s not aware that Akwa Ibom state governor, Udom Emmanuel has anointed anybody to succeed him. Both spoke with newsmen at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Secretariat when they came to submit their expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the governorship of Enugu and Akwa Ibom states. Nnaji said: “The zoning in Enugu state has really maintained peace in the state. It has been possible for us to have peace because of rotation. The governor is in support of zoning, he looks at himself as a product of zoning and we all look at zoning as a way for us to continue to maintain peace in Enugu State. Therefore am fully in support of zoning. “Now it will come to the Enugu East senatorial zone, which according to the zoning formula, should be the beneficiary of the zoning now. You have Enugu East local governments, you have Isiuzo and Nkanu East that have not produced governors. We come from Nkanu East and we are saying that we have people who can take up this position and do well for the state. That’s why we from Nkanu East are putting ourselves forward. “However, we know that constitutionally, there is nobody that can be prevented from running from any part of the states simply because the Constitution doesn’t have the zoning formula in it. So the issue is that we do have a system that is working and we should maintain it.” Akpan on his part, while fielding questions from newsmen said, “My people are urgently emancipation. Poverty Alleviation is going to be prime in my government. When I talk about human capital, I’m going to build people. POLL “God has prepared me for today and I guarantee each and every one of you there is going to be a revolution. infrastructural revolution, the human capital revolution in Akwa Ibom state. I guarantee each and every one of you that I’m prepared for this task, I am prepared for the task of governance. “I’m not aware that he (Emmanuel) anointed anybody. I just heard that he has a preferred candidate. But I tell you something, only God gives power. Only God will make me a governor. I don’t have any Godfather, but I have God as a father. “So, I really don’t care what you call it, preferred or anointed or anything, but I’m telling you here, that I’m the only one that God has chosen to show mercy and God has anointed me.”