UMUAHIA – Stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia State, have pledged to unite as one body and work together for the actualisation of the return bid of Mao Ohuabunwa to the Senate in 2023. The stakeholders, in an enlarged meeting on Thursday, blamed the loss suffered by him during 2019 poll on sabotage done by some black legs in the party and vowed to checkmate a repeat of the “2019 mistake”. It will be recalled that Ohuabunwa who represented Abia North in the Senate from 2015 to 2019 lost to Senator Orji Uzor Kalu of the All Progressive Congress, APC in the election of that year. The stakeholders comprising all PDP Counselors, Council and Ward Executive members as well as zonal exco members and other chieftains of the party met in Arochukwu to re-strategise for the 2023 elections. They vowed to work together to deliver the LGA to PDP at all levels of the 2023 elections. Addressing the stakeholders, PDP Chairman in Arochukwu LGA, Chief Sunday Okemiri, regretted that factionalisation cost them the Senatorial seat and therefore appealed to the political gladiators in the area to sheath their swords and allow the Council to enjoy peace. Okemiri argued that although somebody might have facilitated his emergence as the LGA chairman, he would not lend support to anybody, but will work for the survival and advancement of the party in the area. Speaking on behalf of the Chairmen of Wards Chairmen, Ozom Peters of Aro Ward 2, vowed that any gladiator “that refuses to embrace peace will be removed. POLL His word, “We, the ward Chairmen in Arochukwu LGA, have decided to de-register any stakeholder that refuses to embrace peace so that Arochukwu PDP can recover its lost grounds”, Peters threatened. Speaking on behalf of the Counselors, Hon. George Onwumere, representing Ward 3 said the Counselors had resolved to detach themselves from the control of any gladiator, but work in unison for the good of the entire council. He blamed the leadership tussle rocking Arochukwu Legislative arm on the imposition of principal officers by some stakeholders but added that the Counselors had resolved to put their differences behind and work together. Former Commissioner for Joint Projects, Mr JJ Okoro, assured Ohuabunwa of the full support of Arochukwu stakeholders, saying “the mistake of 2019 will not be repeated”. He, however, urged him to continue his consultations with stakeholders in other LGAs in Abia North, “but as for Arochukwu LGA, go and sleep and leave the job for us”. In a remark, PDP Vice Chairman, Abia North, Elder Amah Abraham, said the greatest challenge he faced after his election was how to unite the various factions in Arochukwu PDP. He, however, expressed delight at the resolve of the stakeholders to embrace peace and urged all to place the party’s interest above personal interests. Earlier, Senator Ohuabunwa had regretted that Arochukwu, a stronghold of PDP suddenly fell into the hands of the opposition party due to sabotage and backstabbing by those he described as “blacklegs in the party”. While informing them that he had put the past behind him, the former Senator urged the Stakeholders to be committed in rebuilding the PDP in the LGA and vowed to stop at nothing in ensuring that PDP recaptures Arochukwu which has been the party’s enclave. Ohuabunwa, former Leader, ECOWAS Parliament, said that stakeholders and all the people would be involved in the selection of candidates for any elective position, adding that the era of the anointing of candidates is over. According to him, any aspirant without the support of the masses would not be given the party’s ticket as that would affect the fortunes of the party at the main election. On the Abia governorship, Ohuabunwa lent his weight behind the clamour for power shift to Abia North in 2023, stressing “we believe there is already a wheel going round, and it should continue for peace, justice and equity”. Ohuabunwa who said he had a knack for the Parliament vowed that nothing would stop his return bid to the red chamber in 2023 to advance the cause of Abia North.