Former Manchester United midfielder Paul Scholes believes Paul Pogba has failed to learn from his previous mistakes as he prepares to leave Old Trafford. The France international is out-of-contract at the end of the season and is expected to leave the club on June 30 after showing no sign of being prepared to put pen to paper on a new contract. The midfielder was jeered as he was substituted against Norwich City at Old Trafford just over a week ago, meaning it suggests that the relationship between him and the club’s supporters has reached the end of the road. Pogba, as revealed by the Manchester Evening News earlier this month, has been given an offer by French giants Paris Saint-Germain. The Ligue 1 club have frequently been linked with his signature in recent months and could take him back to his homeland. However, former club Juventus and Spanish heavyweights Real Madrid have also been heavily linked with him, meaning it remains hard to predict where the midfielder will be playing his club football next season. Considering United splashed out £89million to re-sign Pogba in 2016, it is a deal that will go down as one of United’s worst in their history, with him having failed to live up to expectations. For former Reds ace Scholes, however, he believes it is his failure to learn from previous mistakes that have proved to be enormously costly for his own development. “I was there when he was a kid, and this lad has got absolutely everything you’d want in a midfield player,” Scholes told talkSPORT. “His physique, he can run, I just don’t think he’s ever learned as a footballer. “He constantly seems to make the same mistakes over and over again. It’s disappointing, it looks like he’s going to leave, but I think he will go somewhere, a manager will get a grip of him and I think he’ll do really well as he did at Juventus. I just think for some reason, at Manchester United, it hasn’t worked out, and it’s been a big disappointment because we see what he does with France, we saw what he did with Juventus, it’s been a big disappointment, of course it has. “People probably see him the wrong way, he’s a nice lad. He’s a lad I always found that wanted to work, wanted to learn, and for some reason it just hasn’t worked out. POLL “I hope he goes on and does really well, but for the lad himself I think it’s probably time to move on and find a manager that he really believes in more than anything, a manager that believes in him, and we all know he’s got the talent and ability to be a world class footballer.”