…Submits PDP Governorship Forms ABUJA – Rivers State Governorship aspirant, Honourable Farah Dagogo, has submitted his expression of interest and nomination forms at the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, headquarters in Abuja, with a pledge to reposition the state if elected governor. He said the submission fulfils the necessary requirements to get the mandate of the party for next month’s governorship primary. He equally thanked all who sacrificed and contributed towards making the journey a success so far. Farah Dagogo, who is also the Member representing Degema/Bonny Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, noted that repositioning Rivers State starts with working in concord with the state legislature to vacate the perpetual injunction preventing anti-graft agencies from accessing the financial records of the State. Such a move, according to the governorship hopeful, will engender transparency and accountability that will guide the actions of officeholders in the state. He said measures will also be taken on making payments to pensioners a priority. He said the blueprint for his Governorship, anchored on ‘Diplomacy, Information Security and Economy, (DISE), will be made public in the coming days with all operational paraphernalia “Submission has been done to the glory of God. Now we start the process of repositioning Rivers State. We will be looking at a youth entrepreneurship development trust fund, of course with legislative backing, to have at least five percent of Rivers State capital estimates set aside for youth entrepreneurs yearly with the understanding that the younger generation consists a larger percentage of the population. “Our planned Industrialization will be fully cultivated with the novel STEAM Federal Polytechnic, Tombia, driving it. Employments opportunities, in an enabling environment, will be provided, as well as payment of pensioners, which will be a top priority. Monies for security votes will be duly allocated to the letter and above all with the quantum of mass popularity, the capacity to get the PDP ticket and eventually win the Governorship election is foreclosed. POLL “My goal will be to serve the people and not rule. Like I had earlier said, ruling over the people has a dictatorial feature, but governing and serving gives power to the people thereby entrenching the true tenets of democracy. Our government will not be sectional, it will be for Rivers people and those residing and doing businesses in the state. That is why we have to appeal and lift that perpetual injunction that had prevented EFCC, ICPC, NFIU and the likes from looking into the account and finances of Rivers State. There must be real transparency and accountability. “A blueprint anchored on Diplomacy Information Security and Economy, DISE, in line with the ideas of the founding fathers of Rivers State, will be made public soon. It will explain fully our vision and mission for actualizing all the aforementioned and more. “I have said it before and I am repeating it, I am not waiting for an endorsement. I have never depended on endorsements in my political journeys and I will not start now. We have God and we have the people, Rivers people should rest assured that victory is very certain,” he added.