As the 2023 general elections gathers momentum, a Group ‘Osibanjo Youth Organization’ has asked Borno State Traditional Leaders to plead with the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to allow the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo  to run as the flag bearer of the party. The National Organizing Secretary of the movement, Tukura Danladi Kwayi made the call at a visit to Shehu of Borno, His Royal Highness, Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai Alamin Elkanemi at his palace in Maiduguri. Danladi Kwayi described the Vice President as the rightful candidate that can move the country to a greater height and boost its economy. He said, “We do not have resources, but as a royal father we have come to plead with you to talk to the leadership of the APC to give a chance to the Vice President to run”. He is a good candidate with a listening ear which we believe will bring development to our dear country”. In his response, the Shehu of Borno revealed as a royal father, all candidates are his and sought with the group, in case their candidate emerges, to consider the oil exploration in the lake Chad as well as linking some of the local governments council created in the seventies to the National Grid. “As a traditional ruler every candidate is mine, but para venture God gives your candidate victory, we want the exploration of the oil in the lake chad, linking of about 4 local government councils created in early seventies to national grid as well as provision of road networks” “Our Governor has been doing his best, especially in the internal road construction and we are satisfied, but construction of roads to the local government councils is very crucial. Also the security of the country should be given maximum seriousness, as you can see other parts of the country are also affected” he explained. The Osibanjo Youth Organisation which is a voluntary and nonprofit group believes giving the vice president the chance to run would give the party ample opportunity to complete the developmental projects started by the Buhari administration in the last 7 years.