Senator Iyiola Omisore’s lawyer, Gboyega Oyewole, SAN has demanded a withdrawal of a comment from Prof. Wole Soyinka about the murder case of Chief Bola Ige. Recalled that Prof. Soyinka, on Saturday through a news publication said that Omisore’s new position in the ruling party puts paid to any re-investigation into the murder of Bola Ige, a former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. He further said that “With the emergence of the said prime suspect as National Secretary of the Ruling Party, is the Inspector-General of Police equipped to confront political obstacles in a resumption of investigation? “Is there any guarantee that the result will see the light of day?” Soyinka said. Omisore’s lawyer in a letter dated 4th April, 2022 demanded a withdrawal of comment from Soyinka. A copy of the letter made available to INDEPENDENT stated thus; 4th April, 2022PROF. WOLE SOYINKA,Abeokuta,Ogun StateDear Sir,RE: LIBELOUS PUBLICATION AGAINST SENATOR IYIOLA OMISOREIN THE PUNCH NEWSPAPER OF 2ND APRIL, 2022 We are Solicitors to Senator Iyiola Omisore, a two-term Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a former Deputy Governor of Osun State, and the current National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on whose instructionwe write. POLL Our client’s attention has been drawn to an interview granted by your good self, which was published in the Punch Newspaper of 2nd April 2022, wherein you made some comments concerning our client in the following terms: “The resumption of an investigation into the murder of a former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Chief Bola Ige, was already hamstrung and disrobed of credibility with the emergence of the prime suspect in the case as the National Secretary of the ruling All Progressive Congress. With the emergence of the said prime suspect as National Secretary of the ruling party, is the Inspector-General of Police equipped to confront political obstacles in a resumption of investigation? Is there any guarantee that the result will see the light of day? How suspect, ab initio, will be the conclusions, given the present political ordering?” We believe the above statements credited to your good self were made without full knowledge of all that has transpired in the matter or as a result of misinformation. Considering our client’s regard for you as an elder statesman and Nobel laureate, we wish to make the following clarifications: We, therefore, expect that through this letter, you will be better informed and take the necessary steps to withdraw the earlier comments credited to your good selfin the publication of punch newspaper under reference.Thank you. Yours faithfully,PP: Lords and TempleGboyega Oyewole, SAN, FCArb