The All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State Chapter has congratulated Governor David Umahi and his deputy, Dr Kelechi Igwe, on their victory at the Court of Appeal on Friday. The Enugu division of the Court of Appeal had on Friday affirmed the judgement of the Abakaliki High Court which dismissed a suit by the candidate of the APC in 2019, Soni Ogboji and his running mate, Justin Ogodo Mbam, seeking the removal of Governor Umahi and his deputy from office, having defected from the PDP, on which platform they were elected. The plaintiffs asked the court to declare them the Governor and Deputy Governor of Ebonyi, having come second in the 2019 governorship election. But the State High Court sitting in Abakaliki had on February 28, 2022, quashed the suit for lacking in merit. Dissatisfied with the judgement of the High Court, Ogboji and his deputy, Mbam Ogodo, approached the Court of Appeal, Enugu. A statement by the Party Chairman in the State, Stanley Okoro-Emegha, hailed Nigeria’s judiciary for upholding the judgement of the lower Court and described the court as an arbiter of hope and the threshold of justice. Okoro-Emegha said: “the officers in the temple of justice in Nigeria are frankly exceptional due to their avowed determination to build a system which can be adjudged as the most credible anywhere in the world. The Judiciary is at its eldorado where the common man believes in its quick and untainted dispensation of justice. “Similarly, may I avail myself this rare but redefining moment to warmly congratulate our visionary cum quintessential leader and governor of Ebonyi state, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi on this victory at the Appeal Court sitting in Enugu. POLL ” Your Excellency, this landmark victory which will not only serve as a precedence in the future has brought a ray of hope to thousands of people in Nigeria hence it has elicited enormous joy and jubilations in the hearts of many citizens all over the country. “Your Excellency, father of the state, the appellate court’s judgement has made me recall with nostalgia, the massive solidarity displayed by Nigerians, Ebonyi people inclusive few weeks back in full support of your stay in office. My Governor, do not be distracted by the antics of purveyors of evil because they have buried their faces in absolute shame. “We are proud of your God’s given abilities and calculated efforts which have revitalised and repositioned the state and her citizenry for more sustainable economic prosperity. Your legacies will endure for thousands of years to come. Congratulations, the thoroughbred technocrat and golden age Executive Governor. “Worthy of commendation also is the Forum of APC Chairmen who stood firmly like the rock of Gibraltar with a trailblazer and leader of the millennium, His Excellency the Governor, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi during the moment of distraction. “My ever-supportive colleagues and allies, I’m at a loss for words to appreciate and commend you not just for keeping in touch but the communique you released at that period was adjudged as the most civil, accurate and reasonable sentence in the history of mankind. “Indeed, my fellow Ebonyians and admirers of His Excellency the Governor all over the globe, I’m grateful to God who chats the cause of life and men of goodwill for their contributions towards building an enviable state where unity, peace and development will be the maxim.”