The Minister for Transportation, Hon Rotimi Amaechi has come under serious bashing foraudaciously distancing himself from the Abuja-Kaduna train tragedy that happened under his watch. A group known as Kaduna Communities For Social Justice while addressing reporters in Kaduna stated that Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi terribly disappointed a bleeding north and the entire federation by positioning himself for 2023 presidential elections and audaciously distancing himself from the Abuja-Kaduna train tragedy that happened under his watch. The group led by it’s President, Alhaji Muhammadu Adamu and Secretary, Mr. Peter Musa expressed deep grief over the loss of lives, injuries on victims and the abduction of many citizens, including women and children. According to the group, “Without much being said, the killings and abductions that happened on that train and in various places kept many of us in deep grief that is only worsened by the Minister’s statements that is tantamount to dancing on the graves of dead victims while adding to sorrows for the living,” they stated. “it was disheartening to note the speed with which Mr. Rotimi Amaechi hastened to opportunistically use the tragedy to absolve himself of a team decision by the Federal Executive Council, tactically lay the blame at the feet of both the President and Vice President while also pushing for a N3.7 billion railway surveillance contract for a company that lacks everything required to undertake such project. “Kaduna state government under Governor El-Rufai had asked the minister to stop operating the trains after 5 pm, based on security reports and the minister confirmed that he knew of security threats before asking for the N3. 7 billion contracts, adding hints that FEC’s collective decision to disapprove of his contract proposal should be blamed. The group disclosed that “Mogjan Limited which Minister Amaechi highly favoured for this specialized contract was registered by a couple living in a Flat 1, Block 1 along Calabar Street in Area 7, Abuja with RC Number 365567 on September 29, 1999 and our findings indicate that the company appear to be positioned as a middleman to collect huge payments for deployment of security equipment while a company in the United Kingdom does the job. “Following the train tragedy, only Sheikh Nuhu Khalid, Chief Imam Of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque in Abuja is the only one who has lost his job but others far more deserving of immediate sack or resignation hold on to their jobs; under Amaechi’s watch, the corruption at Nigeria Railway Corporation is such that on the ill-fated Abuja – Kaduna train, 398 tickets were sold, 372 ticket holders boarded but head count on board was 970. The group lamented