Following the uproar by imminent Nigerians on the price tag placed on the presidential nomination and expression of interest forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the party, however, said that the leadership of the party advised itself on the price of the forms. Daily Independent had on Wednesday reported that APC Fixed its presidential nomination and expression of interest forms at N100m, while its governorship forms is at N50 million; Senate at N20 million; House of Representatives at N10 million and State Houses of Assembly at N2 million. This has, however, led Nigerians to criticise the party for the huge sum of its presidential form, wondering if the party was operating from a different country and if it was not aware of the current economic situation in the land. Clarifying the development, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka while speaking in an interview on Channels Television, said, “What is the current situation in the country? We still live in a country where there are people who make legitimate money.” And on whether the party is for the rich, he said, “The party is not for the rich. I just told you that for instance, any woman who wants to run for the office of the President is not paying the full amount. The youths as well.” When asked who advised the party on the price tags, he said, “The party advised the party. The party thinks that…and made the decision that the value put on these forms are justified.” Speaking further, the ruling party’s mouthpiece explained, “Don’t forget that some of the most special groups of citizens were granted high considerations. Either delivering the nomination forms for free in the case of women and people living with disabilities. “But youths who are within 25 to 50 also have the advantage of a 50 per cent discount for all positions, even the office of the President. We receive that nomination form you talk about at 50%. So, they’ll pay the expression of interest, plus 50 per cent of the N70m.”