LAGOS  – Chief Executive Officer of the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprises (CPPE), Dr. Muda Yusuf, has advocated the need for rapid promotion of renewable energy solutions through the enactment of policies that will make it more affordable . He lamented s that the current high cost of acquiring renewable energy installation has been a major impediment to the access of this energy solution. He gave the suggestion in his Q1, 2022 economic review He said: “For instance, the cost of solar panels and batteries are very prohibitive. We submit that import duty and taxes on solar equipment, solar batteries and inverters should be scrapped to improve access to renewable energy solutions. The implementation of the energy mix programme of the government needs to be accelerated. “Power sector is critical to the economic development of the country. We are sometimes faced with a conflict between development objectives and commercial objectives. I believe the government still needs to provide generous fiscal incentives for investors in the sector because of the economic development and social impact of an improved power sector performance.” He also suggested review of the power sector policies to urgently address the crippling energy crises facing the country. He added: “The power sector reform has not delivered the desired outcomes. The citizens expectations were not met. The entire experience has given privatization a bad name. There are issues of due diligence, technical capacity, financial capacity, political interference, metering issues, estimated and arbitrary billings, payment defaults to the Generating Companies, commercial losses, electricity theft, technical losses, cost reflective tariff and the economics of the private sector investment.” He expressed concern over the capacity of the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading [NBET] Plc to effectively play its role of providing liquidity to support the electricity supply chain. POLL He added: “Evidently, there are diverse internal and external variables impeding the achievement of the desired outcomes of the power sector reform. It is thus imperative to have a more holistic approach to the multifarious challenges hampering power delivery. There should be greater emphasis on off grid solutions in order to ensure the decentralization of the power sector. The current model of high dependence on the national grid has not worked well to serve the economy. The country is too vast for the highly centralized regime of national grid. The continued ownership and control of the transmission component of the power supply chain is also a challenge to grapple with.”