“No enemy would dare to bomb this place [a famous Rock in an Afri­can nation] and end this confusion.” Anonymous. Even the current global mad bomber, Vladimir Putin, if he has a quarrel with the African nation in question, will not waste his bombs on the seat of power there. He knows too well that, left on their own, the current leaders will destroy the country eventually. At the very top of the gov­ernment of this unfortunate nation, is a man of many parts, as Masters of Ceremonies often describe some gifted individuals. He is Confusion­ist and Comedian In Chief all rolled into one. So, for the purposes of this narrative, we call him CC-I-C. Since January this year alone he has cre­ated confusion (that is actually his Trade Mark) on several fronts. Per­mit me to touch on just a few today. Rest assured a book will eventually be published. Instead of Biography of Alexander the Great, it will be “M B: THE GREAT AFRICAN CONFU­SIONIST.” Let me return to the story. CC-I-C, late 2021 sent to the na­tion’s lawmakers, a bunch of ill-con­ceived proposals he called BUDGET 2022. The entire Faculty of UniJan­kara called the whole thing drivel. We also predicted that the “Budget” would never be implemented as writ­ten. At any rate, the 36 states would become poorer in 2022. By February this year, CC-I-C was already send­ing a Supplementary Budget for ap­proval by the jesters at the National Assembly, asking for authority to borrow N3 trillion more than envis­aged. The states, meanwhile, have, as predicted, become poorer. Yet, CC-I-C is not finished with his wrecking job. There will soon be another request for Supplementary Budget to be ap­proved. With each request for permission to borrow more, usually approved by the Rubber Stamp Senate, by the “borrow-and spend” CC-I-C, the underdeveloped nation sinks deeper into the debt trap; even as its ability to repay declines steadi­ly. Even the village idiot knows that you cannot use 94 per cent of your earned revenue to repay debt and have anything left for development. But, CC-I-C doesn’t know that; and nobody around him is patriotic or gutsy enough to tell him. It is sim­ply a matter of the bland leading the bland. The 2022 Budget is now in the dust bin; CC-I-C doesn’t know it yet. It takes wisdom to know wis­dom; and knowledge to know when you are building or making a bloody mess. Senility deprives everybody of wisdom and knowledge – if they ever had any. One of the defining incidents of his government occurred towards the end of March. Bandits attacked a train taking passengers from the fed­eral capital to a state capital – killing eight people, abducting twenty one and about eighteen are still missing. CC-I-C, hitherto, known as Consol­er-In-Chief, was so non-plused, he forgot to send his usual bland con­dolence message to the victims of his ineptness as national leader. In­stead, he issued another “marching order” to the security agencies to go and “fish out the culprits and bring them to justice”. Meanwhile, he and the Minister for Justice, working “hand in glove” with a Cleric from the same ethnic group and religion, in an unholy “Three Musketeers” group, have failed to prosecute ban­dits captured. Instead, they are plan­ning on amnesty for all – perhaps with cash awards for “job well done”. Imbecility cannot be better defined. But, that has become the Trade Mark of CC-I-C since 2015. He also likes to make important decisions by adopting a Dark Age language long discarded by more capable leaders. His admirers call it “body language”, others call it “idiocy” – for the obvi­ous reason that it leaves it up to every observer to determine what he had said. Confusion guaranteed always. One such use of the God-forsak­en language provoked a comical ep­isode within the political party he leads which turned “learned men” into court jesters. CC-I-C As Comedian “I know thee not, old man, fall to thy prayers, how ill white hairs be­come a jester. “William Shakespeare, 1564-1616. VBQ p 108 POLL Don Ouixote remains one of the world’s everlasting and most delight­ful classics in literature written by Miguel de Cervantes, 1547-1616 and served early to us at Igbobi College, Yaba in the 1960s. The hero of the sto­ry, called Don Quixote, was a very old warrior, past his prime, short sighted and frequently mistaking windmills for dragons; then launching an at­tack against harmless objects in his bid to rid society of evil people. He was tall and thin, with a protruding jaw emphasising his bony frame. His assistant, Sancho Panza, was short, younger and clear-eyed. Unfortu­nately, Sancho could not prevent his boss from making a fool of himself frequently; or from turning every problem into a crisis. The entire book was hilarious from start to finish. The African nation, under ref­erence is under the rule of first class jesters – like Don Quixote and Sancho Panza. What the people are experiencing in the country, today, would have been extremely comical if they are not tragic. Elected offi­cials, as well as some appointed side kicks, are doing what they do best – repeating the sad lessons of history. Permit me to start by returning to a point made a few weeks ago about the pyramids of rice and the come­dians standing in front of them in the nation’s capital. One morning, Fellow Citizens saw on the front pages of all the country’s newspapers, CC-I-C, (who else can be the main actor in a high comedy), tall, trim, old, tired and jaw thrust forward, standing in front of pyra­mids said to be bags of rice. Sancho flanked him; other actors took their positions. They were celebrating the production of 7 million tonnes of rice by a country with a population of 200 million. Meanwhile in 2021, a few countries, with lower population produced the following quantities of rice: Bangladesh 34.6; Viet Nam 27.38; Thailand 18.86; Burma 12.6; Philippines 12.42. I have left out the giants – China and India. But, it is certain that if Bangladesh or Thai­land should produce 7 million metric tonnes of rice in any year, those lined up are probably getting ready to be shot for economic sabotage. In CC-I-C’s country the bunglers lined up to receive the peoples’ applause!!! That was bad enough; the rice on display was probably not from the farms in the nation. They would have had to raid the storage facili­ties of 5-10,000 domestic farmers to gather so much rice in one place; and the varieties of rice would not be uni­form. But, like magicians, knowing they are fooling the audience, they went on stage. Unfortunately, they failed to fool all the people. So, who else would celebrate failure except clowns? Dribbling Members Of His Own Party In late February of this year, a bunch of party faithfuls, who must have left their brains at home, went to see CC-I-C. They had a mission. They wanted to stage a coup and remove the Chairman – who was reportedly in bed in a Dubai Hospi­tal fighting for his life. The coup plot­ters, led by Short Man Devil, Shorty, Governor of the most devilish state in the nation, accompanied CC-I-C as he was walking to the helicopter that would take him to the airport, to board one of the ten planes he promised to dispose off during the campaigns of 2014-5. He gave them a body language reply; which Shorty interpreted as “go ahead”. Thereaf­ter, Shorty gathered accomplices to stage the coup. One, hitherto seri­ous-minded SAN, went to town rain­ing defamations on the bed-ridden Chairman. A joker was appointed as new Chairman; who promptly fired a letter to the nation’s Electoral Body. That was when the plot developed “K-leg”. The Electoral Body threw the let­ter back in the face of fake Chairman. Then, sick Chairman, risking his life, got up, went to London to see CC-I-C; who up to that time was amused by the confusion he had caused with his body language. It was then that it finally occurred to CC-I-C that he has a mouth and should use it. He did. Chairman was reinstated; the buf­foons attempting coup were swept off the stage. End of story? Not, on your life. Power-drunkenness pro­duces funny results and CC-I-C was not through with the comedy show he had scripted. “Our ways are drunkard ways…a drunkard knows quite well he has a house but how to get there puts him in a dither.” Alexander Pope, 1688-1744. VAN­GUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS, p 43. CC-I-C knew fully well that he wanted the bed-ridden Chairman replaced. But, characteristically, he went about the move the way a drunkard goes in search of his house. He even had a substitute in mind; which he kept to himself. Self-deluded aspirants seeking to unseat the poor Chairman were encouraged to collect nomination forms; pay huge sums of money for them; go round the country seeking support from members. Just at the last minute to the convention, CC-I-C pulled the rug from under their feet. He had a candidate. For a man who campaigned on the platform of “zero tolerance for corruption” in 2015, CC-I-C’s can­didate is someone already charged with embezzling N15 billion from the poorest state in the nation. One day, a brilliant Nigerian writer will write our own version of DON QUIXOTE, the inanities of old age exhibited so far will win a Nobel Prize for liter­ature… To be continued…if need be.