Chief Ayo Adebanjo is the Leader of the Afenifere, the apex Yoruba socio-cultural organisation. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the high cost placed by leading political parties on Nomination forms for aspirants, the issue of rotation and zoning, even as he insists that it is the turn of South East to produce the next Nigerian President. Excerpts: How do you see the huge amounts being collected from aspirants by the major political parties for their forms? It is very unfortunate. The major political parties want the poor man to contest. It is very condemnable. It is irrational. It is irresponsible. They are all paying lip service on the issue of women and youths. How many women and youths will have these huge amounts they are asking the aspirants to pay? I have always said that we should have a new constitution before the next election. There are several loopholes they are exploiting. That is why I have always said that this fraudulent constitution must be jettisoned before any election could be held. Any election under this constitution will be an exercise in futility. Several people have predicted that the issue of zoning and consensus may lead to crises in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC). What is your take on that? The issue of zoning is clear. It is only when they want to make mischief that they say other things. It is very clear. The presidency is between North and South. The presidency has been in the North. Now, it is the turn of the South. And when you come to the South, it should go to the South East. When they want to make mischief, they introduce self-serving laws and illogicalities. Would you say that going by the quality of presidential aspirants from the South East, that they are ready to produce Nigeria’s next president? Why are they against zoning the presidency to the South East? They do not need to display their credentials. The South East is ready to produce the president. What other merit do they want from the people of South East that they do not have when their own president can hardly boast of a school certificate? Do you know the number of PhDs people in the South East have? It is an insult for the North or anyone to say that the South East is not ready. When it is the turn of the North, they are ready. South East has several aspirants. They are ready. POLL How do you see the issue of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Asiwaju Tinubu and Governor Kayode Fayemi’s presidential aspirations will likely play out in the South West? I do not conclude based on assumptions. I told you that by rotation, it is the turn of South and by the South, I mean South East. I do not consider any other candidate outside the South East. If we want to be honest, there is no ambiguity in this issue. A cross section of the Middle Belt youths have been clamouring for the position of Vice President. How politically right are they when some political leaders from the zone have declared interest in the presidency? They are not sure of the president. We are still on that. I am sure where the president should come from. To talk about the president, we have to talk about equity and balancing. And it should be from the South East. When we have got that, then we will then talk of the Vice President. It is very clear. Do you think the 2023 general elections will hold across the country considering the level of insecurity in the nation? I have said it severally that I do not think that any patriotic president will consider holding an election in the country under the situation we are in now. Let us settle the issue of the constitution first. It is irresponsible to be talking of general elections when the whole place is insecure. It is a sign of insensitivity. It is irresponsible. Some people in the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been urging former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest again. How do you see the development? Such people calling on Jonathan to contest again are irresponsible and unpatriotic. It will be irresponsible on the part of Jonathan to think of considering such request at all. It is very irresponsible and unpatriotic. Jonathan should know better because South East people have not had their turn. It is wrong for Jonathan, who should be a statesman to have told those urging him to contest that he would consider their request. I watched him on television telling them that he would consider their request. He should not have told them that because he should know that South South had had their turn and it is now the turn of South East. It is unpatriotic for him to even tell them that he would consider their call. This is because he is seen as an elder statesman and should know better. Pastor Tunde Bakare was recently quoted as saying that the late Prime Minister, Tafawa Balewa cursed the Igbos that they would never be president. How would you react to this? I believe that people are misunderstanding Tunde Bakare. He has given an explanation. He has explained himself. I believe people are misunderstanding him. What is your advice to the people of Nigeria at this auspicious period? I call on Nigerians to mount pressure on Buhari. He should set up a National Government to save this country. He should consider forming a National Government. He should be patriotic enough. We are in a national emergency. People should come in to solve the national problems. Unless he has a plan to ensure a Fulani domination, he should solve the problem of insecurity and the issue of the constitution. Let there be restructuring of the federation. Let there be peace before we go to the next general election. What is your advice to the Nigerian media? The media should be responsible as they should. They should not be afraid. Presently, they seem to be afraid of Lai Mohammed and Garba Shehu. The Fourth Estate should say things as they are. They should not water down their reports. What would be your concluding remarks? My concluding remarks or statement is for Nigerians to pray to God to enter into Buhari’s heart to yield to the urgent need to save this country from collapse by doing what is necessary.