In view of the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war that has resulted in the high price of wheat, the National Land Development Authority (NALDA) has vowed to crash the price of the commodity in Nigeria through the production of 2.7 million metric tonnes of wheat across the country. Prince Paul Ikonne, Executive Secretary of NALDA, stated this in Abuja while receiving Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya in his office. This target, he said, would crash the price of wheat, save the country from paying huge foreign exchange on the importation of wheat as well as create jobs for Nigerians. He said the efforts by the Authority to expand wheat production would also make flour available to bakers and others who use wheat as raw materials for the production of goods. Ikonne, who said the target was achievable, noted that the country has all it takes to achieve the targeted wheat production with the willingness and cooperation of farmers across the country. “This is very important because nature has also made it that it is very urgent for Nigeria to take advantage of what is happening in the world towards producing our own wheat, maize and other crops. He said: “We have the potential, the manpower, good weather and others. President Muhammadu Buhari has resuscitated NALDA to make sure we get the land, get people motivated and make our farmers get back to farming. “We have procured some processing machines so that it will be easy for farmers to start wheat processing. The small and big Flour Mills also need the raw materials. POLL “We have resolved in Gombe and with the Governor’s visit, we can do more, the Governor has pledged 4,500 hectares for our aggressive production that NALDA is collaborating with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the result we got shows that it is achievable. Speaking further, Ikonne noted that NALDA has divided its plant projects into two parts where they are working with universities to get land for food production. The Executive Secretary noted that the Authority was working with the Federal Ministry of Education through the Minister, Adamu Adamu, to get 30,000 hectares of unused land from the Universities for farming. According to the NALDA boss, the land will be used for maize, cassava and wheat production. He said: “As we speak, we are clearing 100 hectares of land at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) Imo State, we already have 100 hectares of land at the University of Agriculture, Umudike and we have already cleared and planted plantain at one of the universities in Aba, Abia State. ” We are grateful to God and we thank President Buhari for his mindset of putting Nigerians on the path of sustainability for the country to be food sufficient. Earlier, Governor Inuwa has commended NALDA for its relentless efforts toward achieving food security, adding that Gombe State has keyed into the target. He said: “We cultivated 200 metric tonnes of wheat this year and the result is good. “That is why we are working with NALDA to expand our production. With the recent development of the Russian – Ukraine war, we need to do more to stop the importation of wheat. On sustainability, Inuwa assured that it would be expanded and sustained with the support of the people for the country to attain self-sufficiency in wheat production. “Gombe is an agrarian State, 80 per cent of the people are into agriculture, we are ready to add value from production to processing,” he said.