Coach Gbenga Ogunbote of Remo Stars has called for improved playing surfaces in the Nigeria Professional Football League as a way to rebrand the league. The highly travelled and highly experienced coach was speaking after he came down hard on Dan Anyiam Stadium in Owerri where his team engaged the home side, Heartland Football Club. Ogunbote was displeased with the state of affairs at the turf saying it deprived football followers the best of it. Recall that following a stalemate with Heartland in one of the week 21 round of games, the coach felt that the Owerri based side could upturn things if they acquired a better playing turf. He said: “It was a difficult one to really access. I’m not surprised the team is in their present position. They need to look for a better pitch. It’s really affecting them. “This kind of a pitch ought not to be played. It didn’t let us see the beauty of the game. It’s not good, a lot of bumps and the rest. You can’t make three or four passes successfully. “You can see Rangers today, their fortune changed bacause they left a bad pitch for a better one. If they do so, things will change for them.” He said further to our correspondent: “I am making a case for clubs in the country who are yet to get it right in this aspect to make haste because you cannot divorce good performances from a good pitch. “It is very necessary that the LMC look very well at this and make sure that teams provide the right atmosphere for themselves and the visiting ones to express themselves on the field of play,” he said. Remo Stars are sitting fourth on the log with 36 points from 22 games and will be away to Nasarawa United in one of the week 23 rounds of games. The Sky Blue have obviously done well in the ongoing season given that they are just making a return to the topflight after a couple of years in the Nigerian National League (NNL). Ogunbote, a former coach of Enyimba and Rangers, has brought his wealth of experience to bear on the modest outfit who are chasing a continental ticket at the end of the season.