Governor Nyesom Wike Volunteer Network says the governor of Rivers State’s agenda for youths will address youth restiveness, unemployment and poverty in the country. The plans, the group said, were highlighted in Wike’s agenda which would be unveiled soon. The group stated this in a statement made available to newsmen in Benin on Friday and signed by Solomon Okoduwa, Coordinator General of the network. He stated that Wike believes in the youths and he is ready to rescue them from the iron grip of evil administrators who only invest in the future of their immediate family and allow the children of the poor to suffer untold hardship. According to the network, there will be full representation of youths in the government of Wike when elected president of the country in 2023 because no country can develop without investing in the future of its youths. “Worst still, our youths have been negatively engaged in varioussocial vices that have affected the socio-economic progress of our country, thus; leaving the impoverished populace in perpetual fear of insecurity, food insecurity and unemployment which keep increasing. “However, disappointments from successive Administration from themilitary era till date especially president Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration have led to a continuous progression in unemployment even withHigher Institutions churning out hundreds of thousands of graduates yearly into the society.” “Confronted with these realities Nigerian Youths have become victims of human trafficking in search of greener pasture on other shores, drug peddling, banditory and other anti social vices which are sad stories” he stated. POLL Okoduwa however assured of Wike’s eagerness to hit the ground running and reverse these narratives. He further said, “Governor Wike is desirous to make Nigeria work. The country has all it takes to make it work which includes the youth. A path needs to be charted for them. His Excellency is enthusiastic to make Nigerian youths critical stakeholders to positively contribute to the successful running of the government at all levels when elected.” “The youths require a meeting point with those that will chart a course for their involvement in nation building engendering advocacy against bad governance human trafficking, cultism, drug abuse and other social vices.” The Rivers Governor’s passion is born out of strong conviction that Nigeria can work, Okoduwa stated.