UYO – Uyo Zonal Command of the National Agency for the Pro­hibition of Trafficking in Per­sons, (NAPTIP) has disclosed it rescued 1444 victims of hu­man trafficking from 2021 to date. A breakdown of the report which covered the then four states within the zone indi­cates that 723 of the victims were from Akwa Ibom while 413,282 and 16 were from Cross River, Bayelsa and Rivers, re­spectively. Uyo Zonal Commander of the agency, Mrs. Tina Ugwu, who made the disclosure when she played host to correspon­dents in Uyo on Thursday said the zone, within the said peri­od also convicted 52 offenders. She explained that the zone within the period, investigated over 568 of the 1,035 cases it received while 11 cases were still in court. “For the number of cases re­ceived, the command received 1,035 cases with 1,035 suspects. It investigated over 568 cases. The command convicted 52 traffickers in the zone with 11 cases still in court at different levels of prosecution. “Specifically from my as­sumption, that is, from the beginning of March, the com­mand has had about 17 cases. We have about 10 of them un­der investigation, and three that are fully investigated. We have about three cases with our legal elite which they are going to file those cases be­tween today and tomorrow,” she explained. The Zonal Commander who described the media as strategic partners in the fight against trafficking however decried the high incidences of sale of babies in Akwa Ibom and said that efforts have in­tensified to apprehend perpe­trators of the crime. She said the command, which now covers Akwa Ibom and Cross River states work in collaboration with sister agen­cies who have their presence at the border and have produced outstanding results as most of the cases handled by the agen­cy were transferred from them while NAPTIP have assisted in giving some of their staff strategic training in their op­erations. POLL Ugwu attributed rise in sale of babies to rise in broken homes and single parenthood but advised parents unable to cater for their children to ask for help or register their chil­dren for formal adoption.