The Lagos State Police Command has said that it has commenced investigations into the alleged sexual violence case involving students of Chrisland Schools which occurred in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Command in a statement signed by its Spokesperson, SP Benjamin Hundeyin stated that the alleged rape video purportedly depicting students of Chrisland School Lagos, going viral on social media is being investigated to establish the identities of the players in the video, the true incident in the video, the geographical location of the incident, the alleged threat to life against a student of the school and circumstances surrounding the alleged repeated pregnancy tests conducted on a student without parental consent. The statement further said: “the Command is equally taking cognizance of the cybercrime angle to the whole episode and would not hesitate to enlist the support of the Interpol should the need arise. For a holistic and unbiased investigation, the Command shall be working with relevant ministries, departments, agencies and non-governmental organizations.” The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, has assured that due diligence will be observed to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government has reacted to the alleged sexual violence case through a statement, saying all allegations are being investigated by the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies. They include Ministries of Education, Youth and Social Development, Justice and the Lagos State Domestic & Sexual Violence Agency and Office of Education Quality Assurance. The government expressed commitment to ensuring that adequate medical and psychosocial support is provided.The statement said all child-centred institutions within the state must formulate and implement policies and systems compliant with the Executive Order (NO.EO/AA08 of 2016), Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Program. “Any person who engages in any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child commits an offence and is liable to a custodial sentence of fourteen (14) years. POLL “This includes “producing, distributing, receiving, or possessing an image of child pornography”. “In the meantime, all Chrisland Schools within Lagos State are hereby closed, pending further investigations”, the statement reads.