ABEOKUTA – Segun Sowunmi, a governorship candidate under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in Ogun State, has vowed to rigorously tackle insecurity across the State with the aid of biometric capturing if elected during the next election. Showunmi disclosed this on Thursday at the Palace of Alaye of Ayetoro in Yewa North local government area of Ogun State during his stakeholder’s meeting and sensitization of party members. Showunmi, the former Spokesperson of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation in the 2019 election, bemoaned the unending security threat to the people of the state especially the remote areas of Yewa North Local Government. He reiterated is resolve to embark on biometric registration of the residents as a means to drastically reduce the insecurity challenge in the state. According to him, registering the people would allow the government and security agencies to locate and identify the people in times of crisis. He urged the community leaders to help the government by supplying useful information. Sowunmi who spoke with journalists after the meeting said, “We have concluded the sensitization of Yewa North/Imeko Afon delegate at the palace of Alaye of Ayetoro. Majorly what concerns our people is security as it concerns the challenges they face with terrorist, herdsmen clashes which they have reduced to Fulani invasion. “I have assured them that there is nothing like invasion but that the security architecture will be rewritten to cover the space and I have urged the Baales to figure out a way that can be more useful as information gathering in a way to help us. POLL “I want to reiterate my belief that a biometric capture of the people in the state with a verifiable address would be most needed to help us begin to stem security by being able to pull the people of the state in their location and we can identify them. “They assured me of their support and most of the PDP members were very happy it was almost like a homecoming and I’m very grateful to the Alaye of Ayetoro and all our delegates from Yewa North and Imeko Afon federal constituency.”