The All Progressives Congress Youths and Solidarity Forum have called on the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, and the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, to resign from office before the forthcoming party’s presidential primaries. The youth group in their thousands who besieged the APC headquarters in Abuja, Wednesday, said the party does not belong to any individual. Convener of the group, Tobias Ogbeh, said the non-resignation of such persons before the primaries could jeopardise the party’s presidential ticket. Ogbeh said the various youth groups cannot continue to feign ignorance to the attitudes of some vested interests in the party that have arrogated to themselves the powers to decide how to play the game in contravention of the rules of engagement as stipulated in the 2022 Electoral Act as amended. “The last time we checked, the APC is not a personal property of a select few. “Many of us in various capacities indeed contributed to the development and growth of the party over the years. “It is insulting to our sensibilities when some persons whose contributions to the party can be counted with their fingertips are pushing the party towards the brinks. “It is no longer news that the general elections in 2023 are well underway. As such, it behoves that the party should be adequately prepared at this point. “But we are worried that all is not well within the party with regards to the provisions in Section 84(12) of the elections, which states thus: “No political appointees at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election” Ogbeh said. POLL “As we all know, the Electoral Act has been passed into law, and one wonders why political appointees in government that have indicated an interest in contesting elective positions have refused to resign their appointments. “They have held on like a birthright hinging their decisions on the ignoble role of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami,” he said. The group further questioned what the likes of Emiefele, Ameachi and Ngige are still doing in government. “Are we saying these individuals are above the law or are exempted from the provisions of the Electoral Act? Ogbeh asked. Ogbeh said the APC Youth Development and Solidarity Forum are pained that the party is heading for the brinks due to the judgment secured by the AGF through a Federal High Court, which by all intent and purposes “is meant to mislead Mr President and further plunge the party into a crisis of unimaginable proportion unless we want to feign ignorance to the fact that any arm of government could not usurp the powers of the National Assembly.