The Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum, has insisted that the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, is the right person to rule Nigeria in 2023. The group’s spokesperson, Mr Aliyu Sani, disclosed this in a statement on Friday at a news conference in Dutse, urging the CBN governor to join the list of presidential aspirants for the 2023 general elections. Sani said, “A leader is a hero who accomplishes goals against all odds for his followers. These are the leadership attributes and qualities of Dr Godwin Emefiele who works round the clock for the benefit of the masses of Nigeria. “We need pragmatic leaders who already have a blueprint on how to move the nation forward through peace, progress and prosperity. “Nigerians should look into the 37 interventions initiated by Dr Godwin Emefiele, they will realize that all of them are masses friendly. They are accessible from anywhere in Nigeria, without collateral, and the interest rate is subsidized as well as the payment time is flexible. “You need no one, you just sit in the comfort of your home and apply. It is only someone who has the masses at heart that can initiate what will benefit the masses. “The masses of this country, irrespective of our tribe, religion or ethnicity, have benefited from Emefiele’s policies because they are directly for the masses and they have helped in the creation of wealth. Today, many of us are proud farmers and owners of different kinds of businesses. All these are possible because of policies initiated by Emefiele. “As a Northerner, I will say and still emphasize that aside from our founding fathers, no individual has touched the lives of common men like Emefiele. POLL “This is because today in Northern Nigeria, agriculture has taken the lead back as the pride of Northern Nigeria. We have seen the pyramids of rice, in Kebbi, Abuja and recently, the maize pyramid in Kaduna and other places. “It is a clarion call, and our visit to Jigawa is to consult with relevant stakeholders to lend their voices and speak louder for Emefiele to contest for the president, the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Emefiele is the right person for Nigeria now, surely, he will improve our economy, create wealth for the nation, all sectors of the economy will be working, and Nigeria will flourish. He will unite Nigeria and we will be each other’s brother’s keeper, we will progress together as a nation and there will be peace, progress and prosperity. “We wish to inform you that the responses we are getting from Nigerians about Emefiele’s presidency are overwhelming and it will be a grave mistake for him not to yield to our call because he is the leader that Nigeria needs now to lead this most populous black nation in the world. “Therefore, I am appealing to all the stakeholders of Jigawa state to call on him to contest and to remind him that the national interest supersedes personal interest.”