The Most Revd. Humphrey Bamisebi Olumakaiye, the Archbishop, Ecclesiastical Province of LagosDiocesan Bishop of Lagos and Missioner has, for the umpteenth time, prophesied that there is still hope for the geographical entity called Nigeria. This is even as he admonished Nigerians to cultivate the habit of expressing gratitude to God for sailing them through the economic, social, political and even diabolical whirlwind rocking the country at the moment and even globally. He gave this admonition via the release of his Easter message made available to news media on Thursday by the Diocesan media anchor, Venerable Folorunsho Agbelusi. The revered bold-voiced and spirit-filled revolutionary Anglican cleric reminded Nigerians of his prophetic tag for the Year 2022 as the year of Divine Satisfaction, even as he noted that against all odds; Nigerians, especially those who hold on to the prophetic declaration have benefitted immensely from the Surprising Victory which God gave the faithful last year. “So many things have happened and are still happening all over the world and even in our nation; ranging from banditry to kidnapping, insurgency, rituals, violence (domestic, regional and global), financial meltdown, economic downturn, inherent power tussle amongst the political class as the election year approaches and so on. All these unpalatable events have thrown the nation into a gory state whereby lives are not safe, not to talk of properties” the Archbishop bemoaned. Further commenting on the sorry, sordid state of the Nigerian nation, the highly lettered man of God wondered how those who are vested with the leadership of the country have remained comfortably unperturbed by the lingering ASUU strike which has lasted over two months and has kept the nation’s university students off the classroom, idle and thus prone to all sorts temptation of crime and criminality. “It is unbelievable that people that are conscious of God’s grace upon them will allow students of our universities to be at home and be idle for as long as the ASUU strike has lasted thereby exposing them to a life of crime and ultimate destruction. One wonders that perhaps the situation has been allowed to fester because the children of most of those in authority are not affected.”; Papa Lagos worried. POLL In the mood of the season, Olumaikaye tutored that Easter remains central to Christianity because it represents the greatest sacrifice any man can make for his fellow man. He said: “Jesus Christ gave His life as an atonement for the sin of humanity. It takes the shedding of blood for sin to be atoned and God’s righteous anger pacified. Jesus Christ voluntarily gave His life for all who will accept Him as their Lord and Saviour. It is important to note that Jesus Christ set an example of selfless leadership which unfortunately is not been emulated even by those who claim to be Christian. This Easter season is an opportunity for each and every one of us to examine our lives and see if we are really following the examples set for us by Jesus Christ. If we are not, it is a time to amend our ways and honour Him whose name we proclaim”. Archbishop Olumakaiye sermonised on the need for people to be grateful to God in spite of the looming situation of Nigeria and the world at large. “In the spirit of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, we can confidently look back with unreserved appreciation to the Almighty God who has brought us all this far. This season is peculiar, putting a seal on our faith, professing the Gospel of Christ according to the mystery of our faith which is beyond human understanding. Since the beginning of the year, which we have prophetically declared as our year of Divine Satisfaction against all odds; having benefitted immensely from the Surprising Victory God gave us last year. We are so sure that if God has said it, He will definitely do it. “However, so many things have happened and are still happening all over the world and even in our nation; ranging from banditry to kidnapping, insurgency, rituals, violence (domestic, regional and global), financial meltdown, economic downturn, inherent power tussle amongst the political class as the election year approaches and so on. All these unpalatable events have thrown the nation into a gory state whereby lives are not safe, not to talk of properties. “In all of these scenarios, we can still boldly and triumphantly say that we are more than conquerors. Does it not surprise you as a person, how you have been able to survive these hard times, or are you tempted to think that it was because you were smart? Capital NO! “We can also be tempted to ask, passing through all these, “Is there hope?” Yes, there is hope for our nation through our resurrected Jesus Christ and Savior. In all of these, we are encouraged that there is the hope of a better tomorrow through the power of the resurrection. It also assures us that all who belong to Christ, will, through faith in Him, share in His victory. We, therefore, encourage us all to turn over all our troubles unto God; now as we prepare for the general election as a nation or as individuals, with the conviction of the mystery of our faith, that if Christ could rise again after the brutal torture meted unto him and His crucifixion, then no matter how horrible our experiences might be as a nation or as individuals, God can still restore our hope and give us life again. He can make that which was originally an object of mockery become that which will be celebrated again”;  the Archbishop assuaged. He added that “beyond the tunnel of our nation, there is hope, joy and progress. This is calling on all in the position of authority to take a cue from the Lord Jesus Christ and promote the well being of the majority instead of continuously trampling on them”.   