ABUJA – A Bill seeking to repeal and re-enact the National Human Rights Commission Act was on Tuesday passed for the Third reading by the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly. The Bill according to Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, seeks to reposition and streamline the Institutional framework of the National Human Rights Commission. Presenting the Committee’s report, Senator Opeyemi explained that “the signing of this bill into law, will further guarantee the grade A status granted to Nigeria by the United Nations General Assembly in recognition of its compliance with the provisions of the Paris principles. “The bill also makes specific provisions to provide for the establishment of the National Human Rights Fund in the National Budget as well as provide effective means of sustaining contributions to the Fund. “A virile and enduring democratic value system cannot be fully entrenched in Nigeria if we do not have an Independent and incorruptible human rights Institution with adequate funding mechanisms free from unnecessary interference from the Government.” The Bill titled: “National Human Rights Commission Act 2004 (Repeal and Enactment) Bill 2022, primarily seeks to increase funding for the Commission for optimal performance in sustaining the Grade A status rating, the United Nations General Assembly gave Nigeria in recognition of its compliance to human rights principles.” He further pointed out that this will be done by strengthening the commission’s capacity on investigations of human rights issues. According to him, the human rights funds which the bill seeks to establish are in line with global practices as it relates to human rights institutions worldwide. POLL “One of the salient provisions of the bill, is the aspect that has to do with investigations and conduct of public hearings on human rights issues and abuses. “The proposed legislation would engender exchange of good practice and consensus-building, which are the essential components of national reconciliation,” he added.