LAGOS  – Unless forex is stable, any move to control high costs of goods and services that will boost industrial growth would be a mirage, Comrade Festus Osifo, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), has said. Osifo, also noted that, failure to unionise all facets of workers in oil and gas sector as one of the problems triggering casualisation in the industry. While appealing to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to first address the unstable foreign exchange in order to bring down costs of goods and services that are rising up on daily basis, Comrade Osifo, therefore, described foreign exchange and security as the determining factors that can boost industrial growth, attract more investors to the Nigerian economy. Osifo, while addressing Labour writers’ in Lagos, reiterated private-owned refineries like the one being built by Dangote should be made to compliment government’s refineries which would go a long way in creating more jobs and save the country from importation of petroleum products. According to him, making the country’s four refineries functional would boost divestment. While calling on the Federal Government to reconsider the call for state police, he said: “If indeed lives of the people are important to the Federal Government then it should have rethink and listen to the call of many people for state policing”. On energy transition policy, he said: As the world moves towards energy transition, PENGASSAN has charged the Federal Government to come up with an energy transition policy such that Nigerians would not the direction of government. “Energy transition refers to the global energy sector’s shift from fossil-based systems of energy production and consumption- including oil, natural gas, and coal to renewable energy sources like wind and solar, as well as lithium-ion batteries. POLL “If Nigeria’s government is serious, they should come up with an energy transition policy in such a way that everybody will know his or her direction before 2050 proposed by the Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor to the energy transition.” “PENGASSAN will continue to educate its members on energy transmission to make them relevant in the oil and gas industry. “Whileweengagethe government to come up with a policy direction, we will also see to its workability. The policy should be what is implementable and pragmatic,” he said. The PENGASSAN President explained that the challenges Nigeria is likely to face as a result of the energy transition include; who will buy the crude oil and issue of finance, saying that if supply is more than demand, the price of crude oil will fall. “We need to embark on massive industrialization, where most of this fossil fuel will be used locally without exportation. “What we should be looking at as a nation is to channel our energy to gas production. “Today in Nigeria we ought to be producing two million barrels of crude oil per day, but if you look at Dangote Refinery, for example, it is going to be refining 650 thousand barrels of crude oil per day. “ If our four refineries are functioning, we will be refining four hundred and fifty thousand barrels of crude oil per day. When you have both of them, they will amount to 1.1million crude oil per day. It means that almost 60 percent of our production would be refined locally. “If we refine these 50 percent locally, as a country, we will consume a good amount of the product and if you look at the entire African suburb, we could export this product to them. Beyond this, what we should be thinking is industrialization,” he said. 