Democracy or represen­tative government is the most acceptable type of government, though we’ve other types of government like aristocracy, mobocracy, gerontocracy, plutocracy, mili­tocracy, and others. But democ­racy, which originated in Ath­ens, Greece, has been embraced in many countries of the world. In today’s world, countries with types of governments other than democracy are making strenuous efforts to democratize. Are mil­itary regimes not viewed as an anathema and aberration by peo­ple? But lately, on the African con­tinent, we have been witnessing a resurgence of military coups. Soldiers had dislodged civilian leaders from their exalted polit­ical posts when we thought that military government was not the fad anymore. However, no matter how mili­tary rulers try to rationalise their seizure of power and deodorise their governments, countries that are ruled by the military are still perceived and treated as pariah states. A military government is an anathema because its power does not emanate from the peo­ple and constitution. We have this axiomatic political saying: sover­eignty belongs to the people. It is the people who will ex­ercise their franchise to choose political leaders of their choice during periodic elections. And pe­riodic elections are a feature of democracy. In Nigeria, we have been practising democracy for twenty three years, uninterrupt­edly, with one civilian govern­ment handing political power to another political party seamless­ly and peacefully. But the political stability we have in Nigeria owes chiefly to the principle of rotational pres­idency, which was mooted, con­ceptualised, and executed by the PDP in 1999. Then, in the interest of peace and progress, political equity, and fairness, the PDP stalwarts ceded the presidential seat to the southwest to appease the indignant Yoruba people over the annulled June 12, 1993 presi­dential election. Other political parties, as though on cue, field­ed presidential candidates, who hail from the southwest of Nige­ria. Over the years, it has helped greatly in making Nigeria a polit­ically stable country. The principle of rotational presidency, though not enshrined in our constitution, has been op­erative in Nigeria since 1999. It is a political thread, which has been used to knit our many different ethnic groups together. But some people would like the rotational presidency principle to be abrogated and jettisoned be­cause they feel that it had outlived its usefulness. It is apparent to us that politicians who kick against the rotation of the presidential seat among the six geopolitical zones in Nigeria do not mean well for us. They are disingenuous peo­ple who place their personal in­terests and ethnic considerations above our collective good and the development of Nigeria. Are those people not aware that the relative peace we enjoy in the country is attributable to the existence of rotational presi­dency in Nigeria? Were a Yoruba man not installed in office in 1999 as the president of Nigeria, the indignant Yoruba people would have waged a relentless war against the rest of Nigeria. The Abacha-NADECO face-off would have been a foretaste of what would have happened in Nigeria had Chief Obasanjo not become our civilian president in 1999. Since 1999, the pendulum of presidential power has been swinging between the north and the south with some of the geo­political zones producing the president of Nigeria at different periods in this current fourth republic. Of all the major ethnic groups in Nigeria, only the Igbo people of the southeast of Nigeria have not produced a president for Nigeria in the fourth republic. Ni­geria, we all know, stands on the three legs of the tripod, namely, Igbo, Yoruba, and Hausa/Fulani. POLL So now, it is clearly evident to us that it is the turn of the southeast geopolitical zone to produce the next president of Nigeria in 2023. But gauging the mood of many po­litical stalwarts in Nigeria’s two major political parties, and based on their doings and utterances, we do not need a soothsayer to tell us that they are predisposed and in­clined to discarding the informal principle of rotational presidency. They believe, though wrongly, that rotational presidency is a child of necessity, which has outlived its usefulness. But Nigeria’s peace as well as political stability is fragile. Our political leaders ought to take cen­tripetal measures to deepen our national unity and make Nigeria a politically stable political polity. Should the major political parties in Nigeria cede the presidential seat to the southeast, it will dis­abuse the minds of Igbo people of the sentiments and belief that they are unwanted in Nigeria. And it will allay their fears that they are being politically domi­nated in Nigeria. And the solution to the cease­less agitation for statehood by IPOB members, and their violent enforcement of the sit-at-home order on every Monday lies in ceding the presidential seat to the southeast in 2023. It is the po­litical masterstroke that will rid the southeast area of violence and restiveness. However, I am not unconscious of the fact that a majority of Ni­gerians, who are not Igbo people, are advocating that merit should override ethnicity and other con­siderations regarding the forth­coming 2023 presidential election. I will pose these questions to them: Did they consider the com­plexity and heterogeneity of Ni­geria, and the background against which rotational presidency came into being before taking a stand on the matter? Is Igbo land not teeming with politicians, who pos­sess leadership qualities, probity, and fealty, fear of God, political ideologies, and forbearance? Igbo land is the homeland of such colourful politicians as Nnamdi Azikiwe, who was a na­tionalist, freedom fighter, and president of Nigeria in the first republic; Sam Mbakwe, the hard­working and visionary governor of the old Imo state in the second republic; Chuba Okadigbo, the er­udite scholar and colourful poli­tician; Akanu Ibiam; and others. The southeast is not in short sup­ply of political leaders, who pos­sess the capability to transform Nigeria, positively. In conclusion, the heteroge­neous nature of Nigeria and her historical antecedents and back­ground recommend rotational presidency for her. It is the pan­acea to her problem of disunity. And we should know that disuni­ty is a disincentive to national development. Okoye, a poet, wrote in from Uruowu­lu-Obosi, Anambra State