Abuja – There is high-wire politics going on at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the zoning of presidential ticket by the party. Recall that the party had inaugurated a 37-man zoning committee headed by the governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, on March 24 to look into the zoning issue in the party. The committee, which had met twice since its inauguration, was given two weeks to submit its report. The deadline given to the committee would be Thursday. The committee, according to its announcement, would meet today to put finishing touches on its report before submitting it on Thursday. While the committee couldn’t make a tangible impact in the two previous meetings, a source close to the committee said it must submit something to the party on Thursday, because the party depends on its honest resolution of zoning, as the PDP makes its way to the Aso Villa for the second time. The source further said that the outcome of the committee may not be palatable to every member of the party, adding that the presidential ticket maybe thrown open, adding that either way, some party members will not be happy. Recall that the argument in the party had been that the presidential ticket should be zoned to the South, but other party members from the North said since South had it for 14 years in the 16 years of PDP in power, the ticket should be zoned to the North. But the party, instead of zoning the presidential ticket before embarking on the sale of expression of interest and nominations forms, had started selling the forms, which made some party members to conclude that the PDP will not zone its ticket but would throw it open. Also recall that ‘throw the ticket open’ was part of the recommendations of Mohammed Bala-led committee after the party was defeated in 2019 election. The committee had recommended that instead of zoning, the ticket should be thrown open for all those interested in the position. It was, however, gathered that during the Ortom-led zoning committee second meeting at the Benue State Governor’s Lodge last week, members of the committee didn’t speak with one voice, but were canvassing for the interest of their zones, hence the failure to arrive at a consensus on where the ticket should be zoned to. Shortly after the meeting, Ortom had told journalists that the meeting was yet to be concluded, adding, “The meeting is yet to be concluded. We have adjourned till Tuesday next week at the same time, same venue. And until we conclude the proceedings, there is not much to say. So far, all the members are quite understanding. There wasn’t any form of tension. “All the members understand ourselves that zoning is very key and we are looking at it that at the end of it all, we will do something that everybody will accept and we will go ahead as one big family and win the 2023 elections.” However, there is tension in the party over where the committee will zone the presidential ticket to, as some party members were seen discussing the issue, with argument that the recommendation by the committee will make or mar the party. Meanwhile, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Monday submitted his presidential form. Submitting the form on behalf of Atiku, the Chairman of Atiku Technical Committee and media mogul, Raymond Dokpesi, said that zoning will not affect Atiku ambition. Dokpesi said: “By the special grace of God when we get to the bridge, we will cross it. “I’m not aware of any internal problems in the PDP. No crisis whatsoever. PDP is one big family we shall all be together as brothers and sisters. “Definitely, we have nothing against whatever the party will decide, but the zoning will not be against us.” Also, speaking at the brief ceremony, Senator Dino Melaye said, “We are here to submit to you the form of a Nigerian with multiple competences, indoctrinated with the art of civil administration and the rudiments of politics, the only unifier. “Atiku was the first to pick his form and the first to submit his form. God has told me that Atiku will be the president of Nigeria.”