Dr. Kayode Ajulo, a Constitutional Lawyer is the Convener of the ‘Progressive Lawyers for Osinbajo,’. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on why Nigeria’s Vice- President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), should succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. He also speaks on other issues of national interests. Excerpts: As the Convener of the Progressive Lawyers for Osinbajo; your group, like others, have been asking the Vice President to vie for the Presidency in 2023. How confident are you that he will heed your call with the new Electoral Law and its timeline for parties to turn in their candidates latest June 3 for the elections? There is no gainsaying the point that there has been heightened clamour from different groups and quarters for the incumbent Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN to run for the highest office in the land. It buttresses his wide acceptability across the length and breadth of this great nation and I think that is an honest starting point for any meaningful conversation about the 2023 Presidential elections. It is my considered view that any aspirant or presidential hopeful can be popular but to be widely acceptable across the various ethnic groups and faiths in Nigeria is the icing on the cake. Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN is not only popular but he enjoys a humongous level of acceptance from the Nigerian people. It marvels me to note that the youths, professionals are the one in the forefront of these agitations, interestingly he cut across party lines, those in opposition PDP are on board, have you watched Chief E. K Clark’s interview? When I mentioned that some PDP governors and leaders want Prof. Osinbajo it sounded like a joke until some of them confirmed my assertions. To your question, in line with the provision of Section 28 of the Electoral Act, 2022, the Independent National Electoral Commission propounded its “Timetable & Schedule of Activities for 2023 General Elections which provided an extension breakdown of the pre-election and election phases of the 2023 General Election. By this Timetable, political parties are mandated to conduct party primaries for the purpose of democratically nominating candidates for the General Elections which must be done between the 4th of April 2022 and 3rd of June, 2022 and this is in tandem with the provision of Section 29 of the Electoral Act, 2022. Taking all this into cognizance, it is expected that the Vice-President will make his position very clear on or before the 4th of April 2022 or in the alternative, shortly before the announcement of dates for the All Progressives Congress’ primaries. I have no vestige of doubt that the Vice-President, a responsive leader, will not let down the millions of Nigerians yearning for his leadership at this time in the life of our dear nation. The trajectory of the Vice-President’s private and public life is not cast in any form of ambiguity, and this is why Nigerians believe in him and he cannot afford to let them down. But some people are worried that the VP has not been consulting or declared to vie for the office, unlike other aspirants. Are you not worried about this? What other consultation are we talking about? We are talking of a Vice President who has acted as President; a man who meets with foreign heads of state, governors, meets with the diplomats and political, religious and traditional leaders and the business community; who represents the president and the nation at different fora; a visible Vice President that presides over the Federal Executive Council in the absence of his principal for about seven years now, and he is still doing same today. So, I don’t think anyone has consulted, or has the opportunity to meet Nigerians among those aspiring today like Prof Osinbajo. The busiest public officer after the President, his party is lucky, hence my initial theory of right of first refusal, tell me who has broken such enviable records in Nigeria today. All that is left today is to publicly offer himself to Nigerians that he is ready for the 2023 presidential race. Your appeal for leaders in the Southwest to weigh in and adopt a consensus aspirant seems not to be adopted. Do you see the VP contesting against former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu? POLL What are the indices that my appeal is not yielding results? I’m not just a Yoruba, but I’m an integral part of that sophisticated and cultural people. Yoruba are intelligent, diplomatic and smart, we have a way of doing things, discussion are going on in the palaces, homes, schools, mosques, churches and everywhere. We have a way of doing things and the result of the engagement are coming out but it’s not my lot to reveal it, but take this from me, find out where the slogan and now hashtag #FiilefunYemi comes from? Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is our Vice President; he belongs to a political family headed by our much-respected Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; that is not in anyway a mere achievement to have someone rising through such democratic school and has today emerged as the pride of our nation and the Leader himself. Or you think Osinbajo is today called the ‘Star Boy’ for nothing? Let us leave Asiwaju and the VP alone, they’ll sort themselves out. Prof. Osinbajo’s performance as the Vice President has not only been adjudged satisfactory, but whose leadership as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria from May 29, 2023 will further entrench the political dynasty and expand the legends, this is another plus to Asiwaju. As I have always said, it will be Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s glory to see Prof Osinbajo taking the Presidential ticket of the APC and elected as Nigerian President in 2023. So, I think we should get to that part where the Vice President has accepted to vie for the office first. There could be some controversies among the supporters of these leaders, but I am sure that at the time he lays the cards before him and know that with Osinbajo, he will still realize the Nigeria of that dream as encapsulated in his lifelong ambition, our Leader will raise the hand of Osinbajo and offer him every necessary support to succeed at the poll as APC candidate in the interest of our nation. I see no bile, but regular democratic expressions; and of course, you know that Asiwaju Tinubu fought his life to protect democracy. He is a democrat and will never pick enemy all in the name of leadership game. A formidable colossus like him has actually surpassed the political skirmishes of the presidential quest, having built such an enviable political empire fit for students of politics to learn from than throwing the hat into the presidential contest – the colossal Asiwaju is bigger than that. He is an inspiration, a mentor and pathfinder today that is mostly suitable to offer guidance and mentoring from the progressive standpoint. Agitation for zoning is still a strong factor in the build ups to the presidential election. How satisfied are you with the zoning positions in the ruling and leading opposition parties? I have always tried to view zoning from the standpoint of the principles of patriotism and constitutionalism. It is of interest to know that for the All Progressives Congress, the Presidential Office has been unofficially zoned to the South while the Office of the Vice-President goes to the North. So, as it is, I cannot go beyond this realm of information until it becomes official. By and large, I want to strongly believe that the party will have full recourse to capacity and geopolitical strength in fielding candidates for the Offices of the President and Vice-President respectively. Expectedly, criticisms have started coming in the direction of the Vice President in view of his presumed interest in succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari. The last came from Prof. Farooq Kperogi who called the VP a ‘bigot.’ How bigoted is the Vice President? My earliest influence in life was unmistakably my mum who by example, passionately walked me through the tenets of civility and forbearance. I also have tremendous respect and admiration for scholarship, and I will therefore relatively restrain myself from referencing Prof. Farooq Kperogi on this issue. I must, however as a lawyer advice Prof Kperogi and every other Nigerians, ex gratis, that we enjoy freedom of speech to the extent permissible under the law but calling the Vice-President or any other person, a bigot in the circumstance raises a question of liability under SECTION 24(B) OF THE CYBERCRIMES (PROHIBITION, PREVENTION, ETC) ACT, 2015 and this may be tested under our law.The statement is not only inflammatory, but it is purposed in my considered view to cause irritation, enmity, hatred, ill-will or needless tension to the person of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN). Whereas, the Vice-President has demonstrated times without number that he is highly detribalized and respects the faiths of others. He has an excellent relationship with leaders of Islam as well as Christian leaders in Nigeria and regardless of his status as a Preacher, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN connects and engages freely with Muslims as he believes that we are all divinely connected with the Almighty God. On several occasions, the spiritual leader of Nigeria Muslims, the Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III has commented on the tolerant disposition of the Vice-President towards faith issues in Nigeria and it is safe to state that both of them enjoy a cordial relationship borne out of mutual respect and understanding. I recall that sometimes in 2019, the Vice-President was invited to the General Assembly of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) and in his address, the Sultan of Sokoto stressed that the Vice-President; a pastor was chosen to be the keynote speaker at the event and he accepted same without hesitation. That event also had the Secretary of the Council, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede commenting brilliantly about the Vice-President by describing him as a model of a person combining religious commitment with public administration. These eminent personalities are surely men who do not say what they do not mean.