The National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and presidential hopeful, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on Monday publicly disowned his political godson, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, saying he has no son who is grown enough to declare for the party’s presidential ticket. Tinubu made this declaration hours after Osinbajo declared his interest to contest the 2023 presidential election through a short video uploaded on various social media platforms. It could be recalled that Tinubu, in 2012, at the launching of a book titled, “Contemporary issues in Nigerian constitutional law,” a series of essays compiled in honour of Osinbajo, said that if not for Osinbajo, his political career would have nosedived. According to Tinubu: “The capability and firmness of Osinbajo in my time of travail made me triumph against every plan by my detractors to destroy my image and career.” Speaking further, Tinubu stated that he would have been nailed for the offence he did not commit if Osinbajo was not available to defend him. “Osinbajo brought his knowledge of constitutional law and stood by me even at the time when some of my commissioners were planning to resign from the cabinet. He indulged my politics and allowed it to flourish in the face of detractors,” he said. He added that Osinbajo was the best decision he ever made in his political career, describing him as the biggest weapon in his political armoury. “Osinbajo encouraged me to create 37 Local Council Development Areas with his astounding knowledge of constitutional law. I could challenge the Federal Government because of the capability of the professor of law,” Tinubu said. POLL This, however, made Tinubu to declared Osinbajo as the running mate of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2015 general elections which led to the unseating of the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Osinbajo who served in the capacity of the Vice President has always been the pride of Tinubu. But declaring his intention to run for the President in the 2023 general election after Tinubu had four months earlier declared his interest may be the reason why he made the assertion that he has no son grown enough to declare for the party’s presidential ticket. Speaking with journalists after holding a closed-door meeting with the APC Governors, he said, “I don’t have any son grown up enough to make such declaration”. “My mission here is to seek collaboration, support and encouragement of my party, the APC, for my ambition to become the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as replacement for President Muhammadu Buhari after his tenure,” he stated.