YOLA – Following the visit of Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, to Adamawa State, angry delegates of the party have lashed out at the State Party Chairman, Barrister AT Shehu. The party delegates have been pouring their venoms on AT Shehu for drawing conclusions that all delegates in the state belonged to Atiku Abubakar. The drama started when the Rivers State Governor was briefing the delegates at the Banguate House Government House Yola, explaining his capabilities to deliver victory to the PDP at the 2023 presidential elections when the lacklustre AT Shehu stood up and disowned Wike, drawing a conclusion that all delegates in Adamawa State belonged to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and one of the PDP presidential candidates. The delegates lashed out at AT Shehu calling him unprincipled saying it was their right to listen to every candidate vying on the PDP platform. Some of the delegates lamented that the Adamawa State wing of the party is experiencing multiple problems with incessant decamped members going to other parties because of the lacklustre leadership of AT Shehu. Hon Mohammed was particularly pained that AT Shehu lack the finest of Joel H. Madaki and called for his immediate replacement with Sabo Mohd Bamanga or Abdulrahman Bobboi or the return of Madaki for the party to gain ground in Adamawa State. He said under the poor performance of AT Shehu the party is losing ground with eminent personalities leaving the party because AT Shehu who is always elusive and does not attend to party affairs will sink the party with his failed leadership. A member of the delegate Hon Bello during an interview said if allowed remaining the chairman AT Shehu will sink the fortunes of the party. The Rivers State Governor who was billed to sleep at the Presidential Lodge Government House Yola received the open shocker when the party Chairman made the statement and Wike stormed out of the hall frowning and headed straight to his private jet and left. POLL Wike was to interact more with PDP delegates in Adamawa State but the shocker sent him back to Abuja. Many PDP delegates who lambasted AT Shehu called for his immediate replacement.