CHIOMA UMEHAFor decades, the question of why so many Nigerian women die during childbirth has remained unanswered.  Nigeria has one of the highest maternal death rates in the world, according to available data. The country’s mortality ratio of 512 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births far surpasses the global average of 254 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. Also, the 2018 Nigeria Demographic Health Survey, NDHS, estimated that 5,000 women die annually from pregnancy-related causes in Nigeria representing 124 daily.  Sadly, systematic deficiencies in the quality of maternal care services in the country persist despite these dismal figures. According to medical professionals, health institutions in any country must provide all of the crucial components of a woman’s pregnancy journey, including prenatal and postnatal care. Others are delivery, management of maternal complications, blood transfusion services, and infection prevention. Unfortunately, most of these services are not widely available in Nigeria, making them inaccessible to the majority of women who require them. This explains the poor pregnancy outcomes and a thorough grasp of the country’s mother care inadequacies. Clearly, taking the appropriate steps, such as adopting a family planning method, would help close the gaps and save lives, as well as prevent needless deaths and other lasting damage resulting from childbirth problems. Family planning refers to a woman’s freedom to select whether and when she becomes pregnant, as well as whether or not she will carry the pregnancy to term. In addition, in many regions of Africa, there is still a significant gap between women’s reproductive goals and their access to family planning choices such as contraceptives and safe abortion. Experts believe that family planning has a vital influence in maternal health. Over 5.7 million women and girls now use a modern method of contraception in Nigeria, according to figures released by the Family Planning 2020.  The report also notes that more than 1.9 million unintended pregnancies were prevented, and 705,000 unsafe abortions and 13,000 maternal deaths were averted in the last year. These statistics illustrate that one theory for this impact is that contraceptive use reduces the number of high-risk and high-parity deliveries, lowering maternal mortality. Undeniably, if Nigerian women have access to contraceptives, it will avert the 6,000 maternal deaths recorded in Nigeria annually from complications of unsafe abortion as highlighted by the Performance Monitoring for Action Nigeria in a study. POLL Abortion deaths constitute about 10-14 percent of maternal deaths in Nigeria so it is essential to ensure that Nigerian women have access to family planning services in the country. Visibly, several factors which fuel unsafe abortion and maternal deaths in the country must be tackled  for unrestricted access to family planning to become a reality. The drivers of the increasing rates of unsafe abortion in Nigeria are low contraceptive prevalence rates; poor appreciation of the sexual and reproductive health rights of women; social and cultural limitations with regards to women and restrictive laws. Clearly, access to contraceptives also helps to prevent unplanned pregnancies which result in unsafe abortions and now one of the leading causes of global maternal deaths. To reduce maternal deaths, there is also the need to integrate family planning services into maternal health services, especially in situations where maternity care is a woman’s primary contact with the health care system. Also, family planning and maternal health experts say antenatal care provides an opportunity for postpartum family planning education, allowing women to establish healthy birth spacing practices. This strategy, they say benefits women by increasing their participation in the workforce, which in turn raises household income and allows women to invest in themselves and their families. Unfortunately, family planning experts  say that marginal progress has been made over the last few decades towards access to contraceptives and utilisation. Therefore, increased efforts are needed to boost family planning through contraceptive use and achieve the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG 5.6), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) reports. The SDG 5.6 target is to ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights as agreed in accordance with the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development by 2030. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Framework marks huge progress in addressing women’s reproductive rights. For the first time, an international development framework includes not only targets on sexual and reproductive health services but also targets that address the barriers and human rights-based dimensions of sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, through SDG target 5.6. The target is measured by two indicators — Indicators 5.6.1 and 5.6.2. SDG Indicators 5.6.1 and 5.6.2., for which UNFPA is custodian, measure the legal and regulatory framework for sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, as well as women’s reproductive decision-making. Similarly, many researchers have shown that a relationship exists between SDG Indicators 5.6.1 and 5.6.2, family planning that is contraceptives use and the attainment of SDGs 3.1 on maternal mortality. Nigeria signed on United Nations (UN) SDGs 3.1, which targets reduction of the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per 100,000 live births, by 2030 . Nigeria’s attainment of the national goal will undoubtedly help the country meet the global maternal mortality goal of less than 70 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births.  Now is the moment to take action.  