The governor of Bauchi State and presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bala Mohammed has warned that even though the All Progressives Congress (APC) is going into self-annihilation, it shouldn’t be taken for granted. Bala Mohammed, who gave this warning in Abuja on Tuesday night and Wednesday afternoon when he held a consultative meeting with the forum of former ministers and the National Working Committee of PDP, also disclosed that former President Goodluck Jonathan has not made up his mind to run for 2023 presidency. Daring the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to persecute them if they have any evidence, Bala Mohammed explained that the consensus move is about getting the best and also about demphasising zoning, sectional sectionalism and so on and so forth. The Bauchi state governor said that if elected as President he’s going to have a knowledge-driven administration and he will do away with an exclusion, with division and sectionalism. He said: “As I said, this country is passing through a moment that we have to really pause and do a lot. We need ourselves. We need this forum. We need all the resource persons in this country. “APC has destroyed everything, they are moving towards a self anihiliation. You can see them copying us even our convention. The way we did our zoning and transfers, even now the consensus they are beginning to read the idea and I want to say we should not take them for granted. “They have destroyed the economy. They have destroyed the country. They are more afraid of accountability than us. All of us stood our ground and faced them in the court or in EFCC and we are daring them to do whatever they can do to persecute us, if they have any evidence against us but they cannot afford that. “The nation is no longer there as we left it. The nation is in pieces. There are names, Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba, Itsekiri anything within the context of Nigeria, but Nigeria is no longer there under APC. Thay have destroyed everything. Our focus on making Nigeria first should be started here because this is where you have people with the knowledge, with the modesty and understanding of the country.” POLL On Jonathan, Bala said: “You remember I told you all that if our boss, President Jonathan is running I will not run not because I’m inferior but because of loyalty. I came to national limelight through him and I believe he has done so much. And I said that in any party, even if he’s running in APGA or anywhere, I will not run because I will not be joining issues with him. “So up to this moment, he has not made up his mind. The time has come when I should step out, and that’s why I’m starting with you.” On consensus, Bala Mohammed said: “We’re not doing a regional thing. You know where I’m coming from. I spoke for the South, at the time, nobody could speak about it and that is what brought me here. I cannot be a regionalist or a sectional person. “So we have agreed now within ourselves for consensus, but this is even going beyond us. We have reached out to all the aspirants and the governors in this house because it’s about getting the best, it is about demphasizing zoning, sectional sectionalism and so on and so forth.” Bala Mohammed, who told the former ministers of his intention to run, also met with the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) at the party national secretariat, noting that the nation economy is in shambles. “We don’t have security. We don’t have a government.” The governor, who said he will use his position to be a unifier, to be a servant and respect the supremacy of the party, added, “I’m ready to work with anybody that you will bring out. That should be understood. I will not call anybody names, I will not underestimate or undermine anybody. I will not demean and diminish anybody. Every Nigerian is important. “The gender issues are germain, the youth issues are germaine. We cannot ignore the aspirations of the young Nigerians who may be better positioned to turn around this country. “At the same time, we cannot discard our old ones. We need experience. We must have a midcross approach to everything. The country needs rescue. APC has failed in all this ramifications.” Speaking on the type of President he will be when elected, Mohammed said, “I’m not going to be a Northern President, or a Muslim Fulani President or a minority President. I am going to be the Nigerian President, who understands the nuances, the norms and the feelings of Nigerians because I have touched them. I have worked with them. I have understood them. And after understanding them, I know what Nigerians want. What they need is good governance, justice and equity.”