UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Chancellor Rishi Sunak are to be fined in the latest round of lockdown party fines. A No 10 spokeswoman said: “The prime minister and chancellor of the exchequer have today received notification that the Metropolitan police intend to issue them with fixed penalty notices.“We have no further details, but we will update you again when we do.” They are among at least 30 extra fines being issued by police investigating lockdown-breaking Covid parties inside British government buildings, including Downing Street where the prime minister lives and works. Before the war broke out in Ukraine, Mr Johnson was looking vulnerable to the partygate controversy where he has been accused of leading a government that ignored the Covid restriction rules it forced others to follow. Before the war broke out in Ukraine, Mr Johnson was looking vulnerable to the partygate controversy where he has been accused of leading a government that ignored the Covid restriction rules it forced others to follow. Labour leader Sir Keiir stramer led renewed calls for both Giovrenment leaders to resign. “Boris Johnson and Rishi Sunak have broken the law and repeatedly lied to the British public. They must both resign,” he said. Matt Fowler, co-founder of Covid-19 Bereaved Families for Justice, said the fines were “indisputable” evidence that there was “rule breaking en masse” in Government while families were “unable to be at their loved ones’ sides in their last moments”. POLL “If Boris Johnson had any decency he would do the right thing and resign immediately,” he said. London’s Metropolitan Police said it was “making every effort to progress this investigation at speed”, with the possibility of more fines to come. Most of the people issued with fixed penalty notices (FPN) have not been disclosed publicly, nor the event a fine relates to. But Downing Street has said it will confirm if either Boris Johnson or Cabinet Secretary Simon Case are handed a fine. Mr Johnson is understood to have been present at six of the at least 12 events being investigated. “This is just the latest example of a distracted out-of-touch government, guilty of breaking the law never mind enforcing it,” said Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner. The ACRO Criminal Records Office, the body responsible for issuing the penalties, will now deal with the latest tranche confirmed by police on Tuesday. Issuing guidance on why they opted not to name those handed fines, the Met said they were following advice that “identities of people dealt with by cautions, speeding fines and other fixed penalties – out-of-court disposals – should not be released or confirmed”. The advice also says that forces should “say that ‘a man’ or ‘a woman’ has been dealt with and only release general details of the offence”. It comes after a former senior official last week became the first person to confirm they had received an FPN as a result of the partygate investigation. Former deputy cabinet secretary and Whitehall ethics chief Helen MacNamara said she was “sorry for the error of judgment I have shown”. Ms MacNamara, who now works for the Premier League, was reported to have received the fine in connection with a leaving do held in the Cabinet Office on June 18 2020. 