The Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has condemned the recent attack on staff of Max Air by some unruly passengers. The umbrella body of the airlines also kicked against the destruction of the airline’s properties due to a flight delay. AON said the unfortunate development further heightens their deepest concern and worry over the increasingly deplorable state of security and the rising threat to the lives of airline staff and their properties at Nigerian airports. AON in a statement signed by Alhaji Abdulmunaf Yunusa, its President, stated that the airport vicinity is a sensitive and sacrosanct environment where people are not allowed to behave in callous and uncontrollable manner. The body observed that a situation where passengers are allowed to have access into sensitive restricted areas of the airport and attack airline staff or prevent a plane from departing to other destinations because a particular flight is delayed or cancelled puts the country in a bad light in the international community. The AON noted that: “Issues of delay or cancellation can be addressed in a civil manner without resorting to violence. The unruly passengers that went after Max Air and destroyed the computer reservation systems further exacerbated the problem for other passengers going to other destinations. Such acts are completely unacceptable. “AON understands the frustrations whenever a flight is delayed or cancelled and we apologise to passengers on behalf of airlines for such delays or cancellations. It is however instructive to note that delays happen worldwide and there are conditions that cause them”. The body said 80 per cent of the causes of delays and cancellations in Nigeria are due to factors that are not in the control of airlines. POLL The operators pointed out that airlines operating in Nigeria are compelled to operate in an environment that is wrought with infrastructure deficiencies that are highly disruptive to normal schedule reliability and on time performance. “Some of the more prevalent causes of delays and cancellations include: unavailability and rising cost of Jet A1 (which today costs above N585 per litre in Lagos, N607 in Abuja and Port Harcourt, and N685 in Kano), inadequate parking space for aircraft on the apron sometimes leading to ground accidents, inadequate screening and exit points at departure, inefficient passenger access and facilitation, natural and unforeseen circumstances such as weather and catastrophic failures (e.g. bird strikes & component failures), and restrictions caused by sunset airports among others”, the operators said. AON appealed to passengers to express some restraint in expressing their displeasure or frustrations during flight delays or cancellation, stressing that the airline within the prevailing circumstances could be complying with a safety procedure, obeying a regulation or facing certain difficulties beyond its immediate control. The operators pointed out that while passengers are entitled to their rights, they also have some obligations and responsibilities. The body said Item six of the NCAA’s Notice on Passenger Obligations to Airlines/Service Providers requires passengers to: “Be of good behavior at all stages of their journey,” adding that “Airlines and agencies have a zero policy for unruly behaviour.” “The notice goes further to state as follows that: All airport and airline staff deserves to be treated with respect and courtesy. An airline reserves the right to deny boarding/disembark a passenger for unruly behaviours. That passengers are prohibited from interfering with flight crew and aircraft attendants, that offensive, disorderly conduct such as physical assault, verbal abuse or sexual harassment of any airline or service provider staff will attract severe punishment in addition to fines or jail term,” it added.