KANO – Colourful and intimidating posters of the former President, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan dotted major streets in Kano on Thursday. The posters with the inscription “2023 Our hope, Our Solution” were strategically posted to catch the attention of the city dwellers. The posters were mainly pasted within and around the Kano Business District which housed half of the city’s population. It was not immediately clear who was behind the 2023 Presidential promo for the ex Nigerian leader, but a number of pseudo support groups have sprung up in the city drumming support for the return of the former president Only recently pan Arewa group, Jonathan Dawo Dawo Network (JDDN), headed by Isa Musa Karkasara issued a statement in Kano that declared support for his candidacy. Musa Karkasara in a signed statement that was made available to newsmen in Kano explained that the most populous country in Africa is at crossroads, adding that “we need a man of candour whose experience in the area of self-discipline, national life to navigate us from troubled water.” Karkasara in a statement titled “Why Jonathan’s candidacy is an option for better Nigeria”, noted that our current situation at best can no longer be trusted in the hands of ill experienced politicians whose contact and influence radiates within shallow boundaries.” He said Jonathan “is a quintessential statement whose approach to exercising power and authority had in no small way boosted participatory democracy in Nigeria. POLL He stressed that ” at this auspicious time of our national life, we need a personality whose understanding of the polity will guarantee the right to stability.” Karkasara said: “Nation-building thrives on inherent nationalism, self-discipline, and policies that identify limitations of state power. He stated that “Jonathan’s commitment to nation-building as exemplified over non-criticism of sitting and former leaders are pointers that his love for Nigeria is unique. “ The statement added that “Managing a secular state like Nigeria is certainly not for the loudmouth, we must recognize it’s a job for a renowned team player like Goodluck Ebele Jonathan.” Karkasara assured that “We in the north were there for him before, and we are set to mobilise resources to bring him back to continue national sacrifice. In effect, we call on Nigerians to join us in this quest for a better Nigeria.” DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that the former President has sizeable followers in the conservative city of over 15 million people.