P/HARCOURT  – MV Lady Jane, owned by China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), coming from Nansan, China, has arrived Nigerian Ports Authority, Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT) in Rivers State. MV Lady Jane is a Cargo Container Ship, with International Maritime Organization from Marshal Island and built in the year 2005. According to report, the length of the vessel is 295m, with 32m and with Gross Registered Tonnage (GRT) of 54, 809mt, with the Net Registered tonnage (NRT). The draught is 12m and LOA length over 294.51m. Onne Port is playing host again to one of the largest container vessels to visit Nigeria. Lady Jane, a 5000 TEU cellular vessel with a Length Overall of 295 metres and drawing a draft of 12 metres is only 5m short of MV Maersk Stadelhorn, which called in August 2020 with 300m length. Lady Jane berthed at WACT Terminal at about 2:30pm today (13th April 2020). She is discharging 840 TEUs and loading 1060 TEUs, out of which 389 are laden export. 50% of the exports are agricultural produce comprising Cashew nuts, sesame seeds, Casia tor seeds and mineral ores. The coming of Lady Jane as the 2nd largest vessel to Nigeria and Onne port in particular is significant, in that it indicates the sustenance of container growth in the Port and the growing preference of the Port as a Port of choice and then future in Nigeria. Mohammed Bello-Koko, the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority, represented by the Port Manager, Stanley Yitnoe, in a press interview, asserted this development brings to fruition the present managements’ vision, and efforts toward activating ship traffic to Nigerian Ports of the Eastern flank. Bello-Koko said it is particularly a thing of pride for NPA as it consolidates her role as a veritable gateway to the nation’s economy and serving as a logistic hub for sustainable port services in Africa, and puts her in the forefront of actualizing Federal Government’s mission of boosting non-oil exports. POLL This arrival is coming not long after the reception of export laden barge, containing 120 TEUs cocoa to Belgium via Cotonou earlier this year. “While we have Messrs WACT to thank for marketing Onne Port, the Management of the Nigerian Ports Authority commended for relentless drive to position the port in the right direction. “This is evident in the quality of NPA pilots that effortlessly and safely bring in the vessels, even as the Managing Director has embarked on palliatives to upgrade port infrastructure and improve security”. On ground to receive the vessel at FOT, Onne is Onne Port management team, West African Container Terminal (WACT), and Comet Shipping Company, and Customs Service.