ABUJA – Justice Donatus Okorowo of a Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered the removal of Yakubu Dogara from the House of Representatives, having declared his seat vacant. Dogara was the Speaker of the House of Representatives between 2015 and 2019. He represents Bogoro/Dass Federal constituency of Bauchi State. Dogara defected to the APC after winning his re-election under the PDP in 2019. But on July 24, 2020, he dumped the PDP and returned to his former party, the APC. However, in a judgement challenging his defection from the PDP to APC, the presiding judge, Justice Okorowo on Friday, held that Dogara’s defection was wrong and meant he should vacate the legislative seat. The judgment was on a suit by the Peoples Democratic Party seeking the court to declare the seat of the former Speaker of the House of Representatives vacant following his defection to the APC. Dogara was reelected in 2019, on the platform the PDP defected to the APC on July 24, 2020, after submitting a resignation letter to the Chairman of the Bogoro ‘C’ Ward in the state. Dissatisfied with his action, the PDP and its Bauchi State Chairman, Hamza Akuyam, approached the court to declare his seat vacant. POLL In the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1060/2020, the Plaintiffs, among other things, contended that by virtue of section 68(1)(g) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, Dogara, ought to vacate the seat for defecting from the party that sponsored him to the 9th National Assembly, before the expiration of his tenure. In a supporting affidavit that was deposed to by the 2nd Plaintiff, Akuyam, told the court that there was no crisis or division in the PDP, the political platform through which Dogara was elected as a serving member of the National Assembly in the last general election. He further told the court that there were no mergers or internal crises in the PDP to justify Dogara’s action. According to the Plaintiffs, having defected from the PDP before the expiration of his tenure, Dogara, “has lost his seat/office as a member of the House of Representatives and is no longer entitled to participate in the legislative proceedings and other businesses of the National Assembly and/or entitled to salaries and allowances as a member of the National Assembly”. The Plaintiffs further contended that considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila, “is under legal obligation to declare Dogara’s seat vacant and allow the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to conduct a by-election for his replacement. Specifically, the Plaintiffs prayed the court to declare that Dogara has ceased to be a member of the National Assembly from the date he defected to the APC. They also prayed for an order directing the Speaker of the House of Representatives to give effect to section 68(1) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, and to forthwith declare Dogara’s seat vacant to enable INEC to conduct a by-election for his replacement. Aside Dogara, other Defendants in the suit are the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), INEC and the APC.