Arsenal have confirmed Thomas Partey has suffered muscle damage to his right thigh. A statement from the Gunners did not put an expected timescale on Partey’s absence in an ominous update on the 28-year-old. However, the club said he would be assessed over the coming weeks, hinting he will at least miss a number of matches. Partey injured his thigh last season during the north London derby loss at Tottenham. He spent over a month out of the team on that occasion. Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta confirmed on Monday it appeared to be a recurrence of a previous injury for the Ghana international, so he could face a similar length of time out again. The statement reads: “Our No. 5 was substituted during Monday night’s game against Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park after aggravating his right thigh. Thomas has since received further assessments, and a subsequent scan has shown muscle damage to his right thigh. “We will continue to assess Thomas in the coming weeks, during which time he will also receive further specialist consultations. Everyone will be working hard to get Thomas back on the pitch as soon as possible.” Partey limped off in the second half of the 3-0 defeat at Palace. After the game, Arteta said: “I don’t know, but he felt something in the same area that he got injured previously, so it’s a big concern.” Partey looks set to at least miss Saturday’s visit of Brighton to the Emirates. Arsenal then face a trip to Southampton the following weekend. They then play away at Chelsea, host Manchester United and travel to West Ham in the space of 11 days. Partey’s absence will be a huge blow to the Gunners’ chances of gaining Champions League qualification for the first time since 2016. POLL The £45million signing from Atletico Madrid has arguably been playing his best football in an Arsenal shirt of late. He has been used as the deeper-lying midfielder in a 4-3-3 formation from Arteta. However, the Spanish boss will now have to make do without Partey for the time being. Albert Sambi Lokonga and Mohamed Elneny are the other options available to Arteta. Arsenal currently sit fifth in the Premier League table, level on points with fourth-placed Tottenham. They have a game in hand over Antonio Conte’s side. However, injury problems are mounting up. Partey’s absence adds to the news that Kieran Tierney will miss the remainder of the season after undergoing knee surgery this week.