The Lagos State Chairman of Tricycle Owners and Op­erators of Nigeria, Alhaji Azeez Abiola ,has reiterat­ed that TOOAN, an affili­ated body of the National Union of Road Transport Workers is not leaving the transportation body. Speaking with journal­ists on Thursday, March 31, 2022, Abiola confirmed to this media that none of his members was planning to quit the apex transport union in the state. “For some of us who are stakeholders in the trans­port business, we have nowhere to go and we’re still very much affiliat­ed to NURTW. Only those that don’t have a stake in this sector want to spoil the name of the union in the state and move on with their lives,” Abiola con­firmed. It would be recalled that Lagos State Government announced the suspension of the activities of the body from all parks and garages across the state a few weeks ago, to ensure that there was no breakdown of law and order in the state. But the contrary is the case as the suspended chairman of the union, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya popularly known as MC Oluomo and his loyalists have continued to sell tick­ets to commercial trans­port workers in the state which is against the state government’s directive. Also speaking at the interactive session was a scribe of the Union from Abuja, Alhaji Rafiu Akanni Olohunwa ,who was the for­mer Chairman of NURTW in Lagos State confirmed the relationship between the apex transportation body and TOOAN was still very much intact. However, he encouraged the aggrieved individual who deserted the union to have a rethink over the move and head back to the National Headquarters for reconciliation. “The NURTW is still af­filiated to TOOAN while the aggrieved members of the union should have a re­think because peace is be­ing restored into the fold,” POLL The Lagos State Chairman of Tricycle Owners and Op­erators of Nigeria, Alhaji Azeez Abiola ,has reiterat­ed that TOOAN, an affili­ated body of the National Union of Road Transport Workers is not leaving the transportation body. Speaking with journal­ists on Thursday, March 31, 2022, Abiola confirmed to this media that none of his members was planning to quit the apex transport union in the state. “For some of us who are stakeholders in the trans­port business, we have nowhere to go and we’re still very much affiliat­ed to NURTW. Only those that don’t have a stake in this sector want to spoil the name of the union in the state and move on with their lives,” Abiola con­firmed. It would be recalled that Lagos State Government announced the suspension of the activities of the body from all parks and garages across the state a few weeks ago, to ensure that there was no breakdown of law and order in the state. But the contrary is the case as the suspended chairman of the union, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya popularly known as MC Oluomo and his loyalists have continued to sell tick­ets to commercial trans­port workers in the state which is against the state government’s directive. Also speaking at the interactive session was a scribe of the Union from Abuja, Alhaji Rafiu Akanni Olohunwa ,who was the for­mer Chairman of NURTW in Lagos State confirmed the relationship between the apex transportation body and TOOAN was still very much intact. However, he encouraged the aggrieved individual who deserted the union to have a rethink over the move and head back to the National Headquarters for reconciliation. “The NURTW is still af­filiated to TOOAN while the aggrieved members of the union should have a re­think because peace is be­ing restored into the fold,”