JOY ANIGBOGU The South-East region is determined more than ever before to have one of its own succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 and for that reason the people have started coming together, setting aside political party divides, to ensure that it happens and there are indications that the region may choose former President of the Senate and ex-Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim, to take up the mantle. It was not a surprise to many Nigerians when prominent politicians from the South-East region met recently and resolved to unite across party lines to work for the emergence of a president of South-East extraction in 2023. They met in Abia State under the auspices of South-East Political Leaders and implored all major political parties to cede their presidential tickets in the 2023 general election to the southeast. The leaders resolved that the zone with a substantial presence in every part of the country would give bloc vote and full support to any of the two major political parties that nominated their presidential candidates from the zone. The former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Sen. Pius Anyim, read the communiqué on behalf of the leaders, stressing that a president from the zone will guarantee justice, equity and fairness The group implored Nigerians across political, ethnic, religious, and geopolitical divides to support the zone’s aspiration in 2023 as a mark of good faith and to promote justice and national harmony. The group made up of prominent politicians like Orji Uzo Kalu, Pius Anyim, former Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ike Ekwerenmadu, Rep. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, Rep. Toby Okechukwu, Deputy Chief Whip and Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives and a host of others described such support as vital in giving every part of the country a sense of belonging and in promoting national unity and solidarity. POLL The leaders pointed out that such move is the loudest reassurance of equality of all parts and that the country indeed belongs to all members of the Nigerian commonwealth. They observed that the nation’s presidency had rotated between the Northern and Southern part of the country and that the South-West and South-South had taken their turns for Southern Nigeria. They, therefore, contended that the South-East is the only zone in the South that is yet to produce a president in the current democratic dispensation. The political leaders reinstated their commitment to the deepening of the nation’s democracy as the surest way to fast-track national development and building an egalitarian society, where no man is oppressed for reasons of class, ethnic, religious or political affiliation. It was also in that spirit that presidential aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the South-East region met and demanded that the party’s presidential ticket for 2023 should be zoned to their area, where they agreed to work together and choose one of them to bear the party’s flag. The aspirants who attended the meeting were Senator Pius Anyim, Peter Obi, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa and Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze. Anyim was also chosen to read the decisions of the four aspirants and reinstated their resolve to work together as a team and ensure that a South Easterner emerges as PDP flag bearer. Other decisions by the presidential aspirants, according to Senator Anyim, were their intention to consult with other zones on this issue, which according to them is based on fairness and equity, pointing out that they have always supported other zones and they now expect them to reciprocate. Some Nigerians are also of the view that having a determination to produce the next President must also require getting a candidate who can be acceptable to majority of Nigerians. Kamal Mustapha Azaremo, a public affairs analyst, has said that the inclusion of the South- East region in the scheme of things will bring to an end the agitation in the South-East region, but also noted that if the South-East region is ready to produce the next president it should consider ceding the ticket to the man who can win the election on behalf of the people. He said, “Let us take a walk down memory lane to understand why the inclusion of a president from the South-east is pertinent and how it would bring to an end the issue of agitation by the South-East people. “During the military interregnum, Heads of States were majorly from other regions except for Aguiyi- Ironsi who hailed from Abia State. His tenure was short lived as he was assassinated the same year; he became the Head of State. Sir Nnamdi Azikiwe who hailed from Anambra State was the president of Nigeria from 1963- 1966. He was a ceremonial head of state while the real power was with Alhaji Tafawa Balewa, the then Prime Minister. “Ever since these great men from the South-East region were given the mantle of leadership, there has not been a repeat of such feat hence the reason for bringing it to the fore According to Kamal, during his time as the Senate President he stabilised the fourth Senate and brought about cohesion and tranquility among the people. He took it upon himself to ensure that everyone is treated with equity and fairness and these traits are what the country needs from her leaders as there seem to be a lot of unrest in some parts of the country. “His ideologies are germane and with his wealth of experience as a former Senate President and ex-Secretary to the Federation, he will bring in a breath of fresh air as the compounding problems that have been posing as unsolvable, would become solved just like steam escaping from a kettle of hot water. “Anyim, with the support of the South-East people will also bring to the fore the awareness that they are a people whose opinion matter as citizens of Nigeria and that power is not vested in the hands of a particular region. “With the privileges granted to him, he can understand the woes that betide the country and her citizens, the economic problems and their peculiarities from his vantage position which has prepared him for the task ahead of him. He knows that with leadership, comes service and leaders are called to serve. “He has been a member of the PDP from inception which shows how loyal he is to a cause. This is a trait worthy of emulation because it shows how consistent he is and how much interest he has towards leading and serving the people in any office where he is called to render services. While supporting the position of some prominent Igbo leaders, the analyst said that the choice made will also bring to an end the belief that the South- East people cannot be unified, but it will also close the gap between other regions in the country. “The choice made cannot be debated as this is a man whose works speak for him in all ramifications. We firmly believe that with all he has done in the past, he will in good faith carry on with his goodwill and move the country forward. “His ascent to the seat of leadership will take away the doubts that the other regions of the country harbour about the South-East region, the unending issues that have rocked all regions in the country will be resolved and all agitations for supremacy and acceptance from the South-East region will be a thing of the past. This will also address the issue of insecurity. “Anyim met a troubled Senate and with the help of other senators, he was able to build the Senate to a level where it was firm and a great defender of the constitution and strict adherence to the rule of law. “As a man of integrity, he does not care whose ox is gored with a great amount of fairness, equity and equality. He is just and true to mankind as seen in his time as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation where he put his experience to use in managing inter-governmental affairs in the country. “His reputation precedes him and he has, beyond reasonable doubt, the man not just for the people of the South-East region but also the country as a whole, and this will bring a permanent solution to the crises in the country and an end to the agitation for president of South-East extraction.”