Comrade John Odigie is the newly elected General Secretary of the Iron and Steel Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ISSSAN). In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, he spoke on the state of Iron/Steel in the country, the economy, insecurity, and recent political developments, among others issues. Excerpt. Congratulations on your new post. As a seasoned labour leader, how would you describe the state of steel industry in Nigeria? Thank you. The state of steel industry in Nigeria is not worth writing home about. Steel industry, which ought to be the foundation of our economic prosperity, is being cowed out of existence due to lack of funds, political will, and harsh business environment. A look at the private sector provides a sordid spectacle, an indication of a non-going concern. The cheapest thing to obtain in the industry today is sack letter to demonstrate the vulnerability of the sector. The public steel sector seems to be firmly locked up in several policy miscarriages. Workers hardly can predict their take-home as the authority could shred it by way of unofficial tax deductions. The people of this country almost heaved a sigh of relief when the federal government signed an MOU with the Russian government towards the completion of the Ajaokuta Steel companies recently but the expectation to see this come to fruition is now becoming a mirage with the war between Russia and Ukraine. What’s your recommendation on this? My take in moving the sector forward is for government to give high premium to the sector and make it operational and vibrant to stem the tide of retrogression and job losses. The government, as a matter of urgency, should think out of the box on how to make the Ajaokuta Steel Company to become operationalized for the good of this country. Delta Steel Company that has been locked up in a protracted controversy over the years should be made to work for the people to harness its economic potentials. What’s your view on the economy of the country? Nigeria’s economy is facing a myriad of problems ranging from the inconsistent forex policy, adoption of dual exchange windows leading to round tripping – a phenomenon which has pushed the exchange gap too far. Again over-dependence on imports, particularly ostentatious goods and non-essential goods, have made our market a world dumping destination number one. High tariff, multiple taxations, inefficient import regime, and prohibitive energy cost have sentenced many promising companies to their early graves. Presently, diesel, a common petroleum product for manufacturing companies, has gone to N700 per litre. All these measures have  led to avoidable job loss and enlarging labour market. The way forward in this is a single forex regime that will get rid of the flourishing round tripping business and redirect forex to sectors requiring them genuinely. Our refineries should be rehabilitated to boost local consumption. At the same time, government must create a conducive business environment and grow the economy in order to address job creation, thus cut down on increasing crime rate. What is to be done to reduce increasing crime rate, insecurity in the country? POLL The high rate of insecurity can be reduced to it barest minimum when jobs are created. There’s palpable fear in the country today as a result of high level of insecurity perpetrated by insurgents, especially in the northern part of the country. And almost every part of the country is engulfed with banditry, terrorism, kidnapping, among other crimes. The issues of the indigenous people of Biafra (IPOB) in the south East signal unstable political environment, while the restiveness among youths in this country is alarming. The wanton destruction unleashed by Fulani herdsmen provides an anxious picture orchestrated by guerilla warfare. Nigeria is engulfed by attacks. Recently, airports and railways have come under serious attacks, leading to loss of lives. To stem this tide, the government of the day should rise up to the occasion and do what is expected of it by the constitution by way of protecting the lives and property of the citizens and, to do this, government must intensify its combat strategies to forestall further carnage because no one is safe in this country. Besides, meaningful political negotiation should be employed in the case of the IPOB in the Eastern part of the country to end the bloodletting in the region. How would you describe the political space presently in the country? Well, there is a noticeable trend of improvement in the electoral system, judging by the results of elections conducted by INEC in Anambra State recently. However, there are obvious cases of hopelessness, intolerance of the political class which have manifested in extra-judicial killings and shameless defection from one party to another. Inspite of the aforementioned, the new successes recorded in our electoral process, especially the signing into law of the Electoral Amendment Bill is a welcome development and should be improved upon by politicians, the electorate, and INEC. I am worried about the gale of defections – it’s damaging to party system and heating up the polity. We must commend the judiciary on the recent case of the sacking of Dave Umahi and his deputy on account of their defection to the APC from the PDP. This action of the judiciary will go a long way to discourage other politicians from this act and ensure we have a free, fair, and credible electioneering come 2023. Where should your union be in the next one year of your leadership? Thanks for this question. We are grateful to God that despite all odds, we were able to witness the last CWC/NEC meeting of Comrade Bello A. Itopa’s tenure. By this time next year, the union will have taken a giant leap to greater heights. Already, at this CWC/NEC meeting, we have scheduled preparation towards the National Delegates Conference to hold on May 6 in Asaba, Delta State, and from there come up with a blueprint to make the union take its pride of place in the comity of unions in the world.