The much-expected rainfall which finally came Friday night supposedly to signal the beginning of a new farming season has turned out to be a bad omen for some communities in Niger State. This is because more than two hundred houses have been destroyed by storms that accompanied the rain. The rain which lasted close to an hour, our correspondent learnt, came with heavy and dusty windstorms and thunder pulling down some electric poles, destroying some electrical appliances, uprooting some trees and leaving some families homeless as their homes were flooded. In Minna the state capital, some residents were forced to relocate to safer havens when the heavy rainstorm blew off their roofs; some were forced to stay with relatives as drainages linking their area over-flow its banks causing the collapse of some houses. Also in Kuta, the headquarters of Shiroro Local Government alone, our correspondent learnt that; 38 houses collapsed while the owners of 104 shops were affected by the rainstorm counted their losses after the first rainfall in the year, 2022 in the area. Comrade Salisu Sabo Esq. the spokesperson, of the Coalition of Shiroro Associations (COSA), in a statement made available to journalists on Saturday, said about 198 houses were affected in Kuta, the headquarters of Shiroro Local Government alone. “We went around the town after the rain to assess the situation, we counted no fewer than 198 that were affected, 104 shops, 38 collapsed houses, 4 schools and 2 Masjids were among the facilities badly affected by the first rainfall this year in the area”. Also affected according to the statement included; Shiroro Local Government Education Authority building, the only Veterinary Hospital in the locality and the General Hospital which has a substantial part of its roof blown off. Shiroro is one of the local government areas badly affected by the activities of armed bandits, hence the people are pleading for urgent assistance as the windstorm has exposed many households managing to survive the series of attacks to danger. POLL Other villages where the rainfall created havoc according to COSA included; Gwada, Zumba, Erena and adjourning communities and therefore pleading for urgent assistance from the government, kind-spirited individuals and as well corporate organisations. “We are sending a save-our-soul message to the state government through the Niger State Emergency Management Agency, Office of the Minister for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management and as well, other relevant agencies to come to our rescue”.