Millions in Africa are expected to have a worsening nutritional situation in a matter of a few months; expectedly six weeks after the war in Ukraine began, Cadre harmonisé Report has revealed. According to the March 2022 analysis of the Cadre harmonisé report, 38.3 million people will experience a food and nutrition crisis between June and August, an increase of 40.2% from 27.3 million during the same period in 2021. Based on projections for June-August 2022, the projected number of people in phases 3 to 5 in the most affected countries is 19.5 million in Nigeria, 3.5 million in Burkina Faso, and 4.4 million in Niger, 2 million in Chad, and 1.8 million in Mali. Recall that conflicts, political instability, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the war in Ukraine are causing the region’s food prices to soar at unprecedented levels, coupled with low purchasing power. Maize (+30%), millet (+26%), sorghum (+24%), and rice (+18%) have seen price increases over the past five years in West Africa. Adele Khodr, United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund,(UNICEF) Regional Director for the Middle East and North Africa, said malnourished children are likely to drastically increase in the coming years. Khodr said by 2100, the region’s population is on track to quadruple from its current 0.9 billion to 3.9 billion people. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) recently reported that more than a quarter of Sub-Saharan Africa’s population currently suffers from undernutrition, and the region imports about 20 per cent of its staple calories, adding that 30 per cent of the world’s wheat is produced by Russia and Ukraine together. POLL “Low-income and food-deficit countries buy a lot of them because they are the cheapest. Africa imports half of its wheat from Russia and Ukraine. On March 22, global wheat prices had already increased by 19% as a result of the war in Ukraine”, it said. It would be recalled In 2021, Ukraine was the UN World Food Program’s biggest supplier of food. Besides fertilizers and staple food commodities, Russia and Ukraine also produce and supply cheaper fertilizers and oil compared to other countries. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the food price index was 159.3 points in March compared to a revised 141.4 points in February. The February figure was previously recorded at 140.7, a much higher figure than the March figure, which spiked higher. Analysts at the agency considered that to be a record at that time. As a result of the unplanned six-week-old aggression by Russia, Ukraine’s exports of sunflower oil, corn, barley, and wheat have been halted. The FAO report said: “food and feed prices could rise by as much as 20% due to the conflict in Ukraine, pushing people at risk of malnutrition. “Aside from the disruption of production caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the blockage of the Black Sea region’s agricultural supplies drove up food prices even further”. “In sub-Saharan Africa, where small-scale farmers rely largely on imports — if they even use extra nutrients at all — a surge in fertilizer prices is increasing food security concerns”. Sebastian Nduva, program manager at AfricaFertilizer said: “As fertilizer prices have tripled over the past 18 months, many farmers are considering skipping purchases this year. That means a market whose growth potential has been touted for years is set to shrink by almost a third. “This could reduce cereal production by 30 million tons, enough to feed 100 million people,” he said. He said investment in agriculture and food systems must be a priority for African leaders, not only from an economic standpoint, but also from a security perspective. “In Africa, agriculture has been found to reduce poverty 11 times more effectively than any other sector. Additionally, if Africa prioritized investment in youth, its economy could reap an additional $500 billion annually. “African governments need to place a greater emphasis on protecting the economic and social interests of domestic producers and suppliers. They enable trade by facilitating trade, but protecting the most vulnerable is a social responsibility that needs to be more prominent. Globalization cannot mean the destruction of local markets”. He noted that Local farmer cooperatives can reduce waste by building, owning, and operating community silos. Africa loses between 20 and 40% of its agricultural production due to transportation. As a result, close-to-farm storage facilities are important for increasing overall stocks.