Youths have been charged not to abuse any privileges they have in life, rather they should embrace it and make good use of it to better their lives. Dr. Abiodun Femi-Ogidan, the deputy director of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, (FRCN) on Monday gave the advise at the 5th matriculation ceremony of the KolaDaisi University Ibadan. Dr. Abiodun in her address titled “Pilot Your Time; Success Is not Final, Failure is not fatal”, called on the matriculants to be determined to achieve their goals in life for success is not determine by numbers of degrees they have. She described the newly admitted students as a pilot of an aircraft that need all it takes to ensure a safe landing. Abiodun also charged them to make use of whatever knowledge, ability, talents they have to better themselves, she noted that failure is not opposite of success, rather it’s party of success, she stressed that there are lessons to learn from the causes of any failure. She however advised the matriculants to shun any form of distractions, but minimize it and focus on their goals. She said, “always remember your goals until you get your certificate because all that you have now is nothing but a secondary school leaving certificate, so try to be positive and be different, if you are going to be excel, you have to do extra, University is beyond degrees, you have to have a good character, you must be humble and be socially alive, you must be balance in all forms, don’t act wrongly because if you do, then you will end up messing up yourself. POLL “Most students use most of their time on phones and computers doing something that is not productive, instead I will advise you to make use of your time wisely, use your phones and computers for research, don’t use it to learn crime, such as yahoo, don’t use it to watch porn movies, make good use of those gadgets, be a point of reference for good and take a good choice, for this is what will help you to achieve your goals in life.” Abiodun said. In his address, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Adeniyi Olatubosun said that the University is matriculating 236 new students which includes students admitted into 100 level through UTME, Direct Entry and Transfer students from other universities. He added that 86 students out of the matriculants were admitted intoFaculty of Applied Sciences, 83 admitted into Faculty of Arts, Management and Social Sciences, 50 admitted into Faculty of Law, while 17 Others were admitted for Diploma programme. He said, “I must congratulate all the matriculating students for the privilege of being among thousands of students given admission out of millions of candidates who wrote the last Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME).” “Choosing KolaDaisi University, Ibadan is one of the wisest decisions you had made. You are, however, advised to be focused in terms of the type of associations you make, regular attendance at lectures and other areas of discipline in order to make a good success of your studentship.’ “You must be determined not be deterred or distracted on your journey to success here at KolaDaisi University. Endeavour to make the Students’ Information/ Regulation Handbook your companion by reading it regularly and carefully, in order to be familiar with its contents and thereby maximising the advantage of your studentship. It is pertinent that you abide by all the rules and regulations of the University, as ignorance will not be taken as an excuse for any form of misconduct.”