Abuja – Cross River State governor, Professor Ben Ayade, has declared his intention to run for presidency in 2023, following a consultative visit to President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday. Ayade, who met with President Buhari behind closed doors, said he got a commitment from the president to go ahead and run if he has the qualities, but he must consult widely with leaders of the party from the South-South region. The Cross River governor, who recently defected from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC), said he would concentrate on power, security and economic challenges if he becomes the president. He, however, said he would not hesitate to align with any candidate of Buhari’s choice, so as to consolidate on the modest achievements of the APC. Reacting to the possibility of former President Goodluck Jonathan also declaring for the presidency from the same zone and how that would affect his ambition, Ayade said he would gladly support Jonathan, if he is the anointed candidate of the party. He lauded Buhari’s efforts at tackling insecurity in the country, saying without his intervention the country would have been plunged into full scale war. Confirming whether he is running or not, Ayade said, “My answer is that I am running because the president has said you go while I watch. As reporters, I want you to report me intellectually. I want you to understand that truly, outside all the cheap talks, the truth is that my approach to the president is different. I will support the president’s candidate. POLL Even though I am on standby, if I’m available. If you’re the choice, I will support the president’s candidate. “The president said you are not outside of my view. Go. I give you blessing, go and consult, ensure that you engage with key people while I watch. I think it’s a dedication that I have the right to go and try, to go and declare so I will”. On the prediction that Jonathan may join the race, a situation that might spoil Ayade’s chance of clinching the party’s ticket, he appropriate candidate that will actually take us to victory, I will turn my support for him. I am never, ever going to fight the establishment, the institution, the aristocracy, the spiritual vortex of which God has placed a leader of a country. I will never question the powers of the leader of a country. I have never played the politics of antagonism or fight. “If you know how I became governor, I became governor by offering to support whoever the governor wanted and by stroke of luck, I became the candidate. By the same token, I am only here to support the president’s candidate and by a stroke of luck, he said, you too go there and join the race and let me see”. Ayade equally stated that he was at the seat of power to consult with Buhari on his next line of action, especially as he will be bowing out of office by 2023. “As a sitting governor, I also know that I also am a leader in my own small world, in my own state as governor of Cross River State and leader of APC in Cross River. It’s only common knowledge that if somebody comes before me as governor, and proposes to me that he wants to run for the office of governor, I have a duty to wish him well. But candidly, the right politics must be ethical. So it’s only natural to approach the man on that seat to seek his opinion as to what is his own calculation for your own fate?”