Tede Agri Industrial Cluster on Tede community in Oyo state has commenced farming operations by making 10,000 hectares of cultivable land available for farmers with farming infrastructure such as dams and a housing scheme. Ganiyu Adedeji, the Project Administrator, said the 10,000 hectares are available for real farmers from all over the country. “We are ready to contribute our quota to the food security of our country. This cluster will become a major hub for companies seeking raw materials like corn, cassava, sorghum, ginger, thyme, oil palm and several others. “The cluster promises to be an all-year round production hub with the commencement of construction for two dams to serve the farming cluster. Other features of the cluster include a 200-unit housing scheme being built in partnership with Federal Mortgage Bank and AG Mortgage Bank.” Ganiyu further explained that the housing units were being built with finance from the two banks and enlisted farmers are to pay back the loans over a period of up to 20 years. Other features of the cluster according to him include the use of D-FAMA technology, an application deployed for precision farming. Oba AbdulRauf Oladoyin, the Onitede of Tede, however made an open invitation to all farmers across several parts of the country to set up at the Tede Agri Cluster, saying, “Our community is safe and we are prepared to give all the support needed by the farmers to be successful in our midst.” He also pledged support for the project, stating that it had come at a time where the country needed to produce more food for its increasing population. POLL Dimeji Adetunji, a farmer who relocated from Ibadan to Tede for farming, expressed satisfaction on the operations of the cluster. “I have got 10 hectares of prepared farmland and my plan is to cultivate maize. There has been proposed training on crop yield, precision farming and also plans to introduce us to the buyers. This is really good for agriculture in our state,” he said. He enjoined other farmers to participate and contribute their quotes to agro-industrial development of the country as demand for food increases and production shrinks following widespread insecurity, especially in the north-east and north-west parts of the country.