UYO – More twists have continued to emerge from the ongoing trial of Uduak Frank, killer of the job-seeker Iniubong Umoren as Frank Akpan, father of the first accused on Wednesday told court that his son is schizophrenic and an outpatient of the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital. Akpan also claimed he was neither aware of late Umoren’s murder, nor that her body was exhumed in his compound in Uruan Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The retired Civil Servant and second accused person was giving evidence in his defence before the Uyo High Court presided by Justice Bassey Nkanang. His evidence was coming a few days after his son, Uduak Frank Akpan, the first accused person, denied knowing the late Iniubong Umoren nor having raped her or any other woman since he was born. The second accused person claimed that on the day the said incident occurred, he was in the house of his secondary school classmate at Uko Eshiet Street, Uyo and only returned home at about 7 p.m. to be told by his son that there was an undisclosed medical emergency for which he advised him to hold on till the next morning. The accused person said his son then came back and told him that he was travelling to Calabar before he heard a knock on the gate of his house by Policemen from Uruan Divisional Headquarters who later told him that they were in search of a missing lady. He said he conducted the Police around his house and thereafter, was taken to the Police Anti-Kidnapping Unit, Uyo, where he was detained, until his son was arrested and himself freed from Police custody. Concerning the text message he allegedly sent to his daughter’s phone stating, “He was using a flying boat, he should not be talking about dying, but escaping,” the accused person admitted that he sent the text but that he was not referring it to his son’s escape. POLL Mr. Frank Akpan is standing trial for allegedly being an accessory to murder, while his son, Uduak, is charged with murder and rape and his daughter, Bassey Anwan, charged for harbouring her brother in her residence in Calabar in a bid to assist him to escape justice. Justice Bassey Nkanang has adjourned the case to the 10th and 11th of May, 2022, for the continuation of defence by the third accused