The Bayelsa West Professionals have warned Governor Douye Diri against supporting a breach of the existing zoning agreement between the Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government Areas on alternating the Senate and House of Representation seats in the senatorial district ahead of the 2023 general elections. The stakeholders said that any attempt by the state governor to back Senator Seriake Dickson’s re-election bid in violation of the zoning arrangement would jeopardize the governor’s return for a second term in office. In a statement on Monday by its President, Ateke Sam-Dickson, and the secretary, Douye Olotu, the group said they were watching the manner Diri was handling the district’s zoning issue. The group said, “It will be recalled that this age-long practice was reaffirmed recently with a respected Chief of Tarakiri heritage, Ayakeme Whisky, who glowingly read the resolutions to the public and the press. “The governor must exercise his influence positively and cause justice by affirming the existing zoning and allow Sagbama to have the House of Representatives while the Senate moves to Ekeremor.” They urged Diri not to be hoodwinked by the decision of some elders and stakeholders of the district to support the violation of the zoning arrangement, stressing that they were deliberately plotting his fall in connivance with some external elements. They said they were also aware that many pro-zoning appointees of the governor had been holding secret meetings over plans to work against his re-election should he try to support Dickson to return to the National Assembly in breach of the zoning formula. They further said, “The argument that because it’s Dickson, the governor should support this injustice is unethical and a call for internal revolution against the party (PDP) with very colossal political consequences. POLL “We call on Governor Diri to kindly ask his predecessor, Chief Seriake Dickson, to withdraw and honour his word or face the massive rejection of the party in the election and future elections too. “The fact is that there is too much unrefuted and undisputed evidence in print, audio, and video to persuade any sane mind against the existence of the zoning. Ekeremor people have great and politically mature candidates to be senators. “That is the justice of the matter and nothing more. After all, HS Dickson also ensured that Heineken Lokpobiri and Ben Bruce respect zoning and stopped them from returning. He must not be an exception. “Our investigation further revealed that a vast majority of Governor Diri‘s appointees have been meeting secretly and have vowed to frustrate and fight the governor should he align with the evil agenda to return Dickson.” According to them, the governor’s aides would move over to the opposition All Progressives Congress from where they join forces to launch a political offensive against Diri in the 2023 governorship election.