Bayern Munich’s Alphonso Davies has questioned why Harry Maguire is the captain of Manchester United instead of Cristiano Ronaldo. Maguire has received heavy criticism for his performances throughout the season, which United will end without a trophy and – barring a minor miracle – outside of the Premier League’s top four. The England international was given the United captaincy before Ronaldo’s return to Old Trafford last summer, though some have questioned whether the 37-year-old’s experience makes him better suited to the role. In a video shared across social media, Davies is seen playing FIFA 22 on Twitch when he gets Maguire in a pack. This prompted him to ask how Ronaldo must feel to be overlooked for the captaincy while the defender continues with the armband. “You are Ronaldo, one of the greatest players ever,” Davies begins. “And what’s his name is your captain? “Harry Maguire is your captain? And you refer to him as “yes, Cap”. I don’t know what he says to him. “Bro. I’m not dissing Harry Maguire but Ronaldo… Ronaldo should get the armband, man.” POLL After receiving criticism from some United supporters, Maguire was also booed by sections of the England support at Wembley during last month’s international against Ivory Coast. His manager Gareth Southgate was fiercely critical of those who decided to boo him in his post-match interviews. “I thought the reception was a joke, an absolute joke,” said Southgate afterwards. “What he’s done for us, the way he’s performed for England has been phenomenal. I don’t get it. We’re either all in this together or we’re not. “He’s in an England shirt, not only should you support a player in an England shirt regardless, but when he’s played at the level he has and put in the performances for us that he has, it should be total commitment behind him. “I don’t get that at all. For his performance, pretty faultless really, he stepped out from the back well, he was involved in the second as well.”We’re a team, we’re totally united, we recognise everyone has difficult moments, but he’s a top player and he’ll come through it.”