…As WEMPCO duty waivers bug and other factors send this giant steel maker packing. Story, by SIAKA MOMOH, was first published in Realsectornow.com years back. Update We sure have a problem with steel making. It is one burden that we have been bogged down with over the years. At the close of 2021, the Senate Committee on Solid Minerals, Mine, Steel and Power Development and Metallurgy, decried alleged neglect of Ajaokuta Iron and Steel Project. And only recently, President Muhammadu Buhari rejected the Ajaokuta Steel Company Completion Fund Bill, which proposed the withdrawal of $1 billion from the Excess Crude Account for the completion of the project. And recently also, there was a report which said Olamilekan Adegbite, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, said Ajaokuta Steel Company Ltd. would function to capacity before the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. And only recently too, the Minister was reported to have said this would no longer be possible giving as reasons Covid 19 Pandemic issue and the Rusian/Ukrainean conflict. And there is a chain of other issues that Ajaokuta Steel has been entangled in. When will Ajaokuta be really born? When shall we break the jinx? Duty waiver abuse was very evident and BusinessDay, in 2013, cried out against it. This writer as Industry Editor in the newspaper wrote extensively on it, drawing attention to the irregularities in the waiver that had to do with, among other things, Western Metal Products Company Limited (WEMPCO) listing for duty waiver, importation of items that were in production in Nigeria. Expectedly, the story called for WEMPCO’s quick and plump reaction. Sources within the industry alleged WEMPCO abused the exclusive rights and waivers that were granted to it by the Federal Government during President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. The previous government had granted the firm heavy waivers to aid it in the production of cold-rolled sheet locally. Cheaper substandard smuggled roofing sheets also constituted part of WEMPCO’s headache. CBN’s initiative Again, in 2015, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), as part of its initiative to resuscitate local industries and improve employment generation, released a list of items not eligible for foreign exchange in the government-created Importers & Exporters window. Among the 41 items on the list are cold-rolled steel sheets, galvanized steel sheets, and roofing sheets. However, the firm had instead embarked on heavy importation of the product. POLL Implications The implication of all these will be labour flight. This reminds one of the case of St Louis Sugar that is being imported into Nigeria, which accounts for the loss of 4000 jobs to France. The attention of government was drawn to this yet lobbyists are still having the upper hand on this matter. Several media reports have revealed that no fewer than 19 enamelware firms are equally closing business due to WEMPCO’s proposed exit; about 250,000 jobs are therefore on the line. Stakeholders’ warnings Concerned stakeholders in the industry have never ceased raising their voices in condemnation of abuse of tax waivers. These industry players have criticized the Federal Government for its reckless issuance of waivers and levy concessions to a select group of steel manufacturers, apparently referring to the likes of WEMPCO and several other import substitution skewed companies in the country describing the government action as highly irresponsible and a disservice to the nation. Some informed industry stakeholders told BusinessDay in confidence that import duty waivers, levy concessions, and petroleum subsidies are robust tools for funding elections, implying that beneficiaries of the scam are in league with key government functionaries. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), the umbrella body for manufacturers in Nigeria, observed that contrary to the stipulation of Chapter 72 of the Tariff Book that says no waivers and concession on import duty and VAT should be given, steel items are being imported in enormous tonnages, most times in excess of what is needed to execute claimed projects. MAN, in a letter dated January 10, 2013, written to the Coordinating Minister of the Economy and Honourable Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala ( Attention: Director general , Budget Office), said: “CME, we are surprised also to discover that the material/product list attached to the concessions newly granted to three other companies (Messrs WEMPCO, Rite Aid Wire Industries Limited and Quits Aviation Services Limited) contain items that are not plant and machinery and are also being produced locally.” MAN argued these approvals should be amended to exclude skill and other items that are produced locally (such as steel, cables, etc.) in order to save local manufacturing from collapse. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has been concerned about the wanton abuse of Import Duty waivers. The Chamber, according Muda Yusuf, its director general, this condition has a number of very serious implications for the economy. He argued, “First, it creates distortions in the investment space as a result of the uneven playing field it creates among private sector players. This could be a major disincentive to entrepreneurship and enterprise development. Secondly, it is a system that is prone to corruption. Access to duty waivers is often dependent on critical contacts in the realm of politics or bureaucracy and this is a process that is considerably prone to corruption. It is not a system that recognizes merit. Thirdly, it leads to profound loss of revenue as had been The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has been concerned about the wanton abuse of Import Duty waivers. The Chamber, according Muda Yusuf, its director general, this condition has a number of very serious implications for the economy. He argued, “First, it creates distortions in the investment space as a result of the uneven playing field it creates among private sector players. This could be a major disincentive to entrepreneurship and enterprise development. Secondly, it is a system that is prone to corruption. Access to duty waivers is often dependent on critical contacts in the realm of politics or bureaucracy and this is a process that is considerably prone to corruption. It is not a system that recognizes merit. Thirdly, it leads to profound loss of revenue as had been The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has been concerned about the wanton abuse of Import Duty waivers. The Chamber, according Muda Yusuf, its director general, this condition has a number of very serious implications for the economy. He argued, “First, it creates distortions in the investment space as a result of the uneven playing field it creates among private sector players. This could be a major disincentive to entrepreneurship and enterprise development. Secondly, it is a system that is prone to corruption. Access to duty waivers is often dependent on critical contacts in the realm of politics or bureaucracy and this is a process that is considerably prone to corruption. It is not a system that recognizes merit. Thirdly, it leads to profound loss of revenue as had been variously reported by the Nigerian Customs Service”. For the Chamber, “It is astounding that in spite of the various assurances by the government that granting of waivers has been stopped, the practice apparently had continued. This is regrettable and not healthy for the economy. The principle of waivers would make sense where strategic government projects are involved, with significant national interests at stake. It is not supposed to serve narrow interests of profitability. Where it becomes inevitable to grant such waivers, it should be of universal application to all players in the sector.” Shuaibu Idris, former deputy managing director, Dangote Flour Mills Plc, entrepreneur and industry analyst, argued: “In general the concept of duty waivers, concession and tax holiday is good and an excellent idea which has been used by many countries to help industrialize nations. However, successive governments in Nigeria tend to use these waivers, concessions and tax holidays in a way and manner that is highly questionable and in fact a disservice to the nation. Scrupulous and frivolous persons apply for this assistance under questionable guise and are processed and granted waivers on duty only for them to turn back and sell the commodities without any regards to the waivers and a few people feed fat on the system. This is economic rent seeking, which many present day business men and women enjoy to rise to stardom.” Story to be continued next week Thursday.