LAGOS – No few than 20 pension fund administrators (PFAs) have so far met the N5billion capital threshold set by the Nation Pension Commission (PenCom) some twelve months ago in the exercise that ended on 27th April 2022. According to the release Friday night the 20 firms have met the statutory requirement of N5 billion each totalling N100billion now available for operational effectiveness and efficiency of the sector. This is a departure from the initial N22 billion the operators were working with prior to the announcement of the new capital regime on April 2021. Twelve months was set by the Commission for the PFAs to comply with the exercise. The Commission while issuing the directive last year, had said that the new capital would allow the operators to have more funds for expansion and operational efficiency given the huge pension assets under management which currently stands at over N13trillion. The statement by the PenCom reads; “The National Pension Commission (PenCom) is pleased to inform all stakeholders and the general public that as at 27 April 2022, all Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have complied with the Commission’s directive for the increase of the Minimum Regulatory Capital (Shareholders’ Fund) from N1 billion to N5 billion. Recall that the Commission had approved the recapitalisation exercise for the PFAs with a 12-month transition period from 27 April 2021 to 27 April 2022. The exercise became expedient as the value of pension fund assets under management and custody had grown exponentially by 244 percent, from N3 trillion in 2012 (when the previous recapitalisation was done) to N12.29 trillion (as of December 31, 2020). The sustained growth in assets implies greater fiduciary responsibilities that require more operational capacity by the PFAs. The urgent need to ramp up PFAs capacity to manage the increasing number of registered contributors and the value of pension fund assets under management led to the recapitalisation exercise. It is worthwhile to state that 10 PFAs had met the new regulatory capital requirement of N5 billion as of 31 December 2021, while the others intensified 2 efforts to meet the deadline of 27 April 2022. This resulted in some mergers and acquisitions, which led to the reduction of the number of PFAs from 22 to 20. POLL The Commission stated that it had approved the acquisition of AIICO Pension Managers Limited by FCMB Pensions Limited; the merger between Tangerine Pensions Limited and APT Pension Funds Managers Limited and subsequent change of name of the merged entity to Tangerine APT Pensions Limited. In addition, the Commission also approved Norrenberger’s acquisition of IEI-Anchor Pension Managers Limited, after its acquisition of the majority shareholder, IEI Plc. The agency said with the conclusion of the recapitalisation exercise, stakeholders, particularly retirement savings accounts (RSA) holders, should expect increased effectiveness and efficiency as well as improved service delivery from PFAs.