EMMANUEL OBETA Content Automation The whole idea behind the concept of automation is to take repetitive, often tedious tasks and simplify them for the individual’s convenience. A 2019 DIVVY report showed that half of respondents spend one day a week or more on non-creative work and a troubling 22% “indicated they spend 10 hours a week or more chasing down information, feedback and approvals.” In content automation therefore, you find out that it is not tasks that need to be automated most of the times, but the actual assignment and management of tasks. Content automation therefore, is the use of digital systems and technical processes to take over various aspects of content marketing process which eliminates the need for human input in certain areas thereby resulting in time, effort and money saved (Koertni Adams, 2020) According to Brock Stechman content automation can also be looked at as the process of using software to streamline as many aspects of the content marketing process as possible ranging from content generation, distribution, team performance, and content performance measurement. It can also mean consolidating content planning, brainstorming, and content performance measurement under a single toolset. POLL Major aspects of the content creation process or content-centric processes like idea aggregation, editorial scheduling, workflow/task management, team communication, deadline accountability and content strategy analysis/reporting can be automated with the help of some softwares to make it easy and seamless. The major advantage of content automation is that it helps organizations manage their expenses as well as drive revenue growth. It allows your team to free up the much-needed resources and time thereby allowing them to focus on their core competencies or the areas of the highest value and returns. It helps the organization reduce costs (which could have been spent in sourcing for content ideas and developing them). Content automation leads to a boost in creativity amongst your marketing team by relieving them of redundant and repetitive tasks. Performing redundant tasks on a computer every day does not only bring about eye strain and other physical stress; it can also be mentally draining. Investing in content marketing automation eliminates this cause for low energy levels in the workplace. Workflows for small and large teams can be both laborious and highly tasking in terms of deciding and assigning work schedules to the different team members, monitoring their productivity as well as performance in line with agreed schedules and time lines, obtaining approvals for the work done which in turn can be a feedback or an integral aspect of the work of another person within the team whose work schedule does not commence until the completion of that of another team member. In such a scenario automation can be a life saver and a huge boost to performance within the workplace as each member of the team is automatically alerted about the work schedules, reminders are automatically sent, approvals are automatically sought with the entire line dependant automatically aware of the point where the work is being held up. Meetings as well as reviews and brainstorming sessions can also be automated to reduce the man hour wasted in physical meetings. At the end of the day content automation helps the organization make smarter decisions, generate higher quality leads, improve team accountability, inspire creativity and ideation, as well as build a more relevant social media presence. A huge benefit of the content automation process is its ability to personalise your content as well as segment your audience so as to determine the most suitable content to present to your audience based on their previous purchases, pages viewed, their industry and other essential demarcating variables. This segmentation and tracking process can help you present different content to different visitors on your website based on these identified differences and tracking. This process alone ensures that the content and messaging received by your audience from your brand are more relevant to their experiences which therefore lead to a higher connection as well as better engagement with them. Another area where the automation of your contents can be of immense benefit is in the deployment and disbursement of the created content. Content creation can be a highly laborious process not to add to it the manual process of trying to post it or set up ads on the social media platforms. A seamless and highly effective process of disseminating and publishing your content across several platforms can be achieved through a robust content marketing platform that integrates or connects effectively with downstream publishing tools. With online conversations and trends moving at such a breakneck speed, staying up to date with trends or posting original content frequently enough to stay visible in followers’ feeds can be very challenging. Content curation is therefore one strategy adopted by content marketers to fill in this gap. Content curation is about finding great content that your audience would love from multiple sources and strategically sharing it and presenting it to your social media followers in a way that adds value such that rather than creating only original content, you’ll share and credit others’ content as well. Finding enough of such high-quality and relevant content to fill your feeds can be incredibly time-consuming so the best approach is usually to automate the process by plugging in to content discovery tools which can scour the web for content related to specific keywords, rank it based on social shares, likes, comments, and other criteria from where you can then select the most appropriate material to share. Content automation according to Stechman (2021) therefore, creates a single system or a central hub that can handle all the automaton features that are essential for all your operations like the content calendars which can be shared and accessed with ease by every member of the team; production workflows, including simple and complex processes that incorporates the assignments and deliverables of each member of the team required for the holistic execution of the team project; content archives warehousing the storage of approved assets with relevant metadata; automated reporting that effortlessly combines analytics from multiple systems and platforms as well as the iintegrations and an open API that connects your content hub to multiple downstream delivery systems. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com