….Laments Deplorable Condition Of Naira ABUJA – Akwa Ibom State Governor and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Udom Emmanuel, has disclosed that tackling the nation’s problems required the right leader adopting the right policies and decisions. Lamenting the deplorable condition of the naira, Emmanuel promised to create wealth and strengthen naira exchange rate if elected as president of Nigeria. Speaking when he met with the PDP Caucus of the National Assembly on his presidential ambition, the governor said, “I think we have reached that point where some of us needed to stand up and say it is enough. “So that we don’t wake up one day and our money has turned to paper; we are almost there, N600 to a dollar. “Even at the time we were exchanging for N180 we were all screaming. So now at N600, nobody can talk. “We have a country where even when there is fuel scarcity we are still paying for subsidies at 110 million litres every day. “So tell me the facilities that we have in Nigeria to deliver 110 million litres of petrol only excluding diesel, kerosene LPFO, Jet A1, name all those ones. POLL “Where are the facilities? Where are the logistics? 110 million litres every day. Even when there is scarcity. Even simple economists will tell you that it is not practicable.” Emmanuel said that with right leadership, Nigeria has no reason to go through the challenges it was currently going through, adding, “the problem we have in Nigeria today is that we don’t have leaders, who can create money. If you don’t know how to create money, you will not know how to run an economy.” Governor Emmanuel said that the situation of the country had reached a level where the younger generation, who had the required capacity and integrity should step in to rescue the country, pointing out that if they failed to do that, the younger generation would ask them questions in the future. Emmanuel who said that Nigeria needed a leader who could create wealth, said he had demonstrated that in Akwa Ibom state by venturing into the airlines business. He said: “Look at the whole of West Africa, Ghana does not have a national air carrier, Nigeria does not have one. So, I say no, let me also prove that this thing is not rocket science. “You cannot buy one aircraft with your allocation. Your allocation barely meets salaries but I needed to tell Nigerians that you can create money that gives you airlines to run around efficiently.”