Road traffic watchers have said in the last three years that over 300 officers of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authourity LASTMA, have suffered abuses, assaults, attacks, threats, injuries and deaths in the course of their duties, revealing that many of such attacks go unreported or booked by the agency, resulting in many working under apprehension and fear for their lives. The officers have become endangered species who many hate to love and love to hate. They are the weeping souls of the Lagos state civil service. The many attacks against its operatives, especially in the very recent past, is a pointer to the fact that it is an agency at war against the very public that it is created to serve or vice versa. Even though this report is not written to absorb the agency and its operatives of any wrongdoing, it is rather a ‘Save Our Souls’ (SOS) piece to the motoring public who are often culpable in the many attacks suffered by these hapless civil servants. Without pointing out the legal implications to those involved in such attacks, we as humans should put on our moral thinking caps to always ask, should a man who is passionately performing his constitutional responsibility be attacked under any guise? Laws without an enforcement side to it will be like a wish list for any society that enacted them. Traffic laws and regulations without exception require people to obey them, else we will all be like a bunch of jokers dreaming of having a sane traffic system devoid of chaos or encumbrances. To stem down traffic chaos or effectively control them we need some level of enforcement and penalties for those that contravene our traffic laws. That I think is the major role of the Lagos LASTMA. POLL Events have however shown that quite a number of motorists are averse to such an arrangement, preferring an over pampered traffic control arrangement that is surely going to breed a banana republic like scenes on our roads. The Gestapo manner of driving being exhibited by some drivers today, especially by some commercial drivers, will be a child’s play when enforcement and payment of penalties for traffic infractions are done away with. These law breakers, sometimes, in an attempt to escape punishment, resort to physical attacks and assaults on the law enforcers, prompting Mr. Bolaji Oreagba, of LASTMA, to recently declare that the State Government would no longer tolerate any act of assault, physical attack or attempted murder on any official working for government, especially LASTMA personnel. Oreagba stated that the perpetrators of such misdemeanors would be made to face the full wrath of the law. The LASTMA boss said assault on government officials while carrying out their lawful duties is becoming too rampant and the government is ready to put a stop to this through diligent prosecution of such person(s) no matter whose ox is gored. The most recent attack was the one that occurred on April 13, recorded in a video that went viral on social media where a LASTMA officer was assaulted by a mob for allegedly causing injury to a lady pedestrian in Ajah area of Lagos State, and was confirmed by Bolaji Oreagba, LASTMA General Manager. According to Oreagba, “From investigation conducted by the agency and information received, the LASTMA officer, Adebanjo Adeoye visited the GLO office at Chisco bus stop at about 9.30am to revalidate his National Identification Number, NIN, for his phone line that was blocked but GLO office was yet to open its doors to customers. “Adebanjo therefore, decided to go back to his beat around Ajah and crossed the road to get a bus to take him. At this time, a commercial bus driver who was picking passengers at an undesignated bus stop must have sighted the officer thinking he was coming after him for the illegality he was committing, drove recklessly and trampled upon the foot of the lady seen in the video while the motorist escaped from the scene. “The passers-by/ bystanders for want of who to vent their anger falsely accused Adebanjo of being the cause of the accident, and descended on the innocent officer and thereby seriously injured him, in spite of pleas by other officers at the scene. “Adebanjo was eventually rescued by an armed police officer, while the crowd insisted on reporting the incident at the Ajiwe Police Station where after initial investigation by the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, Adebanjo was exonerated while the DPO said his attackers should have poured their energies into apprehending the errant motorist that hit the lady and also that the incident was not within Ajiwe jurisdiction.” Adebanjo was subsequently moved to Ilasan Police Station to report the incident and thereafter taken to hospital for medical attention. Oreagba, therefore, reiterated his warning against attack on government officials, stressing any aggressor should be ready to face the full weight of the law. He urged members of the public to always channel any grievance against any government official to the appropriate authorities for appropriate action instead of attacking them as they are out to provide public service to the populace. “Unfortunately, none of Adebanjo’s attackers has been apprehended, but the Police are out hunting for identified perpetrators of the attack on Adebanjo,” LASTMA Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Filade Olumide stated. You will recall on March 18, 2021, a group of commercial drivers in Lagos attacked two officers of LASTMA and allegedly killed one. Giving details of the incident, Olumide Filade, spokesperson of the agency said, both officers were “Attacked with machetes and other dangerous weapons by the driver of a commercial bus with registration number FKJ 452 YC, plying Bariga to Oshodi via the Ikorodu Road axis in cohort with some other drivers, after his vehicle was apprehended for contravening the Traffic Law of the state. “The sad fact about the whole saga was that the two officers were in mufti and on their way home, having completed their morning shift and closed for the day before the recalcitrant commercial bus drivers went berserk, seeking any LASTMA officers to attack for carrying out their statutory duties. “Obazu was struck severally with machetes resulting in deep lacerations on the head and his eventual death, while Adeniyi Hakeem, who was also attacked in similar fashion has been hospitalised and in coma,” Mr Filade said. Mr Jide Oduyoye, who is the former General Manager of the agency however said then that cultists are now doubling as commercial bus drivers in Lagos State. Another incident occurred in December 5, 2021, when a female LASTMA official was purportedly attacked in the Yaba area of the state while police operatives were on a one-way drive. The video of the victim – a Deputy Superintendent of LASTMA simply known as Davids surfaced online with a serious cut on her, allegedly inflicted by the tricycle driver conveying the police officers while plying one-way. It was gathered that the officers were serving in Area C command in Surulere. While reacting to the incident, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Hakeem Odumosu, condemned the act of indiscipline by officers of the State Police Command. CP Odumosu warned that the Command under his watch will not tolerate any act of indiscipline from any cop, noting that the affected policemen would be properly investigated; Odumosu said they will be served their respective punishment to serve as a deterrent to other officers in like manner. In January 20, this year, overzealous Policemen manhandled, harassed and handcuffed an officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, Odugbemi Eyitayo, in the Yaba area of the state over enforcement of traffic offences. The incident drew the ire of eyewitnesses, whose intervention to save the LASTMA officer from further harassment was rebuffed as the LASTMA officer was taken to the Sabo Police Station in handcuffs. One of the eyewitnesses, who simply identified himself as James, said he saw LASTMA officers trying to arrest a car that was driving on the Bus Rapid Transit, BRT, corridor inward Yaba. “Everybody saw the vehicle driving through the BRT lane and the LASTMA officers trying to arrest the car, which led to a serious confrontation between the car driver and the leader of the patrol. The driver was seen hitting the officer seriously with a blow that blood started coming out of the officer’s mouth and people were watching the drama as it unfolded. “The struggle between the car driver, who was later discovered to be a police officer, trying to handcuff the LASTMA officer was a serious show and some spirited citizens intervened, blamed the car driver for his rude behaviour against the officers, knowing full well that he had committed an offence, he should have pleaded with the LASTMA officers to settle the matter rather than blowing hot. Experts advocated that offenders should be approached in a polite and civil manner by LASTMA officials, which will appeal to the emotion of that offender making him cooperate without any recalcitrance. So, the role of civility in apprehending a motorist cannot be overemphasized, while also asking the government to beef up security around these officials when they are on duty, especially when on enforcement operations. Security officers attached to LASTMA personnel must always be on standby to protect these traffic managers from attacks from disgruntled and lawless members of the motoring public.