Nyeson Wike, the Rivers State governor on Thursday declared in Benin city, the Edo state capital that the present situation of the country ranging from a high rate of insecurity and other critical challenges, requires a fearless and courageous leader to confront and address them, saying that he is ready to take the challenge come 2023. Wike who made the declaration at the palace of the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare 11 during his courtesy call on the monarch to notify him of his presidential ambition and to seek his blessings said ” I am ready as a fearless and courageous fellow to take the mantle of the country’s leadership from 2023 so as to confront the problem head-on” According to Wike, having held various political positions, starting from the local government Chairmanship, to various positions in the state, to the minister of state and now two-term state governor and made notable impacts, I am very confident that I can fix the problems of the country as a president”. He, therefore, solicited the prayers ofthe Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, which he said was very vital for his presidential ambition and mission. Responding, the Oba of Benin assured Wike, the presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, that their ancestors are with him in his presidential ambition. Ewuare II said whichever political party Wike chooses to pursue his presidential ambition, God and the ancestors will go with him to make his dream come through. “Wike is our son, we love him.“This journey that you have embarked on, we are with you, we are comfortable with you. “Whichever party you choose to go, the spirit of our ancestors will follow you”, he said. POLL The Benin Royal Father also said he was so pleased with the way the Rivers States governor was carrying out people-oriented projects in his state and that such can be replicated if he eventually becomes the president of the country. “I admire what you are doing for your people in Rivers State. You are carrying out fantastic projects. “What you are doing in Rivers State is citizens diplomacy. “We will keep praying for him that he doesn’t come across anybody that will misinform him”, he said. Wike who landed the Benin airport at 2 pm into the waiting arms of party faithful, led by Chief Dan Orbih, PDP national vice-chairman South-South later addressed the Edo delegates at the palatial villa of late Chief Tony Anenih at the GRA Benin city where he pleaded with them to nominate him as the party presidential candidate for the 2023 presidential elections. He also assured the Edo delegates to have confidence in him, adding that the coast was very clear for PDP to take power at the centre so as to rescue the country from total collapse.