TONY EZIMAKOR With the successful inauguration of a new National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress APC in the early hours of Sunday 27,March 2022, the Governor Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) can claim it has made a huge success of the task assigned to it by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of party, following the sack of the Adams Oshiomhole -led NWC nearly two years ago. Among other reported achievement, the CECPC on assumption of office pursued the task of reconciliation of aggrieved members of the party who were alienated by Comrade Oshiomhole’s brash style of leadership. By his own admission, Gov Mai Mala Buni said the initial six months given the Committee to conclude the assignment was grossly inadequate because of the problem on ground. This necessitated an extension of time. ” When we commenced the assignment, we realized that the problems on the ground had far outweighed our estimation of the time required to resolve the huge problems bedeviling the party. This made the initial Six months dateline grossly inadequate, unrealistic, and not practicable and therefore, the need for extension of more time. Happily, for every extension, we brought in additional values with positive developments into the party”. The committee thereafter embarked on membership registration and revalidation exercise, recording over 41 million APC members who registered with the details of their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC). It did not take long before the success of the registration exercise positively influenced a migration into the party as high profile Nigerian Politicians, including the governors of Ebonyi State, Cross River and Zamfara State joined the APC from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). However, that is as far as the Committee could go in building a cohesive party, contrary to claims, as events that followed subsequent to that showed. POLL It appeared the Caretaker Committee inflicted its own brand of pains, disaffection and crisis that there was a deliberate action by the CECPC to uproot what has been built to unify the party by way of reconciliation . For instance, it did not take before the various ward local, and State Congresses which held across the country began to should signs of a party in turmoil. The bitter acrimony was palpable, again necessitating the setting of the a National Reconciliation Committee, fortuitously headed by the newly Elected National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Apparently in an effort to establish its own structures and empower Political cronies at the grassroots up to the national level, members of the CECPC dislodged existing Political structures ahead of the general election and embarked on selfish pursuits, including altering the dates of the National Convention, first from February 5 and 26, March 26, even plotting to cancel it altogether. Against this background, the task now before the Senator Adamu -led new APC NWC is clearly cut for it. Reconciliation, Reconciliation and more Reconciliation. The presidential intervention that ensured that the Convention held with the pistol held over the heads of aspirants, as some stakeholders say,, should be seen for what it is- deceptive. The truth is that from Ward, local, State and Zonal levels, the ruling party is fragmented and would require more than mere persuasion to get aggrieved members around. Party stakeholders are also embittered by the seeming takeover of the party by newcomers and outright exclusion of foundation APC members in some of the geopolitical zones. For instance,former National Auditor of the party and foundation member of APC Dr George Moghalu lamented this at the sidelines of the national convention regretting the failure of newcomers to carry stakeholders along. “And when you are now taking about APC in the South East, people who don’t know how APC is formed are now running the party , that doesn’t make for integrity. “Nobody was consulted , yeah nobody was consulted no Meeting was held , I want to be Corrected,let somebody say I’m lying . Our responsible position as Party members is to bring to the public this position so that ordinary members will be aware. I will not challenge the governor because I do not go to their meetings, I’m not a Governor. There other platforms I may not be present. The only platform I would have opportunity is if a South East Meeting of critical stakeholders was called, because I know I’m one. “As far as APC is concerned I’m a critical stakeholder.i was the first national auditor of the party, a foundation member. I was coordinating secretary of the committee when we were forming APC, the 89 members that formed APC. So I am a critical stakeholder. So the only platform I would have had speak was the meeting of the zone. For us to get original members to be involved. “These are the things that create unvoiced agitations because when you don’t involve people what you are saying is that they should do their worst. And they may ignore you now and during Election they do their worse. “They may pretend now to allow you have your way but when the chips are down,they teach you a lesson”Moghalu warned. Fair enough the new APC NWC Chairman of invited the Chairmanship aspirants and stakeholders to unite and renew their faith in the party. The NWC needs that support to rally Nigerians to support the party in 2023. That also depends on how the party’s leadership is able to steer through the potentially divisive processes leading to picking the presidential flagbearer the APC. These will truly test the savvy of the new APC NWC.