ABUJA – Violators of traffic laws will henceforth be sentenced to a three-day mandatory training, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has said. Director of the Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), Dr. Abdulateef Bello on Monday hinted that violators will also be prosecuted by a Mobile Court before receiving the cars. Bello further said that 152 vehicles, 326 motorcycles, and 15 tricycles were detained at various locations within two weeks of offensive operations. According to him, ” The operations have been about getting rickety vehicles out of town and also ensuring that Okadas are kept out of restricted areas. ” So far we have taken off the streets about 152 motor vehicles, 326 Motorcycles,  15 Tricycles and about 22 dispatch. ” They are going to be made to face the law as quickly as possible before they face the mobile court, three days training compulsorily to acquaint themselves with the rules and regulations in using our roads.  They have to pay for the training and also pay their fines . They have to understand the road culture “, he added. Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Conrade Ikharo Attah who led the enforcement team,  said the work of sanitising the city has become very taxing that all relevant agencies need to forge a collaborative partnership. POLL He further stated that the ongoing onslaught against traffic offenders and other criminalities in Abuja , was a resolve of FCT Minister,  Malam Muhammad Bello to maintain the standards required of a model City. He stated that the Enforcement through Area 1, Apo Bridge, Lugbe-Airport and Gishiri Junction, was an energized exercise that will be sustained. His words, ” The Central focus of the work today is largely traffic.  We went round to purge the City of rickety vehicles and illegal motor parks. ” The City has reached a point where work as a separate component.  All the relevant agencies are here collaborating to get the job done”.