Voluntary contributions, temporary access to retirement savings accounts (RSA) due to loss of job, payment under the Micro Pension Plan as well as provision for administrative sanctions for violations by Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have formed parts of the revised regulation on pension enhancement recently issued by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). The key highlights of the revised regulation include the simplification of the documentation process, non-confirmation of employment status by employers, access to lump sum, RSA consolidation before payment of benefit. Also the revised regulation has now mandated PFAs to make efforts to ensure that all documentation preparatory to the retirement of the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holder should be provided and concluded within a period of four months prior to the date of retirement. “In order to ensure that prospective retirees are duly educated on the modes of accessing their benefits, PFAs have also been mandated to advise prospective retirees to check their websites and be acquainted with the CPS Retirement Pack containing features of Programmed Withdrawal (PW) and Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) at least three months to date of retirement. The pack also contains other salient issues that would guide the retirees towards a smooth retirement process”. It was stated in the document. Also, the notification and documentation required for access to RSA due to temporary loss of job also received the attention of the Commission as it opts for more simplified manner in approach to temporary loss of job. PenCom defines temporary loss of job as a situation “where an employee voluntarily retires, disengages or is disengaged before attaining the age of 50 years and is unable to secure another employment after four months of the disengagement.” “The provision addresses situations where employers refuse to confirm the retirement or disengagement of their former employees. Prior to this revision, a letter of acceptance of resignation or disengagement issued by the employer is mandatory for a pension contributor seeking payment of 25 per cent for temporary loss of job. “However, the Revised Regulation provides that where the employer fails/ refuses to accept the resignation letter from the employee, the PFA shall write the employer confirming the employee’s resignation and ensure that an acknowledgement copy is kept as proof of receipt. POLL Where the employer fails to respond to the PFA’s inquiry within 30 days, the employer’s refusal is taken as acceptance of the employee’s resignation for the purpose of benefits payment”. PenCom stated. In terms of lump sum payment, the revised regulation clarified that the retirees shall be allowed to access additional lump sum after the payment of initial lump sum provided that there are additional inflows of funds into the RSA from the employers. It stated that the additional remittances shall first be applied to augment pension up to 50 per cent of the retiree’s final salary while the balance may be paid out as lump sum. “Where the retiree’s pension is already up to 50 per cent of final salary, the retiree may choose to collect the entire additional remittances as lump sum. Where the additional inflow into the RSA of a retiree-on-Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) is not up to 4100, 000 the amount shall be paid directly into the retiree’s bank account, subject to the Commission’s approval,” the new document also advised.