I am becoming confused about this Honeywell and Flour Mills merger… I recall that during the week under review there was a day when Honeywell Flour recorded 10 million bids as it moved up and down to as low as N3.30 per share and then came up again to N3.50 each… I have said it repeatedly here that it is not the result of Honeywell (released to the exchange) that will move the price. It is the positive news from the ongoing merger and acquisition talks with Flour Mills of Nigeria that will. From feelers already, the minimum price we are looking at may be N6.00 per share. As such, if you are in that position, just hold on and watch. However, if you are in profit already, nothing stops you from taking profit… I am talking about those who entered at N1.14 and N1.85 each, nothing stops you… But for those who entered at N3.50 and N4.00, there is a scenario we discussed at the last master class that I hope will materialize soon. It is either they original owners of the shares on offer tell us the price the majority shareholder is willing to buy out the minority investors (because Flour Mills of Nigeria already has about 79 percent stake in Honeywell Flour), after which the name is changed and Honeywell Flour operation is merged with the new parent company, or its identity is retained, just as we have it in Northern Nigerian Flour Mills. Should the new owners decide to combine Honeywell with Flour Mills of Nigeria, the arrangement could be such that a share exchange ratio to absorb the minority shareholders will be announced. Either way, the minority shareholders will be at an advantage, and I know the discussion is already nearing the final stages of regulatory approvals. I expect that all of these will be concluded and the announcements made even before the end of April, but know that also this month, the company is expected to submit its unaudited financials for the year ended March 31, 2022, in line with the NGX rules. As such, if you entered at N4.00, I will advise that you hold your position and watch for the final decision on the ongoing talks in the coming days and weeks. Should we position in AccessCorp before or after the markdown? I am going to be repeating this also for the umpteenth time that AccessCorp has two faces. It is a value stock and, at the same time a growth stock. The directors have declared a final dividend of 70 kobo per share and the closing date is sometime in this month of April, but if you are interested in taking a fresh position in the stock, this is the best time to do so because anything below N10, for Access is a good buy. It has high upside potentials, apart from the fact that in the sector where it operates, it is gradually becoming one of the top three players, with a possibility that it could overtake any of those ahead of it in the nearest future. Once the bank stops acquiring and concentrates on consolidating its various businesses, helped by the large asset and customer base it mustered, we are going to see the effects on its profit and payout. Also, its being a growth stock is why out of its earnings per share of N4.58 for the 2021 financial year, the directors paid out a total of N1.00 per share as interim and final dividends. The directors know what they are doing, which is why when they stop the strategic expansion stage investors will begin to make money, that is why I say it is a value stock, as well as a growth stock. Access Bank is a good one, and the last notification by the company about a possible interim dividend in this first quarter, has elicited a lot of positive reactions as people try to take position, which is what investment is about. However, let us be reminded, once again, that every investment is against expectations, which is to say if you are in Access, let’s wait to see how things play out, but always keep a tab on your stop-loss, which is a guide to help you exit any position that becomes unfavourable so as to protect your capital. PARTICIPANT I: Financial institutions are not allowed to pay dividends without auditing their accounts. The CBN as the primary regulator curtails the activities of commercial banks, microfinance banks, mortgage banks… unlike others like Dangote, BUA Cement, oil companies which can pay interim dividends as they desire because they do not have primary regulation against such. What we probably did not understand is that already Access Bank had marked down for the dividend before the take of of its holding company arrangement. As such, the holding company will not mark down again because it is the same as the bank. Any hints about Union Diagnostics? POLL The company has been delisted from the exchange and investors were paid off, unless if you choose to remain its shareholder even as an unlisted company. Then you need to visit the registrars (First Registrars) and complete the required forms for that purpose. The company was delisted and the directors offered to pay 38 kobo per share to buy out existing shareholders who do not want to remain on its register. Please, what is going on with the acquisition of Union Bank of Nigeria? At our last Town Hall, it was clearly explained that Union Bank, being a financial services company, the parties need to obtain approvals from the various regulators, a situation that will naturally prolong the process of consummating the M&A, unlike those of other sectors. That notwithstanding, for as long as the majority shareholders, having about 89 percent stake have given their consent for a change of ownership, we are left with just about 11 percent of minority shareholders who cannot upturn such a decision. The new owners may likely buyout these minority shareholders and delist the bank from the exchange. This is the kind of information we are expecting from the new owners (Titan Bank). Regulators that will be involved in a transaction of this kind are the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Securities & Exchange Commission, among others. As such, if you are there, just hold your position until the situation becomes clearer. We notice the high interest in shares of NGX Group, what is happening, and are there any plans for fresh capital? There is something I have observed about trading in the shares of NGX Group. There is a pattern that the stock is exhibiting. This is a company that did not declare a dividend at the end of the 2021 financial year, but you can see that there is active trading in the stock. It could be that it is trying to form a trend, which is called a trending or volatility movement. When the price moved to N25, N28 and came down to N21 per share, up and  down, it tells you that the stock has momentum, which is probably why, even when the directors did not propose a dividend, the share price did not suffer any significant drop that could be attributed to such. It tells you that the shareholding structure is also changing to support the stock. I have seen a pattern that is going to be positive for that stock, because as we speak now the share in issue is low and if the shares are in the hands of investors that are not willing to sell just yet, and that trend continues, it means that you can buy low and sell high which is the beauty of the stock market. Stocks in which we have noticed such a pattern are Zenith Bank, Access Bank and a few others. If the NGX Group joins that pattern, it will be a very good one. PARTICIPANT I: I must confess to you that the NGX Group is an entirely different company from others we are seeing in the market today, because it is a financial services company, but what it offers is its trading floor (platform). It provides the floor and will continue to make money for as long as transactions take place on that floor (platform). At the beginning (demutualization exercise), over 70 percent of the shares in issue were allotted to stockbroking firms. And you must remember that the stockbroking firms are the players and traders in the market. Some of them that needed cash sold theirs (to existing and new investors), while others held on to theirs and even purchased more to increase their stakes in the company. The remaining 30 percent was distributed to those known as individual or ordinary members of the exchange, some of who also sold, while others are still holding theirs. Going to the next issue, the NGX Group will definitely come to the market in just a matter of time. Probably, the price today is not yet right. Don’t forget that when it was listed in the OTC of the NASD at N25 per share, the price rose as high as N31 each and fell to as low as N13.00. Later on, the stock disengaged from the NASD and was listed on the NGX Exchange trading floor at N18. It went as high as N27 and is currently trading as low as N20, but it is getting to N25 per share. So, the stock is likely appealing to people buying for the long and not short-term. You would notice that despite posting a profit, no dividend was paid. What that means is that the directors want the company to accumulate more cash so as to get more value and be better priced in the coming months. At that time, the company may decide to come to the market for fresh capital injection, because the only way the exchange can get fresh capital, if need be, is to come to the market. I believe that with the technology and current developments, coming to the market for fresh funds is just a matter of time for the NGX Group. To the other issue, there is the caveat that nobody should take more than five percent holding in the company for now, and as such those who decided to raise their stake to that threshold will keep quiet and then hold the shares in different names. Also, there is a further caveat that the stockbrokers who are dealing members on the board of the NGX Group will remain so for the next two to three years, such that even if you raise your stake above the five percent, you cannot get a board seat, until that period is over. As such, because of all those provisions, people are on the lookout. If you want to hold it for long term, you may buy. I bought my own at N13.00 each when it was listed on the NASD and when it reached N27 per share, I sold. Now, if I want to, I can get in again. But, it is not a stock that you should be expecting a dividend from immediately. But definitely, it has a future. So, for those who want to hold it for long term, enter at the right time. My question is, who is buying Union Bank of Nigeria? The shares were sold by Atlas Mara to Titan Trust Bank. The transaction had received the approval of the CBN before the announcement was made. The transaction is awaiting further approvals before it is finally consummated. If you are in Union Bank, my advice is that you do not need to panic and if you want to take a fresh position, do so with a medium to long-term mindset, such that anytime the news being expected hits the market, it will definitely impact the share price and that at which they were sold by the foreign investors to TTB. NB: Union Bank of Nigeria’s board, on December 23, 2021, announced the acquisition of an aggregate 89.39% stake from its majority shareholder- Union Global Partners Limited by Titan Trust Bank Limited, through execution of a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement between UGPL, certain other existing shareholders of the bank (as sellers), and Titan Trust Bank Limited (as Purchaser). TTB is 95.55 percent owned by three investors- Luxis International DMCC with 48.09%; followed by Magna International DMCC, 47.39%, and Aminu Yaro, 9.07%. What is your outlook for FBN Holdings? We are waiting for the audited financials for the full year ended December 31, 2021. Recall that we have mentioned it in this town hall before that the momentum you saw in FBN Holdings some time ago had nothing to do with the expected performance of the group, but because of the strategic positioning by some interested parties seeking to increase their stake and eventually take control, which has so far moved the price to where it is today and even sustained it. But if the result come and it beats expectations, the price could go even higher. Until then, the price, holding structure, and expectation have kept the price stable at between N10.80 and N11.00 each. The price has not gone below so far, which is a pointer to the fact that people still have confidence in that bank. Let us wait to see the numbers and whether the directors will pay a dividend close to what the UBA and AccessCorp did. Specifically, let’s wait to see the result and if FBN Holdings is able to pay more than the 45 kobo of the previous year to around 70 or 80 kobo. I can see that the stock is trying to build a strong support level at that price. NB: The group in its April 6, filing to the NGX Exchange Limited, blamed the failure to submit its audited financials for the year-ended December 31, 2021, within the 90-day grace period under the NGX rules on “some delays being experienced in finalizing the statutory audit of the financial statements of one of the largest subsidiaries of FBNH…” The company expressed hope that it would be submitted to the CBN for regulatory approval and publish same on the NGX Issuer’s portal by April 30, 2022. What is happening to Stanbic IBTC, the stock has been bearish for a very long time? For a long time, we at Investdata Consulting have always recommended Stanbic IBTC as one of our defensive banking stocks, not because of its performance, but the shareholding structure and the limited number of shares that serves as its free float. Even when the company is not doing well, there is always some measure of stability as the price stays at a point for a long while until we start to see positive numbers, and then it will begin an upward movement. Because the results from the banks were not too good, you would notice that the price dropped from as high as N45.00 per share to the current level (N34.15 each) and it is trying to find its support level at this price. Also, when the company notified the exchange of a likely delay in the result, the price stagnated at that level, until the result hit the market and the directors propose a dividend, you will likely see the price going up again. If you are there for the long-term and you bought at this price, I will advise that you exercise patience. The Stanbic IBTC that I know, if you are there, because of the nature of business and the shareholding structure, the price will remain stable and you can play defensive with that kind of stock. If you want to make money, look for another stock where you can make some money and then return to Stanbic. From the chart of Cutix, what is your advice? On the daily chart, Cutix is gathering momentum. Don’t forget that April 30 is its financial year-end and we are already in April, which means that we are expecting to see its unaudited full-year result at the end of May and the audited by the end of July. You can see that in the last five trading days the price of this stock has been inching up gradually. Notice the bullish candle and the uptrend… the possibility that this stock will break out is there already. When you come down here and look at the ADX. ADX is telling you that there is positive momentum in this stock and that once it crosses this point up is a good sign. The only fear I have here is that the ADX is below 20 at 19.80 and once it crosses 20, it is a good sign. Cutix is a good stock and you can start buying gradually now. Looking at the weekly chart also, there is a sign that you can start looking the way of this stock also, just as Money Flow is also looking up. What is the outlook for International Breweries Plc? On the daily chart, International Breweries is not looking bad, despite its sideways movement over the past two days, the price action is still looking up and Money Flow is positive. The ADX is also not attractive at below 20… and Money Flow is looking up, just as MACD. It is already bullish on the daily chart, which is good. The only other thing I will say is that this stock, for almost five years now has been in the red, in terms of numbers. It is just the sentiment in that sector that pulls the price up and down. On a weekly chart, it is trending below the line, which means you have to watch this stock… What is happening in ETI and Unilever Nigeria? Unilever is a stock that has been side trending for a long time, trading around the N13 to N14 price range for over one month now. Now the directors have proposed a 50 kobo dividend per share. We see improvement in the earnings but the fundamentals are still not okay for me, hence the need to wait for confirmation before you make a decision. If you are there already, you can wait… For example, what helped the prices of stocks with foreign majority shareholders like PZ Cussons was the decision of the foreign owners to reinvest their dividends by buying from the open market, owing to their inability to purchase foreign exchange needed to repatriate their dividends from the official window. We see an improvement in the number, but the payout is not too attractive for a stock selling at N13.50 each. For Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, it is a stock that you hold and watch, you don’t need to panic at all if you are in that position. You would notice that on a weekly chart, ETI is very, very strong… Positive technical and the fundamentals have been good over the past three years. On the weekly chart, you will notice that it has side-trended for a long time. Note that Money Flow in this stock is still high at 96. Let us keep our fingers crossed and as such if you are there, hold your position and not panic. This stock is also bullish in terms of MACD. Is it the Russia-Ukraine war that is affecting the prices of healthcare stock? Every stock in the market has its characteristics, quality and what also drives their movements. Talking about companies in that sector, I can confirm that Fidson Healthcare has taken the lead in terms of performance, which we hope will be sustained, going into the future, judging from the expansion it has undertaken and other activities. What you should say is that the needed liquidity is not there in the sector, compared to banking. I believe they have improved and expect that things will start looking up. Also, the numbers for Q1 will soon start flowing into the market and we expect that to change the face of the sector for good. Also, it is not as if the World Health Organisation is keeping silent in terms of vaccine, as it has said we should start looking at domestic production and once approval is given to Nigeria, I do not expect that local production will go past Fidson and May & Baker. Indeed, if it comes, it is going to change the face of the entire sector. If you are in Fidson, May & Baker, GSK… I don’t expect you to panic. Don’t also forget that the CBN has extended interventions for this sector in terms of the single-digit interest rate, which will further reflect on their numbers in this 2022 financial year, which is a plus for the operators. Don’t also forget that the government is still trying to look the way of the sector because they know the importance of a good public health sector. EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION is an excerpt of the weekly free question and answer session by Mr. Omordion, Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting Ltd (April 9, 2022), with select equity investors and traders on Zoom. For questions and clarifications: +23408028164085. email: ambrose.o@investdata.com.ng.