The latest survey of the continent’s agribusiness CEOs has seen a sharp rise in the number of industry leaders calling for immediate action on climate change adaptation for smallholder farmers. The Survey releases by AGRA and KPMG East Africa tagged; 2022 Africa Agribusiness Outlook also seeks improved access to more flexible finance for the sector and increasing productivity on smallholder farms which continue to be among the top priorities of the continent’s agribusiness sector. Business leaders also want policy actions to be introduced to transform the sector and boost productivity. Weak policy, legal and regulatory environments were identified as a barrier to growth in the sector and SMEs called for a more enabling environment to support their operations and growth. With agribusiness leaders showing concerns about the effects of climate change on the sector, the 2022 Africa Agribusiness Outlook recommends that businesses develop innovative solutions will enhance resilience to the impacts of climate change. These include implementing and scaling business models and innovations that reduce the risk of climate change and ecological damage. Informed by surveys with agribusinesses in 13 countries across the continent, the report serves as a barometer of the operating environment in the region. Dr. Agnes Kalibata, AGRA President while speaking during the launch of the report, AGRA President, said Agribusiness holds the key to Africa’s economic recovery in a challenging world. POLL She said the resilience and determination of the continent’s agribusinesses to keep moving forward are inspiring. “At AGRA, we are committed to supporting the development of policies and innovative financial solutions to help address challenges that SMEs and businesses, in general, continue to face.” She said the report notes that increasing agricultural output is key for the continent’s economic recovery from the effects of the pandemic. She added that the agribusinesses surveyed faulted financial services providers for setting near impossible terms and conditions for accessing financing even when they qualify. They recommended that the private commercial finance institutions and donors, including philanthropists, consider blending finance to create concessional finance that delivers sufficient returns and provides the necessary patient capital that so many agribusinesses require. Benson Ndung’u, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Partner, KPMG East Africa noted, “Any response to any challenge that the agricultural sector faces, requires a systemic multi-sectoral approach. Collaborations and partnerships will help drive agricultural transformation since they lead to knowledge sharing which is key for Africa’s agribusinesses in supporting the building of healthier, more sustainable, and more equitable food systems.”