…As Okorie Heads To Appeal Court ABUJA – Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Wednesday, ordered the removal of Mr Tochukwu Okorie as the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi. Justice Mohammed held that Okorie was not validly nominated to contest the election for the position of Chairman of the PDP in Ebonyi state. However, irked by the judgement, Okorie has approached Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal, asking it to set aside and stop the execution of the Federal High Court verdict that declared Silas Onu as Chairman of PDP in Ebonyi state. In the notice of appeal predicated on six grounds filed on Wednesday, Okorie held that the trial court erred in law when it agreed with Onu that his own nomination form was not submitted within the stipulated time by the Party guideline. Okorie also argued that the internal mechanism of resolving such a problem in the party was not explored before approaching the court. He asked the appellate court to hold that he remains the authentic Chairman of the party until legal avenues are fully explored. Meanwhile, Okorie has urged PDP members in Ebonyi not to panic over Wednesday’s judgment, adding that he will continue to deliver on the mandate bestowed on him on October 16, 2021, during the PDP elective congress. POLL In a judgment on the suit by Mr Silas Onu, challenging the election of Okorie, the court reasoned that Okorie was indolent in submitting his nomination form and could not be allowed to benefit from his wrongdoing. According to the judge, “it is the finding of this court that the 2nd defendant (Okorie) who submitted his nomination form on October 4, 2021 instead of October 1, 2021 contrary to the guidelines of the conduct of congresses is not validly nominated. Okorie was therefore not qualified to contest the said election held on October 16, 2021. “It is the opinion of this court that the 2nd defendant, who was indolent in submitting his nomination form as provided in the guidelines issued by the PDP, who in spite of this failure, was still declared and returned elected, cannot be allowed to benefit from his wrong doing” the court held. Justice Mohammed consequently directed the PDP to hold that only Onu was lawfully nominated to participate in the election of Oct. 16, 2021 and to issue him a certificate of return declaring him as the duly elected Chairman of PDP, Ebonyi Chapter. The judge also granted the prayer asking for a declaration that Okorie was not qualified to participate in the election organized and held by the PDP on Oct. 16, 2021 for failing and refusing to submit his nomination form on or before the fixed deadline of October 1, 2021. He also granted the prayer asking for a declaration that the 2nd defendant’s participation in the said election was contrary to the clear and unambiguous schedule for the conduct of state congresses, therefore rendering such participation null and void.