LAGOS – An Ikeja High Court on Tuesday sentenced an okada rider, Michael Ahmed, to life imprisonment for raping a 21-year-old girl (names withheld). The trial judge, Justice Hakeem Oshodi also sentenced the Ahmed to three years imprisonment for assaulting his victim. Justice Oshodi convicted Ahmed of a two-count offence of rape and assault brought against him by the state. Prosecuting counsel, M.T. Adewuyi and A.A. Asiwaju, told the court that the Ahmed committed the offence on July 19, 2013 at New Covenant Estate, Gbaga, Ikorodu. Delivering judgment in the matter, Justice Oshodi held that the prosecution proved the offence of rape and assault contrary to Sections 258 and 172 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State 2011 respectively beyond reasonable doubt. “It is clear to the court that the defendant forced himself on PW1. The court finds that the defendant assaulted the PW1. The prosecution has proved that the defendant had sex with the victim without her consent.” The court noted, “There was bruises on her neck and other parts of her body, on inspection of her vagina, there was no blood but the hymen was missing and there was evidences of laceration in her vagina. POLL The victim said she was assaulted five days before she was examined in the hospital.” The court held that the evidence of the victim was factual and concise. He said that of the convict, on the other hand, contained a lot of distortions. “The prosecution has successfully proved its case against the defendant. “He is hereby convicted on the charge of rape and assault,” the court held. In his allocutus, counsel to the defendant, Rahmon Bashorun, urged the court to temper justice with mercy. He said the defendant is a young man and has never committed any crime before. However, the prosecution urged court to bring the full weight of the law on Ahmed to serve as deterence to others. “After carefully going through the allocutus of the defence counsel, Michael Ahmed is sentenced to life imprisonment on count one and three years’ imprisonment on count two which is to run from the date of his was remanded,” Justice Oshodi ordered. Earlier, the victim, in her narration to the court said she came home from school as a result of ASUU strike. She said herself and her two sisters negotiated with the okada man to take them to Convenant Estate, Gbaga, Ikorodu. She said the okada man first took her two sisters home inside Gbaga and came back for her. She said when he came back for her, the okada man took another route and took her to an isolated place where he told her to come down that the motorcycle had developed problem.