Otunba Abayomi Odunowo, the National Chairman, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group (AATSG). He speaks with OYENIRAN APATA and EJIKEME OMENAZU on the efforts of his group in its resolve to help enthrone Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the country’s next president, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: Could you explain the interest in the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu? We have had many candidates that have contested presidential elections in Nigeria. This is a different kind of candidate. He is a man of promise, who has done a template that no other Nigerian has been able to match. He is a human capital developer and the most destabilised Nigerian who single handily bridged the gap between the South and the North with the merger of ACN, CPC and some other political parties. The ACN and Tinubu came on board the APC arrangements with seven governors, while the others came with one each. Even at that, the ACN conceded the presidency to President Muhammadu Buhari so as to bridge the North South distrust on the very special understanding as some other leaders will not, as politics is a game of numbers and advantage. Believe me, Tinubu is a true leader of leaders. I believe that at this point in time in the history of Nigeria, we need someone like him that will refocus, redirect and harness all the opportunities in this country. I also believe that with Tinubu, our party, the APC will not make a mistake. How would you describe your dream for Nigeria? My dream for Nigeria is clear. All we are all asking for is a good, equitable country, a country that will support the efforts and dreams of all Nigerian youths. So, why should we not ask for a better country that rewards hard work, a country that is secure, that will provide job opportunities and 24 hours power for people who do not know anyone? It should be a meritorious society. These dreams can be achieved under the presidency of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. How do you see the issue of insecurity now ravaging the country? The issue of insecurity in the country is very daunting. This is because the current government has done a lot in this regard. But, it seems that nothing has been achieved as it appears to be escalating. You are very close to your principal, Asiwaju Tinubu. What would you say are his plans towards solving the issue of insecurity? POLL What I believe he will do is to engage with all the communities that have security challenges so that they can jointly proffer a lasting solution. We believe that Tinubu alone cannot solve all the problems in Nigeria, but he will engage Nigerians so that together we can find permanent solutions that can be implemented in a timely manner. What is your take on women participation in politics and governance? For women participation in politics, we are requesting for the support of all women in Nigeria to demand for 45 per cent of women representation. Come 2023, we at AATSG are appealing to all the political parties to give a quota of 45 per cent to Nigerian women. We are also requesting for the first female Vice President in Nigeria. In addition to that, we are requesting for at least 20 percent per cent female governors and deputy governors come 2023. It is an issue that we cannot compromise. The country should be fair to Nigerian women. What would you say is the objective of your group, AATSG? We have the mandate to mobilise 50 million voters for our principal, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu (AAT), during the coming election. In order to achieve this, we have created structures across the 37 states, 774 local governments, 8812 wards and 145, 000 polling units. The objective is simple. A lot of people do not know much about the man, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. There has been a lot of conflicting issues. He left office over 20 years ago and his template is still in use. If someone has achieved such feat, I believe the right thing to do is to allow him come and put a template for Nigeria. There is so much complains going on in the country despite the fact that Nigeria is the most blessed country that I know. There is no place like Nigeria. The culture, the people everything about Nigeria is perfect. All we need is a more purposeful leadership. I am not saying that other leaders have not done well. They have done their best. But, right now, Nigeria needs more and that person is Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. The group is not a one-off group for election. We will constantly engage with the government to ensure that all the promises made are met. Also, when the government is not doing well, we call its attention to it. We will provide a steady flow of information to those in government, which presently many of them are lacking. People around government always tell them what they want to hear. But, we will ensure that the government gets the raw unadulterated information and we will also see to its implementation. There is presently a disconnect between the party, APC, and the people at the grassroots level. This is dangerous for the party. So, we have started galvanising it. How widespread and nationwide would you say your structure is to ensure the victory of your principal, Tinubu? We have inaugurated the South West. Their structure, from state to polling units, has been created and they have already started work. We have also done so in the North East. We will advance to South South very soon. We will also be inaugurating the North Central in Abuja and the North West in Kano. Immediately after Ramadan, we also will be launching the Jagaban Mobile App on May 1, 2022 at the National Convention centre. With all these in play, we hope to galvanise and cement the relationship across Nigeria. Considering the age of your principal, how do you see the clamour of young people for leadership? Age has nothing to do with performance. Asiwaju Tinibu is one person that has outperformed others in everything he does. In order for him to run an effective government, he needs 90 Senators, 360 House of Representatives members, about 37 Ministers, with over 200 parastatals. The youths should embrace leaning to understand the way it is. Governance is not as easy as people perceive it. When one is in office, you begin to understand the seriousness of the job, the responsibility of the job and all. With the antecedents of Tinubu he loves to empower youths. But, the youth must have capacity. If you look at the team he has built over the years, I have not seen anyone who has built such a team. He does not believe in religion or tribe when it comes to deliverables, but performance. I have also seen him proffer solutions to issues that others were not thinking about. For instance, when he was in government as a governor at that point in time, he decided to provide power in Lagos State and the Federal Government shut it down. The Federal Government refused to give him his monthly allocation for three years and nobody in Lagos knew that a thing like that had happened. He brought the revenue of Lagos from N300million to N46 billion. Lagos is there to show his good works. It all has to do with someone that thinks and has the strategy and the eyes to identify talents and purposeful leaders. See the retina of powerful leaders from his political tutelage. Could you throw light on the organisation’s mobile App, ‘JAGABAN’? Because information dissemination is the key part of engaging the youths in the narratives, we in AATSG have come to realise that we need to harness all the information flowing around in a purposeful and timely manner so that we can have a good delivery process, hence we intend to launch JAGABAN on May 1 2022. The mobile App JAGABAN will follow all the campaigns and provide information accurately in a timely manner. We will provide information on all the promises in areas that can be referred to years after now and also create an avenue for people who have the App to engage their elected candidates so that we can curb the case of ‘After election, you cannot reach out to them again’. The App is also designed for the signing on of registered voters who need to support independent candidates by providing such information and referring it to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) securely in a timely manner. With this App, you can constantly interact with your elected candidates. All we need is the elected candidate to also download the App. The number needed to disseminate the information is from 10-15 million people to buy into the concept. Then, we are going somewhere.