ASABA – The Dein of Agbor kingdom, Ika South Local Government Area, Delta State, HRM, Dr Benjamin Keagborekuzi 1, has warnedd members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to guard against bitter rivalry and bloodshed in the build up and during the 2023 general election. The Monarch gave the advice when the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Felix Morka on the occasion of the grand reception in honour of the latter in Agbor. He emphasized that Nigeria is in dire need of good leadership that would revive the country’s dwindling economy. According to him “I will leave with saying please, both parties, remember that we are all one people and Nigerians that have friends that cut across both parties. Both ways, PDP are not your enemies, APC are not your enemies. Please let’s take Nigeria to the next level; let’s take Nigeria forward. “At the end of the day, what we are looking for is peace; what we are looking for is development, I know that we can have it. If the United States of America has decided that its largest consulate that they are going to build in the world is going to be in Nigeria, it means that throughout all the turbulence, the USA has confidence in this country, has confidence in Nigeria. And, it is your time as a party that that has happened. “We must bring back peace, because it’s that peace we will use to invigorate and bring business back to this country, which we desperately need right now. “Whether the APC or PDP, we want to take the country forward; but we don’t need guns, we don’t need the violence. Please bring in your brain power to take this country to the next level.” POLL On his part, Omo-Agege said that he could not sneak into his domain without paying the monarch homage as his mooted that his declaration for the state governorship seat in 2023 last Thursday, had rattled the PDP. “They don’t want the truth told to the people; they are unhappy for saying the bitter truth. Okowa has not been able to sleep since I told the people the truth,” he said. He described Felix Morka as a worthy son of Ika-land and a committed member of the APC whose membership of the party’s National Executive Council, NEC, would strengthen the influence of Delta State and the South-South geopolitical zone. He noted that the reception for Morka was another epoch event highliting the rising profile of Agbor people and the Ika nation in general. In his remarks, Morka expressed gratitude to the people of Ika federal constituency for organizing the reception in his honour and commended Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi and several sons and daughters of the Ika ethnic nationality, Deltans other South-South leaders who tirelessly worked behind the scene to ensure that he was successful at the March national convention of the APC.