All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has enjoined young people to no longer lament the past but brace to work for a new nation that would have limitless opportunities and possibilities. The youths, Tinubu said, must eschew politics of bitterness and disunity, urging them to lend themselves to projects initiated to change the story of the nation for good. A movement of youths across the Southwest region, on Saturday, took a powerful stand ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primaries slated for next month. The young people, in their thousands, converged on Lagos State to endorse the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Tinubu. The Mobolaji Johnson Sports Arena in Onikan was filled to the brim as a mammoth crowd of youths under the aegis of Progressive Youth of South-West declared and pledged their support for Tinubu, whom they described as “contender with clear vision and high capacity”. Addressing the youths, Tinubu said: “I am here, not for myself, but for you and our collective future which our youths represent. We feel your anger whenever you are angry; I will never blame you for that. “The promises of the past have not done enough to help you build a future from the onset. But, I disagree with the excuses that we cannot help it; we can help it. “All you need is courage, determination and perseverance. You must develop the can-do attitude; you must have the grit and determination to change the story of poverty and banditry. “We cannot continue the lamentation of the past. We have to brace up for new Nigeria. You have to be ready for the task ahead. If you have no voter card, go and get it. If you have it, go for revalidation of your card. You cannot be part of 1.4 billion youths using Instagram and have no PVC to vote. POLL “The youths are the reason why I am here to contest. I want to be president for you all; commit yourselves to this project and drive me there.” Governor Babajide Sanwo- Olu gave a hint on what the youths should expect when Tinubu is elected president, noting that the APC leader had been a passionate supporter of youths. Aside from giving opportunities to youths to flourish in their areas of activities, the Governor said young people would be part of the major drivers of the Tinubu presidency. Sanwo-Olu, accompanied by his Deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, and other cabinet members, gave a thumbs up to the conveners for what he called “an overwhelming support” shown at the rally. The massive crowd, the Governor said, was an indication of the firm belief in the competence and capability of Tinubu to lead in the next political dispensation. The Governor said: “I thank our teeming youths across the Southwest for coming to declare this overwhelming support and endorsement for your great leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to become the next president.