The Federal Government has commended Green Sahara Farms (GSF) for its commitment to reviving deforested areas in the country. The Minister of State Environment, Barrister Sharon Ikeazor via her Twitter handle (@sharon_ikeazor) commended the Green Sahara Farms for its efforts and activities towards the regeneration of landscapes It would be recalled that Nigeria is said to have lost 96 per cent of her primary forest leading to desertification, loss of ecosystem, loss of biodiversity, degradation, soil erosion, and loss of livelihoods, among others. The minister commended GSF for reviving the deforested areas in the country through “the living people’s lab Nigeria.” The Green Tree Thrift project is a component of its Green Sahara Revolution in partnership with Reforest Action of France. It would be recalled that the Prince of Whales and Circular Bio-economy Alliance also recently acknowledged the GSF for committing to implementing the Environment, Social and Governance Principles (ESG). The GSF over the past 10years has been working in Plateau, Nassarawa, Yobe and Kastina States to regenerate the deforested areas. It has ensured that they improve the environment where they grow crops rather than deplete it through indiscriminate farming techniques. POLL The Managing Director of the GSF, Suleiman Dikwa, stated that in its reforestation effort, the Farm has been working with the Circular Bio-economy Alliance (CBA) to further propagate the regeneration of forests in the country. Dikwa while speaking to newsmen in Abuja, said in 2021, the Organisation had planted 250,000 economic trees in the communities where they are working, adding that their plan is to plant 25million trees and lift about 84,000 people out of poverty. According to him, “Due to our commitment to ESG, the purpose of the operation is not only limited to making profit but also impacting the environment. “ He said: “Under the ESG, the farmers get more value for their crops and the environment is more protected. “In essence, we are making a commitment to pay our workers well, treat the farmers better.” Dikwa stated that with Green Tree Thrift Programme, farmers can earn a minimum of an N3million annually through the planting of economic trees, as GSF has been providing each household in the communities where they work with 300 nurseries to plant trees. On how people can earn a minimum of N3 million yearly from planting trees, Dikwa explained a cashew tree produces a minimum of 20kg of fruit per tree, when multiplied by 300 trees, it gives six tonnes. He said a tonne of cashew in the local market sells for N500,000, when multiplied by six tonnes, it gives N3 million if farmers are assisted to export, adding that the price is a minimum of $1,380.