It was an all-inclusive celebration as the prestigious Mega Event Center, located along Orchid Road, Lekki, Lagos went aglow last Sunday. T he indefatigable Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of PWAN Plus, who also doubles as the Managing Director of the mother company of Property World Africa Network (PWAN Homes), Amb. Dr Julius Oyedemi had set the day aside for a triple celebration. The firm’s fifth anniversary coincides with Dr Julius’ birthday and he chose the same day to honour the President/CEO of PWAN Group, Dr. Mrs Jayne Obioma Onwumere, who became one of the ‘100 Eko Women recently decorated by the Lagos State Governor, during the International Women’s Day. Aptly described as a three-in one-celebration of success, achievement and greatness, the event came across as a melting pot of cultures and entrepreneurial excellence, featuring dignitaries whose exemplary mentorship and pioneer roles in the real estate sector set them apart as champions of ethnic tolerance, genuine love and national cohesion. Ooni’s Escape From Deadly Bee Attack By the way, did you ever know that His Imperial Majesty, the Ooni of Ile Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, played a pace-setting role in real estate development in the burgeoning Lekki axis of Lagos and that he almost lost his life along the line? Ojaja II told the story himself. He said: “On this specific property we are, I can remember vividly several years ago. I was a young upcoming man, trying to make ends meet and never will take no for an answer. 23 years ago, we used to kill reptiles, pythons and very wild animals everywhere in this place we are seeing. Today, you can see the beauty of growth and development. But I will never forget. About 20 years ago, I almost lost my life here. Something very terrible happened to me. I left the house, used perfume and came here trying to look for a pathway, at least to get in, to do groundbreaking in the large expanse of land you are seeing behind this place. There was no access road, it was all jungle. POLL I saw one man who built a house in the middle of nowhere; it was an uncompleted building. Lo and behold I entered into that jungle, very fearless. Guess what happened to me. Bees, very wild bees started stinging me. I lost consciousness that day, I was rushed out of that place to the hospital. I never knew that bees usually react to perfumes. They are kind of attracted anytime they sense any person wearing perfume. But look at it today, I came out of unconsciousness, got back to my feet, and said I will not give up until we find a proper route to link, about six kilometres of road from Lafiaji village to Okun Ajah. I was the first person to bring bulldozers to clear this road in 2003, 2004 to 2005. His Majesty’s Journey In Real Estate “I started at a very tender age and was privy to the huge development that happened along this Lekki Peninsular up to Ibeju-Lekki. I did the clearing of Dangote Refinery. I did the clearing and sand filling of the Free Trade Zone and I did the clearing of the Deep Sea Port. Someday, about 12 or 13 years ago, I sat down and looked at the large landmass and told some people that what is coming to this Peninsular is more than 20 billion Dollars. If you are smart, this is a corridor where a lot of things will completely be turned around. A lot of people couldn’t see the vision then. Thank God for PWAN that saw the vision in terms of management and sales. I said that a lot of millionaires and billionaires will be emerging from what has happened along this corridor. I am very sure your company, the PWAN Group, benefitted from that capital venture along this corridor. I am very grateful for all the great things you have done as far as real estate is concerned.” Royal Kudos To The Onwumeres The Ooni continued: “We have heard very touching stories from the celebrant and the Chairman of Property World Africa Network (PWAN Group), Dr Augustine Onwumere. I am not going to bore you, because it is a very wonderful evening of celebration. But truth be told; I want every one of us to listen very carefully. Just look at somebody close to you and tell that person with your mouth that ‘I don’t know what the future holds, but I will leave a legacy in this world before I leave.’ We have heard very touching stories today, my story too, I can go on and on. I thank every, one that is here. Thank you for your support, and thank you for all that you do in terms of prayers. Dr Julius is very dear to my heart. He is indeed a son, who I am very well pleased with. The reason he has touched me this much is the absolute loyalty that he carries. ‘Revolution Plus mentioned that earlier. It’s true. Loyalty can take you anywhere in the world. I want to implore every one of us. In life, make sure that we stand for something. Let people know you for something; very important. Several times, I have called Julius and said what’s up? And what he said touched me so very well. You can do beyond what you are doing; and he said ‘Kabiyesi, I will never forget my mentor who gave me that upliftment. I am not part of the tribe, I am married to a lady in the tribe, and I have an affiliate within the tribe. But yes, I am very committed to the course of PWAN Group. Don’t worry Kabiyesi, let us continue to grow it organically within your spheres’. And I would look at him and tell him “This is very magmatic and the very pride in that is someday I will meet that your socalled boss, the powerful Chairman of PWAN Group. Today, I have met you. I have been hearing so much about you,” the Kabiyesi added. You probably may not know that billionaire real estate moguls and visionaries of the world’s first company to introduce network marketing business models in the real estate sector, Dr. Augustine Ozioma Onwumere and his lively wife, Dr. Jayne Ozioma Onwumere, were homeless, jobless and poor. Today, the couple has become synonymous with making home ownership dreams easy for all. They have, in the course of doing business, been empowering people, and made millionaires out of ordinary Nigerians. However, one thing will sunrise you. They had a very humble beginning. Triumph Over Homelessness Hear Dr. Augustune: “In a gathering like this, it is only right and necessary to let our distinguished guests get the story of the PWAN Group, first-hand. Ten years ago, my wife, Dr. Jayne Onwumere, and I were jobless, very poor and homeless. We had no choice but to squat with my wife’s relations in the fast-developing Ajah axis of Lagos State. Within two and half years, we lived in 13 places. Sometimes, passed the night in the open air like every other destitute. At the peak of our distress, we needed to raise N300,000 to rent a roof over our head. One day, we attended the International Full Gospel Businessmen Fellowship. During that fellowship, I came across a flyer that was marketing real estate in the Ibeju-Lekki area. On our way going back home, I drew my wife’s attention to the message in the flyer. It turned out that she had also picked one of the flyers. And having found it interesting, we decided to approach the owners of the property, with a request to market some acres of land for them at our price. The owners, a couple, consented. Of course, we had no money at that time to rent an office space. But a friendly restaurant operator allowed us to put a table and two chairs at one corner of the bar, which became our emergency office, in the Oko-Ado area of Sangotedo. We then printed flyers with our prices, and settled for business. From 6am to 5pm every day, I shared flyers from Ajah, Asapa London, Ikate, Lekki Phase 1, up to Victoria Island and Ikoyi. At the end of the day, I would go back to the restaurant. A deluge of calls would come in and my wife would respond to calls from people who expressed interest in the properties we were marketing. At first, we organised inspection tours for the prospects to see the properties. However, those efforts never translated to sales. Hence, we went back to the drawing board, to find out why the prospects weren’t buying the lands despite huge interest. It dawned on us that people were finding it difficult to make outright payments. We had to print another set of flyers. This time around, we put the prospects on a one-year instalment payment plan. And our bank account began to bubble with credit alerts. We closed several deals running into millions of naira; in the process, we were able to afford a roof over our head.” Gratitude To Esteemed Guests Earlier, the doyen of real estate had poured out his gratitude to all the royal fathers and other distinguished guests that carved out the time to grace the celebration. “The Executive Governor of Lagos State, Our amiable Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, ably represented by the Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Housing, Honourable Toke Benson. The Royal Father of the day, His Imperial Majesty, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II. I must say that I consider this a rare privilege that you carved out time to grace this occasion. Thank you so very much for your royal presence. I am equally grateful to the Host Royal Father, the Oba of Lagos, His Royal Highness, Oba Rilwan Babatunde Akiolu. It will be an understatement to say that Lagos State is one of the most hospitable States in Nigeria. It is indeed the most hospitable and receptive state in the country. Please accept my gratitude for shining the torchlight; and for preserving the cultural values of the good people of Lagos State, Dr. Augustine noted. “My deep gratitude also goes to His Royal Highness, Oba Adeogun Ogunbona Joseph, the OluIgbore of Igbore, Egbaland. Your Highness, you are indeed highly welcome. I equally appreciate the presence of Oba Ifeguwa of life for gracing this August occasion. May I also recognise the presence of the Managing Directors/Chief Executive Officers of all PWAN Group affiliate companies here present; our faithful clients who travelled from different parts of the globe to be part of this celebration, friends and relations, PWAN Business Owners, members of the press, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you all heartily. I am elated and deeply appreciate the presence of this distinguished array of top government functionaries, Royal Fathers, traditional rulers, real estate personalities, captains of industries and special dignitaries who have come to make the fifth anniversary of PWAN Plus Business Concerns Ltd a momentous event.