Nigerians have reacted to the reports of the Nollywood actor, Yul Edochie, having another child and marrying a new wife, declaring him unfit to be a presidential aspirant. Recall that the actor via his Instagram page who announced the existence of his son by his second wife, Judy Austin on Wednesday had declared intention to run for the 2023 presidential race. However, this news didn’t sit well with Nigerians who held him in high regards and were in support of his political ambition to be the next president in 2023. Here are some of the reactions gathered from the actor’s Instagram page; @stella.chika.5 wrote, “I knew you relationship with that woman Judy wasn’t a usual colleague to colleague one, hmm Yul you really fall my hand. Anyways, all the best to the handsome boy.” @iricialmary4 wrote, “ Did your father married 2 wives?” @chukwuebuka wrote, “Thought you a man but hell no { second wife wey u impregnate before paying her bride price } meaning You cheated on your long beautiful wife. Incoming Nigeria President indeed.” @uncurvad wrote, “That’s not true . You cheated and it resulted to pregnancy , because the said lady wanted to get pregnant for another woman’s husband. Then you decided to make her a second wife ..it started from you cheating. So get that very clear. You will still cheat on her because she’s not the first you cheated with and can never be last. You do not have the moral right to lead the youth or country.” POLL @nibanakana wrote, “By the time you become President — na thousand wives we go do count.” @dunmayo wrote, “Our incoming president. Ordinary 411/ home front you embarass us. If we now hand over Nigeria to you all women no go rest. This is damage control proper before you are exposed. May the Lord be with your wife and kids and hope they take this with good heart.” @mor4love wrote, “You have failed us that always fight for you and brag with your name! This one mbaaaa! Now my respect to your dad Ebubedike has doubled! You no be like am enjoy o make I go rest.” @kefas_gyang_pam124 wrote, “Are you still in the race for the presidency back out? Because I don’t see you campaigning.” @sharon_bentleyluxury wrote, “Ok you didn’t use Mir condom mr President congratulations.”