The Executive Director/CEO, National Film and Video Censors Board(NFVCB), Alhaji Adedayo Thomas has hinted that the board received and censored a total number of 541 movies produced by the Nigerian film industry in the first quarter of the year 2022. He made this known in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja. According to him, the figure was made available by the Department of Film Censorship and Classification of the board in its First Quarter Report for the year, which captured all films submitted to the board from across the country. The report is for onward submission to the relevant Federal Government authority for the compilation of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the first quarter (GDP) Q1, 2022. The first quarter report indicates a sharp increase in the number of movies produced from 382 in the last quarter of 2021 to 541, representing 42 percent increase. “We are happy th the industry is beginning the year on a good note as indicated in the increase in the numbers of films that the board received for censorship and approval in the first quarter. “There is no doubt that our film industry is a key contributor to national economy as the films being produced is a clearly reflection of the direct and indirect jobs the sector is creating. “NFVCB as Federal Government agency is committed to providing enabling environment for filmmakers, we therefore urge them cooperate with us my ensuring that they submit their films for classification,”he said POLL According to the statement, Lagos State has the highest number of movies produced for the period with 179, while Abuja followed with 164 movies and Onitsha is behind with 121 movies. The analysis by censorship location further shows that Kano has 42, while Port Harcourt is 26, as Jos and Benin recorded six and three movies respectively for the period under review. NFVCB is a Federal Government body that regulates the films and video industry in Nigeria. The Board is empowered by law to classify all films and videos whether imported or produced locally. It is also the duty of the Board to register all films and videos outlet across the country and to keep a register of such registered outlets among other functions.