The international break was dominated by various reports about the long-term future of Serge Gnabry at Bayern Munich. The German winger is yet to find an agreement with the club after talks started early in the season. The long-drawn contract talks have also raised doubts about Gnabry’s future in Bavaria. Gnabry’s current deal is set to expire at the end of next season. Die Roten would like to extend the current deal to make sure that Gnabry spends the peak of his career at the club. However, there has been an impasse in talks due to the wage demands of the forward. According to TZ (via iMiaSanMia), Gnabry is in no rush to make a final decision about the contract extension. The German winger and his representatives are fine with waiting until the end of this year to decide his future in Bavaria. Gnabry’s deliberation will not be fine for Rekordmeister. The Bavarian club will be in danger of missing out on another good player for nothing if they don’t reach an agreement with Gnabry for a new deal. Die Roten will ideally like a resolution to the negotiations one way or the other before the end of the summer transfer window. Meanwhile, SportBild’s Christian Falk has revealed the demands of Serge Gnabry for a new deal. The German winger is looking for an annual wage packet worth €18-20 million. The Bavarian club has currently offered him €15 million/year. Gnabry will be looking to find the parity with the wages of Leroy Sane and Kingsley Coman. Die Roten has shown a strong resolve in contract negotiations over the last 18 months. They didn’t agree to the astronomical wage demands of David Alaba. The Austrian defender ended up leaving the club on a free transfer in the last summer transfer window. In an ideal scenario, Rekordmeister will be hoping that they find a positive end to negotiations with Gnabry as they did with Coman in January. The French winger was expected to leave after an impasse in talks during summer last year. However, the two parties managed to find a quick resolution at the start of the window.