Mosques and faith leaders from across the UK have condemned an Islamophobic attack that took place outside an East Ham mosque in the capital London on Tuesday this week. Two worshippers were injured by physical assaults as Muslims gathered to break their fast during the holy month of Ramadan in the Sri Lankan Muslim Centre in east London. The attack was captured on CCTV, and was carried out by a group of white European assailants carrying glass objects, sticks and stones. Eyewitnesses reported a group of around 15 white men gathered on a street before they committed the assaults and fled before the police arrived. Footage showed what appeared to be a teenage boy kicking someone squarely in the back before sprinting away. Some worshipers were treated for minor wounds caused by broken glass from the attack. Religious leaders across the city have spoken out in solidarity with the Muslim community in East Ham. “This is a clear #Islamophobic attack on worshippers during the month of #Ramadan which brings difficult memories to our community when a terrorist attack took place on our worshippers 5 years ago. Our thoughts and prayers are with those who got affected,” tweeted the Finsbury Park Mosque. POLL The UK Sikh Council said: “This shouldn’t be happening at all, let alone during festive periods. Please be vigilant & leave in groups,” fearing further possible aggression. However, no comment has yet been made by the mayor of London. No arrests have been made since the attack, despite multiple eyewitness accounts and footage of the incident. A police spokesperson said on Friday there will be extra patrols in the area, as well as a “proportionate policing plan” in place during Ramadan and Eid. The spokesperson also said that the Metropolitan police “do not believe the incident to be racially motivated”. There were more than 2,700 hate crimes against Muslims in the UK between March 2020 and March 2021, according to official statistics, accounting for nearly half of all hate crimes in the country.