JOS – A group christened, Renaissance Group for Better Nigeria, has alleged that there is a grand plot to frustrate the release of the former Governors of Plateau and Taraba States, Joshua Dariye and Jolly Nyame, as well as 152 others recently granted a pardon by the National Council of State (NCS). It would be recalled that the duo of Dariye, Nyame and others were recently granted pardon by the National Council of State on account of ill-health and other reasons. The group, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Jonathan Ibrahim and made available to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, expressed surprise and disappointment that weeks after the pardon by the National Council of State, nothing has been done to effect their release. According to the group, there should be no need for delaying their release since the pardon was granted by the highest decision making body in the country, adding that the decision of the body is to be executed on without much ado. “We are surprised that they are still been held and many Nigerians especially their loved ones are beginning to have the impression that they are still being held for certain political reasons which are not clear to many. “We are therefore calling on all relevant authorities especially the federal Ministry of Justice to do all that is required and necessary to facilitate their release to avoid unnecessary insinuation. “More so their political associates and families are eager and anxiously waiting for their arrival. “We equally learnt that since the pronouncement of their pardon, both friends, relations and associates have been trooping into Kuje prison to receive them. But often went back frustrated, this should not be the case, the decision of this apex body needs to be respected and acted upon with quick dispatch. POLL “In a democracy issue like this should not be delayed because keeping them longer than necessary means their fundamental human rights being trampled upon,” he said. He said, “The last we heard was that the person who was supposed to process the papers was out of the country for lesser hajji and now that the person is back there should be no room for delay anymore.” The group, therefore, appealed to the authority concerned especially, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General to expedite action on their release.