A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, Ben Mragbozo has stated that Hon. Chief Saturday Mofoye remains the best man for the Delta State House of Assembly, Udu Constituency seat in 2023. Mragbozo made this known when Hon. Chief Saturday Mofoye paid a consultative visit to the Elders and Leaders Forum of Udu Local Government Area at Olorogun Eddie Ono-Sorhue residence, Ogodogun Street, Ovwian, said he is the only aspirant with a rich manifesto. According to Mragbozo, the leading House of Assembly aspirant was able to mention roads and other needed development in Udu but “those that have been coming have just duel on rhetorics, no promise to do anything for Udu but Mofoye just told us now that we can communicate and work with him for the betterment of Udu”. He questioned how a representative attracted renovation of a block of three classrooms as the only project for Udu Ward 2 for eight years. “The Owhorode-Orhuwhorun road is like a project that is jinx, all efforts with the said representative to get the road constructed failed but Mofoye just mentioned the road as part of projects that he will lobby the executive arm to approve for construction within his first year in office. “Udu should be careful this time around and send their first eleven and not second eleven. We should know that after the primary, we are expected to face stiffer opposition. “The era of thinking that money can bulldoze the way is gone. It is now one man one vote, I know if given the party ticket, Mofoye will give the party the desired victory in the general election. “We need to send our first eleven for the general elections for Udu to get it right this time around. I think from all those that have come so far to declare their intentions, you remain the best”, he added. POLL Earlier, Chief Saturday Mofoye, in his speech, said the visit was to inform the elders and leaders of his intention to contest for a seat to represent Udu Constituency at the Delta State House of Assembly. Mofoye, immediate past Vice Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party in Udu LGA and immediate past Senior Special Assistant to the Delta State Governor on political matters, expressed willingness to serve his constituents at the State Assembly and make difference through better representation. According to him, as a grassroot politician, who knows the plights and needs of the Udu people, assured the elders that he will work with the executive arm of government to attract socio-economic, human capital and infrastructural development to Udu. He noted that with his achievements in Udu as a former councillor, he is more qualified among his contemporaries to represent Udu at the Delta State House of Assembly. “As a grassroot politician, I know my people as much as they know me, I feel their pains and marginalization. My aspiration is to bring true representation to them because I know what they need. “Today, I have come to request for you to send me to the State House of Assembly to make the difference through an effective representation and bring home what is due for our people through empowerment programmes for youths, women and others, notable infrastructural projects and other dividends of democracy which are needed by the Constituency”. “I seek the support and prayers from elders and leaders of the PDP in Udu in order for me to win the PDP primary election to represent the party in the general election”.