ABUJA – Critical stakeholders in the agricultural sector have blamed endemic corruption, poor implementation of policies and lack of synergy and coordination among institutions saddled with the responsibility of driving the agricultural sector to ensure self-sufficiency in food production and guarantee food security. In an exclusive interview with Sunday Independent on Saturday, National President of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Kabir Ibrahim, enumerated some factors responsible for the worsening food crisis in Nigeria. It would be recalled that international aid agencies, few days ago, raised the alarm that the West African sub-region, including Nigeria, was currently facing its worst food crisis in a decade, with 27 million people currently going hungry. In a statement, 11 major international organisations, including Oxfam, ALIMA, and Save the Children, among others, warned that the figure could even rise to 38 million by June. The global aid groups warned that unless urgent action was taken, the increase would mark “a new historic level”. Similarly, a recent report jointly issued by the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) and the World Food Programme (WFP) had also warned that acute food insecurity was likely to deteriorate further in Nigeria and 19 other countries, particularly between February and May 2022. The reality of hunger is also increasingly manifesting across parts of the continent. President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, estimates that about 250 million Africans live on an empty stomach daily. Reacting to the worsening food crisis in Nigeria, with its attendant high cost in the market, the National President of AFAN, Ibrahim, lamented that institutions in the agricultural space, including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), the National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA), and even the farmers are working at cross purposes, due to lack of synergy and coordination. According to him, “There are many reasons for the food shortage that brought about skyrocketing prices; chief of which are the following: lack of synergy among stakeholders in the Agriculture Space, including the CBN, FMARD, NALDA and even the farmers. “Poor Implementation of policies, low purchasing power of the Naira, poor relevant infrastructure such as transportation, power and energy – comprising fuels (petrol and diesel). POLL “Activities of unscrupulous middlemen and smugglers, lack of a functional commodity exchange and corruption.” Speaking on the solutions to the myriad of challenges confronting agricultural productivity and attainment of food security in the country, Ibrahim said: “We must ensure transparency and accountability in the implementation and sustainability of all agricultural policies. “There must be the desired synergy among all actors in the Agriculture Space, especially the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme. “The farmers should always be involved in the implementation of policies and should be reached through one umbrella which can be held accountable. “All research findings must be harnessed and adequate agricultural mechanization, as well as all relevant technology to bolster agriculture, should be embraced. “The food system – comprising production, processing, distribution and consumption – should be reappraised for sustainability.” It would be recalled that the cost of food in Nigeria increased to 17.13 per cent in January 2022, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The food inflation rate, which is a closely watched index, dropped to 17.11% in February 2022 from 17.13% recorded in the previous month. According to the NBS report, the highest increases in food prices were of bread and cereals, food product, potatoes, yam and other tubers, oils and fats, and fruit.