LAGOS – The Centre for Anti-Corrup­tion and Open Leadership (CACOL) has condemned the recent attack on the Abuja-Ka­duna rail line. Mr. Debo Adeniran, CACOL Chairman, in a statement signed by Tola Oresanwo, the group’s Director of Admin­istration and Programmes, recalled that eight passengers had died after gunmen attacked a busy train between Abuja and Kaduna. He noted that the terrorists mined the track, forcing the train, carrying 970 passengers to a stop last week Monday. He maintained that over the last few years, the situ­ation had pushed many to avoid the 150km (93-mile) jour­ney by road instead opting for the rail link, which opened in 2016. He stressed that although it had been more expensive, it was considered safer as the trains had armed guards on board. Adeniran stressed: “The recent attack on the rail line underscores the level of in­security in the country. We cannot forget in a hurry how the security of the Kaduna Airport was also breached and an attempt was made to attack the airport. “The recent happenings are new dimensions being added to the already battered security system in the country, and has raised so many questions look­ing for answers.” He asked: “What has hap­pened to the security votes of the states along that railway corridor? Nigerians would want to know how the gov­ernors of those states have applied the money allocated for security in their respective states. POLL “Have they set up local in­telligence gathering system to work with local vigilance groups with the view to sup­plying usable information to the security agencies to abort sinister plans of terrorists be­fore they become emergency? “The governor of Kaduna State is supposed to be the Chief Security Officer of the state. As long as he cannot guarantee the security of lives and properties of the people, it means he could not be entrusted with the security and welfare of citizens of the state. “That means that people’s lives and livelihoods have been exposed to jeopardy ab initio. And if we have to take Mr. El-Rufai by his words be­fore becoming the governor, it means he, like many other governors in the country, has demonstrated crass incom­petence in administering the state. “As long as Gov El-Rufai has confessed to know where the terrorists were camping he should route them out by any means possible, including hiring mercenaries as he has threatened. “Nigerians will stand by him and against anyone, agen­cy or institution that tries to constitute a clog in the wheel of his progress. “But, if he merely keeps lamenting, engaging in self-pity and does nothing about the de­bilitating situation, Nigerians will not pity him. “It only shows he is unable to carry out his statutory du­ties and he didn’t raise the alarm long before the tragedy happened, the next honourable thing he would have to do is throw in the towel.” Adeniran said the situation had made CACOL to wonder what happened to the annual huge budgetary allocation for military, paramilitary and oth­er security and defence agen­cies at the federal levels. He lamented why Kaduna State that had been the repos­itory of national security and defence headquarters, could easily be placed under siege by rag-tag army of terrorists.