IBADAN – The former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Alhaji (Chief) Kunmi Mustapha has said that the defection of members of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), led by the leader of the party in the State, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu to PDP on Tuesday indicated that the governor did not renege on his promises to members of ADC for inclusion and good governance. Governor Seyi Makinde had in the wake of the 2019 gubernatorial election promised a coalition of political parties that included ADC that he would fulfill all promises made during the coalition agreement meeting, which included the appointment of commissioners, Special Advisers, Chairmen and members of Commissions, Boards and Parastatals among members as well as the appointment of ADC members into the local government councils among other various political offices. Alhaji Mustapha in a press release he made available to journalists on Thursday at Ibadan, appreciated the ADC members, led by the former first female Senator in Oyo State for staying on course throughout the period of electioneering and her members’ support to the governor in promoting good governance in Oyo State. Kunmi who is the Special Adviser to the Governor on Inter-Party Affairs maintained that the defection was an outcome of myriads of consultations that had started since the beginning of the present administration. He saluted the efforts of the incumbent party Chairman, Hon. Dayo Ogungbenro, Party Leaders and Stakeholders across the State, especially for leading a party that has become a beautiful bride to many in the State through what he called the visible performance of Engr. Seyi Makinde. “We are grateful to the members of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) for staying the course since the beginning of this administration and also for contributing their own quotas to the growth of our dear State. They made the decision of defecting to PDP because they have realized that our governor is a God-fearing man that does not renege on his promises. “This is an act of paying back the good done to them by the Governor, who promised during the period we negotiated the coalition that he would integrate their members into his government at the State and local government levels, which he has done and continue doing, he deserves bigger applause. “We are blessed in Oyo State, which is the political seat of South-West politics, to have this future President of Nigeria as our Governor and Leader. Our elephant, Oyo State, is eating like a small rat in Nigerian politics. POLL “It has been our Sister State, Ogun State, in particular, that has been producing head and president of Nigeria at different times, in the name of South West. Governor Seyi Makinde will continue to salvage PDP in South West in particular. He fears no foe, no weapon fashioned against him shall prosper. He will continue to widely consult with Party Leaders and Stakeholders, most especially in Oyo State. “To all our party leaders and members across the State, I want to restate the stand of Governor Makinde that nobody should be intimidated by the fact that people are coming into our party, there is enough land for everybody to display leadership talents in Oyo State PDP, their coming will not only strengthen our party to win the second term election in Oyo State but also give us the needed fillip to snatch victory from APC-controlled federal government in 2023, Insha Allahu. “We are Praying that Almighty Allah continues to guide our National Working Committee, the National Executive Council and Board of Trustees in their decision makings at this crucial time,” he added.