KATSINA – Senator Abubakar Sadiq Yar’Adua, a governorship aspirant under the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Katsina State, Tuesday, described the present insecurity in the state, as a product of years of neglect of the poor who constitute over 90 percent of population of people of the state. He said if elected as Governor, he would lead the war against terrorism and other crimes in the state. “My aspiration to be Governor of our state is to lead the state Not to rule it. I am a courageous and bold, straight-talking, fearless and conscientious person with tremendous respect for authorities.” Yar’adua made this declaration during a press conference in Katsina shortly after notifying the state APC executives of his intention to join the 2023 State Governorship race. According to him, the poor in the state had suffered utter neglect by successive Governments, insisting that the development led to the security challenges being faced by the state. He also promised to create at least 100,000 direct and indirect jobs for the youths annually, as part of efforts to tackle insecurity in the state. The Governorship aspirant observed that Katsina State was in dire need of solutions to socio-economic problems which need the input of all. He, therefore, declared that “We need to quickly come to the rescue of our state and salvage it from its current security challenges and economic quagmire – both of which are results of decades of utter neglect of the teeming talakawas (the poor) that constitute more than 99% of our state’s population, by those who should serve them”. POLL “Most significantly, we plan to confront the current insecurity challenges head-on. Our people must not only be secured but must be seen to be and feel totally secure”. “We cannot idly stand by and watch criminals, bandits, insurgents, bigots and zealous terrorise innocent citizens, indiscriminately killing and mailing them as well as raping our women and girls and separating young babies from their babies. This is sheer criminality and is unacceptable to me as your Governor,” he said. Yar’adua added that he already had a blueprint of his work plan which he intends to implement the moment he is sworn in as the State Governor in 2023. He, however, solicited the support of the executives and other APC members to make his dreams of ruling the state become a reality in 2023.