IBADAN – Alhaji Hazeem Gbo­larunmi, a former Deputy Governor of Oyo State, the former deputy governor of Oyo Stat, has disclosed that he has purchased forms to run for the governorship of the state under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Gbolarunmi, who spoke to newsmen on Wednesday, said he had equally submitted the forms and was ready to take the mantle of leadership from Governor SEyi Makinde Ma­kinde come 2023 to move the state forward through provi­sion of adequate security and expansion of the state econ­omy among other meaning­ful and developmental pro­grammes. He berated Makinde over what he described as exces­sive borrowing and lack of respect for the wise advice of party members and leaders on how to move the state forward. Gbolarunmi, who spoke at his Bodija residence during the Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) stakeholders’ meet­ing, condemned Makinde’s alleged lack of respect for party elders and refusal to listen to leaders’ advice and those of members, stressing that the governor’s action had resulted in his adminis­tration’s failure. He said it was unfortunate that the MakInde had disap­pointed people that supported his candidature in 2019, main­taining that the governor had failed the party stakeholders in term of providing ade­quate security, free education, agricultural revolution, and provision of vibrant econo­my for the state. He said, “The governor has never been ready to pro­mote and nurture democratic ideals and traditions of the party on a sustainable basis. These can be corroborated by various reconciliatory teams that PDP national had set up at various times, sole­ly to address all the internal problems of the party in Oyo State. “However, the governor was mainly concerned on re­warding his former political party, SDP, and members of the party. This is not only an­ti-party action, but display of poor leadership actions. “Appointments of anyone outside PDP would have been justified if there are no qual­ified and competent alterna­tives in PDP, and if those ap­pointed by the governor had performed up to or beyond expectations, in their various positions of responsibilities. POLL “As it is now in Oyo State, the governor has re-intro­duced the past mistakes, which are politics of winners-take-all, and losers lose all, as well as politics of exclusion and cash and carry.”