Voices urging former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, to shelve his presidential ambition became more strident after Peter Obi Support Network (POSN), a coalition of interests and individuals supporting the presidential aspiration of the former Anambra State governor, called on the former number two man to support zoning and his running mate in 2019. POSN asked Atiku to, instead, play the role of a statesman and father of representative democracy by supporting the zoning of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, ticket to the South and backing Obi, to boot. Earlier in the week, the National Leader of the PDP, Chief Bode George, told the party not to remain silent on the zoning matter asking that the presidential ticket of the party should go to the South. But POSN made its call via a letter submitted to Wadata Plaza, Abuja, headquarters of PDP, with copies and official acknowledgement of its being received by secretariat officials sent to POSN’s Kwara State branch, Ilorin. According to the letter obtained by the newspaper’s state bureau, POSN urged Atiku to “seize the moment and show again the leadership demonstrated in 2019”. POSN recalled that the former VP, by their reckoning, rose above primordial considerations to choose Peter Obi as the PDP Vice-Presidential Candidate. “It was an action that got the entire country “Atikulated and Obiligated”, the group said. “The Atiku/Obi 2019 ticket has gone down in history as Nigeria’s most inspiring presidential ticket of all time, which in our view was an unfairly denied victory. POLL The group reminded Atiku that zoning is fundamental to the party. “As the founding member and leader of our party, PDP, we have no doubt that you are conversant with our party’s tradition and constitutional provision on ‘rotation and zoning”, which in section 7(2)(c) states that ‘in pursuant of the principles of equity, justice, and fairness, the party shall adhere to the policy of rotation and zoning of the party and public elective offices and it shall be enforced by the appropriate Executive Committees at all levels’. “The above-mentioned traditions and constitutional provisions were the reasons the PDP Convention for the 2019 Presidential Primary was an all-northern affair. The APC did the same, and we had a North vs. North (Atiku vs. Buhari) election in 2019,” the group stated in its letter. They further argued that Atiku stepping down and supporting Peter Obi will not only save PDP and Nigeria, but also ensure that the Atiku/Obi ticket of 2019, which according to POSN, Nigerians missed is returned to power in 2023. “You had first-hand insight into Obi’s competence, and this need not be reiterated,” POSN said.