*Advises APC On Transparent Primaries MAKURDI – Herman Hembe, member representing, Vandeikya/Konshisha Federal Constituency of Benue State at the House of Representatives (HoR) has alleged that the recent increase in cases of insecurity, particularly the recent train attack, may likely be acts of sabotage. He also warned the All Progressives Party (APC) to ensure that it conducts transparent and credible elections, if it intends to win the 2023 elections. Hembe disclosed this while speaking with newsmen in Makurdi last weekend, shortly after briefing the State Executive Council (SEC) of the pay in Benue state on his intention to vie for the position of Governor, come 2023. He stressed that if the APC failed to conduct free and fair primaries, anything to the contrary may spell doom for the APC. The lawmaker said, “I hope the party will live by its word and conduct primary processes that are transparent and give the people fair opportunity to compete. “When such a thing is done, you’re sure that people who emerge from such processes are popular and are the ones who will be desirable and get a lot of votes from the people at the general election. “Anything short of that will spell chaos and doom for any political party because the people are the final judge. You can do whatever you like in a political party but the people are the final judge as to who occupies what political office.” POLL On the security situation in the county, Hembe who described the state of insecurity as “a mess”, noted that the incidents may be acts of sabotage. While he observed that some of the incidents were political, he argued that other political parties may take advantage of the insecurity to gain an upper hand over the APC during the 2023 elections. His words: “Security in this country is becoming a mess and I think that there are people in this country who are deliberately out to sabotage this government. “You will also notice that as we are drawing closer to elections, the state of killings and destruction have increased; look at the Kaduna train bombing; I think some of these things you cannot separate politics from it. “People understand that if you sabotage the APC now, other political parties may have advantage as we are getting to the general electioneering season. “These things weren’t this much before now, but a month to the primaries..; a train bomb blast and I think it requires for government to step up, because I think these saboteurs will be seeking to do more damage so that they can create the impression in the minds of people that the APC Government is not competent to handle the security of this country and suggest that people should vote us (APC) out by attempting to sabotage the government of the APC by doing dastard acts. “I’m not saying it necessarily has to be, but it is suspect that these things are happening all of a sudden at the twilight of elections.” Asked how he would tackle the state of insecurity in Benue state, he explained that “I think the problem of this country is not the political party; it is the political will of those holding offices to do what is right and needed for us to experience peace. “I think the opportunity to make things better in this country exists and it’s not about the political party but about the political will.”, he stated On what he would do differently, if elected Governor, Hembe said, “I want to bring something that is different to the table. We want to bring back development to Benue state. We want to reintroduce physical development and other things which a government responsible to its people should do.”, he said.