In the 1970s, Late S.M.O. Aka, as an author became very popular among secondary school students for his English Language text­books, one of which dwells on how to write essays. And one of the essays, which I can­not remember vividly, has this intro­duction thus, “Life is full of ups and downs, joys and sorrows.” Though, as a secondary school stu­dent then, I never read any meaning to this statement, but realize now that it is a life truism. In truth, life is full of ups and downs, joys and sorrows. But surprisingly joys and sorrows are like Siamese twins that travel the path of life together most of the time, if not all the time. This is why, while some people are jubilating, others will be mourning. The sad part of this sce­nario is that in most cases, someone’s misfortune is always another man’s joy. Let’s consider what happened in Abuja on Tuesday evening against the backdrop of the above. While Nigeri­ans are ruing the failure of the Super Eagles to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, Ghanaians are in joyful mood, celebrating qualifying for the tournament at Nigeria’s expense. The import of the World Cup miss is so huge that it cannot be quantified in monetary terms. From the players, to the media, football officials, the gov­ernment, industries that depend to a great extent of football in the country have all been thrown into quandary, or into state of confusion. Analysing the implication of the failure, the players are the biggest casu­alties. The World Cup is about players. They are not only the main actors, but also the only actors. Coaches, the ref­erees, doctors, are all supporting staff. For failing to qualify, Nigerian players have missed a great opportunity of exhibiting their talents at the global stage. Those who would have used the opportunity of securing lucrative con­tracts with other clubs have also lost it. What of the allowances they will get for representing their country? After players, the media is the next most ad­versely affected. If care is not taken, several of the all sports papers in the country may shut down. The coaches are also not left out, as the experiences they would have garnered are all lost. The $12 million from FIFA that would have been injected into the country’s economy, even if the Super Eagles crashed out at the group stage, is lost. We should not dwell less on the implication but more on the cause, so as to guide against such in the future. When former Nigeria Football Federa­tion president, Alhaji Ibrahim Galadi­ma, said in 2006 after the country failed to qualify for the 2006 World Cup that qualification for the World Cup was not ‘our birthright’ he was crucified, abused and insulted. In fact, it was this statement that ensured that he was hounded out of the Glass House. POLL What we failed to realize then was that qualifying for the World Cup is truly not our birthright. It is a tourna­ment that over 50 African vie for just five slots. It means it’s not an event you believe is there for you for you taking but one that you adequately prepare for. It is project that requires proper planning and implementation by en­suring all details are attended to. Since qualifying for the last three editions, we relapsed into our cocoon believing that the ticket is there for us for the tak­en. We had this attitude that whether we play well or not, Nigeria will always qualify for the World Cup, forgetting that other African countries are not relenting in their bid to qualify for the World Cup. Now that Ghana has woken us from our lackadaisical atti­tude towards football administration, I think we will learn from it. It is this un-care free attitude that is responsible for the many decisions taken without thoroughly analyzing the negative impact of such on Super Eagles qualification bid. Now that the chicken has come to roost, we are now crying. The worst of such decisions is the relegation of the development of the Nigeria Professional Football League to the background. In truth, the league exists only on paper. We don’t have a football league worth its name. We’ve elevated the Super Eagles to be Ni­gerian football, when in truth, the Super Eagles, are just a microcosm of Nigerian football. We should note that Nigerian football comprises of the various men and women leagues, the amateur leagues inclusive. But have we pay any serious attention to the domestic leagues? Of course no. The NPFL has no sponsor(s); no regular calendar; players’ welfare is none ex­istent; the ownership structure of the football clubs is the biggest problem plaguing the league. But the NFF is not ready to do any­thing towards solving this problem. Nigeria is the only country in the world that I know, where state gover­nors owe football clubs. The NFF looks the other way pretending as if all is well with the football clubs when in truth there is no football club in the true sense of it in Nigeria. These various leagues, which should be conveyor belt of talents for the Super Eagles and the Super Fal­cons, are not. The domestic leagues cannot perform this role because they exist, as I said earlier, on paper. Because the leagues cannot churn out talents for the Super Eagles, we now result into scouting for players of Nigerian descent in Europe. We now rely on foreign leagues to help develop players we need for the Super Eagles. What a shame. And this is happening in a country with an estimated popu­lation of over 180 million. We should remind ourselves that Clemence Westerhof success as Super Eagles coach in the 1990s was largely due to the league that never failed in churning out talents. The likes of Dan­iel Amokache, Emmanuel Amuneke, Finidi George, Sunday Oliseh, Fri­day Elaho, Uche Okechukwu, just to  mention a few, were all products of the domestic league. But today, one can hardly get a player from the league to play for the Super Eagles. Why Amaju Pinnick, NFF presi­dent, preference for players of Nigeri­an descent is second to none, hear his Cameroon counterpart, Samuel Eto’o “I don’t wish to have a Kylian Mbappe born in Bordeaux in our national team, but to make Kylian Mbappes from kids born in our neighborhoods in Cameroon because there are talents in our territory to be valorised.” We seem not to realize that these foreign players have no attachment to the country; they don’t understand the psychological make of Nigerians; don’t understand Nigerian football; they are not ready to die for the coun­try, unlike players that played in the league who are attached to the country. Domestic players are proud to don the national jersey. They know and under­stand Nigerians and are ready to die on the field because they themselves as belonging to the country. Having neglected the domestic league, the plank that should sustain Super Eagles growth has been de­stroyed. What do I mean? If the domestic league has been given the attention that it truly deserves, the domestic league club coaches would have no other option but to develop themselves. For the referees to keep up with the quality of play means the NFF will have no option but to ensure that only the best among the referees are allowed to referee in the league. This neglect means that there are no res­ervoirs of talents for use of the Super Eagles. Because of this neglect, the coaches are not developed and we have to rely on foreign coaches, who to a great extent are after the free mon­ey they get. Anytime the Super Eagles win a game, officials of Nigerian football and Nigerians take it to be the suc­cess of Nigerian football, which is not. And because we don’t care about the league, we’ve inadvertently destroyed the planks that should sustain Super Eagles growth. We also need to look at the selec­tion of coaches for the Super Eagles. I know proponents of foreign coaches have been given the plank needed to dumb domestic coaches with the per­formances of Austin Eguavoen. Have we forgotten that Late Shaibu Amodu qualified the country for two World Cups and was denied the opportunity of leading the teams to the World Cup? Did we as a country even appreciated Amodu for the success he achieved? No, rather he was hounded out of the team like a leper. Hey, lets ask one pertinent question, what have we done as a nation to devel­op our coaches’? What structure is in place to assist Nigerian coaches to be able to develop themselves and be able to compete favourably with their peers anywhere in world? The answers to these questions are nothing and noth­ing. Are we not ashamed of paying these foreign coaches huge money that would have helped in training and re­training these coaches in the country? I believe that failing to qualify for the World Cup was a blessing in disguise. Super Eagles qualification would have masked the problems in Nigerian football. Honestly, no foot­ball-playing nation that wants to suc­ceed abandons its domestic league. This is a great opportunity for us to look into the league and plan for its development. We need to come up with a plan that will lead to the league becoming a business concern that will employ thousands of our youths, coaches, medical practitioners and the like. I don’t need to be a soothsayer to know that NFF plan is getting a for­eign coach for the Super Eagles and start preparation for the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations in Cote d’ Ivoire. If we do not take this opportunity and repo­sition the league, it only means that we as a people have refused to learn for our mistakes. I know Pinnick is a modern, savvy football administrator, who has ideas, but this is a great opportunity for him to truly lay the foundation of Nigerian football by not pretending that all is well.