“The Federal Republic of Nige­ria shall not be governed, nor shall any person or group of persons take control of the Government of Nigeria or any part thereof, except in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution” – Section 1(2) the Consti­tution of Nigeria. The above quoted clause from the very first section of the Nigerian Constitution clearly establishes that for any government that is formed in Nigeria to be legitimate, it must be based on the principles of democracy as is clearly set out at the onset of the text of the Constitution. In other words, the only form of government which is recognisable to the Constitution is one that is established in ac­cordance with the prescriptions of the same Constitution. That is what makes the recent exorbitant hikes in the costs of obtaining nomination forms to contest elections under the platforms of the nation’s leading political parties, namely, the APC and PDP, could be a calculated disregard of the political system which the Constitution prescribes because the logical effects of these exorbitant finan­cial obstacles for aspirants is abandonment of democracy for unconstitutional oligarchy. The purpose of that clause is not only to delegitimise coups d’états, it is also directed at governments that are not operated in compli­ance with the rules of democratic governance within the philosophical parameters of our Constitution. For example, section 14 (1) of the Constitution stipulates that “…Nigeria shall be a State based on the principles of democ­racy and social justice”. To avoid situations where members of the government would plead ignorance of this specific directive, ev­ery person elected into any office established by the Constitution is made to take an oath which, amongst other things, obligates him to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution to the best of his or her ability. This ritual implies an irrevocable commit­ment to ensuring that our democracy is prac­tised within a broad context of republicanism which, unlike other systems of government such as aristocracy or monarchy, gives every citizen, rich or poor, equal opportunity to as­pire to any political office in the land and one of such offices, and in fact, the most promi­nent, is the office of President. For a person to run for the office of Presi­dent, all that the Constitution requires of him as contained in Section 130 is that; (a) he is a citizen of Nigeria by birth; (b) he has attained the age of 35 years; (c) he is a member of a political party, POLL (d) he has been educated up to at least School Certificate level or its equivalent. Such a persons should also not suffer from any legal or moral encumbrance which could under­mine his eligibility and electability chances before a discerning electorate. The Constitu­tion could easily have provided that only PhD holders or millionaires or powerful individu­als are qualified to be President if it wanted an aristocracy or an oligarchy society. Instead, it establishes a level playing field. The responsibility for ensuring that per­sons contesting election for any elective offices is so qualified is constitutionally and statutori­ly that of the Independent Electoral Commis­sion (INEC). That is why these financial obsta­cles that the two oligarchy-leaning political parties are arbitrarily imposing are not only politically obnoxious, they are also unconsti­tutional and anti-democratic by intendment as they have unduly made it impossible for decent Nigerians who are not state-capturing moneybags, oligarchs and aristocrats to vie for any elective political office in accordance with the spirit and letters of Nigeria’s Repub­lican Constitutionalism. That the PDP is asking for N40,000,000 (forty million Naira) while the ruling APC is asking for a whoppy N100,000,000 (one hun­dred million Naira) are clear indications that our democracy is under threat and sadly, from within! These are the clearest evidence yet that Nigeria’s democracy is being hijacked by State-Capturing rogue elements using the in­strumentality of political nomination process to effectuate their corrupt and undemocrat­ic agendas. These prohibitive election costs, actually anti-democratic barriers, constitute direct affronts on Nigeria’s democracy and reckless violations of the Constitution which unambiguously prescribes for a democratic form of government. Generally, it is true that democracy as a system of government is on the decline worldwide and it is no more as attractive as it used to be when it was largely operated by democratically-minded practitioners. Now­adays, due to its vulnerability to financial perversions, it has enabled individuals who have no respect for the ideals of democracy to stealthily buy their ways into governments and be causing serious damages to democratic values from within by actively de-marketing it as being systematically corrupt and inimical to societal harmony. So, what is happening right now inside our political parties is a very crude adoption of oligarchic values by per­sons who only want to corruptly seize power by first alienating and excluding the People – aristocratic oligarchy where only the rich, no matter how reprehensible and odious they are, can easily access power. It does not matter that some of these latter-day oligarchs and aristocrats were well-known financial cripples just a few years ago. It is true that electioneering expenditures in most democracies have been rising expo­nentially over the years thereby discrediting the system and has, in consequence, led to rising extremism and skepticism in Western democracies with individuals like Trump and Marine Le Pen emerging. Also in Nige­ria, politics is becoming an avenue for odious investments through which money bags or their proxies surreptitiously buy out political offices from where they can proceed to recoup their investments at great costs to the wellbe­ing of the country. That is why most people found the APC spokesperson, Mr Felix Morka’s extremely dismissive response to the serious charge that his party is seemingly repudiating and renouncing democracy, to be of a warped log­ic; he stunningly defended the exorbitant nom­ination fees hikes. It was quite disappointing because Mr Felix Morka, by training, experi­ence and orientation, definitely knows better than what he said in that alternative-facts-like defense of the clearly anti-democratic fees hikes by the APC, a supposedly “progressive” party as if candidacy is now a “cash and car­ry” affair. Hear him: “We live in a country where peo­ple live opulent lifestyles and make legitimate money” adding that “We should make deci­sions that reflect our situation” because APC “thinks that the values placed on these forms are justified”. But he conveniently forgot that the real ugly situation in Nigeria is that most citizens live on less than 1 (one) dollar a day. Asked further if APC is now a party for the rich only, he said “It is not for the rich” but went on a Freudian slip to say: “Economically, things are not perfect. They are not perfect anywhere. Do you have a country where the economy is perfect? What a dismissive and deliberately obfuscated answer to a very sim­ple question. Morka surely knows that none of those countries that he incorrectly listed charges a fraction of what APC is imposing on its own political aspirants. How does a candidate who has not brazenly looted or plans to steal public funds while in office pay so scandalously just “to serve” if it is not a corruption laden transaction? A Nige­rian’s President’s total lawful emoluments are about N14 million annually, if successful at the polls, which in four years would add up to a paltry N65 million! How do you expect decent persons to pay N100m for a job that would only pay them 14 million a year, if he is not going there for a looting bonanza? Our politi­cal parties should wisely save themselves and democracy by rescinding this oligarchic prop­osition because it a dagger being thrown at the heart of democracy. This obnoxious “cash and carry” electioneering shenanigan could be a collective Waterloo. Let’s beware!