The troops of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) with operations in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states have neutralised three bandits in Chito, situated near Zaki-Biam, headquarters of Ukum Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. The bandits under the leadership of “Full Fire”, the second in command to the late Terwase Akwaza (Gana) are chief among bandits that have been terrorising the Sankera axis. Competent sources in the area told us that during the clearance operation, OPWS recovered an undisclosed number of weapons, two motorcycles and three mobile phones. All efforts to get the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of OPWS, Flying Officer, Audu Katty to confirm the report proved abortive as he was not picking up calls. However, Daily Independent gathered that the troops under the command of the Force Commander, Major General Kevin Aligbe also flushed out herdsmen that have been terrorising Gbishe in Katsina-Ala LGA and its environs. The source Terhile Zayol explained that even though OPWS were able to neutralise three of the bandits; “Full Fire”, one of Gana’s henchmen managed to slip through their fingers. Zayol said, “At about 10 pm on Tuesday, following credible intelligence from some people on the robbery activities of a notorious bandit, by name Full Fire and his members at Chito in Zaki-Biam, troops of OPWS deployed in Zaki-Biam, Ukum conducted a clearance patrol at Chito general area. “On sighting the troops, the bandits fled. Troops of OPWS engaged them in hot pursuit and were able to neutralise three of the bandits. POLL “The troops also combed and searched the area and recovered some items including firearms, 2 motorcycles and 3 mobile phones.” He further observed that “The troops deployed at Gbise in Katsina-Ala also carried out an offensive fighting patrol at Atunbe, Madamu, Kaamen, Ude -Jor, Kasar, Tor – Tacha and River Yoyo in Utange and Yoyo council wards of Katsina-Ala LGA. “The purpose of the patrol was to flush out armed herdsmen terrorizing the area. “During the patrol, OPWS troops made contact with the herdsmen at Tor – Tacha and but the troops responded with superior firepower forcing the herdsmen to flee in disarray with a possible gunshot wound. “We further learnt that the troops conducted a search around the area and recovered firearms and cutlasses.” However, a top-ranking officer in the military outfit who would not want his name in print said, “We shall continue to go after any person or group of persons destroying innocent lives and property while working tirelessly to ensure that peace is returned to various communities across the Joint Operations Area. “Troops of OPWS have continued to demonstrate professionalism, resilience and courage in the conduct of their duties”, he insisted.