As the race of who will be the flagged bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 general election gets heated up, there are strong indications that the zoning committee has finally decided to allow all presidential aspirants to contest for the party primaries. Daily Independent gathered that the zoning committee, led by Samuel Ortom, the Benue State Governor, on Tuesday, arose from its marathon meeting, with a resolution to throw the ticket open to all contestants with the declaration that its resolution will be sent to the National Working Committee (NEC) of the party. The party blamed “exigencies of time” for its decision, as the party had already allowed aspirants from all parts of the country to purchase the presidential ticket. However, the new development will pave way for Vice President Atiku Abukabar, Former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State amongst other aspirants to contest in the party primaries without being denied the zoning formula. This is, however, contrary to the Southern Governors’ call for a southern presidency ahead of the 2023 general election. The Chairman of the zoning committee, Governor Ortom, disclosed that the committee has adopted a unanimous decision that will be sent to the NEC of the party. “The good news for our teeming supporters of the PDP and Nigerians is that we have resolved and every one of us, the 37 members, unanimously adopted the position that we are going to present to NEC,” he said. All effort to get the resolution of the committee from the chairman, Ortom, or know when their report would be submitted to NEC was not successful. POLL It was however gathered that owning to the contending forces in the party, the committee had decided to advise the NEC to allow all the aspirants to battle for the ticket of the party. The thinking of many members of the committee was that it would be unfair and injustice for some of the presidential aspirants to stop their ambition halfway, after purchasing the nomination and expression of interest forms to contest the presidency. According to the report, thirteen presidential aspirants across the states have purchased the forms. Even the body language of some of the committee members, who are supporters of some presidential aspirants, showed that they were happy that their preferred aspirants have not been denied the opportunity to contest for the ticket. However, Daily Trust gathered from a reliable source that the committee affirmed that even though zoning is part of the party constitution, the committee has decided to throw open the presidential contest this time due to the exigency of the time and the fact that it is in the opposition. Among those present at the meeting were governors Darius Ishaku (Taraba), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), and ex-governors Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna), Boni Haruna (Adamawa), Ibrahim Shema (Katsina) and Sule Lamido (Jigawa). Others included a former Information Minister, Prof. Jerry Gana, erstwhile minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations, Tanimu Turaki, chairman, PDP Disciplinary Committee, Chief Tom Ikimi and Chief Bode George. Meanwhile, presidential aspirants of the party have met with Governor Udom Emmanuel in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. They include Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, his Sokoto State counterpart, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, a former Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki and Alhaji Muhammad Hayatuddeen. Speaking during the meeting which lasted into Monday night, Governor Udom Emmanuel said he was in support of ‘one Nigeria’ and harped on the need to build a team of patriots that would tackle the nation’s challenges.