No fewer than 100 youths have been trained on Sustainable Agricultural Development by the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Ogun State Chapter. In his address at the flag-off ceremony of the “2022 Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme (SADTS)” and Orientation of the 2021 40% REP loans scheme held in Ogun State, the Director-General of NDE, Mallam Nuhu Fikpo, who was ably represented by the Ogun State Coordinator, Mr Alao Babatunde Ismail maintained that the sustainable agricultural scheme is referred to as agricultural production and distribution system that seeks to provide more profitable income. He also noted that the scheme will promote environmental, stewardship and enhance the quality of life for farmers’ families as well as the communities. He, therefore, stressed that this programme is in line with the Federal Government’s policy on agriculture for employment generation and wealth creation. Nuhu maintained that participants of the training scheme were inclusively drawn from all sectors of the communities, Local Government Areas and all the Senatorial Districts. He noted that a total of one hundred (100) participants had been recruited in all the 20 Local Government Areas of Ogun State. He said, “The training curriculum had been structured to include major areas of modern Agricultural Production (crop farming and livestock production), marketing and Agripreneurial training, the duration of the training program is three months, including two weeks exclusively for theoretical/classroom training in life skills lectures, business plan writing, crop production and livestock. POLL He stressed that the remaining period will be for Practical skills acquisition on the adaptive farm. Moreover, the participants would be paid a stipend monthly. “Towards the end of the training exercise, linkages will be established with financial institutions and other sources of funds for resettlement of graduates of the scheme. The 38 beneficiaries of the different loan schemes were selected based on their performance in their various training programmes.” “The beneficiaries of the sustainable agricultural development empowerment scheme, graduate agricultural empowerment scheme, agricultural enhancement scheme and community based agricultural empowerment scheme have been profiled for a loan package of N100, 000 each. “The loan repayment is very flexible with a tenure of three years and a moratorium of six months,” Nuhu said. Ms. Oruoyehu Beatrice represented the director, REP department said, the training for the sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme, SADTS was expected to last till June this year.