Recently, a number of politicians have expressed their intention to become Nigeria’s president come 2023. Some have also presented their mandates to win the votes of the electorate. But the youngest presidential aspirant appears to have emerged. At 50, Prince Adewole Adebayo is aiming at the presidential ticket of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to actualise his dream. In this interview with select journalists including ERIOLUWA ADURA, after collecting his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the party secretariat in Abuja, Adebayo says insecurity will be history the moment he assumes office There are other offices through which you can serve this country other than the presidency. Why the topmost office in the land? I have been offered appointments many times in the past. I know there is a place called the senate but I don’t have any business there because the problem of society is that of lead­ership. The executive power of the federation is vested in one man, and that man is the president. I have waited all my adult life, looking for one president that I will serve un­der. I am yet to meet that president traveling the direction I want the country to go. Which direction is this? The direction of Justice. This country, has, unfortunately, been deformed to accommodate injustice. This is a country, in the beginning, the leaders in the first republic, knew the importance of justice. It meant that they understood that public office was a trust and that nothing inside it belonged to them. They knew that exercising public powers was to use it to serve the people. They started their journey by serving the less privileged in the society by establishing school systems that catered to the needs of those who had no opportunity. They fought and were eradicating child­hood diseases with immunisation for everyone and by living close to the people and in modest manner as well. If I had been born at that time, perhaps there is an Awolowo (Chief Obafemi) I would serve under him as a minister or even a clerk, or even just to be carrying his bag, I would do so gladly because I would know that this is a man who has come to do justice. In politics, the leader that inspires me the most and whose work I follow is late Mallam Aminu Kano. He lived with the people, he lived for the people and he made sure that social justice was the cen­tre point of his political life. He crit­icised the court system even though he was a son of an Alkali, sharia judge. He said the court system wasn’t bringing justice to the people and ensured the people formed their own political party, the Northern Element Progressive Union, NEPU and pushed common people to pow­er. When he was made a minister of health and later, communication in Gowon’s government, he stood on the side of the people. When you take leaders of that time and compare to what we have now, you will see that we have self-serving leaders. If he is the president, he will be self-serving. Why would I go and serve him? I will just be part of his apparatus of self-service. If a political party is set up to confiscate and siphon the wealth of the society and per­petuate injustice, why would I go and serve there? I don’t believe in the system they are running now because it is a system of theft, un­fairness, injustice. It’s a system of ordinary people who were given free education, who were the children of nobody, who were picked up from the lowliest waters of Nigeria. Some were sent to the armed forces, some to the Civil service. The expectation of the founding fathers was that these children of nobody that were sent to school, like President Buhari, who was an orphan, ordinarily, he should have been following cattle, but the sys­tems set up by Sir Ahmadu Bello, who ensured that he was picked and put in boarding house, from primary education even up to when he joined the army. He lived in a boarding house all his life till he re­tired as head of state. As we speak, he still lives in a boarding house in the Villa. All his life, Nigeria has ca­tered for him. Will Ahmadu Bello be proud of him now? How many Nige­rians have he lifted out of poverty? All those people who were picked up from cocoa farms by Awolowo and put in schools who became emeritus professors of medicine, professors of all disciplines, vice-chancellors, are they not now living in plenty while the universities are on strike? So, where would I join in this? POLL You can have the same executive powers in the office of a state governor. They are not different in terms of performance. But the jurisdiction is too nar­row. Would I be a governor of a state and be able to take care of my broth­ers and sisters in other states? If I am crying because of the injustice in Zamfara, how would the gover­nor of Lagos help me? The penury you find in Borno, Cross-River, La­gos and urban poverty you find in Ibadan, how would being governor of one state help me? Will I overlook the root cause, which is the col­lapsed federal government that we have now. My mandate is to make Nigeria a great country. Anybody suffering poverty in Malunfashi is as painful to me as someone who is suffering in my family. I have to solve the problem from the top and across the country. You are contesting on the platform of So­cial Democratic Party, SDP. Why this party, and not APC or PDP? You cannot say before you join the fire service, you will first of all be an arsonist. You cannot say I have to be a reckless driver before I can join Road Safety Corps. You cannot say I should be an armed robber before joining the police. You can­not say that before I join EFCC to fight economic crimes, I should first be a yahoo person. This country is where it is today because of PDP and APC. Why should I join them? They are deliberately impoverish­ing the people. These two parties are well-grounded in terms of structure. Their victories are not from the people but from rigging and that’s why you see them struggling with the electoral act and all the manip­ulations. In any case, what is the essence of the power if you are not using it to help the people? Do you think President Jonathan is a hap­py man today? He is not. He tasted power but he made no difference in the life of anybody. Do you think President Buhari is a happy man today if he can reflect? He has gone from hero to zero. I am following the mantle of the late Chief MKO Abiola which is farewell to poverty. And now I say farewell to poverty and insecurity. If I am saying fare­well to poverty, who is the author of poverty except for PDP. If I am saying farewell to insecurity, who are the architects, custodians and profiteers of insecurity except for APC? How can I go and join them to stop their business? You cannot join the wrong coalition in order to win at all costs. If you join the looters, the compromised, the riggers, the manipulators, you can travel fast, but you will not go far. You speak so confidently as if you are sure of victory? My confidence is coming from the place of justice. I believe that God didn’t create a country like this of 200 million people to be enslaved. That is not the belief I have. I believe God is showing us an experiment and in the fullness of time, these people will overreach themselves and an ordinary person will come and knock them down. This is the David/Goliath situation. I believe the David is the Nigerian collective people. I am not the David, the Nige­rians are. I am just the sling. That sling cannot direct itself but David was divinely inspired to throw that sling. I am that sling that would hit the head of looters in this country. In the course of consultation around the country, what was the reception like es­pecially the power that you visited? I have gone round the country. I am still touring. I have seen former heads of state, traditional rulers, former governors, politicians, re­ligious leaders, market men and women. The response has been warm and the message is clear. The former rulers have given their perspectives and where things went wrong and what they want to see. None of them, I can tell you, is hap­py. What would you do differently in the area of insecurity if given the opportunity to run Nigeria? Insecurity is the easiest prob­lem to solve. The insecurity in the country is government-induced in­security. The Nigerian government is the source of the insecurity be­cause it has become a business. Just like fuel scarcity, they have turned it into business. Lack of electrici­ty is a problem they have turned into a business. None of the Nige­rian problems is difficult to solve. The solutions to our problems are already there. The Nigerian army of today is better than the Nigerian army of ECOMOG time. But what is happening now is that they have turned insecurity into multi-billion businesses for the generals, perma­nent secretaries, contractors and politicians. When you talk to some members of the armed forces, they would tell you that they are not lazy and that they can finish these rogue fighters within a short time. Even during the civil war, there were a few who saw the war as a business, the ma­jority of members of the armed forces took the war seriously and that was why we were able to fight the war without borrowing a Kobo. Awolowo was the finance minister in Gowon’s government. It was a pol­icy of that government at that time that they would not borrow money to execute the war. Awolowo was auditing and editing almost every bullet used. Clement Usong was gov­ernor of Central Bank. He protected the bank against the government. A government can continue to perpet­uate insecurity as long they want to make money out of it. I will put an end to that. The federal government often talks about cash crises. How does it make you feel? Honestly, we have more money today than we had yesterday. The government is awash with money. If anybody tells you there is no money, you should know that that person is your number one enemy. But we are borrowing to execute our budget? We are borrowing because their greed is so big. They don’t just want to steal the money of today, but they want to rob the children unborn. The Nigerian leadership’s quest for money is a special mental disease, particularly when they steal what they don’t need. We must remove the original curse of Nigeria which is bad governance. There is this un­healthy competition: If one gover­nor is using state money to control a political party, spending millions of dollars to remove the chairman and do whatever, the other gover­nor wants to copy it too. So you now have a well-known criminal organisation called Governors Fo­rum. Everyone there are supposed to, as a matter of patriotism, report themselves to the nearest police station. They corner substantial revenue of the federation and steal the money of the local government. Buhari has become an angel of dis­appointment.