Engr. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, has inaugurated the Steering Committee for the implementation of $700 million Sustainable Urban, Rural Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (SURWASH) programme in the seven participating States of Delta, Ekiti, Gombe, Imo, Katsina, Kaduna and Plateau. Adamu who inuagurated the committee in Abuja, stated that the SURWASH programme has been designed by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources in partnership with the World Bank to support the implementation of the National Action Plan launched by President Buhari in November 2018. A statement by Funmi Imuetinyan, Deputy Director, quoted the minister as saying that the inaugural ceremony was the final step to establish the Federal Steering Committee, a key element for efficient functioning of the results-based structure of the SURWASH programme. Adamu disclosed that through SURWASH, the Federal Government would make infrastructure investments and drive the five areas of National Action Plan of governance, sustainability, sanitation, funding, financing, monitoring and evaluation. He further disclosed that SURWASH is an ambitious $700 million programme aimed at providing protection for human health, supporting economic growth in the short-term, mid and long-term for sustainable, inclusive economic recovery that would improve livelihood of the poor and the vulnerable. He also explained that the programme which will run for six years, became effective from 14th January, 2022, and it is expected to ensure reforms in governance and service provision through increased access to drinking water and sanitation services through construction and rehabilitation of WASH infrastructure. He expressed optimism that the assets and services for water supply, sanitation and hygiene will be sustainably managed and accessible to all Nigerians by 2030, and not just to meet the Sustainsble Development Goals(SDGs) targets 6.1 & 6.2 for water and sanitation, but for all and future generations. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mrs Didi Walson -Jack, in her welcome address, stated that the World Bank-supported SURWASH programme will take a Local Government Area (LGA) wide approach for implementation in the seven participating States of Delta, Ekiti, Gombe, Imo, Katsina, Kaduna and Plateau with interventions by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. POLL Mrs.Didi Walson-Jack stated that the inauguration of the Steering Committee would strengthen the existing synergy between the various Agencies and Institutions of Government to achieve common results and objectives of Government. The World Bank Representative and the Sector Leader for Sustainable Development, Pier Mantovani, stated that World Bank has been involved in the development of the WASH Sector in Nigeria, adding that World Bank is eager to support the SURWASH programme which is an innovation and improvement of WASH. He however, urged the Committee to live up to expectation and have in mind that States are responsible for development in their States. Engr Danjuma Madaki, Director of Water Supply, thanked all stakeholders at the Inaugural Meeting and also invited them to the unveiling of the SURWASH Logo which was the highpoint of the inauguration.