Every active FIFA member coun­try wants to be in the world cup, at least to participate in the champion­ship to justify its financial activeness and to project the country amongst others that will be present. Football is a political tool amongst nations of the world, the reason you see every mem­ber country jostling to host because that becomes another yardstick for automatic qualification. In all the con­tinents of the world, FIFA has allotted slots, given each continent’s size and experience on the game. At a time Af­rica’s slots increased from two to five and that’s where we are now! For the reasons of world politics and inter­national relations, Nelson “Madiba” Mandela (late) and former president of South Africa had to lobby FIFA to bring the world cup to Africa, and that was in 2013 before his demise. Mandela, the hero of the Apartheid struggle known for the emancipation of the”Black South African people” deemed it fit for the world to gather together in South Africa using foot­ball to bring all human races together in unity! For decades, South Africans suffered racial ( colour ) segregation, especially the “Blacks” amongst the “whites”; so when the shackles of Apartheid was broken, Mandela knew that to fully destroy Apartheid, all human races must come together in South Africa with football via FIFA for unity and love of humanity in all races, descents, and colours, as foot­ball knows no bounds! Nigeria participated in that global event. Did Nigeria win the world cup? No. Did Nigeria return with any laurel ? No. But Nigerians were proud to have participated in the first world cup on the African soil. Who thought that FIFA could bring the world of football to South Afri­ca, an African nation? But Dr. Nelson Mandela did. The late Mandela was an iconic realist. A leader with an absolute sense of understanding and purpose. The South Africa FIFA 2013 fiesta has come and gone, South Afri­ca didn’t win the cup, not a laurel but they hosted the world. That singular disposition was big pride to the former Apartheid country, which will forever remain indelible in the annals of foot­ball history. The world cup in South Africa was a business venture for the country and that, they got right. That is how a country should be modelled and run by its administrators! Today, the South Africans have improved immensely including the female team called the” Bayana – Bayana”. No coun­try in the continent ever takes South African team, The “Bafana – Bafana” for a ride anymore. In years gone, the Super Eagles of Nigeria can always de­molish them home and away but today, the story of South African football has tremendously changed! No country shouts “Uhuru” over her failure to qualify for a FIFA world cup. Only in Nigeria that people cel­ebrate failure with the shout of “vic­tory”. Nigerians can still recall, viv­idly, that the country did not attend CAF tourney of South Africa in 1996 because of the political crisis in the country then that resulted in the face-off between late General Sani Abacha and late Dr. Mandela over the contin­ued detention of late politician, Chief MKO Abiola of June 12, 1993 fame. Even though Nigeria had qualified to participate in that tourney, late Aba­cha refused that Nigeria should have anything to do with South Africa as at the time. Nigerians wailed and cried over that government’s unpopular de­cision because as at the period, the Super Eagles were the toast of world classical football after their CAF and FFA exploits in Tunisia and the USA Mundial respectively in 1994! The Confederation of African football had to ban Nigeria for two years, hence, the country did not at­tend Burkina Faso in1998 for failure to attend South Africa ’96! That was how painful it was to Nigerians as at that time. In Nigeria, football is opium. Football is a religion. People follow the game with keen interest and enthusiasm and that is the rea­son they believed in the coaches, the Super Eagles and the then, “Nigerian Football Association” (NFA). Every­thing the defunct NFA had achieved in football in the decades past has been taken to the cleaners by the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), and the administrators want to make Nigeri­ans believe that “fair is foul, and foul is fair”. Who takes that bull shit? It’s only in the Banana Republic that such happens as we can see the direction of the swinging pendulum that indeed, ” foul is fair “. For those who are hap­py that Nigeria failed to beat Ghana to qualify for the FIFA 2022 Mundial in Qatar are indeed the ones making caricature of the country’s football. It’s indeed unfortunate that Nigerian foot­ball will never witness a new rebirth if mediocrity can be celebrated, leaving the truth untold . Not in the time of the former NFA that Nigerians can be taken for this kind of huge joke of shame; and the administrators are left walking head tall in the country with no sense of remorse! The Super Eagles of Nigeria have been destroyed, no doubt. The play­ers in there have no choice than to respond to call ups or invitations, otherwise, they would have called it quit with Nigeria. If you doubt me, sample their opinions individually and you will be surprised at their responses. Football is not played the way the NFF henchmen want us to believe. Football is not developed from the way they have been running the federation. It has been a catalogue of woes, disappointment, failure, indis­cipline, sentiment, nepotism, corrup­tion and at the end, somebody is tak­ing unseen elements into a drawing board class. Here we are again with a former suspended coach, Salisu Yu­suf, by FIFA for an offence of bribery and corruption committed; he has now been appointed by this same fed­eration for Super Eagles team ” B”, otherwise known as CHAN Eagles. If by tomorrow he fails to qualify Nigeria, we will not hesitate to shout “Viva, Viva, Viva!!!” for failure! And again, we will be headed to the same abstract drawing board that has nev­er produced any positive result. Is this how football is run with integrity and sincerity of purpose? The NFF should know that FIFA don’t abhor corruption. If it is working for this federation today as it were, it may not be the same template tomorrow with another FIFA leadership! This NFF has never shown any exemplary dis­position over bribery and corruption and it is too bad to note! It has also been reported that Jose Piesero, the Portuguese coach will be unveiled soon to take charge of the Eagles. This was the same foreign manager denied by Amaju Pinnick, saying, he never thought of him taking over the national team after the sack of Gernot Rhor. Although, he said that among all the coaches interviewed by the federation for the Eagles plum job, he came tops. How­ever, that there’s no plan on ground yet to contract the former Venezu­elan coach. He also added that Jose can wait if he can and Nigeria will come for him but if he cannot wait, he is free to move on. This was one of the major reasons, the federation’s technical director was appointed as the interim coach believing that the former Eagles’ skipper, coach Austin Eguavoen was equal to the task of de­livering both the AFCON trophy and the ticket to berth in Qatar. Alas, all the federation’s calculations failed the nation. Now, it’s being peddled as “ru­mor” even though, it had been widely reported that some other Nigerian coaches have been penciled down to work with the Portuguese manager as assistants and goalkeeper trainers, even as match analysts. It’s also said that the Portuguese will be resided in Nigeria, watch over the local league and the players there­in and see how he can invite most of them to the national team. He is to de­velop our football, at least to groom eight (8) national teams for Nigeria. He is expected to earn the sum of $50,000 dollars monthly as salary and he is expected to pay two of his assis­tants from his pocket! This is the de­velopment on ground; however, until it comes to fruition, no one can hold the NFF responsible over this report because the federation has a tradition of moving back and forth in whatever it proposes! The initial arrangement with the Portuguese and Eguavoen in the recently concluded AFCON 2021 in Cameroon remains a case study! Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria.