….Urges FG To Clean The Rot In Medical Practice LAGOS – Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN) has indicted the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) for allegedly failing in its oversight functions in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA’s). Consequently, the community pharmacists urged the Federal Government to clean the Augean stable in the medical practice. The ACPN made the call in a statement by the Adewale Oladigbolu, National Chairman and Ambrose Ezeh, National Secretary of the association in which they accused the FMoH of not supervising the MDAs  properly. Specifically, the ACPN said the FMOH has failed in controlling the Medical Council of Nigeria, giving them the impetus to run down other agencies being superintended by the FMOH. Oladigbolu and Ezeh, who took up the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) on some critical issues in the sector, described the recent statement credited to the registrar of the council, Dr Tajudeen Sanusi, as hypocritical. Sanusi had called on the regulatory bodies in the health sector to wake-up to their responsibilities of regulating, monitoring, evaluating and punishing their erring members. However, they faulted Sanusi’s prescription of disciplinary actions against medical officers caught “toying with the lives of their patients by being negligent, corrupt and in some cases, showing gross incompetence while managing their patients.” POLL The duo of ACPN boss and scribe accused the MDCN of being guilty of ineptitude in enforcing discipline on its erring members. The statement partly reads, “We submit with a sense of responsibility that the FMoH has lost control in its oversight responsibility on MDAs it supervises, otherwise how does it tolerate a scenario when a parastatal under it comes into the public arena to castigate other agencies the same FMoH oversees. “The attention of the ACPN has been drawn to a wreckless Press Statement credited to the Registrar of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, Dr. Tajudeen Sanusi. “Sanusi in the said statement urged regulatory bodies in Health to wake-up to their responsibility of regulating, monitoring, evaluating and punishing the behaviours of their erring members. He went further to posit that Medical Officers caught “toying with the lives of their patients by being negligent, corrupt and in some cases, showing gross incompetence while managing their patients….” should be disciplined. ‘’Contrary to the insinuations of the Registrar of the MDCN that it punishes the behaviour of its erring members, we have never seen this happen to bigwigs in the medical profession in Nigeria. ‘’The ACPN recollects an incident when the late President Musa Yar’Adua ordered the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to arrest a sitting physician-minister of health who was accused alongside others for mismanaging unspent funds of the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) in the preceding year’s fiscal budget. ‘’All that the medical professionals offered through the Nigerian Medical Council (NMA) was to regret this development while giving the impression that its members had integrity,” he said. Oladigbolu claimed that “even the umbrella template once produced a leader who frittered away tens of millions of naira donated by the FG under the watch of a military leader, through lost deposits in financial institutions. That tragedy, he said, was in addition to the careless handling of the Victoria Island property donated to the same group in 1982 by the Lagos State government under the Alhaji Lateef Jakande administration. These are reasons why the ‘big boys’ of the Health Sector do not have a National Secretariat of their own till today.” According to him, ‘’MDCN in both dispensations of the physician-minister and the president of the group never arraigned these persons before the disciplinary tribunal of the MDCN, but it claims it punishes erring members .’’ ‘’A recent systems audit of the civil service by the ICPC confirmed that the MDAs in Health are the most corrupt in the country,” Oladigbolu added. He further alleged that the MDCN leadership and its members have become experts in moral hypocrisy of seeing no evil in their profession, adding that “in the last few months, there have been hues and cries of outright decapitation of the DRF accounts in virtually all our Federal Health Institutions which have Physicians regulated by MDCN in charge without the MDCN attempting to seek clarification from any quarter.” ‘’The FMoH as at last year had resolved in a memo to the PSN to probe the affairs of the DRF at the NOH, Igbobi which was singled out in the perversion of the DRF scheme. Even when the calls are louder in this direction, how many of these CEO’s, especially the sacred cow at the NOH, Igbobi have been summoned to appear before the Investigating Panel of the MDCN?’’ “It is crystal clear that the half-hearted measures to punish erring Physicians is only directed at best at neophyte members or the underdogs, while the real culprits walk away with their booties,” the ACPN chairman alleges. He said, ‘’It is imperative we remind the custodian of medical laws and ethics at MDCN that his Physician tribe takes professional oaths at graduation, while those who are privileged to enjoy high profile bureaucratic postings also take administrative oaths in alignment with their leadership positions in the various MDAs. Why has the MDCN not been able to call its very tyrannical hierarchy to order when they refuse to implement public service rules, government circulars, directives and related instruments.’’ Contrary to the failure of MDCN to check the excesses and practices of indiscipline practices of its members, the ACPN claimed that the association does not fail to bring to book its erring members. It said, “To put the record straight, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) will want to inform the general public that the Investigating Panel of the PCN has taken up more than 60 Pharmacists for various complaints in the past year whilst others have had their cases to the Disciplinary Tribunal. We are also aware that Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) National Enforcement Team has commenced its activities for the year 2022. “The team had an extensive activity in Taraba State last week during which 344 pharmaceutical facilities were sealed for various breaches of the regulations. Meanwhile, such enforcement activities are usually sustained all through the year. “We are not sure if MDCN had ever achieved such a feat since it was ever established despite obvious breaking of the law and ethics of those it regulated.” He therefore expressly dismissed Sanusi’s reference to community pharmacy as becoming centres where patients consult pharmacists, as a conspicuous lack of information on the part of the MDCN registrar. “There is a National Health Act 2014 which recognises pharmacies, laboratories, physio-clinics and others as health facilities in Nigeria. That same document allows all registered care-providers to have access to patients and their records. A community pharmacist who is consulted by a patient for his health and drug needs therefore does not violate any law in Nigeria. “When it comes to handling drugs on a global basis, the Registrar should understand that drugs are classified as Over-the-counter (OTC), Pharmacist Initiated Medicines (PIM), Prescription Only Medicine (POM) and Controlled Drugs.” Continuing, he elaborated that a pharmacist has an unhindered liberty to dispense OTC and PIM without liaising with any other practitioner because the scope of his training covers it. He noted that the Registrar of MDCN cannot see the aberrations committed by his lawless members who operate in the private sector in particular. He said over 99 percent of the private hospitals run unregistered pharmacies with no pharmacist to supervise dispensing and counseling of drug related endeavours contrary to the Poison and Pharmacy Act. He said the exploitation of patients who sometimes pay over 500 percent more than the baseline cost of drugs through trickster manoeuvres is one of the planks of survival by private physicians in Nigeria. The ACPN helmsman further claimed that private hospitals in Nigeria are the centres of unrestricted and unchecked creation of sub-professional cadres in healthcare “because this is where auxiliary nurses, drug dispensing assistants and diagnostic assistants are trained and sometimes certified while the various Private Hospital Registration Authorities and the MDCN look away to protect their Physician brothers.” Dr Oladigbolu, who blamed the FMoH for the rot in the medical practices, called on the federal government to urgently address the anomalies. The statement further reads, “We again sound it to the Presidency that the FMoH, which has become an annexe of the NMA, will continue to inflict more serial damage to our Health System unless the Presidency intervenes.”