The Group’s Executive Chairman of Hyundai Motor, Euisun Chung, has won the ‘Visionary of the Year’ award at the inaugural Newsweek World’s Greatest Auto Disrupters event. The World’s Greatest Auto Disruptors 2022 programme has evolved from Newsweek America’s 50 Greatest Disruptors – a list of visionaries, innovators and pioneers – introduced in 2021. The new awards recognise agents of change in the automotive industry who are using technology in ways that will profoundly and positively impact people’s lives. Sonu Singh, the Media and Marketing Manager, Stallion Motors, the sole distributor of Hyundai products in Nigeria, in a statement said that one of six awards conferred at the event, ‘Visionary of the Year’ is given to a leader who is taking significant actions to shape the future of the automotive industry now and over the next 30 years. The statement hinted that Newsweek recognised Chung for his significant role in the rise of Hyundai and Kia in the global automotive industry. According to him, under his leadership and bold vision for the future, the Group is redefining what is possible in mobility, and providing greater freedom of movement for humanity through vehicle electrification, robotics and advanced air mobility (AAM). “Today’s leading automakers are pushing the boundaries in ways that keep us moving and also capture the imagination. The disruptors on this list deserve to be recognised for pushing the industry forward, as well as for their leadership in responding to the challenges brought on by the pandemic,” said Nancy Cooper, Global Editor in Chief, Newsweek. Receiving the award, Chung said: “On behalf of everyone at Hyundai Motor Group, I would like to thank Newsweek for these three prestigious awards. They reflect the hard work of all our people and business partners, who are focused on transforming the Group into a smart mobility solutions provider with sustainability at the core of what we do. Their dedication to making disruptive technologies a reality is why I am here to share this honor. POLL “I have always believed cars are a way to connect people. There’s nothing more human than the insatiable desire to explore, to imagine and to make progress. Mobility quite literally brings people together. And when we work together, human beings are capable of extraordinary things. “Hyundai Motor Group is committed to making our mobility vision a reality to benefit all humanity. We want to enable more time and more space for everyone to do what truly drives them. Of course, Hyundai Motor Group cannot achieve this alone. I hope that our vision inspires the imaginations of talented people all over the world, and that they will join us in solving the greatest challenges facing humanity.” In all, the Group won three out of the six awards given at the event. Newsweek also honoured the Group for ‘Research and Development Team of the Year’ and ‘Powertrain Evolution of the Year.’ The Group’s Vehicle Architecture Development Centre was the awarded ‘Research and Development Team of the Year’ for developing Electric-Global Modular Platform (E-GMP), while it’s Electrified Propulsion Technology Unit was awarded ‘Powertrain Evolution of the Year’ for developing an 800-volt battery system. Both awards reflect the Group’s continuing efforts to innovate and to bring new mobility solutions to market, the statement added. Under Chung’s leadership, the Group is accelerating its deployment of robotics and AAM technologies and exploring their role in future smart city development. Chung is also spearheading the Group’s transformation into a provider of human-centered mobility solutions. The Group is advancing the commercialisation of robot products through its robotics affiliate Boston Dynamics. Earlier this year at CES, the Group announced its robotics vision, which connects robots and the Metaverse to create a ‘MetaMobility’, expanding mobility into the virtual world. The Group has also made significant advances in electrification with the introduction of the award-winning advanced battery electric vehicles (BEVs), the Hyundai IONIQ 5 and Kia EV6. Both use the Group’s dedicated BEV platform, the E-GMP. With a highly competitive product line-up, the Group aims to achieve annual BEV sales of 3.07 million units by 2030. In addition to electrification, the Group is also actively creating a hydrogen energy ecosystem, working with external partners and acquiring key capabilities such as power generation through the use of fuel cells. Chung has also overseen the launch of Hyundai Motor Company’s high-performance N brand, and the Genesis luxury brand.