Prince Adeyinka Aroyewun is the National President, Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he discusses the long drawn battle of the association against extortion and some unwholesome practices in port areas in Lagos. Excerpt: What are some of the challenges being faced by the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) of late? The groups under the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) face mainly the challenges of insecurity in the country, especially in the areas of touts disturbing our businesses, overzealous enforcement teams, who engage in extortion instead of enforcing the law and compromises the systems. There is also the problem of armed robbers who hijack our trucks and cargo. Also, there is the poor state of the roads leading to accidents and death of many drivers. There is also the issue of non-protection of small-scale indigenous businesses which has resulted in loss of jobs and patronages of foreign companies. Another challenge is inconsistent policy formulation and implementation by the governments, which also affect our business and operations adversely. Your office recently wrote to the Lagos State governor, the IGP, the NSA and the Director, DSS. What informed the letter? We are faced with job losses. This is because trucks are painted in colours attached to the military and get priority on the road to the ports. Our members lose their jobs due to the involvement of the military in private haulage businesses and it is impacting negatively on our businesses. These trucks operate without any restriction on the port operations and have advantages over our members. Before the said letters, why was the situation allowed to degenerate to the level of imminent breakdown of law and order in your members’ areas of operations in Lagos State? We have never kept quiet about it. The government is not showing concern towards it. The RTEAN, before the recent expulsion, was an affiliate of COMTUA. What efforts were made by the coalition to restore sanity and why could such moves not yield the desired result? POLL The RTEAN team that belongs to our collaboration, COMTUA, is concerned with the heavy duty, but the situation now is coming from the commuters section who are not part of our collaboration. But, the group with us was overwhelmed and they opted out of RTEAN to join other groups in the collaboration. The RTEAN national secretariat is not acting in line with our Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and they are obdurate. While announcing the expulsion of RTEAN, no mention was made of the NURTW. The coalition even reportedly backed the union during its sack from packs and garages. At what point did the coalition’s relationship with the union deteriorate? The collaboration enjoys the support of the leadership of NURTW who have promised to address our concern against the operations and activities of some of their members. We have only expelled RTEAN whom we feel cannot control their members. Touting and extortion are said to be age-long ills in the Maritime sub-sector. Why is it so and how could the situation be eradicated? We have never had it this bad. We are challenging the government to live up to expectations on this. What is the current state of infrastructure in the port areas? Would you say that the current federal and state administrations have been doing enough to improve the situation? The state of infrastructure in the port areas needs more attention from the government. The road leading to Apapa port is fine and that of Tin Can is under construction. The port facilities are overstretched. Generally, government needs to do more The Federal Government has been doing a lot in the area of rail system development in parts of the country. In what ways would it help to improve situations in the maritime sector if it is extended to the ports? Yes, the rail facility is extended to the ports. But, it requires more attention In what ways has the state of the Nigerian roads been impacting on the maritime industry? The poor state of the Nigerian road has negatively impacted on the maritime transport industry. Most of the accidents are caused by the poor state of roads. We spend more time and spend more resources on the roads. We wish to appeal to the government to improve the condition of our roads. The cost of diesel is on the high side yet, you burn it in the traffic due to bad road What efforts are being made to protection the COMTUA members in the face of terrorist attacks in parts of the country? Terrorism is a serious issue. However, our members are advised to travel with caution, especially to places where the spate of insecurity is high. We just sent a condolence message to Trade Union Congress (TUC) through a letter on the demise of some of its executive committee members. We are concerned about the level of insecurity in the country. We pray it improves soon. Could you tell us about the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) of which you are the current president? Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) is a collaboration of transport unions and associations in the maritime industry. It currently has nine affiliated unions and associations and some corporate branded truck owners. These unions and associations include the Amalgamation and Container Truck owners’ Association of Nigeria (ACATOA), Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Container Truck owners Association of Nigeria (COTOAN), Kirikiri Truck and Park Operators Forum ( KKTPOF), Logistics Practitioners Association of Nigeria (LPAN), National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW, Heavy Duty Section), Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN, Haulage Section), Truckers and Carriers’ Association of Nigeria (TACAN) and Young Truck Owners Association of Lagos (YTOAL). This is a collaboration ruled by a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed by members, most of whom are registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). We have our Board of Trustee (Advisory Council) and our Management Committee (among who the executive members were elected) as the leadership structure of the collaboration. The BoT chairman is Otunba Olaleye Thompson, while myself, Comrade Adeyinka Aroyewun, is the National President of the collaboration. How would you say that the members of the unions and associations have been helping to boost the national economy? Members of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) have been helping to build the economy in so many ways. The economy is tending more towards revenue generation from import and export. As a matter of fact, the non-oil revenue is about 40% of the federation’s income and the imports and exports contribute over 80% of this. A very important aspect of import and export is maritime transport and logistics. This is because the goods can only get to the destination with the services of our members. Our contribution to the nation’s economy is very huge. We also pay taxes and rates and also do some corporate social responsibilities. What is your take on the economic situation of the country? The economic situation of the country requires more attention. The foreign exchange and the inflation rate are all negatively affecting the cost of doing business and standard of living. The cost of parts for our trucks has risen to the roof top and they are even substandard. The cost of diesel is now N420 per litre as against N200 a few months ago. So, the maritime sector needs a lot of attention and support from the Nigerian governments for it to be in a proper position to help boost the nation’s economy more. Nigeria has been borrowing from foreign countries and bodies to finance its busgets. How do you see this development? To borrow to finance our budget is not the problem, but the aspect of the budget we borrow for. We can borrow for investment, but not for consumption as is the case now. We can have some respite if we pay more attention to our export policies. Compare the import/ export ratio in our country. We do more import than export. It is not that we cannot bridge the gap. We shall earn more in terms of foreign earnings by putting up policies that can stimulate export. How best do you think the issue of congestion of Nigerian ports could be solved? The port’s congestion is a yet-to-be resolved issue. The major issue is the mismanagement of empty containers. A lot of people think the traffic gridlock on the road is the congestion. That is the effect and not the cause. All trucks you see on the roads are in transit en route the ports. They are there because the admission process is slow and inefficient. The terminals in the ports are either not admitting due to several reasons, including compromise or corruption, or that the system is not working. These inefficiencies are still there, but the failure is hinged on the truckers to cover up for their inadequacies. Shipping companies have insufficient spaces for their empty containers and equipment is inadequate for their operations have not been resolved. Would you say that the federal and state governments are doing enough to support the maritime business in Nigeria? The federal and state government needs to do more to support maritime businesses in Nigeria. Inconsistent policies, lack or obsolete infrastructures, very harsh business environment are areas of concern. What is your view on the state of insecurity in parts of the country? The state of insecurity in parts of the country requires urgent attention. The loss of lives and properties is condemnable. It is impacting negatively on every sector of the country.