…As ICPC Secures The Conviction Of Two Female Civil Servants In Kano ABUJA – The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has secured a conviction against Mr. Sola Oyedeji, a former Commandant of Osun State Disciplinary Corps. Mrs. Azuka Ogugua Spokesperson of the ICPC, in a statement made available to Daily Independent, said the Ex-Commandant has been sentenced two years imprisonment. Oyedeji, who was standing trial on a ten-count charge of stealing and forgery was sentenced by Justice Adepele Ojo of Osun State High Court 1, Osogbo, Osun State. The trial of the ex-Commandant started in 2011 when he was arraigned for stealing the sum of N3.1 million being a subvention meant for the salaries of members of the Corps. He was arraigned under Sections 390 and 467 of the Criminal Code Act. Oyedeji was alleged to have stolen the money when he failed to pay the salaries of members of the Corps in May 2007 after it was released to him by the state government. “Justice Ojo sentenced Oyedeji to 2 years imprisonment with hard labour, with an option of fine of N100,000 on each of the counts, including the refund of the amount stolen to the state coffers. His sentence is to run concurrently.” POLL In a related development, the Kano State High Court presided over by Hon. Justice Dije Aboki has convicted and sentenced two female civil servants, Helen Odey to three and half years, and Zainab Musa to six months imprisonment respectively for conspiracy, impersonation and making false statements to a public officer. The convicts were charged to court by the Independent Corrupt Practice and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) on a 3-count charge bordering on forgery and other ancillary offences. The Commission had charged the convicts for “conspiring among themselves to impersonate one Hussienat Ahmed to secure employment with the Kano State Universal Basic Education Board by using a Federal College of Education Kano statement of result, belonging to the said Hussienat Ahmed, an offence contrary to section 96(1) (a) and punishable under section 197 of the penal Code Law, Cap 105 Laws of Kano State.” When they were first arraigned in court, they both pleaded “not guilty” to all the charges preferred against them and that set the tune for a long legal battle. However, after ICPC had proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt, “the trial judge found the duo guilty on count 1 and sentenced them to 6 months imprisonment and sum of N200,000 naira fine each. “On count 2, Justice Aboki found the first defendant (Helen Odey) guilty and sentenced her to 2 years imprisonment and N500,000 naira fine. “Also, on count 3, the first defendant was sentenced to one-year imprisonment.All the sentences are to run concurrently.”