Senatorial aspirant, Dr Sylvester Onoyona, has stated that his constituency fully align with his political ambition of emerging as the All Progressives Congress (APC), Delta South candidate for the Senate in 2023 because he understands their pains, aspiration and dream as a people. Speaking via a video conference call to the Kwara State branch of Delta Indigenes in Diaspora (DID), Onoyona said that the zone is united by a common need to improve their lot both in the areas of environmental renewal, economy and opportunities. “Apart from the green flora and fauna, the most visible features of the Delta South Senatorial district are badly polluted atmosphere owing to billions of cubit of gas unfettered flared daily into the air, hot and scorching sun as a result of dangerously depleted ozone layers, polluted water and poisonous aquatic, infertile soil unfavourable for agrarian activities and other negatives including a population of unemployed and unemployable youths plague by poverty, despondency,” the senatorial aspirant lamented. He explained to his audience made up of professionals from all works of life that there is nothing to write home about in the southern part of the oil-rich Delta State. “We have reached a consensus with our people that what we need to reverse the ugly trend is a quality representation at the national level. “The people of this Senatorial district comprising of four major ethnic nationalities, Isoko, Urhobo, Ijaw and Itsekiri have been through so much neglect owing to poor leadership and dearth of service delivery from those that could best be described as interlopers in power or, at best, usurpers of power who forced themselves on the people,” he added. He stated that this has to change and moves have since been concluded to effect. “I can tell you that I have their confidence now,” he said. POLL Dr Onoyona recently embarked on wide consultations which saw him visit nooks and crannies of the Delta South Senatorial district. The aspirant visited Isoko went through to Patani, Bomadi, Burutu, Warri South, Warri South-West to  Warri North Local Government Areas. According to him, there were positive vibes from his people. “We capping this with a video call to connect with Delta State indigenes in general and Delta South in particular outside of our state because you need to be carried along and updated as well,” he said.