ABUJA – The Director-General of the National Youth Corps Service (NYSC), Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, has warned Corps members not to partake in partisan politics as the 2023 general elections draw near. He however advised them that they should serve as unbiased electoral umpires anytime they are called upon to serve as electoral officers. In a statement to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday, which was signed by Emeka Mgbemena, Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations said, the DG stated this while debriefing the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream Two Corps Members in a nationwide virtual address. General Ibrahim admonished them to allow the lessons learnt during the Orientation Course to guide them during and after the service year. He warned them to be security conscious and avoid anything that would endanger their safety. He said, “Let the spirit of NYSC live in you. Steer clear of politics, NYSC is apolitical, therefore, don’t get yourself involved in politics. “You must be security conscious. Never put yourself in harm’s way. Don’t get yourself involved in any risky behaviour. “For those of you going on relocation, kindly follow your State Coordinator’s guidelines, directives and instructions,” he said. POLL General Ibrahim urged the Corps Members to register with their skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development trainers and continue with the Post-Camp training afterwards, adding that most of their predecessors that embraced SAED programme are now business owners in different vocations and creators of wealth. He warned against using social media to spread fake news, urging them to use it to promote national unity and integration, which the NYSC was established for. Speaking further, the Director-General advised the Corps Members to obey the rules and regulations in their places of primary assignment, disclosing that anyone that runs foul of the law would be appropriately sanctioned in line with NYSC bye-laws. Ibrahim urged them to be honest and diligent, advising them to always cherish their integrity, as well as drive their vision with passion. He warned againt night journeys, stating that any journey that extends beyond 6pm should be broken. He enjoined them to pass the night in NYSC formations, military barracks, Corps Lodges and other safe locations. “Don’t embark on any unauthorized journey. Don’t board vehicles by the roadsides; and don’t accept free ride from anyone, be wise and be smart”, Ibrahim said. The Director-General thanked the Federal Government, Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, and the NCDC for their support in ensuring a successful resumption of Orientation camping, after the COVID-19 occasion lockdown. General Ibrahim, who said the NYSC Radio and Television would be commissioned on April 14 added that the mediums would be used to promote the programmes and activities of the Scheme. He urged the Corps Members to add value to themselves and the Scheme, advising that they should also beware of Online fraudsters. In his vote of thanks on behalf of his colleagues nationwide, the Corps Camp Director in NYSC Bayelsa State Orientation camp, Abass Aliyu BY/22A/2677, an indigene of Niger State commended the Director-General for providing an enabling environment for their Orientation Course. He said the lessons learnt in the camp would help them contribute their quota to peaceful co-existence, national unity and development. He commended the DG for prioritising their welfare and security; and for advocating the establishment of NYSC Trust Fund. “We promise to remain law-abiding citizens and contribute immensely to the development of the nation,” he said.