The new Chairman of the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Hon Philip Olabode Aivoji, has as­sured Nigerians that the party hierarchy and the entire members of the party would work hard to reposition the party in the State in order to win elections. Aivoji, who made these remarks at Badagry, Lagos State during a get-together to celebrate his election as the PDP state chairman, noted that with the pres­ent executive council of the Lagos State PDP, the party was ready to ensure all hands are on deck to win the State for the PDP. He stressed that with peace gradually return­ing to the party in the state, the party was set to be more united to lib­erate the generality of Lagosians who at every election period look up to the PDP for a change in the running of the state affairs. The former Lagos State Commissioner for Commerce, Industry, and Tourism further explained that the new exco would not only pro­vide leadership worthy of emulation but equal­ly ensure high morale among the party mem­bers and change the fortunes of the party by ensuring it wins Lagos State in the 2023 general elections. Hon. Aivoji said one of his major tasks in office would be to work assiduously for unity to prevail in the party at both the wards, local government and state levels, stressing that with all the contending groups in the party com­ing together, the party would definitely deliver the state to the PDP. At the palace of the Akran of Badagry, Menu Toyi Babatunde Akran, where the party train moved to for royal blessings, the PDP state chairman stated that he had come for the mon­arch’s blessings and to also inform him of his new position, adding that his new position would enable him to bring viable projects to Badagry and Lagos State in general as well as cor­rect the lop-sidedness in political appointments in the state. In his response, the Akran of Badagry, Menu Toyi Babatunde Akran, welcomed him and his entourage and congrat­ulated him on his elec­tion as the state chair­man of the PDP. He, thereafter, prayed for Hon. Aivoji’s good health and success in his new task, noting that the people were proud of him and they would continue to call on God to direct his ways. POLL Similarly, the Bish­op of the Diocese of Badagry (Methodist Church), Rt. Revd. Sun­day Onadipe, during the thanksgiving service Sunday, also congrat­ulated Hon. Aivoji on his election and prayed for the Lord’s abundant blessings and protection over him.