LAGOS – Ahead of the presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Kogi State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Honourable Kingsley Fanwo on Friday said Governor Yahaya Bello remains the leading aspirant to clinch the party’s ticket. Speaking in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Fanwo, who is also an aspirant for Yagba Federal Constituency in the 2023 elections said the gladiators in the presidential race such as  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation cannot stop the political tsunami of Yahaya Bello. According to him, based on his sterling records in Kogi state, Tinubu, Osinbajo and other aspirants will be proud if Bello becomes president in 2023. He said: “His Excellency, Governor Yahaya Bello is undoubtedly the best for the job. He possesses all the qualities needed to fix the country. Millions of supporters across the country are calling on him to come and lead the nation from 2023 because of his antecedents in uniting Kogi, securing Kogi and all the massive infrastructural projects across the state. This is what Nigeria needs at this period. “The question should be how the likes of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, VP Yemi Osinbajo and Rotimi Amaechi will survive the tsunamic political powers of GYB. The name on the lips of Nigerians is Yahaya Bello. He is younger than the other gladiators and even our leaders, Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Prof Osinbajo would be proud of GYB Presidency. “What we need now is dynamism and GYB will provide that. The nation needs a unifier,  GYB is a unifier. The nation needs someone who can guarantee and secure our country,  GYB has shown his capacity in Kogi State. “The nation wants power, GYB will guarantee that. The nation needs an infrastructural revolution, GYB will guarantee that. So, he is the leading candidate. “He will respect the elders and leaders of the party. They will trust him to deliver a massive victory to the party. He led the mobilisation of women and youth to the party and brought over 40 million members. He is the voice they know and trust.”