Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), is the Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese, as well as the General Secretary, Civil Consciousness Initiative (CCI). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the politics of Lagos State and other issues. Excerpt: As a former governorship candidate in Lagos State, what is your take on the state governorship come 2023 election? I am very passionate about Lagos. As you noted, I was a governorship candidate in Lagos in the last general elections. We have the issues of Lagos at heart. We have no other place we can call our home. The progress of Lagos is our own progress. The blessings of Lagos are our own blessings. I believe that unless there is an arrangement we do not know about between Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu that he should do one term, the APC in Lagos will push Sanwo-Olu for a second term, but it will not be a walkover. Why did you say so? There are a lot of people who believe that the status quo in Lagos must change this time around. Such people feel that Lagos should not be dedicated to someone who governs them. They believe that Lagosians should choose for themselves who leads them. That is what a lot of Lagosians will do come 2023. They will not like to be dictated to. They will like to choose their leader and not anybody presented to them. People believe that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is doing well and should therefore be given the ticket to do a second term. Do you think so, too? The case of Sanwo-Olu doing well or not doing well is not what we are talking about. Sanwo-Olu may be doing well, but Sanwo-Olu is someone’s candidate and will still remain that person’s candidate. What are the chances of other parties in Lagos State? POLL The chances of every party are very bright, but it depends on the candidates the parties are bringing in. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is the second largest party in Lagos. Do you think it stands a better chance this year? The PDP has always been the second best in Lagos but, for 2023, if they field the right candidate, they stand a better chance to win. Yes. They stand a better chance to win. Lagosians have to look for the PDP in 2023. When you say the PDP stands a better chance, are you taking into consideration the reported defection of certain people and interest groups to the party in recent times? Yes, indeed. A group from APC called Lagos4Lagos, a very influential group for that matter, moved into the PDP en masse. That is why I said that if the PDP will field the right candidate in this coming election, anything can happen in the 2023 governorship election in Lagos. How do you see the Lagos4Lagos Movement? Do you see them as serious enough to take over the governance of Lagos from APC for PDP? I see them as not only serious but also formidable. You see, Lagosians have a history of voting objectively. They can vote for APC for the presidency and vote for another party for the governorship. Majority of voters in Lagos are enlightened. Thank God the elections will not be held in one day. You contested the Lagos State governorship in 2019 under the National Conscience Party (NCP). Will you be moving to any other party this time around considering the fact that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) delisted the NCP and the courts are yet to resolve the case? There are 18 political parties recognised by INEC in the country now. I can move to any of them, but the decision will be made very soon. When the decision will be made, I will let you know. If the NCP wins the case against INEC before the election, will you still contest under the party? In ideology, I am NCP. The NCP as an ideological party cannot die. The NCP is in us. Even as NCP, we can choose to support who we want to support. Do you see the possibility of joining the African Action Congress (AAC) which people still see as an ideological party like the NCP? The AAC is not in my consideration. So far, I do not see the AAC as a serious political platform. What is your advice to Lagosians as politicians are re-strategising for the 2023 general elections? My advice to Lagosians is that this time around, they should vote for their freedom. They should vote for progress. They should vote for their candidate and not anybody’s candidate. Having said that, do you see the former governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, returning to contest or play an important role in the 2023 general elections in Lagos? I don’t know the mind of Ambode because I am not a mind reader. But, from his attitude in the last general election where he was an aspirant, I don’t see him as being in any position to muster any strength. Once you chicken out, you will always be a chicken. He lost his supporters the day he could not lead them. If you run backwards with your tail behind you, your supporters will scatter. Maybe he still has few supporters but no one follows a chicken. Don’t you see Ambode as still being relevant within the APC? On his relevance still in APC, Ambode will play any role assigned to him by Jagaban. You cannot fight a lion unless you are a lion yourself. And Ambode is not a lion. When he chickened out in the last general election, people saw him as a chicken. I cannot say if they have changed their opinion of him by now. What is your dream for a new Lagos? I look forward to a new Lagos come 2023. The signs are very much there. With the defection of the members of the Lagos4Lagos Movement from APC to PDP, a chunk has moved out of Lagos APC. What happened shows that Lagos youths are waiting to be properly mobilised. If they are properly mobilised, the voting pattern in Lagos will change this time around. Could you explain more on this issue or reorientation of Lagosians? There had been elections in Lagos. When Tinubu was contesting the second term, he almost lost. When Babatunde Fashola was coming in his first term, something told me that they lost that election. There was a close margin between the PDP and APC. The difference was what they brought from Alimosho where Aregbesola was holding sway. The election in 2023 will be well fought out and the tilt may be for a change in the government of Lagos. Don’t you see the possibility of some people being used to disrupt the voting process as was the case in the last general elections where ballot boxes were destroyed in some places? My brother, come the 2023 general elections, especially in Lagos, people who do not have any role in the elections will not have their way. This time around, it will not be business as usual because people are waiting for them. Nobody will attempt to destroy ballot boxes and go scot free. Remember that that voting is by electronic device and the results are transmitted electronically from the polling units to the INEC office. So, it will not be business as usual. Are you predicting an administration change in Lagos State come 2023? My brother, let us wait and see.