ABUJA – As the country prepares for the 2023 general elections, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Prof Mahmood Yakubu has cautioned federal and state bureaucrats to guard against action that may undermine their professional calling as it concerns their dealings with elected representatives. Represented by Sam Olumekun, INEC National Commissioner, at the First Quarterly meeting of the Forum of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation with Secretaries to State Governments, Prof Yakubu advised the bureaucrats to uphold the much reverend tenets of professionalism in their dealings, conscious of their responsibility to coordinate the process and activities leading to the implementation of policies of government. He advised them to shun the lure of politicians who may want to drag the service into politics and damage the bureaucratic set-up The INEC boss further warmed that Political patronage among civil servants has the potential of destroying the gains that has been made to evolve a credible bureaucracy. According to him, a credible election has a far-reaching positive impact on the bureaucracy since, as he noted, a credible candidate in the office is most likely to ensure that credible persons are appointed to office and vice versa. “The fact needs to be stressed that credible elections engender effective bureaucracy. Conversely, when elections are fraught with malpractices, the recruitment process of political office holders is negatively is impacted. In effect, public office holders may not have what it takes to put in place credible bureaucracy to better a lot of the ruled. “I wish to conclude my remark by sounding this note of advice to all of us seated here today bureaucrats; we must continue to uphold utmost professionalism at all times. “This is necessary as political office holders may easily lure you into politics thereby politicizing the bureaucratic set-up and destroying the fabrics of the profession. POLL “Political patronage among civil and public servants has the potential to destroy the gains attained over the years”.