ABUJA – Senator Godswill Akpabio has denied nursing an ambition for the Presidential Villa in 2023, insisting that he is determined to assist President Mohammadu Buhari to end his second term on a high note. Responding to reporters’ questions during a solidarity visit to the new Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and members of the party’s National Working Committee, Akpabio who was accompanied by Chief Donald Etiebet, a chieftain of the party, said his focus as minister of Niger Delta Development was to join other leaders of APC in the zone to ensure that the party makes its presence felt in future Elections. Amid widespread speculations that the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State is deepening consultations to join the presidential race, he maintained that it is not true he is running and that his job as a minister has not ended. “People have mentioned my name? You know I’m a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and I work with the President who is very focused and I’m determined to ensure that he ends well. So my job as a minister of Niger Delta is to continue to interact with stakeholders for the Niger Delta. “Like you have seen me I’m with one of my leaders, chief of Niger delta Don Etiebet. We want to continue to interact with each other, discuss issues and ensure the peace of that region and I can tell you that from south-south Nigeria today, is one of the peaceful regions in the country and we want to keep it. “So there is no doubt that my job has not ended, my job is to continue to support Mr president not just to ensure the completion of his legacy projects but also to ensure that his projects and legacy leads beyond 2023” On their mission to the party’s National headquarters, the “uncommon transformer” said : “I came to the headquarters of our great party to pay my respect to the new leadership of our great party; Starting from the new national chairman, distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, former governor of Nasarawa state, My brother Abdullahi Adamu and I also met with the deputy national chairman and other leaders of the party to congratulate them formally, to pay my solidarity and assure them of our continued support and pray during this Ramadan season and this period of lent that God Almighty will guide them to move our party forward. POLL So that we cannot only get to the next level but become very successful in all future elections.  “I believe that the new leadership the party elected to take Nigeria to victory because Nigerians will want APC to continue beyond 2023 and I believe that is what is going to happen. So that is basically the purpose of my visit.