The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday said that the public confession of Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai and Minister of Information, Rotimi Amaechi has vindicated its position that the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration knows the “whereabouts and plans” of the terrorists but deliberately refused to act. The opposition party in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba said, Amaechi’s revelation that some members of the APC-led Federal Executive Council frustrated his request to install security surveillance equipment to avert terrorist attack on the Kaduna-Abuja rail track further confirms that the APC administration has been creating safety nets for terrorists to freely operate. In his confession, the minister of Transportation said “We knew what the problems will be. We knew we needed to have digital security equipment…I warned that lives will be lost and now lives are lost… When you come with sincerity to government and your colleagues are stopping you, it is annoying.” While El-Rufai said that “we know where their camps are, we know where they are, the SSS has their phone numbers, they listen to them and they give me report, they listen to them, and they give me the report. We know what they are planning. We shouldn’t be waiting for them to attack; why can’t we go after them?” The party said these revelations from high-ranking APC officials who are in the position to know are troubling as they are unequivocal confirmation that APC leaders are in league with terrorists. The statement read “Nigerians will recall that the PDP has variously and consistently requested for a total overhaul and change of guard at the Ministry of Communications, which advice, like every other form Nigerians have been ignored, arising from the culture of arrogance in failure of the APC. “The fact that the Buhari-led government atrociously refused to act despite having full intelligence on the whereabouts, as well as the plans of the terrorists, confirms grave complicity and conspiracy against our nation at the very top level of the APC government’s security command and control coordination structure. “It also confirms that the APC government has conceded sovereignty over a part of our country to terrorists who, as a former APC leader confessed, were brought from neighbouring countries by the APC as political mercenaries to rig the 2019 general elections”. POLL PDP further stated that all these informed why the APC led Federal Government is allegedly suppressing information and exposing the armed forces to harm’s way “while watching innocent Nigerians perish in the hands of terrorists”, adding that the APC administration places low or no premium on the lives of Nigerians, saying it is evidenced in the huge number of compatriots killed since the party took over governance in 2015. PDP said this revealed why the APC administration has refused to adequately seek or accept assistance from foreign nations, even when offered, to track and plug sources of funding for terrorism in the country. “It is clear that the APC is complicit in the many acts of terrorism in our country. Nigerians should therefore be united in ensuring that the APC is voted out of power in 2023 so that our nation can breathe a new lease of life.”