Abuja – While countries in Europe are slamming sanctions on Russia for daring to initiate war against Ukraine, the Nigerian government has said it would not mortgage its diplomatic relations with both countries on account of their conflict. The government said the country does not regret abstaining from voting to suspend Russia from the United Nations human rights council over allegations of gross human rights violations in Ukraine. Recall Russia had warned countries at the UN that a yes vote or abstention on a U.S. push to suspend the country from the Human Rights Council will be viewed as an “unfriendly gesture” with consequences for bilateral ties. But speaking at the 36th Session of the State House Briefing on Thursday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Gabriel Aduda, said this responding to a question on if Nigeria was willing to take up Russia’s offer to absorb Nigerian students willing to continue their education. He said: “Concerning Russia offering admission to Nigerians to study in their universities, one thing we need to understand is that for now, our relations with both Russia and Ukraine are absolutely intact. We have very good diplomatic relations with Ukraine, we have very good diplomatic relations with Russia. And should that offer be put on the table, and we’ll have students that desire to continue, why not?” Aduda added that Nigerian students whose programmes were interrupted by the Russia- Ukraine conflict would continue their studies online and physically in other universities that have offered admission to students who wish to continue elsewhere. He noted that aside from universities that have begun virtual classes since the conflict broke out, other universities in neighboring states (with similar curricular to Ukraine’s) have offered Nigerian students admission to complete their studies. Aduda, however, explained that all admission processing must be done through the Nigerian Missions as this would be the surest way to confirm that interested students were previously enrolled into various programmes in Ukraine. According to Aduda: “Some universities have continued their classes online. But also, some universities in neighbouring countries such as Romania have reached out to us to offer placement to our students who want to continue their studies physically. POLL “However, all processing must be done through that Nigerian Missions. That’s the only way these nations can know that the students were in Ukraine. “Education desks are being set up in our Missions and the government is happy to help get them (students) placement in universities that have offered to help. “The forms will be available to students. A lot of students are being taken in. In Romania, some universities have opened their hostels to Nigerian students fleeing the war to continue their studies.” Also speaking on the issue, Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to UN, Prof. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, said: “I think it’s good to appreciate no matter how we all feel, that Nigeria has not broken relations with Russia, and there several cooperations between Russia and Nigeria on many issues, education is one. And so you have to appreciate not like Nigeria is at war with Russia. “Russia remains a member of the council and a member of United Nations. It is a political player in world politics and in next week, there may be no problem with Russia and Ukraine. And how do you start your relationship with Russia again? So it’s a balancing act. “Is not like we have reached a point where Russia is so evil that Nigeria will say we cannot even talk to you. Or we cannot eat food because it’s produced in Russia. Or you cannot take gas, because is Russian produced. So I think balance is key in diplomacy. “Just understand that our approach is right. Nigeria has been very clear that that action of attack was unacceptable and we stood by the world on this matter. But that Nigerian students who think they want to study Russian language in Russia, or study in Russia and you say no, don’t go there because Russia is not factual. “I just want us to understand is a balancing act in discovering other facets of relationships between us and Russia, between us and Ukraine. We have a lot of deals with the United States but we have never said Nigerian students to leave. Or, the UK or even expelling us from Commonwealth, did we say in retaliation all Nigerians should come back from the Commonwealth?” Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Zubairu Dada, responding to a question on whether Nigeria regrets abstaining from voting with the outcome of human rights abuse against Russia, said there is no reason to regret. He said: “On the issue of the UN resolution, any regrets? No regrets whatsoever to what happened. Because we believe that we voted right at the time that we did. But again, as regards the finer details you will get to hear from our permanent representatives, who was there when it happened.”