…Cautions Against Campaign Of Calumny ABUJA – Ahead of the 2023 presidential primary of All Progressives Congress (APC) a Political Pressure group, Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard (ESV) has cautioned against the alleged campaign of calumny targeted at the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Dr. Godwin Emefiele. Even at that, the group maintained the CBN governor will not only emerge the candidate of APC but will win the 2023 election as succeed President Muhammadu Buhari if he eventually declare his intention to run for the forthcoming election. Addressing a press conference Monday in Abuja, the group led by Patriot Daniel Enyi, declared that the CBN governor has nothing to do with the hundreds of Sharan branded buses aimed at showcasing Emefiele’s presidential ambition and dragging him into the race for 2023. Stating that Emefiele has no hand in the agitation of support groups, Enyi challenged anyone who has evidence of any ongoing consultation to run for president involving the CBN governor to come forward and make it public. According to him, the CBN governor is yet to respond to pressure mounted on him by well-meaning Nigerians to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari when Buhari’s tenure ends in 2023.as he urged other groups to join hands with the progressives to convince Emefiele to contest the 2023 Presidential elections. “We are confident that, if he makes up his mind to contest, he will declare in the open as political office seeking can not be done in a closed-door, especially the office of the President, of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The images been circulated on social media have nothing to do with the CBN directly, the blackmail is an attempt to box Emefiele to the corner. It is outright blackmail against his person to link the agitation directly to him. POLL “It is a norm that whenever he accepts to contest, it would be made public, he will answer the clarion call in the open. As Nigerians, the truth is, nobody can stop us from expressing our opinion on whom we feel should govern the country after 2023. “There is no doubt that Nigerians from all quarters, the North, the South, East and West are calling on the CBN Governor to run as President in 2023. “We are convinced that, if he does, he will win, this is the threat where some do or die political office seekers are trying to blackmail him. ” Remember, this is a man who was appointed by the PDP administration of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan and was reappointed by President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term based on his dedicated service to the Nation. “We wish to make bold that, the 2023 Presidential elections is far beyond an individual as Nigeria belongs to all of us. We firmly believed that the economy needs a seasoned technocrat, an economist of all standards who understands the monetary policy, diversification of the economy as well, a patriotic Nigerian who shall improve the security situation and consolidate the gains of the Buhari administration. This we have found in Dr. Godwin Emefiele. “Nigeria needs a President who thinks beyond 2023, a man or woman who understands the economic situation of the country and is poised to improve on it.”