The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has stated that it is concerned with the current insecurity crisis because of its impact on businesses and the economy. Asiwaju Dr. Michael Olawale-Cole, LCCI President in a statement yesterday, said the worsening insecurity profile in Nigeria is reaching a worrisome dimensionwiththeunfortunate incident on Monday March 28 2022, when some gunmen launched a deadly attack on a Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) Abuja-Kaduna evening train carrying an estimated 970 passengers. He noted that after the attack, reports confirmed that eight people were killed, and twenty-two people are still missing, while on 26th March 2022, the Kaduna Airport was attacked, leaving one dead and many maimed. “This is rather frightening and increasingly threatening to the well-being of Nigerians. “We are also very concerned because of the apparent threat to our forthcoming general elections in 2023 and, by extension, a threat to our democracy. “In the absence of peace and security, it would be challenging to hold credible, free, and fair elections that would reflect the choices of the electorates about whom their leaders should be”, he said The LCCI President explained that the 2021 Global Peace Index published by the Institute for Peace and Economics ranked Nigeria at 146 out of 163 countries, only better than countries like Iraq, Syria, Libya, Afghanistan, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen, and Russia, which are typically known to have been conflict areas for a long time. He said: “The security challenges are continuing to spiral into general lawlessness and anarchy. Also, the Global Conflict Tracker hosted by the United States Council on Foreign Relations recorded that attacks by bandits across the North-West have claimed at least 5,000 lives since 2018. Since 2009, nearly 350,000 people have been killed in the North-Eastern part of the country due largely to the activities of Boko Haram Islamist insurgents. The number of displaced people in the Lake Chad Basin is about three million”. POLL He emphasised that the Insecurity in Nigeria is multidimensional and pervasive, ranging from armed banditry, kidnapping, attacks on state infrastructure, perennial herder-farmer clashes to gang violence, attacks on police stations, prisons, airports, and power transformers, intercommunal violence, ritual killings, mob justice, and casual intimidation of ordinary citizens by the law enforcement agents. “In the South-South region, we have an economic war as the Government struggles to maintain the peace required to achieve optimal crude oil exploration for FOREX earnings. “Nigeria earns about 80% of its foreign exchange earnings from the Oil and Gas Sector. There are political agitations in the South-East, secessionist agitations in the South-West.