LAGOS – Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, re-election support group, Sanwo-Olu + Initiative Ambassadors has inaugurated its state and local government executive committee (exco) members ahead of the 2023 general elections. Frank Albert junior, the convener and state coordinator of the group, the umbrella body of supporters who are canvassing for Governor Sanwo-Olu’s re-election in 2023 wants Lagosians to consider the antecedents of the governor and support his re-election, stressing that anyone who desires development and good leadership in Lagos State must support the governor. He said that the achievements of the governor in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be overemphasised, pointing out that the group has inaugurated its excos in readiness for campaigns because they have seen his performance and want more of it. The programme which took place yesterday in Oshodi had Honourable Ganiyu Johnson, lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo federal constituency 2 at the green chamber of the National Assembly, as the father of the day. Otunba Hammed Gafar, the deputy state coordinator, Sanwo-Olu + Initiative Ambassadors, stressed that Sanwo-Olu deserves a second term based on his marvellous working agenda. “We have been following him closely and we are very impressed with how he is discharging his responsibilities during the COVID-19 what he did was marvellous such that without any stress he was able to control the pandemic as well as continue with governance.  This is a remarkable human exploration and we should motivate the governor to do more. “We have highlighted a lot of programmes that he has achieved successfully without making unnecessary noise. The governor is a silent achiever. “The successes that he has recorded are what motivated us to have this group. I must also say that the group is independent and as of today everything we do has been done out of our pockets and we won’t be tired because we have a lot of programmes that we will use in supporting his second term bid.  He added, “We have over 15,000 Lagosians registered with us and we are presently working on seven platforms. We are looking at mobilizing the generality of Lagosians and that is why we have outlined certain programmes that will sell the governor to the public. We are targeting 95 per cent of the total population of Lagos State to vote for the governor for a landslide victory in 2023. On membership in the group, he said, “It is basically for APC members because we cannot afford to have moles within us. We have a serious agenda ahead of us. You have to be an APC member and the process of joining us is a little bit laborious because the majority of us are professionals and we don’t want anything that will soil our names,” he said. Olatunde Martins, the state organising Secretary of the group noted that considering the antecedents of the governor, they are mobilizing members for his re-election in 2023.   “He has done so much in the health sector, his intervention during COVID-19 helped to save the lives of Lagosians and he has done well in the education sector, infrastructural development etcetera. POLL “Lagosians are desirous to have come back and we are very sure that he will be re-elected. We have done a lot of consultations, spoken with his admirers and they want him re-elected,” he said. Hajia Tai Elemesho Okesanjo,  coordinator Sano-Olu Initiative said that the group will assist Sanwo-Olu for re-election in 2023. “He is not going to do the work alone; we must help at every level, ward, and local government to ensure that he succeeds. We need to help him campaign, it is a job that every Lagosian has to do.“We have seen the laudable achievements of the governor in Lagos State. If he didn’t do well we wouldn’t come up with this group. When the campaign starts, we will move around and campaign with him. We will work for him, talk to our neighbours, and appeal to those who don’t have Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) to get their PVCs,: she said. She added, “He commissioned Housing estates, some of them abandoned for over 10 or 15 years but he completed them and generated money for Lagos State. I know of about 15 of such abandoned projects. Most governors when they come in will embark on their own projects and abandon the ones started by their predecessors but he promised to use his first term to complete abandoned projects, whether roads, health centres, buildings etcetera, and he has fulfilled the promises. “During covid-19 because of his knowledge about the health sector and the kind of people working with him, we didn’t have a crisis in Lagos State during the pandemic. Other governors were asking how he managed. We have six or seven platforms on social media where we recruit members. We have just inaugurated the state and local government executives and we hope to have a mega rally soon,” she said.