ABUJA – Babachir Lawal, for­mer Secretary of Government of the Federation and James Falake, member of House of Representatives on Friday led a mammoth crowd of supporters to pick the pres­idential nomination form for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, describing the APC National leader as the man to beat for the APC ticket. Addressing journalists af­ter collecting the nomination and expression of interest forms for Tinubu, the APC leaders said the former Lagos State governor will emerge victorious no matter the mode of primaries the leadership of the party adopts in the May 30-June 1st APC Special Con­vention. Asked to give an opinion on the chances of the Jagaban as against the groundswell of op­position from his South West domain, Falake said Tinubu is the only contestant in the race he knows. He said: “We are here as a team on behalf of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to pick the forms that he has person­ally paid for and because he is out of the country, he paid for his forms directly and asked us to come and pick up the forms. “He is the only contestant that we know. It is the party that has the authority to advo­cate for the mode of primaries. It is not in our purview to do that whatever mode, direct or indirect, we will win the elec­tion by the grace of God”. Speaking in like tone, the former SGF described Tinu­bu as a beautiful bride in the race for 2023, saying he is the candidate to beat for both the ticket of the APC and Election proper. Babachir said: “Senator Bola Tinubu is a branded prod­uct. Every Nigerian knows that he is the man to beat and I can assure you that the pres­idency of Nigeria comes 29th May, 2023, Tinubu to rule. “If we were not sure we have chances to win this elec­tion we would not waste our N100 million. Everybody is free to buy the forms if he has N100 million. The choice is his own. He has the money. But as far as we are concerned we are only fulfilling the constitution­al requirement of campaign­ing and going for election. We don’t foresee any opposition in the contest.” POLL The Tinubu Support Group TSG leaders dismissed the op­position from the South West as of no consequence adding that soon, the APC National leader will address Nigerians on his ambition.”