The ongoing expansion of the waiting lounge of the Zulu Hall of the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos by the management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is receiving attention from the industry analysts and the travelling public. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Airport terminals are major transportation facilities. These types of buildings have very distinct operational and architectural characteristics. Airport terminals are characteristic of the diversity of spaces and the very different groups of population using these buildings. Airport terminal buildings consist of large, open plan areas, often with high ceilings, ticketing counters, waiting areas, small office spaces, and various types of stores, concessions, and convenience facilities for users and the travelling public. The indoor microclimatic conditions are expected to provide a comfortable working environment to the small number of terminal staff and at the same time a comfortable transient environment to passengers. Infrastructure and facilities provided at Nigerian airports have not been able to keep pace with the unprecedented growth of the aviation sector in recent years, thereby leading to poor quality of space available for operations. In most cases, this is coupled with poor ambience and poor comfort conditions leading to an unsatisfactory visual appeal and passenger experience. Statistics show that from the beginning of the millennium, there has been an increase in the areas of a number of departing/arriving passengers, loaded freight, and arriving aircraft in Nigeria. POLL But, the facilities provided at the nation’s airports, especially in Lagos are overstretched. Amenities such as seats, air-conditioning systems, conveyor belts, and toilet facilities, among others, have depreciated with time. However, all these are set to abate with the plan by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to improve capacities at the nation’s airports in order to further create a comfortable ambience for the travelling public. Just last month, FAAN commissioned the second international terminal building at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. Though, construction on the terminal, which was executed by the Chinese construction company, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) commenced in 2013. But, the consistency, push and the focus of the FAAN management ensured the project was completed and it further reduced the number of abandoned projects in the country. Now, the FAAN’s management led by Capt. Rabiu Yadudu has turned its gaze on improving facilities at the domestic wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport One (MMA1), Lagos, popularly known as the General Aviation Terminal (GAT). FAAN is embarking on a project to further expand the waiting lounge of the Zulu Hall of the terminal building for passengers’ comfort, improve the Very Important Persons (VIPs) lounge and the protocols, while other state-of-the-art facilities would be installed – all for the travelling public convenience. Engr. Yemi Aiyeleso, General Manager, Project, FAAN, said that the project, which is being handled by Glovesly Pro-Project Limited on completion, would make the GAT the largest domestic terminal in Nigeria. With this project, the waiting lounge capacity of the GAT would grow by over 100 per cent. Presently, the lounge only accommodates less than 500 passengers, but would rise to 1,054 check-in air travellers in the next 12 months. Aiyeleso, who is also the Coordinator of the GAT Expansion Project, in an interview with our correspondent, said that the current bungalow would also give way to a two storey building with facilities that would connect the lounge to the GAT terminals. According to him, the new waiting lounge would have escalators for easy movement and transition of passengers, adding that the agency also hoped to earn more revenues from the modernised lounge. He explained that the exercise received the approvals of the Ministry of Aviation, Federal Executive Council (FEC) and the Bureau for Public Enterprise (BPE). Aiyeleso explained further that the two screening points and machines at the Zulu terminal would be expanded to five with the extension, while passenger waiting time would be reduced. He said: “At the GAT, we have Zulu and Alpha halls. The Zulu terminal is the one we are expanding at the moment. For a while now, the space at the Zulu terminal has been inadequate and due to its inadequacy, most of the airlines moved to the other terminal within the airport. “The management has embarked on inspections of the terminal several times and we concluded that it is necessary for us to expand the lounge so that it can accommodate more passengers. “Presently, the capacity is less than 500 and we intend to expand it by about 100 per cent. As it stands, the VIP section is a bungalow building and we plan to expand it to a two storey complex. Also, we intend to expand protocols at the terminal so that if the capacity of the users is high, other passengers can go to any of the storey buildings to relax before their flights. “Like I said earlier, the inadequate capacity has compelled some of the airlines to move their operations to the other available terminal within the airport. We hope that some of our clients who hitherto moved can come back.” Besides, Mr. Adekunle Aderibigbe, the Terminal Manager, GAT, Lagos Airport, said that the plan to expand the waiting lounge by FAAN had been on since Yadudu came onboard as the Managing Director of FAAN, especially with the continuous growth in passenger movement. In the second quarter of 2021, despite the slow recovery of the aviation industry from the Covid-19 pandemic, GAT recorded 861,000 departing and arrival passengers, thereby retaining the status as the busiest airports in Nigeria. Aderibigbe emphasised that one of the major reasons for the terminal expansion was to create more comfort to the travelling public and other users of the facility. He emphasised that the new building would have high quality cooling systems installed in strategic areas of the lounge when completed for the convenience of users. Already, Aderibigbe explained that the project was moving as scheduled and assured that it would be delivered as scheduled, but appealed to the travelling public to bear with the agency during the duration of the expansion project. He added: “So far, the corporate affairs department of FAAN has commenced with jingles in the national media by sensitising the public about the various ongoing projects, including this one that we are doing now. “In terms of vehicular movement, we have given a space to the contractors where their vehicles and materials will be appropriately parked to reduce discomfort to the travelling public.” Also, commenting on the development, Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (retd), said that it was necessary for government agencies, including FAAN to have a Research and Development (R&D) Department, which is saddled with the responsibility of monitoring passenger statistics for the nation’s airports. Ojikutu, however, said that the expansion of the waiting lounge was good for the system, but charged FAAN to look beyond the lounge in its development programme. According to him, the agency’s management should also focus its attention on expansion of the domestic wing terminal of the Lagos airport to further accommodate more air travellers. On completion of its remodeling in 2012, Mr. George Uriesi, the then Managing Director, FAAN, had said that the new GAT had the capacity to handle 12 domestic arrivals at peak hours and 1,500 capacity flights. Ojikutu said: “They (FAAN) should do something that can last us for more than 10 years. It should not be two years or five years development. Don’t forget that the waiting lounge is for passengers and the terminal hall needs to be enhanced, too. The arrival and departure passengers should be considered in doing this, while the number of boarding gates should also be increased. “On completion, the terminal will still ease passenger movement. However, I want to commend the FAAN management for the initiative, but like I said earlier, plans should also be made to increase the domestic terminal building at the Lagos Airport.” Besides, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, Director, Research, Zenith Travels, lauded the FAAN management for the initiative. Ohunayo explained that the addition of more domestic airlines in recent months had increased discomfort, delays and rescheduling of flights by airlines. He mildly attributed this to inadequate capacity at the local wing of the Lagos Airport and other terminals across the country, but expressed confidence that with the expansion, the discomfort to passengers would further reduce. Ohunayo also lauded Sirika and Yadudu for being futuristic in their approach with the project, regretting that some of the past years’ remodelling exercises did not put into consideration the future growth of the industry. Sandra Emokpe, a passenger at the GAT, commended FAAN management for embarking on the project, which she said would create more space and comfort for passengers. Emokpe explained that it would also lead to improved passenger facilitation, while delays associated with inadequate facilities at the airport would be minimised. “I think it is a good job that the management of FAAN is trying to put together and I hope that it will be done appropriately,” she said. She also called for government support for the agency’s management in a bid to further improve the travelling experience for passengers. Besides, Evelyn Anosike, another passenger at the terminal, explained that airport environments are supposed to be a comfortable zone for air travellers. With the completion of the project, she believed that more passengers would be attracted to the terminal, while revenue generation would also be enhanced for FAAN, airlines and other business organisations using its facility. “Don’t be surprised, once passengers know they can have a bit more comfort, they will be willing to patronise the airlines using this terminal and it will be a good business for them and everyone using the facility. I however hope that FAAN will increase the cooling system to reduce the present heat that we usually experience at peak hours. “In a nutshell, it is a good idea from FAAN and I personally appreciate the concept,” she said.