Delta State House of Assembly aspirant, Udu Constituency and executive Chairman of Udu Local Government Council, Hon. Chief Jite Brown has stated that he is the only aspirant among those presently jostling for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket that opposition parties are afraid of. Chief Brown who made this known during a consultative visit to Olorogun Kingsley Esiso Esq., Delta State PDP Chairman at Sapele Local Government Area of the state, said present contenders in opposition parties will step down if made the candidate of the PDP by delegates come 7th May 2022. He stated that he was at the residence of the party chairman to officially inform him of his decision to contest for a seat to represent Udu Constituency at the Delta State House Assembly. He noted that Esiso has been the brain behind most of the political activities they have been enjoying in the party in Udu and beyond. According to Chief Jite Brown, popularly known as ‘Aberen’, “in 2015 when we came here to seek blessings and advice, we won in a landslide in Udu same as 2017 and 2019. “We are here again to seek for same blessings and advice to take us to Asaba. Presently, Udu is PDP dominant Local Government Area because of the style of leadership of the state party chairman and his performance. “You don’t change a winning team, the PDP we are enjoying in Udu today,  is because those of us that came for the visit and some at home, have agreed to work as a team. “In life, there is always time for everything. We believe this is our time and we will not let it go by. If you study Udu properly there is relative peace among the leaders and elders, youths and women, that is because of our performances. POLL “We believed that this is the time. As Chairman of the Council, there is a lot we enjoyed, the relationship we had with you and some leaders in Asaba. “As a result, we have been shuttling Asaba almost on daily basis, hence we decided to seek a position that will permanent us in Asaba for a period because we believed that if we are closer to you in Asaba and the seat of power of the state, our daily journey would be less and more of our people will be empowered. “As our boss and leader, help in your usual way of blessing and advising us to enable me to emerge the candidate of the party come 7th May 2022”, he added. In his response, Delta State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Olorogun Kingsley Esiso Esq., commended Hon. Chief Jite Brown for the visit, saying that Jite Brown is a good friend to him. He noted that candidates for the State House of Assembly seat, Udu Constituency would be made by delegates of the party come 7th May 2022. Esiso advised Chief Jite Brown and his entourage, whom most were statutory delegates to vote for aspirants of their choice that can make the party stronger.