Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on Wednesday writes Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Chairman of the party requesting that the officials of the agency be given the access to conduct drug integrity tests on politicians seeking political office in the country. The NDLEA Chairman, Brig-Gen Buba Marwa (Rtd), disclosed this in Abuja while speaking at the 2022 First Quarter Best Performing Awards ceremony of the agency’s National Headquarters for 56 officers. Speaking at the event, the NDLEA boss also said that when it is the turn of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and other parties to conduct their primaries, the agency would write their national chairmen and request that operatives of NDLEA be allowed to conduct drug integrity test on their aspirants. According to him, the drugs test is necessary to ensure that politicians vested with important national offices o not used budgetary allocations to go and buy cocaine or Methamphetamine instead of providing needed services for the masses.’ He said, “The drug test is necessary to ensure that politicians vested with important national offices do not use budgetary allocations to go and buy cocaine or methamphetamine instead of providing needed services for the masses. “For politicians, we have long advocated, and I take the opportunity again to repeat the advocacy, that when they run for public office, it demands a lot of responsibility from the person, and we need to be certain if he is a person that is already a drug addict/user who will spend all the money he is given for public service to consume cocaine and his head will not be in a stable condition to handle the affairs he has been entrusted with. Two opposition parties, the Peoples Redemption Party, (PRP) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) have supported the decision. In his reaction, PRP’s National Publicity Secretary, Malam Ibrahim Adamu, described the idea as a good development.  He, however, said a psychiatric test should also be added to the test to ascertain the state of mind of those seeking to lead the country. POLL On his part, Ambassador Agbo Major, National Publicity Secretary of the NNPP, said there was nothing wrong with the idea.