The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has won all the chairmanship and councillorship seats in the just concluded Katsina State Local Government elections held on Monday, defeating eleven other parties that contested in the elections. Alhaji Ibrahim Bako, the state electoral commission’s Chairman while announcing the results at the headquarters of the State Independent Electoral Commission in Katsina, said only the election in Dutsinma was cancelled due to some challenges encountered during the election while the results for Daura and Funtua are being awaited. He explained that, a later date would be announced for the repeat of the election in Dutsinma while certificates of return will be presented to the winners in the elections. Meanwhile, the APC and the main opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have continued to trade words over the conduct of the election. The main opposition has, however, described the election as a sham. Briefing newsmen at his hometown in Dutsinma, PDP leader and former governor of the state, Barrister Ibrahim Shehu Shema, described the election as unsatisfactory and a total disappointment. Also speaking on the conduct of the election, the state PDP Chairman, Alhaji Salisu Lawal Uli, said the election was marred by violence, late arrival of election materials and alleged rigging by the APC. In its reaction, the ruling APC described PDP grumbles over the conduct of the election as an attempt to discredit the process in anticipation of a poor outing in the election. POLL However, Alhaji Aliyu said the election was peaceful and orderly except for the late arrival of sensitive materials in some polling units which he said did not hamper the process. In his reaction, the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Mustafa Inuwa said the delay in the arrival of election materials at some polling units was caused by the activities of thugs sponsored by the PDP. Meanwhile, the State Independent Electoral Commission will later in the day present certificates of return to the winners in the election and possibly announce a new date for the repeat of elections in Dutsinma LGA where the election was cancelled.