MAKURDI – The campaign office of a Governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Professor Terhemba Shija, situated in Makurdi, the Benue state capital, was allegedly vandalised by hoodlums in the wee hours of Wednesday. The Director General (DG) Prof Shija Gubernatorial Campaign Organisation, Dr James Mbachiantim who disclosed this while speaking with newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday said the matter has since been reported to the police. The DG, who conducted newsmen round the premises showed media men where about seventeen poles, hoisting APC flags were forcefully removed from the base and carted away by the hoodlums. Explaining further, Mbachiantim said, “I came in this morning around 9 am and discovered that the flags we have erected at the secretariat were taken down at the base. “We checked around again to see that two other flags were also taken off. I called other staff to be sure they were not taken down by agents of the State Urban Development Board. So I sent someone to urban development office and they confirmed they were not responsible. We have also reported the matter at the police station.” Alleging further, he said, “We are in the political clime and we are politicking. Obviously, anything that happens is for political reasons. We believe strongly that this is the activity of other parties on the other political divide. We think that the supporters of other political parties are responsible for what happened. “We, in APC believe strongly in peaceful political activities. Our candidate Prof. Terhemba Shija has emphasised over peaceful conducts and as a party we are working together peacefully to produce the next governor of Benue state in 2023.” Commenting on situations that may have led to the vandalisation of the campaign office, Mbachiantim noted that “We are also mindful of other political parties, particularly, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) which we believe that their recent outing with respect to zoning of the governorship to Jechira has edged out some aspirants from Kwande axis and who knows whether the supporters of those from Kwande axis are the ones doing these type of activities.”