A renowned Islamic cleric, Alhaji Sheikh Muyideen Ajani Bello popularly refers as ‘Oniwasi Agbaye’ (Global preacher) has blamed Nigeria Politicians for the various woes bedevilling the country. Alhaji Bello, however, urged the Federal Government and Oyo state in particular to as a matter of urgency to find a lasting solution to the worrisome insecurity in the state and country at large. The cleric made this disclosure during the second Ishaq Abiola Ajimobi Memorial Ramadan Lecture held at the Ishak Abiola Ajimobi Central Mosque, Oke-Ado, Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. Alhaji Bello also advised the politicians Irrespective of their political affiliations to respect the masses who entrusted their mandate in their hands and urged them to be accountable to the public. While remembering the former late Governor Abiola Ajimobi, the cleric said the present situation in the state is nothing to write home about and that the government of Engr. Seyi Makinde has failed to build on the legacies of the former governor of the State. The special guest of honour at the event Barrister Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) while eulogising the virtue of late Ajimobi, he thanked Allah for spearing their lives to witness the second Ramadan lecture in honour of the late former governor and prayed for the repose of his soul. He prayed to Allah to grant him aljanah fridaous and urged wealthy Muslims in the state to ensure that the mosque built and left behind by late Ajimobi should not be allowed to be in bad condition. According to him, “the former governor had concluded his mission on earth and we should all come together to ensure that the mosque and other legacies he left behind is not allowed to diminish”. POLL Those present at the lecture include Mallam Yusuf Ali (SAN) as the Chairman of the occasion, late Ajimobi’s son, Idris Ajimobi, Senator Fatai Buhari representing Oyo North, immediate past Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Olalekan Alli, former deputy governor of Central Bank, Chief Bayo Adelabu, former commissioner for education, science and technology, Prof Adeniyi Olowofela, former commissioner for finance, Bimbo Adekanmbi. Alhaji Abidemi Siyanbade, Oyo state House of Assembly member, Seyi Adisa, Alhaji Rahmon Balogun, former Personal Assistant to late Governor Ajimobi, Dayo Iyaniwura and other dignitaries.