...Ego Destroying APC Ahead Of 2023 ABUJA – Senator Abdullahi Adamu, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has alerted that the ruling party is at great risk of inheriting the post-2014/15 fate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), noting that the APC is highly fragmented due to supremacy war between serving and immediate past Governors of the state. Addressing an emergency meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee NEC meeting held at the Transcorp Hilton hotel, Abuja, Senator Adamu observed that the ego infested battle has so divided and polarized the party that unity is almost becoming elusive. Unfortunately for the party, he said that any success at pools in 2023 cannot be attained unless the APC unite at the state, federal and local levels, stressing an attempt to play the ostrich in what has eaten the fabric of the party would amount to postponing the evil day. “As you see it, this party has two paths to take. The first path is the full and complete unity of the party, the second path is winning the 2023 general elections. How we handle the first will determine how we achieve the second. We must take urgent and target steps now to unite our party at all levels; federal, states, local governments and wards. “Our political party must emerge from incessant challenges in order to one prepare for the coming tasks ahead. Secondly, we must begin the process of banishing disagreement and build inclusive of our past and present experiences. “The lack of unity in our party is such that none of us can pretend not to be unaware as it was the efforts to unite this party that led the previous caretaker committee to set up a reconciliation committee to find lasting peace. “I know Mr President is not unmindful of what happened to PDP in 2014/2015, our party is not immune to a similar fate should it conduct itself in such a way that continues to undermine the legacy of the founding fathers to build this party. POLL “I was the chairman of the reconciliation committee and came out of the assignment fully conversant of the problems. The battle really is a battle for supremacy between serving state governors and their predecessors in office. It is a crisis fueled by ego. “So ego is the enemy. Ego between former and serving governors, ego has turned them into bitter enemies. Because of ego, the two groups are putting our party in jeopardy and the effect will be in the polls next year.” The former Nasarawa State governor said the supremacy battle between Governors and their predecessors has diminished the strength, as he likened it to a fight between two elephants. He insisted that the party must be bold to address the challenges. “The serving governors and past governors are powerful men, each of them are leaders in their own right in their states but when two elephants fight the grass suffers. Similarly, when two powerful politicians fight the party suffers. Because the speech and actions of these powerful men will bring a filthy and odious stench to our party. “Our party must have the courage not to pay lip service about it but the serving governors of our party in their various states are the leaders of the party and this is in line with our party’s constitution. “It is important that the former governors recognize that the party structure must be respected. Our party’s constitution makes no room for two party leaders in a state. There is no reason to compete with serving governors for the leadership of the party.”