According to Caught Offside, Arsenal are looking to strengthen their options in the midfield department next summer and are assessing as many as five players, including Aston Villa ace Douglas Luiz. The 23-year-old midfielder came through the youth ranks at Brazilian club Vasco da Gama before signing for Manchester City in 2017. He was immediately loaned out to Spanish club Girona where he spent two seasons. Upon returning to City, they sold Luiz to Aston Villa in the summer of 2019, where he has grown in stature. Luiz has been a regular in the side for Aston Villa for most of his stint at the Midlands club. However, his future has been cast into doubt as manager Steven Gerrard seeks an upgrade in the defensive midfield position, with Kalvin Phillips emerging as a target. And, Arsenal could be willing to provide an escape route for the Brazilian international. The Gunners strengthened their midfield unit in the summer with the signing of Albert Sambi Lokonga, while they also tied Granit Xhaka to a new contract. However, Mikel Arteta’s side will enter the market for another midfielder in the summer as they seek the ideal all-round partner for Thomas Partey. Furthermore, with Mohamed Elneny set to leave in the summer and Xhaka again being linked with AS Roma, it would bode well for Arsenal to add at least another central midfielder to their ranks before next season. Luiz has emerged as one of the prospective targets for Arsenal. The Brazilian will enter the final year of his contract at the end of the season. And he could be available at a bargain in the summer. However, the report states that Arsenal are assessing as many as five midfielders. Napoli’s Fabian Ruiz has been a target for the north London club for some time now, much like Youri Tielemans of Leicester City. Links to Wolves midfield mainstay Ruben Neves have been around for a long while now, while Leeds’ Kalvin Phillips is also a target, along with Luiz. POLL So, it remains to be seen who Arteta and Edu decide to go after come summer. For now, Aston Villa star Luiz is very much on the agenda for Arsenal.