Lagos – Following the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, which is taking its toll on food globally, stakeholders have asked Nigeria to look inwards for wheat supply, thereby reducing its importation, Daily Independent has gathered. Nigeria, like many countries, is also feeling the heat especially in the area of wheat supply as both countries accounted for 31 percent of the country’s aggregate durum wheat importation for food in the Nigeria flour industry. It is on record that Nigeria spends over $4.2 billion yearly on the importation of wheat to meet its local demand of over 5.0 million metric tons. Parts of the country that support wheat production include Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi, Katsina, Yobe, Kaduna, Borno, Bauchi, Adamawa, Jigawa, Gombe and Kano. Salim Saleh Muhammad, National President, Wheat Farmers Association of Nigeria (WFAN), said that definitely the Russia-Ukraine war is having a negative impact on the economy of Nigeria and the supply of wheat. He said that Nigeria has to take advantage of the crisis to double its production of wheat, stressing that the nation has the potential because we have the land and human resources. Muhammad said Nigeria used to purchase about 34 percent of its wheat from Russia and Ukraine. He said that the government should increase its funding to the sector so that the country could produce at least 50 percent of the yearly demand for wheat. “We are looking inward locally now to see how we can bridge the gap and look for alternative but the Wheat Farmers Association of Nigeria is calling on the government to bring large funds for us to go into mass production of wheat by the coming season. “Government has tried its best in this season; they need to redouble what we have done this season. If we can do that and go into mass production of wheat definitely we will be able to bridge that gap,” he said. Dr. Oluwashina Olabanji, former Executive Director of Lake Chad Research Institute and Coordinator, Monitoring and Evaluation, CBN Anchor Borrowers’ Programme on Wheat Production, told Daily Independent that Nigeria is not supposed to be in this situation, if all things have been working well. “If our policies had been sustainable and consistent we would have not been in this situation and not only for wheat, even for all the food crops in Nigeria,” he said. He said when the Agricultural Transformation Agenda (ATA) started, wheat production rose from 70,000MT to 350,000MT from 2012 to 2015 but when the policy somersaulted and there was no political will from government to continue to promote wheat, the farmers went back to rice, vegetables and other crops and the production declined to 70,000MT again. Olabanji, however, said that with the new intervention from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Flour Milling Association of Nigeria (FMAN), the industry has started a new journey on wheat production in the country. “We identified three challenges in the value chain which is policy, marketing and availability of quality seeds that can give our farmers high productivity,” he said. He added that the CBN imported 13,000 metric tons of quality seeds into the country last year and the farmers have planted 150,000 hectares this session. He stated that some farmers in Jigawa got a yield of 5.2 tons per hectare, some got four tons per hectare with the adequate seeds that can give up to five or six tons per hectare. On policy, he said, “There is a political will demonstrated by supporting wheat farmers through the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. We are able to get quality seed, we are able to get quality inputs like fertiliser, pesticide and we are able to train our farmers and extension workers on agronomy practices to increase the productivity of food and that is why we are getting good results now.” On marketing, Olabanji noted that FMAN is committed to the buying of all wheat grains produced in the country. “We have started buying; even now they are buying N35, 000 per bag which is N350, 000 per ton which is very good,” he said. Speaking further, he said farmers are targeting to plant about 300,000 hectares of wheat next season, adding that the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) has devoted $1 billion for wheat self-sufficiency in Africa and that Nigeria is one of the beneficiaries. “They have already told us to develop a strategic plan for wheat production in Nigeria and by the middle of this month the committee which I am one of them will meet and develop a plan and by next season we are targeting 300,000 hectares, so that in the next five years by the grace of God we will be able to attain at least 70 percent self-sufficiency in wheat production all things been equal,” he said. On the implication of the war on Nigeria’s wheat supply, he said that Nigeria is not the only country affected, noting that there is a global food crisis as a result of the war because Russia is the largest wheat producer and Ukraine is the fifth headquarters of wheat in the world and Nigeria imports wheat from U.S., Russia, and Ukraine. “So you can definitely see it will have an effect on Nigeria but because we have started something locally by promoting our own domestic wheat production, we will not be badly affected because this year we have cultivated about 150,000 hectares even at three tons per hectare, we will get about 450,000 metric tons. “This is historical in this country within a jiffy because of the intervention of the CBN and the FMAN. Once there is a market for any product, farmers are bound to cultivate it. Now that they have the assurance that some people will buy it, most of them are now interested in wheat production. He said before the intervention, Nigeria only attained 10 percent self-sufficiency but with the intervention this season the percentage must have risen to between 15 and 20 percent. “My own submission is that within the next five years we are going to reduce our importation by 70 percent self-sufficiency and we will be reducing our import by 70 percent.” He, thereby, called on governments at all levels to continue to support wheat production in Nigeria. “Let us continue to produce what we will eat and eat what we produce. For any nation to be food secure we must promote mechanised farming. In fact it is one of the areas the AfDB is going to intervene now. “We have already organised our farmers into clusters which is very easy for farm equipment to go in. There are some clusters where our farmers cultivated about 5000 hectares in a cluster,” he stated. He also advised the government to invest more in research and development and to also invest in mechanised farming.