Honourable (Mrs) Onyinye Israel Ojiekwe, Chief Executive Officer of Gifting Global Ventures (GGV), in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the challenges of doing business when exchange rate is high, among other issues. Excerpts: Can you tell the stout behind your business? I started from a small shop. This business was given to me through divine revelation in a dream. One day in a dream God took me to a place in the Island where weavons are sold. When I woke up from sleep I remembered the address that I was shown in the dream. I had the address off heart and I went to Apongbo in Lagos Island and made enquiries about the shop and people admitted that such a shop existed. When I got to the shop, I asked for the Managing Director of the company, incidentally the woman was a good Christian. The name of the company is Universal Hair Care. I called her mum, and told her the dream and she developed interest in me. She told me that she believed my story, showed me some weavons and asked if I had a place where I could display them and I said, yes. She called her staff and asked them to give me maximum attention because her spirit accepted me. She also introduced me to her husband and we became family friends. After one month she started extending credit to me. She gave me products even when I didn’t pay immediately and she asked her son to follow me to my shop in Ajao Estate to know my shop. God has prospered in the business, and gave me wisdom on how to fix eye lashes and nails. My business became a household name in Ajao Estate and environ. How did you get to where you are today? When I started, not many people were in that line of business. People came from Festac and other areas of Lagos State to patronise me. All the big ladies in Ajao Estate were my customers; and also introduced new customers to me. When they go to parties and people see their eye lashes, that they look natural, they would advertise on my behalf that was how my fame grew. POLL I was able to buy my first car. When former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was in power, there was a law that prohibited citing buildings close to gutters. When former Governor Babatunde Fashola came in, the same issue was raised and the container which was my make shift shop was destroyed. I was not deterred but continued my business under an umbrella. My landlord then decided to reconstruct my shop on the same spot but moved it some distance away from the gutter. When the shops opposite my shop got burnt by fire, and the landlord rebuilt them, he asked his boys to call me, even though I had never met her. I didn’t know that he had been observing the way I was committed to my business. He said to me, ‘my daughter that shop where you are doesn’t fit you’ He offered to rent one of his shops to me. He said that he was impressed with my hard work and wished his first son wasn’t married, so he could marry me. When I requested to know the rent, he said it was N400,000 per year and I was to pay for two years, including agent and agreement, the total cost was about N1 million. I told him that I couldn’t afford that, but he asked me to pay whatever I had and pay the balance in three months. I was able to pay N600,000 and paid the balance within two months. God has been very faithful to me; I got married to my husband who has been in politics for over seventeen years and he introduced me to politics. Can you talk about politics and business at the same time? In 2017 I contested as councilor for Ajao ward G under Oshodi/Isolo Local Government, but wasn’t successful. I was later appointed the treasurer of my ward. In 2021 I also aspired, and I was appointed a supervisor councilor for Oshodi/Isolo Local Government. After four years I still retained my position as treasurer of my ward. I have done well as a business woman, a mother, wife and a politician. God has blessed me and he has also blessed my husband. His business has blossomed as well because the bible says that ‘He who finds a wife, finds a good thing and obtains favour from the Lord” God has also given me healthy children and I have reasons to be grateful to him. How do you balance the functions? It hasn’t been easy but God has given me strength and wisdom to cope because there is no side that is neglected. Everything in life depends on planning. Politics takes a lot of time but you plan to succeed. Sometimes when the first lady of Lagos State is going for a function, we may have to be there at 7am. So that is how we operate. I must appreciate God for giving me two wonderful mothers who take care of my children. I create time for my husband and my business as well. We have a women’s group that accompany the local government chairman to any function that he attends. We wear Ankara to accompany him to such events, and we do that almost every week. You deal in imported products, how do you cope with sustaining patronage from your customers because the prices of the products would have gone up because of a hike in foreign exchange? Yes, I do have challenges in this business. Before this time when covid-19 pandemic came and then the lockdown, I experienced huge challenges. I lost a lot of patronage because most women no longer fix their hair, they wear wigs. The high exchange rate has made it very difficult and expensive to bring in these products into the country, the prices are too high and so not everybody can afford them. It is really affecting us because most of our customers now braid their hair because it is cheaper for them. I used to have three sales girls but I have reduced the size to one so that I can pay my bills. The bad economy has really affected us in this business. During the covid-19 pandemic, my shop was closed for so many months. Some customers even cut their hair and started wearing low cuts. What advice can you give to women who are unemployed but depend on their husbands for financial assistance? I have a wealthy husband but I don’t totally depend on him. I still work to earn a living and any time that he gives me money, I will thank him. It is the only way that you can earn respect from your husband. A woman should have something to do, no matter how small. There are times the man may find it difficult to meet up with expenses, so the wife should be supportive. I call jobless women, lazy women. The young girls on the street should start something that is even how they can attract husbands. My husband before we got married used to come to my shop, sit down and would be observing me do my business. He could sit for about two hours; I didn’t know that he was observing me. Sometimes he would ask me if I would not rest and I would tell him, if I did, who would pay my bills. There was a day when I was struggling with my generator and he said it was old, and I jokingly told him that someday someone would buy a generator for me. He bought a generator for me without having any amorous relationship with me. He observed me for over four years before he proposed to me. Hard working, dedication and commitment will help you succeed in business. Some women complain of lack of funds and support from the government, are there ways that you think that the government can help women entrepreneurs? I think that the government is already doing that in some areas; people should just source information. Some government officials are also assisting, the other time Senator Solomon Olamilekan, also called Yayi, empowered women with Keke, grinding machines, etcetera. We also have some House of Representatives members who are doing that same. The local government chairmen also give loans to women and youths, I know that there is still room for the government to encourage more women entrepreneurs.