The Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel has maintained that no individual ambition is worth the peace currently being enjoyed in the state The Governor who stated this in his Easter message on Sunday urged politicians to choose peace over violence as the 2023 election is not worth shedding anyone’s blood. The Governor vowed that the state would not return to the years when kidnapping and politically motivated killings queried the primary purpose of the government, which is the security of lives and property. He charged  Akwa Ibom people to eschew hatred, ethnicity, anger and its related divisive tendencies, and reject anyone who markets violence. The Governor further advised the people to focus on the unfailing love of God for man which the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ represent, even as political tension mounts in the state and the cracks in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) party widens. In his words “There is no political office that should compel us to shed the blood of our brothers or sisters. There is no ambition that is so deep and sacred that we would be willing to turn our State into a cauldron of violence, in order to satisfy our craving for power. All powers belong to God and He alone, grants such to whom He has favoured. “Akwa Ibom has in the past seven years, remained an oasis of peace and tranquillity, and on this, I salute our resourceful youths who have decided to maintain the peace and invest in the future that is about to dawn – a future of plenty, a future of fulfilment and a future of growth and development. “We will never go back to the years of violence and the years where we couldn’t sleep with our eyes closed. We will not return to the years where kidnapping and politically motivated killings numbed our sensibilities and made us question the central purpose of governance, which is the security of lives and property. POLL “Akwa Ibom people have collectively and unanimously said goodbye to those years and have welcomed the era of peace and security. Anyone who markets violence should and must be rejected. “My fellow Akwaibomites, as we reflect on the unflinching love for mankind which the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ represent, I again urge you to eschew hatred, ethnicity, anger and all forms of divisive tendencies from our body-politic. “Let us continue to join hands to build the Akwa  Ibom State of our dream and secure a future of prosperity, peace and growth for our children and generations yet unborn”.