***To Give Out House Worth N50m House LAGOS – Nigeria’s luxury real estate company Sujimoto, known for their exclusive and breathtaking high-rise developments in Ikoyi, has commenced the generosity movement with the launch of Homewin on Worker’s Day – May 1, 2022. Homewin is the biggest promo ever, where with N500, you can win a fully furnished house in Lekki worth N50 million; 2 Brand New Cars; 100 Smart Phones; 50 Gas Cookers; 50 TV Smart TV sets; 65 winners of daily cash prizes – N100million in 100 Days; 1 monthly winner of a Salary for Life – N100, 000 every month for 10 years; and over 11,000 winners in 100 Days! While speaking about his motivation for starting Homewin, the CEO and Group Managing Director, Mr. Sijibomi Ogundele narrated a very emotional experience. According to him; “Homewin is very personal to me because every day, I get calls from people going through different challenges in life. Everywhere I turn, there is someone going through a difficult time. Except we want to pretend about what is going on around us, it is obvious that poverty is increasing at an alarming rate in the country and the burden of responsibility is beginning to tell on so many Nigerian families.” “The price of food has skyrocketed. Those who could afford 2-square meal a day, are now struggling to afford one! As a man who is passionate about giving and believe strongly in the saying that if your neighbor is hungry, your chicken is not safe, I thought about how I could help more Nigerians move out of poverty and the concept of Homewin was born. The beauty of Homewin is that it puts the power to win in your hands. It puts you in charge of your fate”. Homewin is a platform designed to empower Nigerians and help them escape the trenches to a place of wealth, with as little as N500. The Promo is slated to run for 100 Days and every ticket you buy, starting from the 1st of May, 2022 when we launch officially, qualifies you for the Daily draw where you stand a chance to be amongst our 65 Daily Winners of cash prizes worth N1Millon; Monthly winner of Salary 4 Life – 100K every month for 10 Months; and the grand finale prize of a fully furnished 3 Bedroom Home worth N50million; Cash prizes and other consolation prizes. According to Mr. Ogundele, there are two ways you can play Homewin, either you subscribe as an agent and get massive BONUS when you recharge your account with up to N10, 000 or you can simply visit www.playhome.com to start playing for the daily draws, monthly draws and the grad finally draws. POLL Note that Homewin had within the last few weeks lined up an array of stars, celebrities and influencers such as Davido, Naira Marley, Portable, Zlatan, Teni the Entertainer, Mr. Macaroni, Billionaire White, White Money, Bobrisky, Pencil and other prominent Nigerians from the music to the entertainment industry, who are ready to kick out poverty from Nigeria with Homewin. As a parting gift, the generous Mr. Ogundele announced that on the 1st of May, 2022 when Homewin will launch officially, rather than give 65 Winners the daily cash prizes, they have increased the number to 195 Winners just for the 1st of May. This means you don’t have a reason not to be a Homewin winner!