The Federal Government has been advised to change its current strategy if it wants to achieve optimal results in winning the war against terrorism in the country. Making the call on Friday, the Alumni Association of the National Institute (AANI) Lagos State Chapter while expressing displeasure over the spate of attacks by bandits in the Northern part of the country said the government must do more in ensuring the safety of Nigerians across the country. The Kaduna international airport was attacked last week Saturday by armed men which led to the death of a security guard of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). On Monday, the bandits also attacked a train along Kaduna-Abuja rail lines leading to many deaths and others kidnapped. In the statement made available to journalists, AANI Publicity Secretary, Lagos state chapter, Omoba Tunde Ajibulu mni, while commiserating with the relatives and victims of the unfortunate incidents said the security agencies must redouble their efforts in finding lasting solutions to the incessant killings in the country. The statement reads ” the Alumni Association of the National Institute (AANI) Lagos state chapter condemns the escalated terrorist attacks in Kaduna Airport and the train attack on  Kaduna Abuja Road. We are still in shock at the needless spilling of blood of innocent Nigerians by these heartless men. ” We also lost one of our members, Comrade Musa Lawal Ozigi mni,  the national secretary of Trade Union Congress (TUC) in the Kaduna train attack. He was an immediate past member Lagos State chapter executive. We pray that may his soul and those of others who lost their lives rest in peace”. ” We are also using this medium to ask the Federal Government, especially the Service Chiefs to change their strategy and approach if they really want to win the war against insurgency. It is clear that the current strategy they are employing is not working and that is why the bandits rather than retreating are getting bolder each day”.