ISAAC ASABOR In a market situation where sellers and service providers continue to engage in unfair practices by arbitrarily increasing prices of goods and services, government may be compelled to choose the option of initiating and implementing price control mechanism that is capable of placing restrictions on the prices that can be charged for goods and services in the market. Without doubt, the intent behind the implementation of such control can stem from the desire to maintain affordability of goods and to mitigate the impact of inflation on consumers of various products and services, or, alternatively, to ensure a minimum income for providers of certain goods or a minimum wage. There are two primary forms of price control. They are the price ceiling and the price floor. The price ceiling form of price control means the maximum price that can be charged, while the price floor means the minimum price that can be charged. Historically, price control has been implemented by governments as part of a larger incomes policy package also employing wage controls and other regulatory elements. In fact, not many Nigerians, particularly those born in the 90s, are aware that there was a time when a seller could not sell his or her products at an arbitrary price. For instance, milk or sugar could not be sold at the time at a price that was not approved by the government. The restrictions were made possible by a law called the Price Control Act of 1977. The act basically gave the government powers through its Price Control Board, to fix price of a wide array of commodities among which are: Bicycles and spare parts, flour, matches, milk, motorcycles and spare parts. POLL Others are motor vehicles and spare parts, petroleum products, salts and sugar. According to Section 6 Subsection 1 of the act, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell, agree to sell or offer to sell any or employ any other person, whether or not that other person is of full age, to sell any controlled commodity at a price which exceeds the controlled price. The act was popular in the late seventies and was widely implemented in the days of General Buhari (when he has the military ruler). However, the act was condemned by many Nigerians at the time it was in enforcement, particularly by sellers and businessmen, who considered it to be draconian and lopsided in favor of the buyers only. Despite the condemnations that trailed the act, some consumers that recently spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT, said it would be better for the government to re-introduce the Price Control Boards, which once existed in the country, noting that the rate at which sellers and service providers are arbitrarily increasing the prices of various goods and services is unbecoming. According to Mr. Jamiu Bilikisu, “The level of arbitrariness in Nigeria’s consumer market has reached the point where the government should intervene with a price control mechanism.” He added that the situation in the market is by each passing day becoming unbearable for consumers as prices of goods kept rising on daily basis. He cited an instance where he visited Tejuoso market at Yaba in Lagos, where he was offered a price for a particular item. He said since he could not immediately afford the item at the price it was offered to him, he decided to forgo the item until the next day. He continued in his explanation that when he went back to the same shop in less than 48 hours that the price of the item has shot up to almost twice the price it was offered to him. He added that the item was not newly stocked as he was able to recognise it as the actual item he bargained for. In his response on the same issue, Martins Eledu told DAILY INDEPENDENT that buyers are at the receiving end, saying that “When the prices are increased, they tend to suffer for it more.” He suggested the reintroduction of price control board to regulate prices of goods and services, particularly food prices, saying food is one of the three basic amenities a human being should not be deprived of. Another respondent, Mrs. Iyabo Olatubosun said: the problem is with market women who often refuse to reduce prices of food items even when they buy at cheap rates. She continued in her response by saying “You often hear them say: “Na so we buy o”! And when you say the price has reduced, they shout at you saying: “Na old market I get, I never go buy new one.” She added, “The problems at the local level are created by us. We are usually the architect of our misfortunes.” Ostensibly in the bid to absolve themselves from blame, some traders spoken to by DAILY INDEPENDENT in some Lagos markets said the instability in prices of food items is caused by the devaluation of the Naira. A seller of frozen fish at Mushin Market, who requested to be identified only as “Iya Monsurat”, believes the devaluation of Naira is the reason for the hike in the price of fish. She said: “The prices of my goods have increased due to increment in the value of dollar which I find shocking as I have never heard of a case where dollars’ worth affects the prices of fishes”. She lamented the low patronage of her goods caused by the increase in prices, making the business less profitable. “Business is not moving like before because of the rate at which we sell our fishes now compared to before. We now sell three Titus and Kote fish for N1200, it was formerly N600. In fact, we formerly sold them for N500 or N450 but that has changed now.” A plantain seller, Mrs. Evelyn Omobude, at the popular Idi-Oro market in Mushin, Lagos, had no different explanation to give. She also blamed the devaluation of Naira for the escalating prices of her goods which she said were formerly the cheapest in the market as she usually source them directly from farmers in Edo State. She said, “The increase in dollar has played a role in the hike of my plantain price. Also, the high fare charged by transporters of plantain is also a contributing factor,” Generally, a survey conducted by DAILY INDEPENDENT in some major markets showed that prices of commodities have been irregular since the beginning of the year. The development has forced various categories of eateries and canteens to increase the prices of their meals, attributing the high costs to unstable and unfavourable prices of farm produce which, according to them, they still buy for twice their original prices. However, consumers spoken to insisted that sellers are not always sincere as they are so desperate to make excessive profits at the expense of the buyers. Most of them called for the reintroduction of price control mechanism in the country. Mr. Kelvin Itodo, said though the government has so far tried in its effort to protect the consumers from being exploited by sellers but that such efforts have been tilted towards eliminating hazardous products from the market, providing speedy redress to consumers’ complaints and carrying out campaigns that will lead to increased consumer awareness. He added that such consumer protection bodies were established to ensure that consumers interest receive due consideration at the appropriate forum, and encourage trade, industry and professional associations to develop and enforce in their various fields quality standards designed to safeguard the interest of consumers. He added that bodies like Standard Organisation Nigeria (SON), Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (Commission), Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC and Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, were created to safeguard the consumers in the market but not with particular reference to price regulation. He said with the rate of arbitrary price increase by sellers and service providers that government need to intervene in the consumer market. Innocent Ogeruo, who also spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT, said there is no denying the fact that cost of consumables are rising on daily basis, saying that the yearning for price control board was not uncalled for.