National Youth Service Corps(NYSC) has passed out a total of 989 Corps members in Ebonyi while 18 are to repeat the service year for contravening the rules of the scheme. The offences of the affected Corps members range from abscondment from service to unauthorized journeys and other miscellaneous offences. The Coordinator of the Scheme in Ebonyi State, Mrs Bamai Mercy stated this during the passing out parade of Batch A Stream II at Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium Abakaliki on Thursday. According to the State Coordinator, ten of the sanctioned corps members are females while eight are males. She said that another 25 Corps members will serve extension of service ranging from one to four months. Mrs Bamai charged the passing-out Corps members to keep the flag of NYSC flying in their characters and comportment. “Some of the Corps members did not live up to expectation and will be punished in accordance with the NYSC by-laws” “To that effect, eighteen, eight male and ten female will repeat the whole service year while twenty five, thirteen male and twelve female will serve extension of service ranging from one to four months on half pay”. POLL “I strongly believe that this should serve as a deterrent to the 2021Bath B and C Corps members still on ground, who should learn a lesson from this”, she said. Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, congratulated the Corps members for a successful service to their fatherland. Umahi commended the Corps Members for impacting positively on pupils, students and their host communities. He charged them to remain steadfast in their commitment to the nation’s building. The State Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Charles Akpuenika, who represented the Governor urged them to participate in the 2023 electoral process. Umahi: “As much as I encourage you to participate actively, let the peace and unity of the nation, fair play as well as discipline, be your watch words and guiding principles”. “As change agents, and ambassadors of the NYSC scheme, I charge you to be part of history by striving to build a nation that is peaceful, genuinely united and economically viable.”