EMMANUEL OBETA A decade ago, the influencer marketing arena was limited only to celebrities and a few dedicated bloggers. Now, it seems like we’ve seen social media influencers rise, saturate the market even to alarming possibly fraudulent proportions. Influencer marketing is a strategy where a brand partners with a person who has a large social media following and a built-in audience that fits the brand’s target demographic. The status of these influencers depends on their total influence. An influencer may be limited to a single social media platform or have a presence across several different channels which definitely increases the influencers status and value. At a fundamental level, influencer marketing is a type of social media marketing that uses endorsements and product mentions from influencers–individuals who have a dedicated social following and are viewed as experts within their niche. Influencer marketing works because of the high amount of trust that social influencers have built up with their following, and recommendations from them serve as a form of social proof to your brand’s potential customers. For Hubspot Influencer marketing is the process of engaging leading, niche content creators to improve brand awareness, increase traffic, and drive your brand’s message to your target audience. These content creators already market to your ideal audience across different channels which allows you to expand your reach across your buyer personas. POLL Influencer marketing has become a very successful marketing strategy because of its word-of-mouth and social proof approach to marketing. Customers over time has come to trust their peers, friends, and people they admire more than the companies selling the products and services they buy and use and as such will readily agree and accept the testimonials and word of mouth advert of such individuals as opposed to the advertising and marketing claims of the organizations selling those products and services. Influencer marketing like every other marketing tool is an investment that must be deployed appropriately to derive the benefit from it. Time has to be painstakingly devoted to the process of trying to ensure the right influencer to promote the right content that appeals to your target audience is obtained especially as there are different types of influencers and not all types of influencers are appropriate for all groups and target audience. A lot of money and or resources to reward the influencer and to run various campaigns with the influencers are involved the more reason why deliberate efforts have to be made in choosing influencers that are in sync with your specific marketing goals and brand’s objectives. Brand influencers are a more recent concept and development in marketing and as such needs to be clearly differentiated from the prior concepts of brand endorsements and brand ambassador roles of different celebrities. Many companies use these terms interchangeably. Influencers and brand ambassadors can fulfill the same basic purposes especially as both share your product with their audience, which helps you grow your customer base. However, several key factors separate brand ambassadors and influencers. Brand ambassadors are real people who love your brand and your products. These individuals actively use your brand’s products, and they want to spread the word about your products because they are passionate about seeing your brand succeed. They can be looked upon as “top-notch cheerleaders” for the brand. Brand ambassadors are usually experts in your brand, and experts at promoting your products casually, via word-of-mouth. They may not always be celebrities, and they don’t always have a gargantuan network of social media followers. But, they are often authorities in their field—and the field your brand serves. For example, a dentist makes a credible brand ambassador for mouthwash and a fitness instructor makes a reliable brand ambassador for wellness and health products. A brand ambassador is also the “face” of the brand. Ideally, the candidate is a tastemaker in their communities, and should plan to use already established networks and relationships to market the brand via word-of-mouth marketing tactics (i.e. referring friends, posting about the brand online, He or she is specifically engaged to increase brand awareness and boost conversions and sales. On top of that, a brand ambassador will also represent their company at specific events, where they may perform product demonstrations or give away sample products. Brand influencers refers to someone who has a following especially online within a specific niche that they engage with regularly which gives them the power or ability to impact and influence their purchase decisions. Influencers are extremely vocal about a topic or brand, and typically use social media as a vehicle to express their opinions. They seem to have an innate ability to influence those around them. Such individuals may be micro-influencers, or everyday people who happen to be food, travel, fashion, and other types of bloggers. They may have around 1,000, 20,000, 50,000 or hundreds of thousand followers followers but are effective at engaging their audience and creating buzz about a brand. In most cases, an influencer is used to help a brand launch one new product or service, and most of the time the brand will hire more than one influencer to reach as many potential clients as possible. Influencer Marketing is a hybrid of old and new marketing tools which takes the idea of celebrity endorsement and places it into a modern-day content-driven marketing campaign. The difference between a brand influencer and a brand ambassador is the platform of influence. The brand ambassador may have acquired his role as an influencer as a result of excelling in some other fields like sports, movies or entertainment and is therefore expected to transfer those influence generated from another platform or area of life as a basis of influencing the customers or consumers of the products and services that they represent. The brand influencer on the other hand acquired his or influence as a result of direct engagement, conversation or positioning with the customers or groups of customers in a particular niche or area within which he or she is expected to expand or use as a basis of influencing consumers within that niche. A brand influencer might have acquired influence only within the range of fashion; ladies’ fashion, IT etc and can just be expected to offer respected views and opinions within such niche areas. Any effort to venture beyond such niche areas into broader areas will lose credibility. However, the brand ambassador primarily cashes in on his or her popularity or performance within a particular area to extend his or her influence towards the consumers. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com