Did you envision coming this far? To be honest, I just came to try because I knew that I was too shy. I knew that I had a lot in me but I did not really know how to bring that out, so I just came to gain experience and grow actually. But as time went on, I just became so sure of myself out of nowhere. Right now, all I’m trying to do is to bring that confidence from off the stage on the stage and tonight was the farthest I have ever gone on any stage. How does not making it to top 10 because of votes make you feel as an artiste? It makes me feel like the world wants more and I have it but I have not yet found a way to bring that out completely. Who I am off stage is great; who I am right here is great. The songs that I write, how I sing them, and what they mean is great, so I feel they might not see it but they would get to see it eventually. What’s the way forward? What’s the next conquest for you? I have started a few collaborations with the other contestants coupled with the fact that I’m a songwriter. I feel I would first push that out then I would keep on climbing any stage I see anywhere because I need to break myself. I need to come out of who I have been made to be my whole life. # I have been kept indoors every time. I was not exposed to anything. Now, I’m going to break that because that is not who I am. A lot of people think that people who stutter are not able to achieve a lot of things in terms of vocals and anything entertainment. As someone who stutters, do you think that affectedyouinanywayinthiscompetition? I feel when I try to do some intentional singing, I tend to stutter. So, I try to do it off the top, like freestyle. I have a lot of work to do on my voice because when I was still growing up, I had all these people in my life, in church, that think they know what’s best for me. They just basically led me wrongly. I basically ruined my voice. Right now, on the show, I have the most fragile voice. That’s why you see when they record all these videos when they upload them, I’m usually not always there because of how my voice is. If I sing with them, I would not be able to come on stage and sing for you guys. So, I have to control how much I sing. I have a very fragile voice. It comes and it goes so fast.