ENUGU – The Ohanaeze Ndigbo has frowned against the statement made by the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi that the Igbo cannot be entrusted with the office of the Nigerian presidency. Reacting to a statement released by his Chief Press Secretary, Alli Ibraheem, the traditional ruler added that “no Nigerian will feel secure in the hands of a leader whose ethnic attachment deprived other Nigerians of their rights, the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor said the Igbo are adventurous nation builders that are found in all parts of Nigeria and beyond adding “the make friends easily and also feel at home with their children in all parts of the world. Obiozor, in a statement made available to the media through Dr Chiedozie Alex Ogbonnia, National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze, said: “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Ohanaeze is a civilized cultural organization and by its prospectus, Ohanaeze has a profound respect for the culture and traditional rulers. “We will, therefore, restrain from hoisting the monarch with his own petard, rather we advise that he should undergo some tutelage under some more experienced cosmopolitan urbane intelligent monarchs such as his neighbour, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Oni of Ife. “This is because it is self-evident that Nigeria is a beleaguered country that urgently needs nation building; inflammatory and incendiary remarks from monarchs and the highly placed are antithetical to the peace and unity of Nigeria. “One of the qualities of a well-adjusted traditional ruler is to be open-minded towards all, especially people of other ethnic groups that may be found in his domain. “One of the reasons the traditional rulers are insulated from partisan politics is to avoid an overdrive or the kind of overzealousness exhibited by Oba Akanbi in an effort to retire a gift from his candidate for the presidency in 2023. “In promoting his preferred candidate, he has committed a fallacy of hasty generalization when he stated that “the style by south easterners is barbaric’; the Igbo cannot be trusted with power, etc. Surely, such prejudice, innuendo and vitriolic group vilifications against the entire Igbo nation is most unreflective of a royal father whose primary duty is to sow seeds of unity in his kingdom and beyond. POLL “Records across the world indicate that the Igbo are branded in Midas touch. They quickly learn the language and culture of the host community with a view to contributing to the socio-economic growth of the community. The people of other ethnic groups that had their National Service in Igbo Land can always attest to the Igbo friendliness and hospitality during their service years; some ended up marrying Igbo. “The wild claims that the Igbo prevent people from the other parts of the country from acquiring properties in their domain or have an obnoxious policy of depriving other Nigerians of their rights cannot be substantiated. On the other hand, it is inconceivable that a group that builds modern houses in all parts of the country will prevent other ethnics from building in their homestead.One would think that the morbid fabrication of falsehood is terrible mischief, only for the uninitiated. What else? “Oba Akanbi is drawn to his paradox, where he acknowledged the damage done to the Igbo during the Nigerian civil war and at the same time condemned the agitation by Igbo youth, such as the ESN for their clamour for inclusiveness based on equity and justice after about 53 years of the Nigerian Civil War. The former president of Nigeria and one of the foremost detribalized Nigerian statesmen, Chief Dr Olusegun Obasanjo, a retired General, has admonished that for peace to reign in Nigeria, the South East should be given a sense of belonging by allowing them to produce a president for Nigeria. “The President General of the Afenifere, an umbrella organization for the Yoruba ethnic group, has also explained that going by the rotation and zoning principle which has been in practice in the country, it is only fair that the South East be given a chance for the presidency.  Several other eminent Yoruba icons are also in the advocacy for the presidency to be zoned to the South East of Nigeria. “Interestingly, the credentials of the presidential aspirants from the South East are not only impressive but very intimidating. These are well accomplished brilliant robust creative thinkers who have won elections at various levels, some even held offices as ministers and discharged their duties most creditably without blemish or baggage. In them is a convergence of both integrity and ingenuity. Furthermore, the very area that Nigerians and indeed the global community can easily come to a consensus is that the Igbo are ingenious, transformative, wealth creators, cosmopolitan, hardworking and tenacious game-changers. “Some of the benefits that Nigeria stands to gain by a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction is that Nigeria will exit poverty, unemployment, insecurity and calamitous fragile state status. Second, justice will be seen to have been served. “Emphatically, it is an assertion guided by reason and experience that any country that glamourizes injustice can never, never progress. So, the choices before Nigeria, for our unborn generations are very clear: either on the path of sustainable national development or on an irretrievable abysmal tailspin,” he said.