Chief Patrick Agbator, the Ekpoma-born business magnate and philanthropist, is a House of Representative aspirant in Esan West, Esan Central, and Igueben Federal Constituency. In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, he explains that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) can return to power in 2023 if there is unity of purpose among its leaders. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpt: What are you going to do differently if giving the ticket to represent your constituency at the National Assembly? To be candid with you, this life we are living abhors a vacuum because there is time for everything. The man there presently has done his best and my intention of replacing him is to build on his achievements and further expand the scope of development in my constituency by way of pushing for bills that will take care of what is lacking in my constituency vis a vis roads, water supply, health, etc. This I will do by synergizing with the various government agencies to achieve the desire results for my people. As a full-blooded Esan man, what’s your take on the quest for Edo Central Senatorial District (Esan) to produce the next governor after Godwin Obaseki, and is the agitation justifiable? Yes, I am in support of the Senatorial District producing the next governor for the sake of justice, equity, and fairness in order to have a sense of belonging as part and parcel of the state. As you are aware, since the commencement of democracy in 1999, it’s only Edo Central Senatorial District that has not produced a governor. Other Senatorial Districts have produced governors for eight years and other eight years plus. I think against this backdrop, it’s justifiable for Edo Central District to be supported to produce the next governor. And to achieve this, there’s need, an urgent one, for the Senatorial District to be united and speak with one voice on a common candidate while networking and seeking support and alliances with other senatorial districts. With this approach, I am sure an Esan man can be governor in 2024. What’s your take on insecurity in Nigeria and Esanland in particular? The security situation across the country is becoming worrisome and there should be synergy among the federal, state and local governments to put an end to the growing insecurity. If there was synergy between the three tiers of government – federal, state and local governments – the robbery at Uromi penultimate month, could not have happened let alone the mass killings across the country. Nevertheless, it’s an eye-opener and all hands must be on deck to nip the ugly situation in the bud. I believe it’s doable if there’s synergy among the various security agencies across the board. What’s your take on the crisis rocking the PDP across the country over zoning, especially in Edo State, leading to the postponement of the earlier scheduled local government chairmanship election? POLL In summary, there’s an urgent need for total reconciliation in the PDP fold – the chances of PDP bouncing back to power in 2023 is there but there must be complete and total unity across the board. Give and take here and there, and ensure the right things are done so as not to cause further division. As for Edo State, I am of the view that the old PDP and the new PDP, people who decamped from APC to PDP, should work together as a team and a big family instead of the infighting that is presently going on. The old PDP and new PDP are one, and we should see ourselves as that. Once PDP is united, I can assure you that the sky will be its springboard. United we stand, divided we fall. God forbid! I can promise you that once PDP puts its house in order, Aso Rock is waiting to receive us. How would you rate the performance of Godwin Obaseki? Well, as a leader, he has done well according to the resources available and the situation in the country. Nevertheless, he needs to do more as people are looking up to him to do more.