Consensus Is For PDP, Nigeria – Saraki ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday received the report of the zoning committee, with the promise to take control of the presidency and 20 governorship seats in 2023. Recall that the party had last month set up a 37-man zoning committee headed by the Benue state governor, Samuel Ortom, to look into the zoning arrangement and it was reported that the committee led by the governor of Benue state decided to throw the presidential ticket, a development that caused an uproar in the party. Receiving the report at the party national secretariat, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, who said that the main concern of the opposition party is to return to the winning way, added that the PDP is working hard to control the majority seats in both the Senate and House of Representatives. The report, which was wrapped in secrecy, submitted by the committee’s Deputy Chairman and Leader of the PDP caucus in the House of Representatives, Hon Ndudi Elumelu, was received by Ayu, who pointed out that the report will be deliberated upon by the National Executive Committee (NEC) members before being made public. The PDP National Chairman and erstwhile Senate President said, “I want to assure you that your recommendations will be transmitted to the national executive of your party, which many of you are members. It will be discussed and then it is at that point that NEC will take a final decision. “This decision will be known to party members across the country and all Nigerians who are eagerly awaiting the final decision of your committee. “We want to thank you very much, want to appreciate you and pray that when you are called upon to serve the party again because there are so many other assignments that senior party members like you, will have to conduct for us. POLL “We hope you answer that call as you have always done and help to unite this party in such a way that by next year, we should be talking of returning to 1999 and 2003, when we had 20 something governors, controlled both houses of the National Assembly and control the presidency because our ultimate aim as we keep saying is to win the presidency and that will happen very soon. “And it can only happen because of leaders like you, the unity you have demonstrated shows that the PDP is a very united political party.” While submitting the report on behalf of the Chairman of the committee, Elumelu said, “Every member of the 37 man zoning committee had ample opportunity to make their submissions. “Arising from our inability to conclude we shifted it to 5th of April and on that 5th, we also unanimously and collectively took a united decision to promote the interests of the party and we came up with the resolution. “I am not, by virtue of the terms of reference, allowed to roll out the content of the resolution because our job is to finish, submit and theirs to take the decision. “So, I believe that it is the NEC that has the statutory rights to release the content of what we have done.”