Manchester United interim manager Ralf Rangnick has revealed his team will be without five first-team players as they prepare to take on Liverpool at Anfield. The Red Devils will be able to call upon Bruno Fernandes, despite the Portuguese midfielder being involved in a car crash on Monday morning. However, Fred, Raphael Varane, Scott McTominay, Luke Shaw and Edinson Cavani are all expected to be unavailable. All five were absent on Saturday as United survived a fight-back from Norwich City to pip Dean Smith’s side at Old Trafford. There were defensive issues during that 3-2 win, as Rangnick has recognised, but the continued absence of Varane in particular could be a problem. “Rapha didn’t train with the team, he was on the pitch with one of our rehab coaches,” Rangnick said in his pre-match press conference (per the MEN ). “In regard to injuries, we have the same situation as we had in the last two games.” Varane hasn’t featured for United since the 1-1 draw with Leicester City on April 2. The former Real Madrid man has already suffered a number of setbacks this season, with hamstring and groin problems keeping him out of action earlier in the campaign. Rangnick also provided an update on Fernandes, saying: “Yes, he was training with the team obviously the accident happened on the way to Carrington. As far as I know, no one was injured. He was ok and he’ll be ok for tomorrow.” United’s weekend victory over Norwich – coupled with defeats for Arsenal and Tottenham – has brought Rangnick’s side right back into the top four race. However, defeat at Anfield could set them back immediately. Liverpool notably won the reverse fixture 5-0 at Old Trafford, in what would end up being one of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s final games in charge before his sacking in November. Jurgen Klopp’s side are still fighting for honours on four fronts, having already claimed the Carabao Cup trophy, and can at least temporarily go top of the league with three points on Tuesday night. POLL Rangnick has said it is “no coincidence” that Liverpool’s players continue to impress. Indeed, he and his scouting team can claim credit for some of the stars, with the former RB Leipzig and Hoffenheim boss playing a part in the careers of Ibrahima Konate, Roberto Firmino and others. “Jurgen has built that team over the last six-and-a-half years. Six or seven of those players used to be my – or our – players,” he said. “We signed them for our clubs when nobody knew them and again it’s no coincidence that this is probably the club with the highest number of players from our former clubs. Their approach, their style of football, the way they want to play is pretty similar.”