YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has applauded a former Head of State and founder of Nigeria Prays, General Yakubu Gowon (retd), for mobilising Nigerians to pray regularly and fervently for the country. He gave the commendation when he received in the audience the state chapter’s leadership of the prayer group in the Government House, Yenagoa. Ewhrudjakpo noted that the intercessions of the Gowon’s group and other Christian organisations had played a critical role in preventing the disintegration of Nigeria. Governor Douye Diri’s deputy, in a statement, urged them not to relent in their result-oriented prayers for the peace and unity of the country. He said the prayers of Nigeria Prays alongside others for the nation were working, which was why Nigeria had not witnessed the kinds of upheavals that occurred in countries like Somalia, Rwanda, Sudan and others. Ewhrudjakpo, however, pointed out that the country needs more intensified prayers to sustain its unity and progress in view of the challenges threatening its corporate existence and well-being. He particularly charged the state chapter of Nigeria Prays and churches to organise special interdenominational monthly prayer programmes for the state and the nation, preferably at the Bayelsa Ecumenical Centre at Igbogene. He also urged individuals and Christian groups to make use of the ecumenical centre, noting that the facility, which was primarily built to promote the worship of God in the state, is currently underutilised. POLL Ewhrudjakpo said, “Let me use this opportunity to give a pat on the back of Nigeria Prays group, and particularly to one of our leaders, the former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (retd.) for their efforts in mobilising Christians to pray for our country. “I strongly believe that without prayers, Nigeria would have collapsed to pieces a long time ago. Your prayers and those of other groups are actually working for this country. If not, we would have had the kinds of upheavals that took place in Somalia, Rwanda, Sudan and other countries.” The State Coordinator of Nigeria Prays, Paul Obonaje, thanked the Bayelsa State government for providing a befitting secretariat as well as supporting its 2020 prayer rally in the state. He, however, appealed to the government to fulfil its promise of monthly subvention and employment of a secretarial staff to man Nigeria Prays office at the ecumenical centre.