*Says She Is Better Positioned To Represent Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency Former Minister of Information and Chairman of Delta State Advisory and Peace-building Council has assured leading House of Representatives aspirant, Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency of his support and prayer to ensure that he emerged as a candidate of the PDP in the forthcoming House of Representatives primary election scheduled to hold on 12th May 2022. Oyovbaire, who made this known when Right Honourable Evelyn Omavowan Oboro, paid him a consultative visit at Opuraja, Okpe Local Government Area of Delta State, said with experiences gathered so far and a good relationship with the people, Oboro is better positioned to represent Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives. According to him, Oboro is always with the people and has kept herself as a mother and woman. “Continue to maintain that standard. Once a woman is involved in a contest, you don’t need to convince me further because they are not many. I don’t care to even know you first. It even happened in my ward when they were three contestants and one among them was a women. “Immediately I realised that one among them was a woman, I told the contestants to allow her to go for the position. All things put together, you have my support and prayers,” he added. Earlier, Oboro told Prof. Sam Oyovbaire that she was in the race to further raise the standard of representation of the Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency. The former lawmaker said the visit was to officially inform Oyovbaire of her intention to contest for a seat to represent the Okpe/Sapele/ Uvwie Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives and to seek his support, advice and prayers. She thanked him for the support he had given her when she won the party ticket to contest for the Senate which the party lost during the 2019 general elections for obvious reasons. POLL She noted that the constituency deserved to have the governorship come 2023 since Chief James Onanefe had been Governor from Ethiope Federal Constituency and the Late Senator Felix Ibru from Ughelli North/Ughelli South/Udu Federal Constituency. She said, “Now that we have taken a stand for Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly to be the next Governor of Delta State,” it would not be fair for her to run for the Senate when the Federal Constituency was agitating for the governorship seat. She noted that the state party chairman was also from Sapele Local Government Area while the Speaker of the State House of Assembly who would eventually be the next Governor is from Okpe Local Government Area, but Uvwie the baby Local government Area in the Federal Constituency did not have a major position; hence, her appeal to consider her aspiration. She added that Okpe, Sapele and Uvwie had all held the House of Representatives position twice each, appealing that Uvwie should be considered for the sake of equity. She pointed out that in her first tenure; she attracted a lot of projects which included street lights, water projects, electricity transformers, classroom blocks, health centres and many others. “On human capacity development, people were trained and given starter packs, cars, motorcycles, tricycles, sewing machines, hairdryers, barbing kits, among others. “I also sponsored the Federal University of Petroleum Resources Bill in the House of Representatives and it was eventually signed into law, just as petitions that came to me were adequately treated. “A good example is the Amuakpokpor Community that had oil spill issue with Nigeria Gas Company. When the petition got to my table, I took up the matter and succeeded in ensuring that they paid them in cash while I was still in office. “So, I gave Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency adequate representation. I was able to set a standard that is yet to be beaten by my predecessors and successor,” she added. She promised to set up another standard by bringing more dividends of democracy if voted for in 2023.