MAKURDI – A group under the aegis of Gyaikyor Seven Support Initiative (G7i) of Gaav extraction in Konshisha Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue state has faulted the processes that micro-zoned the governorship of the state in 2023 to the people of Vandeikya LGA. The group which was apparently referring to the zoning of the governorship position to the people of Vandeikya LGA, by the People Democratic Party (PDP) argued that the party should have zoned the governorship to the Jechira intermediate area and allowed stakeholders to decide which of the LGAs take the slot. Gabriel Akume, President, G7i an assembly of Gaav corps d’elite, also pointed out that since Jechira which is made up of Konshisha and Vandeikya LGA are expected to produce the next governor, only stakeholders from the intermediate are would’ve been allowed to choose who the next governor of the state should be. Speaking at a press briefing held in Makurdi on Thursday, the group said, “It is expedient at this point that the people of Jechira should be sensitised about the internal politics and power-sharing among the constituent parties of Jechira intermediate areas. “Jechira consists of Vandeikya (Kunav) and Konshisha (Ikyor) LGAs. Political and traditional stakeholders in Jechira should be mindful of the sensibilities of the two LGAs, that make up the intermediate area. “Already, there are speculations that some political parties have zoned the governorship position to Jechira and also proceeded to micro-zone the position to a particular local government (Vandeikya), excluding the others (including Konshisha LGA) for reasons that have not been made known and clear to all stakeholders. “It is instructive to note that Jechira was given the opportunity of producing the governor, come 2023, on the premise that we have not occupied the position before. “It should be politically correct to allow the position to go to the Ikyor axis which had produced late Father Moses Orshio Adasu as was done elsewhere. Doing otherwise might be a contradiction of the very fact that Jechira used to convince the rest of Tiv socio-political block in securing the governorship slot. POLL “If the governorship position has been zoned to Jechira, it is important that the two LGAs that make up Jechira should be given equal opportunity to aspire to the position so that the best candidate can be produced.” Furthermore, Akume argued that “Zoning should be done according to the intermediate areas and not LGAs. It is the stakeholders in the intermediate area that decides on which LGA to produce the governorship candidate. “This applied to all the other intermediate areas that have previously produced governors in Benue state and Jechira should not be an exception. “Based on this premise, therefore, we must reiterate that the idea of micro-zoning initiated by political actors within and outside of Jechira, that is not inclusive of the two component parts (Kunav and Ikyor) will not be acceptable by the people of Gaav extraction,” he insisted.