LAGOS – Oladimeji Lawal, former Super Eagles midfielder, has linked the poor football development in Nigeria to the wider problems plaguing the nation over the years. The diminutive midfielder, who, it will be recalled, scored on his Super Eagles debut in 1990 during a 1992 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Togo, said the issue with football development in Nigeria goes beyond the present board of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The former Belgian and Spanish based football who spoke to our correspondent on the lingering issues and complaints bedevilling Nigerian football, particularly after the failure of the Super Eagles to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, asserted that until there is a genuine change in Nigeria, all the sectors of the country, including football in particular and sports in general would continue to reel in underdevelopment, saying Amaju Pinnick, the president of the NFF, is not the problem of football in the country. “The truth is that Nigerian football is part of the wider Nigerian problem. Let me ask you, is Amaju running Nigerian football? “Some said sack Eguavoen, sack this sack that; even the local league is not about Amaju or anybody but a function of the greater problem and lack of foresight in Nigeria. “If we truly want a a change, let us start from those in government whose policies have stifled the growth of everything including football in the country. “Bring Mourinho or Guadiola here to manage football and the result will be the same. We don’thavesanityintheNigerian polity and it has affected everything we do here. “Do you know how many coaches that came here and failed before we settled for Eguavoen? It will likely remain like that until we have good system in Nigeria POLL “I am not standing for Amaju but he is not the problem of Nigerian football. Tell me is there anything working in Nigeria presently? Football cannot be exception. “I know that to grow the league, government should show more commitment which they are not doing because they don’t know how to do that,” he said. Recall that since the failure of the Super Eagles to secure a World Cup berth, the NFF leadership has come under pressure with majority of the stakeholders calling for their resignation, saying and understandably too that the present board has impacted little or nothing to the growth of the sport in the country.