LAGOS – Medical experts in and outside the country have urged Nigerians to imbibe the culture of regular exercise to stay healthy. The medical experts emphasized that during a fitness walk tagged, “Walk A Thorn For A Healthier Tomorrow” over the weekend, in Ikeja, in the vent convened by St. Remy Foundation in partnership with Apollo Hospitals India, According to them, medical research has proven that regular physical activities can improve muscle, strength and boost endurance, excise the livers,  oxygen, nutrients and tissues, and help the cardiovascular system work more efficiently, stressing that when the health system improves there is more energy to tackle daily chores. The convener, Obetta Remigius called on every individual government and corporate organisations to ensure that the workplace is safe for their workers. Dr. Deepark Raghavan, urologist and renal transplant surgeon asked Nigerians to take care of their health and their blood pressure which will in turn help them prevent renal diseases. “It is a preventable ailment. You can prevent renal failure because once they get into renal failure, 70 per cent of them will end up needing dialysis and when they get to that level it is very bad.  Life on dialysis is not a great life to live. Anyone needing dialysis will need to do it every other day for five to six hours and it does impact their livelihood and the livelihood of the entire family. Dr. R. Sankar, an orthopaedic and spine surgeon said, “Talking about Covid-19 vaccination, some people are sceptical about vaccination. There are rumours that vaccination kills people. It can be noted that any medical treatment whether medical management, surgical management or vaccination, may have some forms of complications but we cannot only talk about the complications and not talk about the positive side. Dr. Neville Solomom, a cardiac surgeon said, “To be forewarned is to be forearmed. Mothers should avoid unnecessary stress, the medicines that they take when they are pregnant should have the knowledge of the doctor. There should be no diabetes. When the mother is carrying the babies in the womb it is the most precious time for the baby to develop in their mothers’ wombs, so they should avoid unnecessary infections, viruses, drugs, x-rays and radiations,” he said. The walk started from Lagos State Television compound through Obafemi Awolowo Way to Ikeja under-bridge, and the medical experts said that the need for regular exercise cannot be overemphasised, and urged Lagos residents to imbibe the culture of regular medical checks.