LAGOS  – It has been observed that the approval in principle given to MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa to operate payment settlement banks (PSB) will aid the financial inclusion drive of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and also help in the recovery of the telecommunications sector. Analysts at Afrinvest stated this in its Nigerian Telecommunications Sector Update for 2022, titled, “A Bright Spot Amid Miry Waters”. The CBN had in the last quarter of 2018 unveiled the operational guidelines for PSBs. The move was in furtherance of the bank’s mandate of promoting a sound financial system and enhancing access to financial services for low income earners and unbanked segments of the society. The PSBs are to operate mostly in the rural areas and unbanked locations, targeting financially excluded persons, with not less than 25 per cent financial service touch points in such rural areas as defined by the CBN from time to time, the guidelines said. According to the CBN, the key objective of setting up PSBs was to enhance financial inclusion by increasing access to deposit products and payment/remittance services to small businesses, low-income households and other financially excluded entities through high-volume low-value transactions in a secured technology-driven environment. They are to also enter into direct partnership with card scheme operators, but such cards shall not be eligible for foreign currency transactions. In addition, they are to deploy ATMs in some of these areas, deploy Point of Sale devices and be at liberty to operate through banking agents which is in line with the CBN’s Guidelines for the Regulation of Agent Banking and Agent Banking Relationships in Nigeria. POLL MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa got preliminary approvals last November to operate in the same space and they will be looking to tap Nigeria’s unbanked adult population of 38 million people, who according to analysts, held N26.2 trillion last year alone, a move that will pit both telcos against traditional banks in getting a slice of the market. In its 2021 telecommunications sector report, titled, “Resilience through a COVID-led Recession”, analysts at Afrinvest gave an outlook which depicted three major themes that would guide growth for the sector: favourable demographics, investment in network infrastructure expansion, and mobile money. Though, the population growth was favourable, inching higher by 2.6 per cent to 211.4 million, the NIN-SIM verification exercise initiated by the FGN through the NCC weighed on growth margins as we witnessed a 4.4 per cent (9.1 million) decline in subscriber base. The analysts said: “Meanwhile, there was a significant increase in investment level to over $70.0 billion as of 2021 from $38.0 billion in 2015. We believe these investments played a major role in deploying network infrastructure and improving service quality. “While the impact of mobile money has been significant in other African countries, helping to bridge the financial inclusion gap, creating healthy competition, alternate revenue stream, and job opportunities, Nigeria is yet to get involved (ex. Globacom and 9mobile)”. However, in November 2021, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa received approval in principle to operate as Payment Service Banks, with the privilege to provide banking services to the public. “Upon final approval, we posit this would aid the CBN’s goal of onboarding 95.0 per cent of the bankable adults into financial services by 2024 while increasing the profit margins of the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs). Noteworthy, by April 2022, MTNN has received full approval. Additionally, the sector faced other headwinds which include weak consumer purchasing power, multiple taxations, vandalism, FX devaluation, poor power supply, and high cost of energy. On this backdrop, the GDP performance of the telecommunications sector paled as it grew 7.3 per cent y/y – 863bps shy of 2020 level.