P/HARCOURT  – Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), has stated that it has received a container traffic Vessel, MV Lady Jane, at the Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT) Onne Rivers State. This was contained in a press statement made available to our correspondent by the Head, Corporate and strategic Communications of the Authority, Mrs Barbara Ejemeh Nchey -Achukwu. According to the statement, the Vessel owned by China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), sailed from Nansan, China, and arrived Nigerian Ports Authority, Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT) Onne Rivers State. “MV Lady Jane is a Cargo Container Ship, with International Maritime Organization from Marshal Island and built in the year 2005. The length of the vessel is 295m, with 32m and Gross Registered Tonnage (GRT) of 54, 809mt, with the Net Registered tonnage (NRT) etc. The draught is 12m and LOA length overall of 294.51m”. The statement stated that Onne Port is playing host again to one of the largest container vessels to visit Nigeria. Lady Jane, a 5000 (TEU) Twenty-foot equivalent units cellular vessel with a Length Overall of 295 metres and drawing a draft of 12 metres is only 5m short of MV Maersk Stadelhorn, which called on August 15, 2020 with 300m length. “The coming of Lady Jane as the 2nd largest vessel to Nigeria and Onne port in particular is significant, in that it indicates the sustenance of container growth in the Port and the growing preference of Onne Port as a Port of choice in Nigeria”. Mohammed Bello-Koko, the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority, represented by the Port Manager, Stanley Yitnoe, while speaking on the sideline of the event, asserted that the development brought to fruition the present management’s vision, and efforts towards activating ship traffic to Nigerian Ports of the Eastern flank while noting that it was particularly a thing of pride for NPA as it has consolidated her role as a veritable gateway to the nation’s economy and serving as a logistics hub for sustainable port services in Africa. Koko stated that the arrival came not long after receiving an export laden barge, containing 120 TEUs cocoa to Belgium via Cotonou earlier this year.