OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA It is an indisputable fact that transportation is the major catalyst for driving the economic growth of any country yet successive administrations in Nigeria have not really given a serious thought to the far-reaching implications of a highly insecure transportation industry in order to take proactive steps. On Monday, last week, Gunmen attacked a train travelling from the Nigerian capital, Abuja, to the city of Kaduna, in an “unprecedented” act of violence that will heighten concerns about a breakdown of security in the country’s troubled northern region. The death toll is unclear, but a local security official said two train staff, five security personnel and three passengers had been killed. A senator in Kaduna state separately said three cleaning staff on the train had died. Many others were injured and there were fears that an unknown number had been abducted. Authorities could not immediately confirm the number of passengers on the train, but local media reported that 970 people were onboard, even though railway authorities later gave the number of passengers to be about 380, yet the attackers had a field day executing their dastardly act. The attack occurred in Katari in Kaduna state, 55 miles from Abuja. Many Nigerians use the railway as a safer alternative to the road route between Abuja and Kaduna, which for years has been one of the most dangerous in Nigeria because of kidnappings and armed bandits. On Tuesday, the following day another attack occurred but, soldiers were mobilised to confront the terrorists when the mobile policemen escorting passengers on the train were overpowered. POLL They eventually succeeded in dispersing the bandits, who also escaped with some of their hostages. After calm was restored, the passengers walked about 45 kilometres under security cover to the Abuja-Kaduna highway, and from there, they were conveyed in buses to the 44 Nigerian Army Reference hospital in the Kaduna state capital, where those who sustained injuries were immediately treated. The bandits, however attacked the Kaduna-Abuja highway where they kidnapped some travellers. It was learnt that some motorists plying the road were blocked by the bandits and taken to an unknown destination. An eyewitness said the bandits who were wielding dangerous weapons asked the travellers to come out of their vehicles. “We saw them when they were taking dozens of travellers inside the forest. But we were helpless as we were not armed. We don’t even have the power to confront them,” he said. Earlier, some unidentified gunmen had attacked the Kaduna Airport, killing an official of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), identified as Shehu Na’Allah, at the runway. The manager of the airport, Amina Salami, confirmed the incident to newsmen, stating that the bandits invaded the airport through the perimeter fence from a nearby forest at about 1 p.m. She stated that the deceased security guard, Mr. Na’Allah, was patrolling the runway when he was shot by the assailants. Mrs Salami said soldiers at the airport, however, responded immediately and repelled the attack. “The sound of gunshots attracted the attention of armed security operatives who arrived the scene, and were able to repel the bandits form gaining access into the main airport complex,” she added. The attack delayed the takeoff of a scheduled Lagos-bound aircraft. Reacting to the attacks, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation, said the terrorist attack on the Abuja-Kaduna rail route would have been averted if there were drones and helicopters to carry out surveillance along the corridor. This is even as the Minister said the Ministry of Transportation has made presentation to the Federal Government for the procurement of security equipment, regretting however, that the Ministry was yet to get approval “We have not been able to install security sensors because the procurement process is a bit difficult. It is typical of Nigerians. “The process is tedious, the approval is also tedious. We have not been able to get the approval that will lead to the purchase of those items. “If those items were here, drones alone will tell you that there are people around the rail tracks. There are equipment that picks sensors if you touch the track, but unfortunately, the process has not been able to get us that approval for us to import those items. “The cameras in the train cannot pick what is happening outside. What you need is a camera that shows 100 metres away from the train. We have done all we need to do in the Ministry of Transportation and we have forwarded it to them for approval but we have not gotten approval. On the morning of October 21, 2021 bandits detonated explosives on tracks serving the Abuja-Kaduna railway line leaving many passengers traumatised as the attackers also fired live rounds into the driver’s compartments. The explosives damaged the rail track at a spot between Dutse and Rijana, an area that has recorded numerous bandits’ attacks along the Kaduna Abuja highway. Series of attacks were experienced across water, road, and pipelines in different parts of the nation. The maritime sector within the Niger Delta region especially south of the port and oil terminals of Brass, as well as off Togo, Benin, and Cameroon were also areas targeted for abduction of seafarers, sea travellers’, involving theft of cash and personal belongings. The kind of vessels targeted ranged from oil tankers to product tankers, bulk carriers, container ships and fishing boats to offshore support vessels. No wonder, the International Maritime Bureau (IMB) in the first quarter of 2019 ranked Nigeria’s water as among the worlds’ most dangerous for merchant shipping – out of the 38 attacks recorded in 2019, 14 were off Nigeria. Insecurity in the nation’s waterways has also been a major challenge that has adversely affected maritime activities for decades, especially in areas where the predominant occupation is fishing. Issues like robbery and kidnapping had also dampened interest in commercial water transportation, thereby putting pressure on-road transportation, even with the challenge of inadequate infrastructure. However, efforts by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) at tackling piracy and other maritime crimes in the waterways have begun to yield results. This is evident in the significant reduction of such cases in the last one year. The war on maritime criminality, which is a continuous process, is going to rekindle interest in water transportation not just in the littoral states, but all over the country. It will encourage private sector participation in water transportation as a lucrative venture; in the same manner road transportation all over the country has become the exclusive preserve of the private sector. This is basically the philosophy behind the development of the Blue Economy, which seeks full participation of Nigerians in a relatively new area that holds so much potential. In recent years, technology has been very successful in revolutionising most, if not all, industries around the world. And while transportation has always been one of those sectors, professionals within the industry are constantly looking for innovations that can help in terms of security. The main issues facing the transport sector nowadays are fare evasion, vandalism, terrorism, and the safety of the public and passengers. Here are some of the latest trends. Below are personal safety tips that could enhance safety when travelling: 1. Be aware/alert: Always stay alert no matter how tired you are. Your driver could be just as dangerous as a common criminal. The most important way to protect yourself on public transportation is to be aware of your surroundings. If you feel uneasy or threatened, change your seat or alert the driver. If needed, get off at the next busy bus-stop. 2. Always inform close persons of your movement: Let someone close to you know your routine or travel schedule. However, two crimes that easily comes to mind when discussing travel itinerary is kidnapping and targeted robbery. So if you must tell people your travel plans tell it to those who need to know. 3. Whatsapp live location: If you want people to know where you are, turn on live locations in chats where it’s enabled. 4. Always trust your instincts: If you board public transport and you feel uncomfortable, move away if you can or alight from the bus. 5. Avoid public vehicles with tinted glasses, and Sienna cars used for public transport. Sienna cars do not have back windows that can be opened. 6. Avoid night journeys, but if you must embark on the journey, follow vehicles that are registered, and have a known park/office. Criminals always look for the best time of the day to carry out their activities.