James Maddison was not impressed by Raphael Varane’s reaction to a foul that ruled out Leicester’s goal. Manchester United and Leicester shared the points at Old Trafford as Fred cancelled out Kelechi Iheanacho’s strike in the second half. Leicester looked to have scored a winner towards the end though when Iheanacho dispossessed Varane of the ball and played in Maddison who fired past David de Gea. Referee Andre Marriner initially gave the goal but after checking the VAR monitor on the side of the pitch he overturned the decision and disallowed it. Replays showed Iheanacho had dragged the defender’s leg from the ball but the former Real Madrid man did go down easily in Maddison’s eyes. ‘I think the referee should maybe probably give a foul in normal time to be fair, maybe,’ he said. ‘The disallowed goal is one of them – you see them given and you see them not given ‘I’m obviously going to be biased and say it’s not a foul. As soon as he goes over to the monitor you know. POLL ‘I saw Varane go down. The way he went down… I’m not sure how he went down like that from the actual foul that was given. ‘The way he went down I thought it was some sort of twist injury without a foul taking place. As soon as the referee went to the monitor I knew something was going to happen that was going to spoil my party. ‘The performance was good. We stamped our authority and we come away a little disappointed that we didn’t get three points. We could have got more from the game. ‘They scored so quickly after us, which got Old Trafford bouncing again and got them pushing as the home team. ‘I thought we were dominant in the first half. Sometimes you can almost feel in control even without the ball. ‘They obviously played with Bruno and Pogba without a recognised striker. They’ve got tricky players in wide areas, but I felt we were in control. We were actually the better team.’ United remain sixth in the Premier League table, three points behind fourth-placed Arsenal who have two games in hand, while the Foxes sit ninth.