ABUJA – As the race for the 2023 general election hots up, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) from Borno State, Dr Ibrahim Bello Dauda, has joined the Presidential race. Ibrahim said is vying for the presidential ticket of the party because he is the right man for the job. He disclosed this on Thursday in Abuja while speaking to journalists. Ibrahim pledged to provide credible leadership devoid of sentiments, negative emotions and vested interest if voted as President come 2023. He added that there would be no agitations in Nigeria if there is a system that would promote justice, equity and fairness. He said: “I joined the race to put forward my vision for Nigeria and provide credible leadership devoid of sentiments, negative emotion, selfish interest and fear of God. “What we are going through now when you talk of insecurity and economic problem, they are not major problems. The major problem we have is the leadership that is be- clouded with these things I have mentioned. It is either is termed sentiments on the one side, emotional on the other side it is serving the selfish interest. “We need a leadership that is free of all these,  meaning there will be justice, equity and fairness. When you put these on the system there will not be agitations,” Ibrahim said. POLL The aspirant promised to redirect what he observed as the vast energies of youths to productive ventures and develop entrepreneurs and remove erected bottlenecks in accessing funding. He said if elected President his government would not create jobs but develop entrepreneurs. He explained that creating jobs would lead to the creation of an army of people in public service and the bulk of money made through Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) would be used to pay salaries. According to him “We are going to shift from job creation to entrepreneurs development where our majority of youths will be trained and their energy will be redirected toward the private sector. “We are going to be liberalising and opening the economy in such a way that average Nigerian will have the opportunity as long as you have ideas without the need to bribe your way or look for godfather. All you need to do as a Nigerian is to have positive ideas of what to do and the government will provide enabling environment and supporting infrastructures and facilities. “Entrepreneurs will produce goods and services which will be added to the pool of what we have in the market. “We are going to reverse the issue of balance of trade and set up commodity and exchange centres.”