Ebakota Movement, an Edo Central based social-cultural group has called on politicians in Edo Central Senatorial District to respect the principle of zoning and rotation of political positions in the forthcoming general elections. The group in a statement in Benin stated that the message of the Ebakota Movement is very clear – “No to 3rd term” and any political party in Esanland that ignores the principles will suffer huge defeat at the polls. According to the group, “Similar to “No to 3rd term” is the principle of zoning or rotation as it relates to Igueben LGA mainly. “Having thoroughly embraced this principle, Esan Central LGA (one of the three LGAs comprising Esan West, Esan Central and Iguenen local government Federal Constituency) took the honourable step and declined to join the race for the House of Representatives seat. “Not so for Esan West in what appears to be a replacement of injustice with injustice as two Esan Central sons from Ekpoma, Hon. Felix Godsent Akhabue, aka JOEFEL and Mr. Chosen, owner of Chosen Hotel, are in one breath campaigning for “No to 3rd term” and in another, jostling for the ticket to continue the domination by Esan West LGA (Ekpoma) to the exclusion of Igueben LGA from the Federal seat for another eight years, totally 32 years should they succeed. “One is tempted to ask, why is Igueben LGA being treated like an orphan? Is it for lack of capacity, experience or wherewithal?. “Today, Igueben LGA aspirants include Mr. Felix Omi Imoisili, a two-time LGA Chairman and PDP Edo State Exco member, Dr. Celey Okogun, a doctorate degree holder in Leadership and an advocate of good governance and credible electoral process, Barr Kingsley Ehigamusor, a former House of Assembly Member and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Deputy Governor, Edo State; and Chief (Barr) Alex Adoghe, prominent businessman”. “For nearly 24 years, the occupants of this Federal seat were POLL “From the above, it’s obvious that of the three LGAs that make up the federal constituency, only Igueben LGA has not occupied the seat and as we build-up to the 2023 General Election, many thought that at last, this injustice will be corrected. “Alas, rumours emerged that the current occupant of the seat, Hon. Joe Edionwele is nursing the ambition to return back to the House for another term which in Esanland is popularly called “3rd term”, though legislative positions are not tenured like Executives. “In Esanland, “3rd term” is frowned at. Years ago, the Late Chief Anthony Anenih, a leader in Esanland, described “3rd term” as an Ebola and in today’s Nigeria, it could be described as “COVID -19” – implying a political death sentence”. “Although no one expected things to change overnight, not at all, the frustration is that there is no attempts to either yield ground or even shift grounds on these, which may be described as “entrenched post-colonial system “Our appeal now is that this time around the Esan Central, Esan West and Igueben Federal Constituency should be left for aspirants from Igueben local government since it was the only local government that has never occupied the seat for fairness, equity and justice” the group noted.