LAGOS  – The Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE) has commended the Federal Government for the import duty and Value Added Tax (VAT) exemptions granted critical medical supplies during and post COVID period. Dr Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in a statement, said the step taken by the Federal Government in granting VAT and import duty exemptions for critical medical supplies is laudable and will go a long way to reduce financial pressure on the citizens. According to him, “We commend the approval by the Federal Government of import duty and VAT exemptions on critical medical supplies especially for COVID interventions. Although the policy stipulates that the waivers and exemptions would only last till the end of 2022. “We submit that these concessions should last beyond 2022 for the following reasons: The cost of Healthcare in Nigeria is extremely high and it is making access to healthcare very difficult for the majority of its citizens. “In the absence of a comprehensive health insurance scheme many citizens pay out of pocket and this has made access to Medicare very difficult. “Access to healthcare is a critical component of human capital development. Therefore, the cheaper, the easier the access, the better for human capital development. We therefore submit that this concession should last beyond 2022. “We appreciate the long list of Medical supplies, especially those used for COVID-19 intervention measures that now enjoy complete waiver of import duty and VAT. It is quite a long list of medical supplies. The idea is to ensure affordability of these medical supplies as much as possible.” While also appreciating the intent and objective of the fiscal policy of the Federal Government, CPPE recommended that the Fiscal Policy Measures should be released alongside the Finance Act and the Appropriation Act, as this would facilitate planning, reduce uncertainty, minimize investment risk and boost investors’ confidence. POLL The 2022 Fiscal Policy measures approved for implementation effective from 1st April 2022 has three major sections. The first is the Supplementary Protection Measures [SPM] for the implementation of the ECOWAS Common External Tariff (2022- 2026). The second relates to excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and tobacco products and telecommunications services. The third is on import duty concessions on medical supplies for COVID intervention measures. Looking forward to a robust and productive way to revive the economy, CPPE commends the government for putting in place new fiscal policy measures with the objective of creating an industrial sector that is protected and supported for competitiveness. Following the proposal last year by the Finance Minister that excise duties will be imposed on a number of products, the Manufacturers Association and other Business Associations pleaded with the government to suspend the imposition of excise duty for some reasons. CPPE posits that industrialists energy costs. The cost of diesel has gone up by over 400%. are currently contending with high The increasingly unreliable public power is another challenge as this has created a slump in consumer purchasing power which is affecting aggregate demand. “The imposition of excise duty makes Nigeria products more expensive relative to products from the neighbouring countries who are in the same economic community with Nigeria. The implication is that Nigerian industrialists will lose market share to countries in the West African sub region under the ECOWAS trade liberalization scheme because the cost of production in Nigeria is much higher and the imposition of excise duty will make domestically produced products even more expensive. “There is also the welfare implication of the citizens whose incomes have been highly bartered by the high inflationary pressure. We therefore appeal once again that the timing of the imposition of excise duty of selected manufacturing firms is auspicious and should therefore be suspended to demonstrate greater sensitivity to the plight of manufacturers in the Nigerian economy.