LAGOS – Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman and Board of Trustees member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has expressed surprise at the demands for an administrative fee from aspirants to various offices in Lagos State by the Lagos State Working Committee, urging them not to make extra illegal payments. Recall that the Lagos State Working Committee in a memo dated 19th of April  2022 and sent to all aspirants signed by the State Publicity Secretary of the party, Honourable Hakeem Amode, states that the State Assembly aspirants should pay an administrative fee of N50,000 to the state financial secretary. It also directed that the sum of N200,000; N350,000 and N500,000 should be paid by Federal House of Representatives aspirants, Senatorial aspirants and governorship aspirants respectfully as an administrative fee. George in a release he personally signed Tuesday warned the aspirants to ignore such directives, saying such ‘administrative charge’ is unknown to the PDP constitution and therefore is illegal. George also called on the National Chairman of the party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, to call the Lagos Exco to order and stop them from imposing unnecessary fees on aspirants who have already paid the money for forms of intent and nomination forms for their desired positions at the party headquarters. He said that all the states chapters will get a certain percentage of the money already paid to the national body of the party, hence there is no need to further charge the aspirants any fees George further said if the Lagos State Working Committee embark on any extortion or illegal collection of money from the aspirants he will not hesitate to petition the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “I hereby warn all our aspirants to be vigilant and not to pay any illegal fees. The act of extortion being embarked upon by the Lagos Exco should be shunned and ignored. POLL “I equally warn the Exco not to extort our party members. They are to pay only fees that are legal,” George said.