LAGOS – The Nigeria Climate Innovation Center has announced the launch of Cycle Plast project- a social impact initiative funded by the Coca-Cola Foundation, aimed at scaling PET waste collection in Nigeria through the informal sector. According to program organisers, the project, which flagged off in March, will significantly improve on the amount of PET collected and aggregated for recycling, empower and organise informal sector players in the plastic waste recycling communities in Nigeria. In addition, the programme will, over time, promote a plastic waste free environment derived through modified behavior and proper disposal habits of communities, while creating jobs and unlocking opportunities along the plastic waste recycling value chain of Nigeria. The programme will launch in five states of Nigeria namely, Kano, Adamawa, Kwara, Abia, Edo State and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Bankole Oloruntoba, CEO of NCIC, while speaking at the launch, said: “ According to a 2021 plastic pollution by country report published by the World Population Review, Nigeria was identified as the 7th largest country in the world generating plastic waste amounting to about 5.96 million tons annually with about 70% ending up in landfills and water ways. “This project will engage the general public through innovative and disruptive behavior change campaigns on consumption and disposal patterns of single use PET plastic bottles with the aim of encouraging plastic consumers to responsibly dispose their plastic waste to enhance and build an effective collection system.” Bankole also added that, “The informal sector is responsible for about 70 per cent of the plastic collection rate of the country and needs to be supported to do more by digitizing the sector and making it more inclusive and attractive for investments”. He concluded his opening remarks by thanking The Coca-Cola Foundation for funding the project. POLL In her remarks, Saadia Madsbjerg, TCCF President, said, “We are glad that our support will go a long way to improve collection across Nigeria and improve behavior towards PET disposal in particular, and waste in general. Our commitment to Africa remains strong as we continue to support systems and initiatives that seek to build economic and environmental resilience across the Continent in partnership with like-minded stakeholders”. Nigeria Climate Innovation Center (NCIC) was created in 2018 by the World Bank and the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Office of the Vice President with the mandate to lead the growth of the Nigerian green economy in developing and deploying solutions to climate change challenges with footprints in venture development, green investment opportunities and capacity building services to climate-smart entrepreneurs.