PORT HARCOURT – Against mixed reactions across Nigeria, a political pressure group known as Goodluck Consensus (GC), has called on the former President of Nigeria, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, to stop keeping Nigeria s guessing and declare his intentions to contest for the presidency. The group made the clarion call during a rally in Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital on Friday, adding that Jonathan is a detribalized leader who puts the citizen’s interest at heart. Speaking at the rally, the convener and coordinator of the group, Dume Wellington, told journalists that Goodluck engenders peace, adding that two other presidential aspirants have vowed to jettison their presidential ambitions and rather support the ex-president, should he choose to contest. “This call is germain because Nigeria needs somebody like Goodluck; one the man has grace, the Bible says when the righteous rules, the people rejoice. Goodluck is a man of grace; two, Goodluck is a man of peace, above all things, have fervent peace. “We need him now, now is when we need Goodluck, yes there are other people, but Goodluck needs to declare today, we are not giving him seven days, seven days is too far, declare now, this Friday, in the next one hour, we want to see him declare, because he’s a man that can unify this country, he’s a man that is not tribalistic, he’s a man that carries everyone along. “This is the first time in the history of Nigeria that two serving governors would tell you that if this man is running (for the presidency) they cannot run, that is to tell how sincere he is, how transparent the man is.” On his part, the Spokesman for the Movement for the Liberation of Niger Delta, MLND, Harry Isoboye, said Goodluck had in the past shown that he has the capacity to right the leadership wrongs in the country, stressing that ex-president Jonathan has the best credentials to run the country. “What we are saying is that we need a consensus candidate which is our father and elder brother, Goodluck Jonathan, because for now we need the best, we don’t want to run frying pan to fire and continue making the same mistake. POLL “He (Goodluck) showed us a light when he was there, even the Niger Delta people were against him that he did not do well, but he planned the best for us, so know we need him, so that our mother Ngozi Okonje-Iweala will come and help our finance, that’s the essence of what we are doing here.”