Crystal Palace manager Patrick Vieira is hopeful his side’s FA Cup semi-final defeat to Chelsea will benefit them going forward. Palace had the best chance of the first-half as Chiekhou Kouyate’s strike forced a good save out of Edouard Mendy. However, Chelsea improved after half-time and took the lead when Ruben Loftus-Cheek’s strike deflected in off Joachim Andersen. Mason Mount made it 2-0 shortly after with a good finish to secure Chelsea’s third FA Cup final in a row and break Palace hearts. Speaking after the game, Vieira, who won five FA Cup titles during his time as a player with Arsenal, admitted he was hopeful his side could use the defeat going forward. “I don’t know if it was a fair reflection [a 2-0 loss], in the first half we frustrated them a lot, we had chances and in the situation we could have played them better. Against these teams it is about taking your chances and we didn’t and they did. “I believe these sorts of games with a lot of tension will make us a better team. We had chances but didn’t score but we also didn’t give the ball at the right time sometimes. “We just have to keep going. This is the kind of game the players, manager and the club wants to get involved in. We have to keep building the team and working well. The fans were unbelievable today and thanks again to them for their support. POLL “We were close but there is still a big gap between Chelsea and ourselves.” Chelsea midfielder Mason Mount praised Loftus-Cheek and Timo Werner’s performances in the victory and admitted it is time for him to win a Wembley final, after losing his first five. “It is a game we used to bounce back. It was a very, very tough game. They made it very difficult for us. They have some top players. It wasn’t easy. “The way we came through it we showed character. “I am buzzing for Rubes [Ruben Loftus-Cheek]. He is a top, top player. He comes on in a difficult game and steps up. He is dominant and the way he drives the ball forward helps us. He was brilliant today. “Timo Werner is brilliant, he has done so well the last couple of games. He had a chance in the second half that he missed but then ran all the way back to win the ball and that shows the player he is. “It is time for us to win a final at Wembley. It is five finals I have lost so we have to put the pressure on us to step up.”