As part of the ongoing consultation ahead of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primaries, the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike has met with former Governor of Gombe State Ibrahim Dankwambo and stakeholders of the party on his aspiration to lead Nigeria in 2023. Wike, who is also a presidential hopeful while speaking at the party’s secretariat in Gombe disclosed that his mission was to improve the economic reality of the country, harping on the need to provide security for the protection of lives and property. Wike called on the stakeholders in the state to join hands with him in delivering democratic dividends which he said the PDP was known for, adding that they should not waste their votes on presidential aspirants who cannot win the 2023 general election. He said, “If you want PDP to win the election in 2023 I have made myself available. Give me the ticket, let me go and take the power for you. We are talking about who can take this power from APC (All Progressives Congress). That person is me.” He added that there is a need to rescue Nigeria from its current state and it required men of courage who love this country to do the work. “We need to salvage this country. Let us not pretend about it. Insecurity does not know religion. Insecurity does not know ethnicity. Poverty does not know ethnicity. Poverty does not know religion. “The people who come to kill us, do they look at who is a Christian? Do they look at who is a Moslem? Do they know who is Hausa-Fulani? Do they know who is Igbo? We are dying. “So, it is not for sentiment. It is not for people to come and tell you, look, it must come from here, no, no. It is for those who have the capacity. If given the opportunity, I will replicate what I’ve done in Rivers State as President of Nigeria.” POLL Receiving Wike at the PDP secretariat, Dankwambo said the choice of Wike would yield the country much-desired progress while revealing that as Minister of State of Education under the Goodluck Jonathan-led administration, he attracted school projects across various Gombe senatorial districts. He disclosed that whoever the PDP decides to front as its candidate the state would back the person, adding that the state is predominantly a PDP state. Dankwambo said, “We assure you; our people are behind you; those who have seen you talking on television have seen the energy in you, they are seeing the action in you and the Commander-in-chief in you but for now in Rivers, they call him Mr Project.” He narrated a scenario when Wike visited him in Abuja, stressing that the aspirant has become popular for performance, promising to support him if he emerged as the candidate of the party. Dankwambo added, “When he came to my house my steward said Mr project is waiting for me and I asked who is Mr project; even the steward knows you are Mr project. If as a Minister of State you can do things for the state, we thank you. We will sit down and digest everything you have told us at the appropriate time we will take a decision. “Power belongs to God, He gives and takes power from whom He wants. At the appropriate time whoever emerges, the candidate will sit down with the Gombe people and negotiate. We will not be taken for granted, we will vote for you, we will vote for whoever emerges as the candidate of our party under our mutually agreed plans.” Commenting on the performance of the party in the 2019 elections, Dankwambo said PDP has realised its mistake and would reinvent into a better showing. “We have realised our mistakes in 2019, and we are putting our house in order; inshallah come 2023, Gombe is PDP,” Dankwambo said.