LAGOS – The coroner presiding over the inquest of Jumoke Oyeleke on Monday visited the scene where she died from a gunshot allegedly fired by the police in Ojota during a rally by Yoruba secessionists sometimes in July, 2021. The 25-year old Miss Oyeleke was hit by a bullet after police fired shots to disperse the protesters during a Yoruba Nation rally on July 3, 2021. The police had denied responsibility for her death, saying its officers never fired a “single live bullet.” At the scene, a witness who had earlier testified, Banjoko Philips, explained how he and a trader carried Ms. Oyeleke’s remains from his compound outside to limit the number of people on the premises. He said the deceased, a salesgirl, was arranging her wares when the police chased some people inside his compound. He added that the deceased also ran when she saw the police chasing people into the compound but fell after she was hit by the gun. “She was lying chest down. The point of entry (bullet) was under the left arm,” Mr. Philips said. The civil servant said that he observed the incident from his apartment’s window. He told the coroner that the shooting started immediately the (former) Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, left the scene. POLL He also claimed that some of the residents saw some policemen searching the corpse. “In my opinion, it was the policemen that shot her. It was a stray bullet,” he said. Another witness, Okebe David, a snacks trader in the area, told the coroner that he and Mr. Philips carried the corpse outside the compound because of the crowd. The 29-year-old said when the shooting started, he and some men jumped the fence into the compound where the deceased was shot. At the resumption of the proceedings in the Samuel Ilori Courthouse, Ogba, a state counsel, Oluwaseun Akinde, told the coroner that the pathologist, Sunday Soyemi, from the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) earlier scheduled for cross-examination was absent. “He (pathologist) received the information late. He has a defence in LASUTH for his programme,” the lawyer said.