The leader of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), South-West geo-political zone, Alhaji Adebisi AbdulRasheed Olopoeyan has advised Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State that his plan to pick the Chairman of Park Management System (PMS) Disciplinary Committee, Mukaila Lamidi popularly known as Auxiliary as running mate in 2023 general elections does not guarantee his victory. As he also raised an alarm over alleged destruction of bill boards belonging to the party and the gubernatorial aspirant of the party, Engineer Popoola Olukayode Joshua popularly known as POJ by members of PMS led by Auxiliary. He also called on the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Usman Alkali Baba, Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko and Director of Department of State Security Services (SSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi to wade in before the Chairman of PMS Disciplinary Committee, Auxiliary turned the state into the anarchy. Olopoeyan on Sunday evening  raised the alarm and made the call to all the security agencies in the state and their headquarters while briefing the press on alleged destruction of the bill board of their party, NNPP and their gubernatorial aspirant in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. Olopoeyan alleged that the members of the PMS initially are after his life and his supporters, in which petitions have been sent to Police headquarters, Oyo State Command as well as DSS headquarters but nothing tangible was done. He then appealed to them to treat the petitions as a matter of urgency. He stressed that recently same people also attacked his house few days ago, shortly after he and his supporters officially joined NNPP from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Olopoeyan alleged that the attack is being sponsored by the Governor of the state, Engineer Seyi Makinde as a result of love lost between them due to political differences. POLL He alleged that the new development in their political desperation is the destruction of their bill board, noting that, this act can never win election but performance and electorate will determine the victory of any candidate. The NNPP South west leader queried, if late Ajimobi of blessed memory destroyed PDP and Governor Makinde’s billboards during the election of 2019, where he came victorious. He maintained that the electoral act amendment has rendered thuggery useless in election victory as results will be transmitted electronically, hence, calling on those relying on box snatching to have a rethink. According to him, “Just recently PMS members came to attack my house as a result of dumping PDP for NNPP, we were able to arrest one of them with their identity card, we handed him over to Police, up till this moment nothing was done to tame Auxiliary. “I have written several petitions that my life is being threatened by Auxiliary, he has never been invited. Are there no more Police or DSS in the state, are they waiting till the Auxiliary turns the state into anarchy. “For the umpteenth time, I want to appeal to all the security agencies concerned to treat my petitions as a matter of urgency. “Their new act now is the destruction of our billboard, we have left their party for them, why are they still after us. This shows they have accepted defeat before the elections. “Governor Makinde is fighting everybody including his deputy. He wanted to replace the deputy with Mukaila Lamidi Auxiliary, thinking that thuggery can win elections. “Electoral act amendment has rendered thuggery useless in election victory as results will be transmitted electronically, hence, calling on those relying on box snatching to have a rethink. “Once again, I am using this opportunity to call on IGP, Director of DSS and Oyo state commissioner of Police to caution and tame Auxiliary before he turns the peace-loving state into anarchy”.