Germany aims to deliver the all-weather-capable self-propelled anti-aircraft gun [SPAAG] to Ukraine, BulgarianMilitary.com has learned. The decision is said to be announced at the Rammstein conference. The new German government’s defense minister, Christine Lambrecht, wants to ensure that steps are taken to send more combat-ready weapons to Ukraine. According to Spiegel, the Minister will announce that the Gepard air defense vehicles will be sent to Ukraine during the conference in Ukraine, organized by the United States at the Rammstein base. In addition, Ukrainian troops will be trained to use PzH 2000 howitzer systems sent from the Netherlands. With the steps that need to be taken, Lambrecht aims to reduce the pressure on Germany not to send weapons to Ukraine. In addition, the importance of the new € 100 billion arms package announced by Germany will be emphasized. Stoltenberg, the US Secretary of Defense and the defense leaders of Ukraine and the EU, as well as the NATO Secretary-General, are also expected to be in Ramstein. According to the statement made by the United States, so far they have provided $ 3.2 billion in arms aid to Ukraine and expect further steps from other European countries. This is an all-weather-capable German self-propelled anti-aircraft gun [SPAAG] at low altitude. It was developed on the chassis of the Leopard 1 tank and is equipped with 2×35 mm Oerlikon GDF autocannon, each with 320 rounds anti-air ammunition and 20 rounds anti-tank, 2 × quad 76mm smoke grenade dischargers. Gepard, which has a fire control radar and a search radar, is designed to conduct air defense of troops at very close distances and altitudes. The system, which has been modernized many times before the 2000s, still functions in the inventory of many countries. The SPAAG is powered by 10-cylinder, 37,400 cc [2,280 cu in] MTU multi-fuel engine gives a power of 830 PS [819 hp, 610 kW] POLL The systems removed from the Bundeswehr inventory in 2010 are now in KMW’s warehouses. It is assumed that Gepards, which will be delivered to Ukraine, will be sent from the warehouses of KMW. KMW had previously offered to send its Gepards to Ukraine, but this offer was rejected by the German government. If Cheetahs are sent to Ukraine, they will pose a significant threat to Russian planes and helicopters operating at low altitudes. It is much more modern and more distant from Shilkas in Ukrainian hands.