The Governorship ambition of Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele received a major boost as the former member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Bimbo Daramola endorsed his political aspiration. Daramola, also a former governorship aspirant and convener, OneUnitedAfrica, declared that the decision to collapse his political structure christened “Nitori OjoOlawa” for Bamidele was taken after a careful assessment of all the aspirants. Addressing journalists and top members of the MOB Campaign Team in Ado-Ekiti, Daramola who was accompanied by leaders of his political family across the 16 Local Government Areas of the state said, Bamidele is parading intimidating credentials. ” For somebody to have served for 12 years in the most developed and sophisticated states in Nigeria, unbroken. It is not a Joke”. 2023: Orji Uzor Kalu Wants Presidency Zoned To South-East NAF Special Forces Rescue Kidnap Victims He disclosed that Daramola’s contributions to APC surpassed every other aspirant seeking the party’s ticket. Daramola maintained that the success story of APC as a party in Ekiti cannot be written without mentioning Bamidele. The former parliamentarian disclosed that Bamidele had given much to the growth and sustenance of the APC  in the trying times arguing that this is the best time to reciprocate his good gestures to the party by allowing him to fly the flag. He also assured that Bamidele’s Governorship would attract many good things to the state based on his cordial relationship with many serving and former governors and National Assembly members. He said ” Bamidele’s governorship aspiration is legitimate. I and Bamidele are labourers in the vineyard of the party. APC is a party of history and only the deep can understand where we were coming from. I am supporting this man who had been saved by God for the sake of Ekiti because he is one of the best human resources we have in Ekiti today and a role model to many youths. POLL “Senator Opeyemi Bamidele is a man of history in Ekiti progressive fold from the days of  Action Congress to Action Congress of Democrats through  Action Congress of Nigeria and now APC that nobody could erase. He knows how to take care of the party because he recognizes those who have laboured to build the party from the scratch. “He stood up and sacrificed for the party for seven years when the night was wintering and future was bleak across the 16 local governments. To me and those of us who understand the history of APC in Ekiti, Senator Bamidele’s aspiration is a legitimate demand, because he has paid his dues. “Considering where we are today, we should allow him to succeed Governor Fayemi. We are 17 days away from APC primary, if we don’t get it right this time, the consequences would be dire and grieving. Let us support the person that knows the way, there is imminent danger ahead of us if we miss it,” he added. In his response, the apparently elated Bamidele thanked Daramola and members of his political family for choosing to identify with his Governorship ambition, promising not to let them down. Hon Bamidele clarified that he is not aligning with like-minds in the All Progressives Congress to rock the boat and deprive the party of winning the June 18 Governorship election. ‘Election Fast Approaching’, Nigerians Say In Reaction To FG… 2023: TPP Ramps Up Activities Towards Mobilizing APC Delegates… Assuring that many strong politicians would still join his structures the way Daramola did, the Chairman, Southern Senator Forum, stated that many Ekiti eminent sons and daughters are desirous of joining his campaign train to bail the state out of the doldrums. He said he is well prepared for any mode of primaries that would be adopted by APC, but canvassed for direct primary, being ideologically believed in participatory democracy and holding the view that sovereignty lies in the people. “My ambition is a movement of Ekiti sons and daughters, who believed that it shouldn’t be the same old story in 2018. I am not contesting or joining others to rock the boat in APC, this is a family affair, Internal party democracy and primary election. “Governor Kayode Fayemi has done well,  but there is need for a well-focused and experienced person, who has a scientific understanding of how to move Ekiti forward to take over from him. Someone who loves democracy and Ekiti development. We are not going to fight because the philosophy is the same, our visions are similar and our focus is one. “We will run a campaign that is issue-based and violence-free. We know that the state government wouldn’t do anything that can cause a crisis in the party. We are also assured that our brother and Governor, Kayode Fayemi won’t impose any candidate, we are convinced about that. “Bimbo and I respect Governor Fayemi, both of us were once the Directors -General of his campaign organisations in 2014 and 2018 respectively. We are telling you with the assurance that the governor would not impose anyone in the primary so that we can all work together. “At a time, my blood was spilt on the soil of Ekiti for the sake of APC and it is this blood that I used to assure all of you that Governor Fayemi will do everything possible to show that we have a smooth sail at the primary and by the grace of God, I will emerge the APC candidate. I have no doubt that after Governor Fayemi, I am going to be the next governor of this state.”