Inuwa Waya, a former management staff of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), speaks with journalists on why he wants to succeed Governor Abdullahi Ganduje as Kano state governor in the 2023 general elections. Ahmad Tijjani Abdul brings the excerpts: Why did you resign your position from NNPC? I have been inundated with questions and queries for explanations on why I decided to voluntarily retire from my very important and prestigious position in NNPC to come into partisan politics. But I know why I decided to quit even though I know it is not easy, especially having reached the climax of my career. Ambode Urges Youths To Embrace Cricket, Other Sports AFDB President Urged To Run For President I have been in NNPC since 26 August 1991, before then, I was a state council at the Kano State Ministry of Justice. From 26th August 1991 to date, it will give you 32 years that I have been in NNPC and I can tell you that the corporation is the most credible and transparency government agency you can ever think of such that anyone who found himself in such a place would rather want to continue to stay till the last day of his retirement. NNPC was formed in 1977 by military decree and since then they have been operating downstream, midstream, and off-stream of the oil and gas sector. Because of the level of transparency and accountability, NNPC is the only surviving agency among other corporations established almost at the same time. Think of where the National Electricity Commission, National Electrical Power Authority, Nigerian Airways, Nigerian Postal Services, and Nigerian Railway Corporation. All these entities except the Railway Service that until recently was resuscitated by President Muhammadu Buhari’s Government, others are now history. But NNPC is still there and waxing stronger and with the enactment of the Petroleum Industry Act, the corporation has assumed a new dimension in terms of more accountability, more profitability, and responsibility to justify shareholders resources and who are the shareholders, the government, and people of Nigeria. This allows NNPC to sue and be sued, enables NNPC to operate professionally and profitably, and enables NNPC to issue shares and recapitalize as a commercial entity. So when I realized I have been part and parcel of all this progress, it is only fair to ask why you are leaving the corporation this time. But like I said I am happy that I left the NNPC in an excellent position. President Muhammadu Buhari has done extremely well to reposition not only the NNPC but the entire oil and gas sector. And NNPC being the driving force, has set the centre stage for this reposition. Again, I realise there are a time for individuals to come and the time to leave the stage to the younger generation. With all these reforms already taken place which is designed to increase the commerciality of NNPC, remember NNPC is no longer a corporation it is now a limited liability company that is why it is called NNPC limited, so you need to realise as senior and management staff that these changes will usher in a rebirth of the corporation and it is only fair for those of us who have been there for long to step aside to allow the younger generation to take the mantle of leadership and deliver it to the promised land. What would you do differently if allowed to govern the state? POLL First, we have to understand that we are elites and most of the lifetime achievement of elites is limited to what they have done during their services in mainstream civil or public services. And when they finish, they come back home to help their communities because, in the course of their service, they have been introduced to several aspects of developments across the globe with interaction with the high and mighty in the world. So, when they return some of them will start lamenting about what is happening in the country and become armchair critics. Because at that time they felt it was too late for them to join the league, thinking politicians will harass and intimidate them since they are not in the mainstream. Politicians see people like us as endangered species as far as they are concerned. They believed you have all that it takes to develop society then they begin to block you, using legal, illegal, and supernatural means. But one should not be a coward or intimidated to retract from the step being taken. You have to be brave enough to break the rank install yourself in the system to contribute and make a meaningful impact in the larger society.That is why people like us have decided to pick up the challenge and sacrifice to dabble into politics. What are your developmental agenda for Kano? My concern is education and because I realised that we could not develop because we don’t have quality and functional education. I realised that our major challenge began from lack of education and that is why I commend the policy of free education being implemented by the Kano state government. The policy of free and compulsory education is commendable and we need to support it. But the challenge the state will face is resources to sustain the system because schools will no longer charge any fee and that means the government will need to find alternative means to sustain the system. For me, I have decided to assist the government on the policy on free education with the provision of instructional materials, uniforms, and the like especially to children of the less privileged. I do this in public schools in the state. We introduced debate and competition in the schools to encourage scholarship and we dish out gifts to best-performing students. Again, we have an issue of drug abuse in Kano which is also largely due to a lack of education. This unfortunate act has led to school dropout and resorted to insurgency and terrorism. If I become governor I will build more schools, rehabilitate existing structures and ensure that teachers are not only well paid but qualified enough to provide the services they are employed to do. LASG To Hold Conference On Mental Health How Shonekan Was Innocently Used By Abacha – Osoba There is no time for criticism because I don’t want to be an armchair critic the very reason, I joined the race in the first place. I understand when one is in power you understand the situation well and you hope it will be better but when you leave the government you begin to criticise. Every government wants constructive and not destructive criticism. I will not do politics with education because I believe it is not about a given quota system or federal character but the need for the immediate development of your environment. We would take education for development not for business. Training of teachers will be paramount. Given the complexity of Kano politics, why do you choose to contest the highest political post in Kano against your backdrop as green horn? To start with, I’m not a novice in politics. I remember when we were in secondary school in Rumfa College, we used to visit Mallam Aminu Kano to see and learn how he addressed his political disciples. We cultivated that habit and that created an impact in my mind that one day in the future, I will take full part in politics. When I graduated from college, I began several movements in politics and it was because of my involvement in politics that attracted the interest of the then governor of Kano late Abubakar Rimi to employ some of us to work in the research unit at the government house, set up by the late Dr. Bala Muhammad. Our responsibility then includes administering a questionnaire to the public to sample public opinion about government policies and activities whether or not the public is satisfied. I did that for a few months before I move to the school of preliminary studies preparatory to my university education. When I was there, I was a student representative, later the speaker of the assembly, and then became president of the student union. Similarly, when I was at Ahmadu Bello University, I was the president of the Society of Law students for a while, Secretary-general Kano state students union, member of the progressives union. So with all this participation over the years, I don’t think you can refer to me as a novice because of my 32 years in NNPC. And the kind of challenges I went through in NNPC especially in the hands of the politicians and how I survived it before my retirement that will tell you how resilient I am. Where do you pitch your tent over the ongoing crisis of APC in Kano? The crisis in APC is normal because everyone gets more interested and you begin to see rise in alignment and re-alignment. I’m also in alignment with some groups and as far as I’m concerned APC in Kano is one. As far as I’m concerned Abdullahi Abbas is still the chairman and the current executive of the party it is the recognised leadership of the party. Where you have splinter groups that want to bring about conflict because of the protection of their selfish interest then you know it is about who gets what where and time. So in politics, you use sledge hammer to kill a mosquito sometimes. For me, I’m in politics to sanitise the system to make the system more accountable and more reliable. We would continue to campaign against violence using children of the poor who the politicians have denied education to foment crisis, using daggers and machetes. Waya : I have told the youths and challenged them to tell any politician who ask them to take drugs and carry dangerous weapons against their opponents to bring their children to lead the fight. By the time you begin to ask political class to bring their children to campaign and cross opponents, you will notice that in no distance time this violence would be eliminated. No politician would allow his child to participate in violence but they can use children of the poor who they fail to offer education. You don’t need to kill any opponent to win if you worth what you claim to be. We should allow people to determine the right candidates.