Brighton manager Graham Potter has confirmed defender Tariq Lamptey will stay at the club this January. The England youth international, 21, is a £50million transfer target for Arsenal and their arch-rivals Tottenham, according to the Daily Express. Lamptey is widely regarded as one of the best youngsters in the Premier League after a stunning start to his professional career. Cenk Tosun Makes Besiktas Transfer Admission, Outlines Everton… West Ham Extend Michail Antonio’s Contract Until 2025 He came through the ranks at Chelsea, making three senior appearances, before joining the Seagulls in January 2020. It was a risky move for Lamptey but one that’s paid off, as he’s established himself as the Brighton’s first-choice right-back. Lamptey has gone on to play 31 Premier League games for his current employers, a figure that would be much higher if it wasn’t for a serious hamstring injury he suffered in December 2020, ruling him out for nine months. His impressive displays have attracted many admirers, yet his boss Potter has no interest in selling him anytime soon. “I’d expect all our players to be with us [come the end of January],” said Potter ahead of his team’s FA Cup game against West Brom on Saturday. POLL “There is a lot of speculation out there but nothing to report. Speculation means we are doing something well, as a team and a club. There has been no bids so far.” The news will be a blow for Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta, who is thought to be a fan of Lamptey. It’s believed the Gunners were considering making a move for the talent last summer before signing Bologna star Takehiro Tomiyasu. Although Tomiyasu has impressed this season, Lamptey could be a long-term option for Arsenal due to Tomiyasu’s ability to play at centre-back. Adding the Brighton ace to their ranks would allow Tomiyasu to join Ben White or Gabriel at the heart of the defence and give Arteta’s squad more depth. Watford Squad Receive Boost Ahead Of Leicester City FA Cup Clash Barcelona Confirm Araujo Will Undergo Surgery Speaking about Lamptey’s comeback last month, Potter said: “He’s had such a long time out and he’s done really well in a lot of the games. “It’s not quite so easy to get a right-back to attack the backline like he does. He’s still growing and growing and developing as a player and we’re delighted with him. “Since he’s been here, he’s been great, everybody loves him here at the club. He’s a great guy, a great lad, does his best, he’s a bit of a dream really as a player.” Before his injury, Lamptey put in a string of excellent performances for Brighton. “Love Lamptey!” tweeted Liverpool icon Jamie Carragher in September 2020. Ashley Cole, one of the greatest full-backs in Premier League history, added the same month: “He’s been quality how dangerous he is. He isolates players out wide and he’s been such a threat all game.” Despite receiving praise from two legends of the English game, Lamptey has kept his feet firmly on the ground. “I appreciate all the praise and I am thankful for it, but I just have to keep working hard and keep focused and putting in performances for the team,” he said in September 2020. “The main thing was the team got the win, but it is just great to get such praise from such fantastic ex-players.”