LAGOS  – Vice President Yemi Osin­bajo has sought for wider participation of relevant stakeholders in the blue economy project to deepen participation and benefits of Nigerians from the country’s marine resources. Osinbajo made the call at the inaugural meeting of an Expanded Committee on Sustainable Blue Economy in Nigeria in the Presiden­tial Villa on Monday. The VP said a viable blue economy project will offer opportunities not only for littoral states where there are bodies of water but for the entire country. Ekiti Soldier Involved In Robbery To Die By Hanging, Court Says Editors To Hold Self-Scrutiny Town Hall Meeting In Kano… He identified areas to be exploited including ports, terminals, fishing, training, environment, tourism, pow­er, oil and gas. While identifying possi­ble challenges of sustain­ability, the Vice President urged all the ministries, departments and agencies to strengthen their collabo­rations in an atmosphere of inter-ministerial working groups and advised all mem­bers to attend the meetings faithfully for maximum re­sults. Osinbajo, who formally inaugurated the expanded committee, identified the need for a legal framework that will be more robust than other international maritime conventions on blue economy which Nigeria has been signatory to. He said the scope and participation of the com­mittee will be further im­proved upon to accommo­date more members from government agencies and relevant private sector stakeholders. Osinbajo said, “There is no doubt that the blue econ­omy is a new frontier for economic development and a means of diversifying the economy through the use of resources from oceans, seas, rivers and lakes for the well-being of the people. POLL “It also provides a positive contribution to the achieve­ment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2052 Africa Integrated Mari­time Strategy (2052AIM) and the UN 2030 agenda. “This concept for eco­nomic diversification is promoted by the inter­national community and provides friendly means of livelihood in line with this administration’s agenda on job creation “The ocean economy as an emerging economic fron­tier applies to ocean-based industry activities and the assets, goods and services of marine ecosystems.