ILORIN – A group, Uromi Like Minds Initiative, ULMI, have come out to explain reasons behind the recently sponsored soccer tournament and honouring of deserving teachers in Uromi, Edo State. Explaining in details to Daily Independent, Executive Chairman of the Uromi Like Minds Initiative, Mr. Sylvester Abumere Ekpen said that the gesture was to help people loosen up while also encouraging scholarship and hard work. ULMI had previously sponsored scholarship schemes for students of Uromi descent in from Edo State. Made up principally of high flying successful sons and daughter of Uromi nation, the group has become a strong organisation promoting well being of indigens from the town in wherever they find themselves. On the recent program, Ekpan said: “all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, “We understand that for all-round development of the mind and body, a mix of academic and social activities are required.” The soccer tournament was amongst Secondary Schools and also featured honoring deserving school teachers who had distinguished themselves within the last twenty-five years and still counting. It held held on the 26, December 2021. POLL The first game of the best losers, between Ebhoiyi and Obeidu secondary schools which began at 1.15 pm, in the main bowl of the LGA Council Sports arena, Ebhoiyi defeated Obeidu Secondary School 4-3 in a penalty shootout after the normal time scores were one apiece. The goals were scored by Ikekhwa Dennis and Okoduwa George of Ebhoiyi and Obeidu secondary schools respectively. The final proper saw a popular private school in Uromi, Buddie Group of schools, pip the star-studded Agba grammar school to take home the inaugural gold cup against all odds. The game was watched by many sons and daughters of Uromi who went to the commercial town for the yuletide celebration. A first-half goal scored by Iyoha Friday of Buddie Group of Schools was all that made the difference between the school and Agba Grammar School. Azeez Ugbodaga of BGS won the Tournament`s MVP award. The top scorers’ award went to Iyoha Godspower of Ebhoiyi secondary school with 4 goals, while Ugbodaga Miracle of BGS was crowned the best goalkeeper of the championship. The highpoint of the fiesta was the awards of excellence given to about nine teachers who have served for about twenty-five years. During the award ceremony, the group appreciated the teachers for their selfless services to the students and community at large and promised that the association would make it an annual event in Uromi. “We have recently considered and passed a budget for 2022 that is almost twice the 2021 budget. While that shows commitment on the part of existing members, it is also a clarion call on all, who shares a similar vision with the Association, to team up and join hands with ULMI,” Ekpan said.