LAGOS – Deputy National Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Setonji Koshoedo, has called on members of the party, who have defected to other political parties to return in order to rescue the country from its present woe. Koshoedo in his New Year message to Nigerians also called on men and women of substance to join the party for the common goal of rescuing and rebuilding Nigeria. While thanking God for the New Year, the PDP chieftain promised that the newly inaugurated National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, will do all possible to support all state chapters of the party, to achieve the common goal of rebuilding Nigeria. God Will Not Forgive PDP If It Doesn’t Hearken To Cry Of… Attack On PDP Congress In Zamfara State An Assault On Democracy… He noted that the main opposition PDP is the only alternative to rescue Nigeria from its present situation, just as he urged members of the party to remain faithful and united. He also called on all state chapters of the party to open their doors to receive as many people willing to join the party. In his words, he said, “I want to congratulate every member of our party on witnessing the New Year. For me, I believe that the Year 2022 will usher in good tidings for our party. “For us to achieve the greatness we desire, we must all join hands together to rescue Nigeria from its present predicament. I want to implore all our members who have defected to other parties to return home so that we can achieve this together. POLL “I am also calling on men and women of substance to join us in the PDP for the common goal of rescuing and rebuilding Nigeria. PDP is the only alternative to rescue Nigeria from its present situation.” Koshoedo also used the medium to appreciate everyone who facilitated and supported his emergence as the Deputy National Secretary of the PDP, just as he celebrated the Oyo State governor and PDP South-West leader, Seyi Makinde. He, however, prayed that the New Year will bring peace and happiness to every home, community, party and Nigeria at large.