LAGOS  – The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI),has stated that the introduction of excise duty of N10/ liter on non-alcoholic, carbonated and sweetened beverages by the Federal Government, despite its potential overwhelming negative impact is rather unfortunate and will be counterproductive. Dr. Chinyere Almona, its Director General, in chats with Daily Independent on the new Excise duty imposed on the production, licensing and sale of goods, said: “The revenue aspirations of government in introducing this excise may not be justified in the long run. “Let us look at it this way, the government is estimated to generate an excise tax of N81bn between 2022-2025 from the group. ‘Akwa Ibom Vehicle Assembly Plant 99 Percent Ready’ IFC Set To Invest $3m In Nigerian Tech Startups “This will not be sufficient to compensate the corresponding government’s revenue losses in other taxes from the Group. For instance, the corresponding effect of reduced industry revenue on government revenues is estimated to be up to N142bn contraction in VAT raised by the sector and N54bn CIT reduction between 2022 to 2025. This is not to mention the potential negative “There is no doubt that the potential revenue gains is the basis for the introduction of this excise “It would appear that the goose that lays the golden eggs is being led to perdition, seeing that the affected sub-sector, has contributed most significantly to the economy and taxes, despite the debilitating impact of Naira devaluation, inadequacy of forex and the COVID-19 pandemic. “The food and beverage contributed the highest (38%) of the total manufacturing sector to the GDP! It comprises 22.5% of manufacturing jobs and generates more than 1.5million jobs. So, this excise would certainly cast a sunset to this performance. “Furthermore, recent studies have shown that Introducing excise on non-alcoholic beverages is likely to cause a 0.43% contraction in output and about 40% drop in total industry revenues in the next five years”. POLL The LCCI Director General, who argued that what is not realised by many of the Federal Government excise, begets high production costs which in turn adversely affect production levels and intimately result in dwindling profits. “This will grossly impact the small and emerging business owners in the non-alcoholic beverage sector. “Nigeria is the 6th highest consumer of soft drink, but per capita consumption is low. Introducing excise will easily reduce production capacity causing manufacturers to struggle to meet investor commitments as well as cause investor to take investments to other countries. “A decrease in production levels or ability to purchase raw materials as a result of the introduction of excise tax will result in reduced profits for the supply chain players in the non-alcoholic beverage sector. She, however, said: ““There will certainly be decline private households/ consumers purchasing power as they earn income mostly by supplying labour to the industry and from owning a share in industry capital. Household in turn use this earned income to purchase food, shelter and products from this manufacturing industries. An introduction of an additional tax will cause manufacturers in a bid to offset tax and maintain profit raise prices of their products to higher rates thus shifting tax incident to consumers”