All eyes are on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as it prepares to host the first Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting of the year next week as the committee may likely adjust rates upward in line with expectations of many in compliance with the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) advice, according to analysts. Analysts expect the MPC to put a halt on its dovish stance in the last two years where it voted to keep the interest rate low for a hawkish stance. Analysts at FBNQuest said that Nigeria’s gross official reserves that declined again by $666 million (-1.7% m/m) in December 2021 to close the year at $40.52 billion will serve as an impetus for the CBN to adjust the rate to encourage more money into the economy from investors. Dangote Is Africa’s Richest Man, Not You, DJ Cuppy Slams Kanye… Shonekan Helped Shape Economic Policy In Nigeria, Osinbajo… Higher interest rates, according to Stephen Iloba, a Lagos based economist, will help increase the value of a country’s currency as higher interest rates tend to attract foreign investment, increase the demand for and value of the home country’s currency. “But the primary complicating factor is the relationship that exists between higher interest rates and inflation”, Iloba said. Analysts at FBNQuest said the expected decision of the MPC “is in line with our expectation of $40 billion year-end balance and represents the reserves’ second consecutive month of decline following four months of successive increases. Last month’s decline reflected the deceleration in reserve inflows, following the IMF’s $3.3 billion SDR allocation and the FGN’s $4 billion Eurobond issuance. “For a more accurate picture, we must adjust this gross figure for the pipeline of delayed external payments. “Total reserves at end-December covered 9.7 months’ merchandise imports based on the balance of payments for the 12 months to September 2021, and 7.3 months when we add services. We consider this a healthy buffer. POLL “On the back of current economic realities of the US and the likelihood that the Fed could make significant policy decisions (such as rate hikes and balance sheet reduction) quicker than expected, the IMF last week warned emerging economies to prepare for possible disturbance of financial markets and a tightening of financial conditions globally. These developments, according to the Fund, could come with a slowing of US demand and trade and may lead to capital outflows and currency depreciation in emerging markets”. To strengthen policy frameworks and reduce vulnerabilities, the IMF recommended that emerging economies raise benchmark interest rates and allow their currencies to depreciate. The timing of these is to be based on each country’s economic circumstance. Nigeria’s oil production capacity remains a constraint to the country’s ability to reap the benefits of current levels of oil prices. OPEC data obtained from secondary sources show Nigeria’s oil output (excluding condensates) at c.1.42mbpd in November 2021. “In the light of the IMF’s concerns, we see increased attrition on the official reserves this year, more so if oil prices decline as a result of increased supply, or the pandemic”, FBNQuest analysts said. The IMF had said that resurgent pandemic and faster US Federal Reserve tightening pose risks to global recovery and emerging economies should prepare for bouts of economic turbulence. Frequency In Home Appliances, Electronics More Dangerous Than 5G… 2023-The President Can Emerge From Any Zone As Zoning Is… “Average gross government debt in emerging markets is up by almost 10 percentage points since 2019 reaching an estimated 64 percent of gross domestic product by the end of 2021, with large variations across countries,” said Stephan Danninger, who co-wrote the IMF blog. “But in contrast to the US, their economic recovery and labour markets are less robust. While dollar borrowing costs remain low for many, concerns about domestic inflation and stable foreign funding led several emerging markets last year, including Brazil, Russia and South Africa, to start raising interest rates,” he said. The global economy, which in 2020 entered its deepest recession since the 1930s, bounced back strongly last year on the back of $25 trillion in fiscal and monetary support by governments and central banks around the world. History shows that the effects for emerging markets are likely to be benign if Fed tightening is “gradual, well telegraphed and in response to a strengthening recovery”. Emerging market currencies may still depreciate, but foreign demand would offset the impact from rising financing costs, the IMF said on Monday. But a scenario of faster Fed rate increases in response to broad-based US wage inflation or sustained supply bottlenecks could rattle financial markets and tighten financial conditions globally. This could come with a slowing of US demand and trade and may lead to capital outflows and currency depreciation in emerging markets, the IMF said. “The impact of Fed tightening in a scenario like that could be more severe for vulnerable countries,” said Kenneth Kang, a deputy director in the fund’s surveillance, policy and review department, who is one of the blog’s co-authors. A report by Sigma Pensions said likely stronger dollar demand will convince the CBN of the need to tighten monetary conditions as with the trend across global central banks to manage foreign exchange reserve depletion. According to the report titled, ‘Nigeria 2022 outlook: Consolidating on recovery but persisting large imbalances present headwinds’, the large fiscal borrowing requirements amid less liquid financial system conditions in 2022, relative to the last two years, suggest ample scope for heightened market expectations about higher interest rates. It said, “We expect the oil sector to exit recession in 2022 as Nigeria’s crude production rebounds from the 1.6mbpd low base in 2021 towards a range of 1.8-1.85mbpd and as most OPEC+ curbs are removed by May 2022. “Given our price and production expectations, we expect Nigeria’s external balance to improve as oil export receipts normalise to trend levels amid persisting import demand suppression on account of the CBN’s currency policy. “We expect Nigeria’s economic growth to stabilise around 3.4 percent in 2022, reflecting improvements across telecoms, trade, manufacturing, and oil.” According to the report, a large fiscal borrowing plan and higher political risk premiums are expected ahead of the 2023 general elections. Chief Executive Officer, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismarck Rewane, said the year will be a year of two halves as there will be economic reforms in H1 2022 and politics in H1 2022. He said, “Oil price is expected to average $70-85 per barrel, pre-election spending should drive up cash in circulation and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is likely to increase forex supply to manufacturers while economic performance will be largely determined by the successful implementation of the 2022 budget. Inflationary pressures will intensify for 2-3 months before abating if it coincides with the increase in FX supply. “We also expect the CBN to deplete reserves to maintain exchange rate stability and this is what I have said time and time again that the apex bank needs to step up efforts towards exchange rate convergence. The government might decide to go to the Eurobond market and there is likely going to be currency devaluation and monetary policy tightening”.