***Promotes 32 Professors Kogi state Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has been awarded doctorate Degree, Honoris Causa and Alhaji Dahiru Barau Mangwai and Senator Jibrin Isah Echocho by prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba at the sixth Convocation ceremony to hold on Saturday in Anyigba, Dekina Local Government Area of the state. This is just as no fewer than 60 graduands will bag first class degrees out of over 19,000, others who will bag different classes of Degrees, higher Degrees and postgraduate diploma that spanned through six sets of the university, between 2016 to 2021. AAU ASUU Condemns SIT Over Alleged Non-procedural Activities Teach For Nigeria Advocates Increased Govt, Stakeholders’… This was disclosed on Thursday by the Vice Chancellor, Professor Marietu Ohunene Tenuche during pre convocation press briefing held at the conference hall of the University, Anyigba. Professor Tenuche noted that through the massive investment of the Alhaji Yahaya Bello led administration, the university was able to secure NUC full accreditation for 24 programmes on offer saying that the university was equally ranked 25 among the 170 universities in the country. She disclosed that following the passage of the bill for the change of name by the kogi House of Assembly and assented to by Governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello, making kogi state University to be formally renamed as the Prince Abubakar Audu, University PAAU , The Vice Chancellor stated that the convocation lecture will be delivered by a former Vice Chancellor, and secretary general of the Association of vice chancellors professor Yakubu Aboki Ochefu, with the theme ” Education and Security challenges in Nigeria.” The VC who commended the Governor for the implementation of cash backing of promotions, stressed that his magnanimity has spuned lecturers and staff to contribute their best to teaching and learning that has brought out mutual labour relations. POLL She promised to ensure sustained linkages with international scholars and institutions so as to enhance the visibility of the University. To this end , she disclosed , that some Faculties and Departments in the University have risen to the challenge for exchange of knowledge as the Department of Computer Science in conjunction with the Society for the Advancement of ICT and Comparative Knowledge and the Faculty of Management Sciences have held their conferences . While commending the active sipport of the State Government , the Tertiary education Trustfund the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) , Federal Roads Maintenance Agency , FERMA the university is steadily achieving its core mandate. While rolling her achievement, she disclosed “Through such support, we have been able to complete some projects inherited from the previous administrations and commenced and completed new ones. “These include the new student hostels for male and female, the asphalt laying of the road linking the Dangana Hostel Junction and Law Faculty, equipping the Language Laboratory in the Faculty of Education, equipping the Entrepreneurial and Skills Development Centre. LASU: Tunji-Bello Canvasses Expanded Admission Quota For… Global Ranking: Nigerian Universities And The Missing Links “Others include the landscaping of the Law Faculty, rehabilitation of the Prince Abubakar Audu Ways with complete asphalt lay in partnership with the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) renovation of existing hostels, erection of an extension to the University Health Centre and installation of CNSL equipment at the Cashew Processing Plant. “The social vices the University is conscientiously working against include drug abuse, cultism, armed robbery, indecent dressing, among others. ‘While applauding the Governing Council ,who at her 59thRegular meeting held on Friday, 17th December, 2021, confirmed the promotion of 17 new Professors and 15 new Readers that cut across Departments and Faculties in the University. “The promotion of six of the new Professors was with effect from 1st October, 2019, while the remaining eleven had their promotion taking effect from 1st October, 2020”, she informed.