CHRIS EBONG Despite the economic challenges that have bedeviled the country, occasioned by paucity of funds which has caused the government to fund its fiscal obligations through heavy borrowing, the Federal Government has not reneged in showing a level of concern for the plight of retirees and pensioners in the country. The Federal Government, for instance, in less than four weeks between December 2021 and first week of January 2022 has wittingly made available a whopping N48.64billion for the payment of the accrued pension right to the retirees of the federal ministries, departments and agencies, according to report from the National Pension Commission (PenCom). Nigeria’s Socio-economic Development Rests On ICT Adoption,… Dangote Cement Plc Commences Second Tranche Of Shares Buyback… This is a feat that has been applauded and acknowledged by pension industry watchers and other key stakeholders. The accrued pension rights represent an employee’s benefits for the past years of service up to June 2004 when the Pension Reform Act that birthed the Contributory Pension Scheme came into effect. PenCom in a statement made available to Daily Independent over the weekend, explained that the released funds was for the payment of accrued pension rights under the Contributory Pension Scheme, adding that the sum of N16.67 billion was earlier released in December. The Commission is pleased to announce an additional release of N31.97 billion by the Federal Government for the payment of accrued pension rights to 2021 retirees of Treasury-funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies. “This follows an earlier release of the sum of N16.67 billion, thus bringing the total amount released for payment of the 2021 accrued pension rights to N48.64 billion adding that the federal government had earlier settled all arrears of accrued pension rights payments to the verified and enrolled retirees up to December 2020”, the release stated. POLL With the feat, the President Mohammadu Buhari-led government has written the history of pension in Nigeria giving the backlash that associated with pension administration in the country prior to the enactment of the Pension Reform Act 2004. However, much is still left to be done as most of the states are yet to borrow a leaf from the leading-by-example initiative of the federal government. As we speak, only about 10 states have domesticated pension laws while just few has so far purchased group life insurance for their civil servants. One begins to wonder what would be the fate of such workforce that has spent its entire live working for a state but to die in penury and abject poverty due to insensitivity displayed by the home governments. Worried about the low level of compliance with the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) by states governments, the National Pension Commission (PenCom) says it has commenced engagements with various state executives on the scheme. Y’ello Santa Campaign: Over 125,000 MTN Subscribers Received… CILT Seeks For New Solutions To Improve Transport, Logistics The Commission is worried over the irregular funding of Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) by employers as out of the 9.27 million accounts as at December 31, 2020, 3.5 million had funding issues, stressing that a total of 3.5 million RSAs were irregularly funded during the year, as monthly pension contributions were either made occasionally or not made at all. The pension industry regulator maintained that majority of these irregularly funded accounts belong to employees of State Governments and private sector organisations. PenCom noted that as at 2nd quarter 2021, out of the nine states remitting both employers and employees pension contributions, FCT; Osun; Delta; Ekiti; Ondo and Anambra have backlog of remittances. “As at Q2: 2021, twenty-five (25) States of the Federation had enacted pension laws on the CPS, while seven States were at the bill stage. Out of the five States operating other pension schemes, four States have adopted the Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme (CDBS), while one, (Yobe State) operates the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS),” PenCom said. As part of driving compliance, the Commission noted that it carried out sensitisation workshops, capacity-building programs, and stakeholder engagement meetings during the quarter under review, adding that the activities include: A meeting with the Executive Governor of Plateau State to review the steps taken by the State towards implementing the CPS. It said interactive meeting was also held with the newly constituted Bayelsa State Technical Committee on the Implementation of the CPS. The meeting was to guide the Committee on the road map to implementing the CPS in the State. Engagement meetings with the Executive Governors of Edo, Ondo and Osun States to drive the implementation of the CPS in these States, it said, adding that an enlightenment workshop on the RSA Transfer System for employees of the National Orientation Agency, Ilorin, was also organised. Continuing PenCom said it had a virtual sensitization/enlightenment workshop on the workings of the CPS for the Management and staff of the Livestock Feeds Plc, adding that a two-day workshop for Pension Desk Officers of the six Area Councils and Local Government Education Authorities of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Reconciliation Committee, and the FCT Area Council Pension Board staff, was organised and that the workshop guided the participants on how to detect incorrect/shared PINs in pension contribution schedules. It maintained that an enlightenment programme on the workings of the RSA Transfer System (RTS) was held for the Management and staff of 13 Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of Ekiti State, adding that the programme apprised participants on the workings of the RTS as well as the importance of Data recapture. The pension regulator submitted that an enlightenment programme on the CPS was organised for the Management and staff of the Federal Character Commission, National Human Rights Commission, Lafarge Africa Limited, and the Senior Staff Association of Chemical & Non- Metallic Products Limited and the programme touched on the role/responsibilities of the employees, employers and the modes of withdrawal, amongst others. The RSA Transfer System (RTS) is gaining momentum as 38,518 aggrieved Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders have within a space of 11 months, transferred N148.1 billion from their former Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to new pension administrators. Beyond the payment of accrued pension rights, the federal government also supported the Micro Pension Plan initiative of the PenCom. The rationale behind the scheme is to incorporate into pension inclusion, the operators in the informal sector who are said to constitute about 64per cent of the Nigerian workforce. The Federal Government on March 20 2019 formally launched the scheme. Complementing the Federal Government’s effort in ensuring a blissful retirement for Nigerians, the PenCom, the pension industry regulator; Pension Fund Operators of Nigeria (PenOp), the umbrella body of all licensed fund administrators in Nigeria in collaboration with life insurance service providers are mulling a working collaboration to attaching incentives to the Micro Pension Plan to give it a boost and make it more attractive to the informal operators. The two sectors are already talking in a view to ensuring that the micro pension subscribers enjoy the health insurance cover as part of the incentives to attract artisans and other self-employed individuals. Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and other stakeholders are assiduously working toward achieving the milestone across the country. It is expected that the details of the package and how the MPP subscribers will benefit without incurring extra cost would soon be unveiled when the synergy is harmonised. Disclosing this to Daily Independent in Lagos recently, the Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp), said the gesture would lead to insurance for the unemployed and would attract people in the informal sector. Idu Okwuosa, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Access Pension Fund Custodian, who heads the Head of Media Committee of PenOp, said the industry was working with insurance operators to come up with incentives for micro-pension contributions. Okwuosa called on operators and the National Pension Commission (PenCom) to design lifestyle products for micro pension contributors and also work together to see besides benefits of retirement and contingency savings, contributors maximise other robust incentives. The group is already on tour of major settlements of informal sector operators across the country to sensitise them of the benefits of making regular savings through MPP platform.