The Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc is a leading ground handling organisation in the Nigerian aviation industry. In this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, its Chairman, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, spoke extensively on the investment of SIFAX Group of Companies in aviation, implementation of the new safety threshold handling rates and the need for the Federal Government to create an intervention fund for businesses in the industry to tackle scarcity of foreign exchange and more. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the Nigerian aviation industry since SIFAX Group acquired the former Skypower Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL)? There has been a great deal of improvements and innovations in the sector. I will mention one which is airport infrastructure. Missing £400: FAAN Debunks Pilfering Claim Against Officials Nigeria To Introduce Slot System For Foreign Airlines Soon – DG… The Federal Government in the last few years have embarked on massive remodeling of various airport terminals across the country, especially in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. As the gateway to the country, our airports tell a lot about who we are as a nation. The remodeling has really done the image of the country a lot of good. I give kudos to the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, a consummate professional, who has done so much to move the industry forward since his appointment in 2015, and I think the development in the industry during his tenure is primarily due to putting a square peg in a square hole. He has tonnes of experience and knowledge about the industry being an aircraft pilot. As a major shareholder in the Skyway Aviation Handling (SAHCO) Plc, I can tell you that the minister has actually motivated us to invest more in the sector, thereby contributing our own quota to the growth in the industry in the last few years. POLL What specific opportunities did you see in the sector that made you to invest in the ground handling sub-sector? The country’s aviation sector is big, with Nigeria being a key market in Africa that almost every foreign airline wants to fly into. Before SIFAX Group acquired the company in 2009, it was only the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc that was really playing and investing massively in the ground handling sub-sector of the industry. That was the motivation for coming to the industry. We believe one ground handling company cannot do justice to the expanding industry. We saw the opportunity to be part of making the sector great through the privatisation of SAHCOL. SAHCO Emerges Ground Handling, Best Service Company 2021 Christmas: Over 700 Flights Across US Cancelled Over Omicron… We saw the need to improve the practice of ground handling in the country through efficient and professional service delivery that matches international standards. Even though the experience has been interesting, but it comes with its challenges. However, we have no regret about the decision, 12 years down the road. What measures are you putting in place to ensure that the implementation of the new safety threshold handling rates is not compromised by any of the ground handling companies? Two key things I know are important in the aviation industry; safety and service delivery, and no ground handling company wants to compromise on these. In order to improve our service offering, not compromise on safety and remain in business, the ground handling companies formed an association – Aviation Ground Handling Association of Nigeria (AGHAN) to address some of the lingering challenges we all face. On the handling rates, you will be surprised that the last time we reviewed the handing rates was over 30 years ago. Take for instance, air tickets have increased severally over the years, naira has been devalued, while the cost of the Ground Support Equipment (GSE) have also increased severally. The current rates are no longer sustainable as we find it very difficult to breakeven and acquire needed equipment to service our clients. When we took over 12 years ago, naira was about N120 to a dollar, but now, it is N560 and our rates have not been reviewed in all these years. You can then imagine the negative effect of this on our business and our ability to service our clients efficiently. The first thing the association did upon formation was to take a second look at the rates, but of course that provoked a tug-of-war between the airlines and the ground handling companies. The airlines petitioned the National Assembly and we were wondering the rationale for that as we are a private business and need to keep our business afloat. They didn’t consider the huge investment we have made and the various micro-economic changes in the country that necessitated such review. What I found ironic is that these airlines increase their tickets when they wish and nobody ever stopped them. Then, why should they stop us? Of recent, the domestic operators increased their tickets again and attributed this to the influx of travellers that now travel by air. Most people don’t want to travel by road again because of insecurity on the highways. However, we have to give kudos to the Minister of Aviation and the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu and other stakeholders who rallied round us when the issue became turbulent. For over 35 years, no review of the rates ever took place. I remember I told the Chairman of NAHCO, Dr. Seinde Fadeni that it seems they don’t even understand our importance in the sector. No flight can be successfully executed without the services of ground handling companies. It was so bad that we threatened to embark on an indefinite strike to draw attention of the industry to our plights, but NCAA intervened and a resolution was reached. The document was then sent to the ground handling companies for implementation. So, that was the first step we took. Is it possible for the ground handling companies in Nigeria to pull their resources together in order to save cost? We have been doing this indirectly. There is nothing bad in pulling our resources together, but sometimes we find it difficult to do it because of various issues and objectives. The cost of buying equipment is so alarming. The fact is that if we have been doing that we will be able to save cost. I can tell you that we have been doing that for many years. For instance, in Abuja when NAHCO wants to handle an aircraft and they don’t have particular equipment, we gave them the equipment for a token and vice versa if we lack such equipment in another station, we approach them for assistance. However, it is very difficult to consistently do this because of the increasing number of flights handled by each company and there is a possibility of a schedule clash. For instance, if you have an Aircraft Cooling Unit (ACU) in a particular airport and you deploy it and NAHCO equally needs such equipment almost the same time, it will be difficult for you to share such equipment at that point in time. So, that is why we tend to buy the equipment we need, but when you are short of these equipment, you can easily go to your counterpart and borrow, which I believe is a very healthy situation for all parties. What specific planning have you put in place as a major shareholder for the growth of SAHCO? Like I mentioned earlier, ground handling business is capital intensive and you need to constantly acquire modern equipment in order to remain competitive. Our strategic plan revolves around our vision of being the leading ground handling company in sub-sahara Africa and this comes with a huge responsibility in terms of efficient service delivery, acquisition of needed equipment, infrastructural development and human capital development. Technology for us is also very key. We are going to be investing in technology that makes our service delivery more efficient. Succession plan is an area of interest to us. We are looking at how to achieve a mixture of experience and vibrancy in our workforce, especially at the management level. We have started a management trainee programme to identify and groom vibrant, young, intelligent and energetic staff who will add energy and drive to our business. How has the paucity of foreign exchange affected your plans as a private organisation and how can the government address this for you? The issue of forex scarcity affects every sector of the economy, but I believe certain critical industries like aviation, energy, among others, should enjoy some special treatment in the allocation of foreign exchange. We should be able to access foreign exchange easily and at the official rate because almost all our transactions are dollar-dependent. It is not sustainable to keep buying from the black market. This special concession on forex will lead to enhanced productivity and our contributions to the economy will greatly improve. Is SIFAX Group interested in taking over any of the four airports slated for concession by the Federal Government? SIFAX Group is interested in deepening our investment in the aviation industry and that’s why we have submitted a bid for the airport concession. Nigeria is our country and everything that will make it great and improve its economy and image is of utmost concern to us. We have submitted our bid and we are waiting for the government to announce successful bidders and we are optimistic we are going to be successful. The image of any country starts from its airport. So, we believe that we will be able to turn things around and put in all our efforts to do it the way it should be done.