ABUJA – Dr Ramatu Aliyu, Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has directed the stoppage of the ongoing plan to destroy the Old Parade Ground football pitch and defacing of the perimeter fence of the pitch to make way for the building of the maize pyramid at the football pitch. The Minister, who was unaware of the plan to destroy the only pitch open Abuja-based male and female football clubs in the FCT, declared the decision was ill-considered and ill-conceived considering its imminent impact on the lives and livelihoods of youths in the FCT. Speaking through her aide Aderonke Bello, the minister said she was not aware not briefed on the programme and use of the facility so as to give informed advice. Crisis Looms In Abuja As FCT Youths Protest Plan To Destroy Old… Shekarau Leads Construction Of N287m National Assembly Mosque However, in what look like a show of power, one Alhaji Mohammed Kabir has fired that the minister cannot stop the plan, insisting that his Committee received approval from the presidency. Speaking to journalists on phone, Kabir said that it was only President Muhammadu Buhari that can stop them, pointing out that over a hundred trucks conveying the maize from different parts of the north are due to arrive in Abuja Monday night. Asked who in the presidency gave the approval to deface the pitch, he said he would not disclose the name. Kabir, who said he is the Chairman of the Committee charged with erecting the pyramids, said the plan has advanced and cannot be halted. A massive protest akin to the #Endsars protest was averted yesterday when the news broke in the capital city. POLL The youths from over four clubs that make use of the pitch condemned the decision of the government said to have emanated from the presidency and to destroy the Old Parade Ground pitch. Over three hundred youths whose clubs use the old Parade Ground pitch had planned a protest there late evening on Monday but decided to shift it to Tuesday. They listed the action as part of the anti-youth policy of the administration. The maize pyramid it was gathered is part of the administration’s Political action to showcase its commitment to food security in the country. Along with the same programme, the Rice Farmers Association has already built rice pyramids at the ABUJA Trade Fair along the ever-busy Umaru YarAdua Bulavard ( Airport Road) Lugbe Abuja. Already, agents of the administration today breached the perimeter fence of the pitch in readiness for the arrival this evening of hundreds of trucks alleged to be carrying Biologically Modified Maize (BMO). Constitution Review: Emir of Fika Presents Memorandum For… Oyetola Approves Construction Of 16.55km Osogbo-Kelebe-Iragbiji… It is recalled that a private individual, Barrister Paul Edeh had late last committed over N3 million to regrass and water the pitch which was abandoned for a long to enable clubs in the FCT have access to standard ground to ply their trade.