The capability of the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to effectively manage human and material resources for visible progress stands him out as the most qualified Nigerian to be pres­ident in 2023, Lagos State Gov­ernor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said on Thursday. The governor said Tinu­bu’s qualification rests on his demonstrated capacity in de­ploying a mix of genius and statecraft to nurture a city on the brink to a flourishing econ­omy, noting that the progress in Lagos remains a visible ex­periment initiated by the APC national leader. Sanwo-Olu drummed sup­port for Tinubu candidacy during the formal inaugura­tion of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement’s Working Committees in Ikeja GRA. The movement was con­ceived and set up by members of Governor’s Advisory Coun­cil (GAC) in Lagos for the ac­tualisation of the presidential ambition of the former Lagos governor. South East, South-South Professionals Hold AGM On Sunday Buni Gets Buhari, APC Govs’ Nod To Preside Over Convention The governor was in company of his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mu­dashiru Obasa, and all mem­bers of the State Executive Council. Also, APC leaders across the state’s 57 local councils and a large number of par­ty supporters thronged the event’s venue to lend their support. Sanwo-Olu said Nigeria had continued to shoulder the burden of the black race, stressing that the country’s transformation into a stable economy would be a source of pride to the black man. In 2023, the governor said the country was in need of a capable leader with progres­sive ideas to succeed Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari and build on the progress recorded by the current ad­ministration. Tinubu’s practicable ideas in governance, Sanwo-Olu said, makes him the most qualified successor and salable choice for the job. POLL The governor said: “Our country is the most populous black nation in the world and the responsibility that comes with that is enormous. No doubt that the destiny of the entire black race is tied to the greatness of Nigeria. If our country must be great, we have the responsibility to choose the leadership that will bring about true transforma­tion across every facet of our national life. Who is that rally­ing figure that should lead us in this journey? “The answer is deeply con­nected to our mission and pur­pose here today. That person must be a detribalised Nigeri­an and a bridge builder, who has been tested and trusted. A thinker who must sustain the legacy our current president is leaving behind. That person is the reason we are inaugu­rating this Movement for the actualisation of his presiden­tial ambition. That person is our great leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Let us tell the naysayers and those who are still in doubt that we are ready to work for the realisation of this ambi­tion, because Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the num­ber one salable candidate for the president. We will preach this gospel with diligence, dedication and high sense of commitment. Asiwaju is an unfolding success story our nation deserves at this time.” Sanwo-Olu said Tinubu’s name is synonymous with growth and development, not­ing that the APC national lead­er possessed a Midas touch to positively turn around the resources of the country for general good. The governor said the event was to raise foot soldiers, team leaders and cheerleaders who would pursue the Movement’s objectives and cascade down its messages to every voter at the ward level with commit­ment and passion. Fayemi’s Former SSG, Oyebanji, Wins Ekiti APC Guber Primary Our Helicopter Didn’t Crash In Bauchi — Police He charged all selected for leadership roles in the Move­ment to reflect Tinubu’s po­litical ideals of openness and tolerance in their engagement and mobilisation. Sanwo-Olu said: “We must see ourselves in line with Asi­waju’s political ideals. To be open to all, tolerate various in­terests and embrace everyone. We must reflect those ideas of our leader in our utterances and actions. You cannot af­ford to disappoint us on this mission.”