KINGSLEY BENNETH; OGIDAN SAMUEL; AHMED MUSA The National Assembly on Wednes­day re-amended the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021, it passed on November 18, 2021. While the Senate in clause 84(2) of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021, approved direct, indirect prima­ries or consensus as procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for various elective positions, the House of Representatives ap­proved direct and indirect primaries. Expert Says FCTA Can Revamp Revenue, Reduce Cost Of Governance FCT-IRS Launches Aggressive Tax Drive To Meet N200bn Target President Muhammadu Buhari in a letter dated December 13, 2021, had explained that his decision to with­hold assent to the Electoral Bill was informed by advice from relevant min­istries, departments and agencies of government after a thorough review. According to the president, signing the bill into law would have serious adverse legal, fi­nancial, economic and security consequences on the country, particularly in view of Nige­ria’s peculiarities. He added that it would also impact negatively on the rights of citizens to participate in gov­ernment as constitutionally ensured. The Senate approved the recommended clause 84(3) that “a political party that adopts the direct primaries procedure shall ensure that all aspirants are given equal opportunity of being voted for by members of the party and shall adopt the procedure outlined below: (a) In the case of presidential primaries, all registered mem­bers of the party are to vote for aspirants of their choice at a designated centre at each ward of the federation.” It provides further that “similar procedure as in (a) above, shall be adopted for gu­bernatorial, senatorial, federal and state constituencies. POLL The upper chamber add­ed that “special conventions should be held to ratify the candidate with the highest number of votes at designated centres at the national, state, senatorial, federal and state constituencies. Clause 84(4) further pro­vides that “a political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the choice of its candidate shall adopt the pro­cedure outlined below: (a) In the case of nominations to the position of presidential candi­date, a political party shall (i) hold special presidential con­vention at a designated centre in the Federal Capital Territory or any other place within the federation that is agreed to by the National Executive Com­mittee of the party. It provides further in sub-paragraph two (ii) that, “the aspirant with the highest number of votes at the end of voting, shall be declared the winner of the presidential pri­maries of the political party and the aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the commis­sion as the candidate of the party.” The amendment followed a motion for its re-committal to the Committee of the Whole. The motion was sponsored by the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North). Tinubu’s Associates Split Over Osinbajo’s Alleged Presidential… Nigeria Maintain Clean Sheet, End Group Stage In Style The Senate Leader, in his presentation, recalled that President Muhammadu Bu­hari had signified withholding his assent on the Electoral Act No. 6 2010 (Repeal and Re-en­actment) Bill, 2021 which was passed by the National Assem­bly and forwarded to the Pres­ident on Thursday, November 18, 2021. Senator Abdullahi noted that the rational for withhold­ing assent bordered on his ob­servation in clause 84. Senator Abdullahi, however, explained that the motion for re-committal of the bill to the Committee on the Whole was against the backdrop of the “need to address the observa­tion by Mr. President C-in-C and make necessary amend­ment in accordance with Order 87(c) of the Senate Standing Orders, 2022 (as amended); and relying on order 1(b) and 52(6) of the Senate Standing Orders, 2022 (as amended).” Accordingly, the chamber rescinded its decision on the affected clause of the Bill as passed and recommit same to the Committee of the Whole for consideration and passage. Similarly, the House of Representatives re-amended clause 84(2) of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021 to include an option for both di­rect and indirect primaries in the nomination of candidates by political parties. This followed the represen­tation of the Bill recently reject­ed by the president on the floor of the House and reconsidered at the Committee of the Whole. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabi­amila, had earlier informed the House of the observation made by the president in his letter. “A letter was written by Mr. President after declining assent to the Bill and the relevant por­tion of the letter, paragraph 5”, he said. The speaker had before com­mencing the proceedings cited relevant rules of the House guiding the process, noting that the House was constrained by the rules to only consider the item which formed the basis of the president’s refusal to grant assent. “It is this letter that has brought us where we are, and in line with the provision of our rules, we are in order to recom­mit and reconsider based on the observation officially commu­nicated to us as a House. The relevant rule here is Order 12 Rule 20 which the sub-head is reconsideration of Bills. “And it says ‘any bill re­ferred to the House by the president withholding assent may be reconsidered through a substantive motion by the House which has been. The motion shall include all the claus­es objected to by the president which shall be reconsidered in the Committee of the Whole,’ which is what we are about to do. And I believe there is only one clause objected to by Mr. President. ­ “Sub three, ‘if necessary, the House may rescind its de­cision on this affected clause and reconsider the bill in the Committee of the Whole. “So basically our rules have tied our hands. We cannot even go outside that clause to inject any other thing even if we so desire. “We would go straight to clause 84, which reads, ‘a polit­ical party seeking to nominate candidates for election under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective po­sitions’. “That establishes that prima­ries would be held and it goes on in subsection (2), ‘the procedure for the nomination of candi­dates by political parties for the various elective positions shall be by direct or indirect prima­ries,’ this is the original copy that came to the House, Gbaja­biamila stated. The re-amended was voted and carried by the House. At this point, an opposition lawmaker, Hon. Awaji-Inombek Dagomie Abiante (PDP, Rivers) raised a point of order demand­ing that all the clauses be taken one after the other and allow members to make inputs. According to him, there are still clauses left in the Bill re­quiring that every presidential candidate must hold a special convention at state levels includ­ing the FCT. He said: “A political party that adopts the system of indi­rect primaries for the choice of its candidates shall adopt the procedure outlined below: “A. In the case of nomination for the position of presidential candidates, a political party shall hold special conventions in each of the 36 states of the federation and FCT, where del­egates shall vote for each of the aspirants at designated centres in each state capital on specified dates. “Mr. Chairman if you go further, a national convention shall be held for the ratification, so you don’t elect at the national convention. The election of the presidential candidate would re­main at the various state levels. That is what this English says Sir. And it is not the way the primaries have been held. This is not the intent of the Elector­al Act that has been passed that was referred back to us to con­tinue to consider the inclusion, to give Nigerians the option of direct or indirect. This thing still negates the principles of what we have always done here. And it is my suspicion, Mr. Chair­man, that it is intended for this Electoral Act not to be signed. These are all obstacles that have been put on the way of Nigeri­ans to actually determine who govern them so they can pro­vide effective leadership. “Mr. Chairman we have to take all these clauses one after the other and allow members to make inputs,” Abiante said. Gbajabiamila, in his re­sponse, said: “As a seasoned legislator, I have read the rules of the House to you and you know that we are confined to the observations made by Mr. President. We have a near perfect document. It may not be perfect, but we have a near perfect document. We adjourn to plenary.” Also briefing newsmen after the plenary, the House Spokesman, Benjamin Kalu, stated that the safety and ad­vancement of democracy was prioritised in the decision to toe the line of the president in the amendment, adding that stick­ing to the guns would have been counterproductive. Kalu noted that though the concept of direct primaries was a laudable one that should be considered by the country in its journey to electoral and political maturity, it was, however, im­portant that such an ideal step is not used as a stumbling block to the attainment of other import­ant reforms already embedded in the amendment which the president also agrees with. He, therefore, urged Nigeri­ans to keep faith with the par­liament as the Bill when signed into law can still be amended in the future, saying: “No law is cast on stones.”