***As Tinubu’s In-law, Others Back Ambition Former Minister of Works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye has promised to deliver Ekiti for  the All Progressives Congress(APC) if  he is given Governorship  ticket  of the party. The APC Governorship aspirant and  National Chairman, Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu 2023 Presidential ambition (SWAGA) expressed optimism that himself and his principal would emerge victorious in the 2022 and 2023 Governorship and Presidential elections respectively. Makinde Condoles With Family of Late Aide, Tijani Wase Greets Senate President, Lawan At 63 While expressing joy on Tinubu’s  interest in the 2023 Presidential race, Adeyeye disclosed that the project would receive wider acceptability in the South-West  in particular and Nigeria as a whole. Speaking at the official  declaration of his Governorship  Ambition, Adeyeye explained that SWAGA as a group had contributed in no small measure to the growth and well being of the APC adding many aggrieved members would have left the party if not for the emergence of  SWAGA. Adeyeye addressed a crowd of supporters after mounting a huge political procession through the heart of Ado-Ekiti, the State capital. The former Minister, who said this in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday while declaring his intention to vie for Ekiti governorship on the platform of APC hinged this on his vision to serve Ekiti and fight the scourge of poverty and unemployment in their ranks. The Governorship aspirant admonished the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress must adopt direct primary to elect the governorship candidate for the 2022 poll in Ekiti State. POLL The former Minister, said it would be a fatal mistake for APC to allow unpopular individual to be imposed on them during the January 27 primary meant to elect the candidate that would fly the party’s flag. Adeyeye also submitted that the Ekiti State chapter of the APC and the people of the state in general  would back Tinubu’s  presidential aspiration, describing him as the best man to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari . According to him  “Tinubu presidential ambition would bring goodness to Ekiti, especially if Ekiti people also elect him to govern the state after clinching the APC’s ticket. “Our prayers is that Asiwaju  Tinubu will be  President and that you will make me the governor of Ekiti State. If this should happen, Ekiti will be better for it. With Tinubu and Adeyeye, it is more goodness for Ekiti. “Your time  has come. We know our governor has not been fraternizing with you. He has not been making himself accessible, but if you elect me, I will dine and wine with you. With me  as your governor, no room for Poverty in Ekiti again, we will work hard to end it. ” Adeyeye said Makinde Receives Wike, Charges Politicians To Seek Power For… Shonekan, An Uncommon Patriot – IBB Adeyeye posited that the best way to democratize the APC’s primary and make the outcome acceptable in Ekiti, is by adopting direct primary, so that the party can get a popular candidate to face the opposition. “If APC must win this election, they must pick someone that is popular. You can see for yourselves that  people are with us. In 2018, we told some arrogant people that they won’t have their way through imposition and it happened . It is obvious that only a popular candidate can win for APC in this election. “The national leaders of our great party  must return this party to the people. Let the national leaders adopt direct primary to elect the candidate for Ekiti pill,  if truly we want to get a popular candidate . Let us return power to the people . With popular participation, people themselves would decide the candidate in the interest of justice, equity and fair-play. All the aspirants must go for direct primary. “I still believe that if the process is credible and a popular candidate is elected, we will all support the person. But if you go to your closet to bring out a candidate, that would not work. Primaries should be democratic. ” What is difficult in conducting direct primary if truly you are open and popular? The party must go on the side of the people”. “Go and make up your mind and vote for me during the primary, you will not regret it”. Earlier  a former member  of the House of Representatives and Inlaw to Tinubu , Hon Oyetunde Ojo who graced the occasion described the crowd as unprecedented  also expressed confident in the ability of the ex Minister to lead the APC to victory at the poll . Hon Ojo urged Adeyeye’s supporters to commence grassroots mobilisation  saying the ambition was popular amongst the people. Describing Adeyeye as the best man that can secure victory for APC, Hon Ojo, appealed to delegates to resist attempt by moneybags to buy their conscience during the parimary. “This is the longest rally  ever organised by an aspirant since  my political career in 2005. Go home and start mobilising. Let them know that Senator Adeyeye is the right man for the job. Don’t let us be deceived again, deception is coming. If you allow another candidate to emerge in APC, you have been deceived again. “Don’t allow continuation of deception. Don’t allow them to buy you. SWAGA offers alternative platform if not for the group virtually all aggrieved  APC members would have defected to PDP. SWAGA is popular that is why they are scared of direct primary. It is only Adeyeye that can do it.”