Several Manchester United supporters are urging interim manager Ralf Rangnick to make Cristiano Ronaldo the club’s new permanent captain. The calls have been sparked following a passionate interview the Portuguese star has done with Sky Sports , in which he has addressed the importance of United competing higher up the Premier League table and approaching every match with a strict winning mentality. Ronaldo returned to Old Trafford on the final day of the summer transfer window, signing a two-year deal, in anticipation of helping the club launch a fresh push for the Premier League title. Man United Open Talks With Borussia Dortmund Defender Man Utd Set To Hire American Coach Despite a strong start to the season under former manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, United’s aspirations of rubbing shoulders with the likes of Liverpool and Manchester City have fell somewhat short, with the club currently seventh in the table, six points shy of the top-four. Outlining the importance of United making significant improvement, Ronaldo told Sky Sports : “Manchester United should win the league or be second or third. “I don’t see other positions for Manchester United to be honest, I don’t see. In my eyes, I don’t accept that our mentality be less than to be in the top three in the Premier League. “I don’t want to be here in a club to fight to be in sixth or seventh or fifth place, I’m here to try to win, to compete. I think we compete but we are not yet at our best level. “Long way to improve and I believe if we change our mind, we can achieve big things.” POLL Having spoke so honest and passionately about where he believes United should be in the Premier League, and how they should be competing towards the top end of the ladder, numerous Reds supporters have called for Ronaldo to be installed as the club’s new captain, suggesting that he has the winning mentality and attitude that the club has been lacking. Current skipper Harry Maguire has attracted no shortage of criticism this season for his performances, sparking calls from some fans for him to be stripped of the armband. Below, MEN Sport has taken a close look at what some United supporters have had to say in response to Ronaldo’s comments. The Portuguese star, who has scored 14 goals this season, is experienced in donning the captain’s armband, having been captain of the Portugal national team since 2008. Ronaldo, in Maguire’s absence, captained United against Wolves just over a week ago, with Ralf Rangnick confirming that he won the honour ahead of goalkeeper David de Gea.