The National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), has asserted that the role of the ports economic regulator assigned by the Federal Government to the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), would never be effectively carried out as the role was not properly backed by the law. The NCMDLCA said that this had however, made the Shippers’ Council look like a tootles bull dog that can bark but not bite. Lucky Amiwero, President NCMDLCA, in an interview, said this was the reason NSC had not performed up to expectations. Transport Council Laments Extortion Of Truckers Along Port… Merchant Navy Union Laments Harassment, Extortion Of Seafarers… Amiwero who fielded questions on the state of NSC as port economic regulator said: “It’s not by mouth; it should be by law, which is not provided for at the moment. The Presidency approved it during Jonathan’s regime, but where is the law to back it up? “Hassan Bello, immediate past Executive Secretary of the Council, spent eight years there and when he spoke about the law, I advised him to regulate a small portion of the ports, as is done in South Africa. But you want to regulate the Nigeria Railway Corporation and others that is where you will have problems. What you have in South Africa is independent port operators, but they’re still under the government, as well as in Singapore and other parts of the world. “You want to create National Transport Commission; how many countries are running that? Those are old, outdated systems which have been breached, and other countries have reworked them to make them simpler. Then you have ports for ports, railway for railway and all the rest.” According to Amiwero, the problem started when the Authority at the NSC decided to cover all the areas at once, saying these things would have been carried out gradually with due consultations and guidance by experts from the sector. “But when you want to cover the whole place, which is where you have problems because you cannot do that without doing away with a lot of laws. Because railway has their own laws and its subsidiaries, which you have to do away with if you want to regulate them, same with NPA. And you just come up with Transport Commission and you expect the government to sign; it’s not going to be possible. I said as much, but he didn’t heed because he believed he could use political power. That’s the truth. POLL “So the new man that has been there for six months might be there for another four years or even 10; it depends on what you want to do. If he wants to continue seeing people that will praise him, let him continue to meet them. But if he wants to make a difference, people must criticize him, and he must change.” A simple law in the country, according to Amiwero was supposed to be to regulate the ports, “and as we are experts, we advised them but they did not heed. Look all over the world; regulation is done on a principle. Once you’re doing a port concession; what we have is lease agreement), the first thing you’re supposed to do is create a law to protect the commercial interest. “This is just manipulation all over the place. Gridlock, container mishaps and other similar things are what you’re going see at the end of the day. Nigeria will be a transit camp in the next few years, whether we like it or not, unless we change the way we’re doing things. “What I foretold has come to pass; a few years ago, I was talking about concession, which if we do without a law will lead to problems. Had it not come to pass? Let the man responsible come forward now and tell people that he did a very good job. That’s one of the worst things that has been done so far, and he was my friend, but we had to quarrel for three years.”