Insurance penetration receives a boost last week as insurance was one of the eleven courses accredited at the Polytechnic Ibadan. Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun, the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, revealed that the Polytechnic Ibadan has enjoyed maximum support from Oyo State Government, adding that this has earned the institution re-accreditation of eleven courses including insurance. The Commissioner who stated this during the 2020/2021 orientation program for fresh students of the polytechnic Ibadan, held at Institution highlighted the re-accredited courses to include civil Engineering; Building Technology; Insurance; Marketing; Purchasing and Supply; Mass Communication; Local Government studies; Business Administration and Supply; Geological Technology; Mechatronics; Library and Information Science. Insurers Suffer Second Costliest Year On Record At $120bn –… Stanbic IBTC Insurance Provides Group Life Insurance Cover Worth… Olatunbosun also added that the institution has enjoyed affiliation with professional bodies, which in turn has given students from Urban and Regional Planning; Quantity Surveying; and Accountancy leverage in the labour market. The Commissioner said Governor Seyi Makinde’s government, since inception earmarked hundreds of million for the polytechnic to get renewal of accreditation for its courses. Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun also expressed delight that the National Board for Technical Education had granted approval to the polytechnic’s annexes for a few outstanding courses. He therefore urged the Institution’s authorities to incorporate more entrepreneurial programmes in its curriculum, noting that this will facilitate economic advancement in the state, and the country. While Olatunbosun underscored the need for the institution to ensure quality content and capacity building in all its programmes, he also emphasized that the present administration is committed to the rejigging of all state institution’s curricula, such that it will enable students of the institutions to become job creators after graduation. POLL Olatunbosun pointed at the present administration’s commitment to a paradigm shift, away from the design of African method of education, where people were trained to come out and search for white-collar jobs. Discussing the topic, “civic responsibilities of a citizen in this democratic dispensation in Oyo state”, the commissioner said that students’ role in building a society cannot not be under-played. He urged the students to strive and create a niche for themselves from day one of their studies, in order to attain success in life.