The tussle on who will be the next Olubadan of Ibadaland has been laid to rest as ten out of eleven of Olubadan-in-Council members endorsed Senator Lekan Balogun as the next Olubadan of Ibadan land. Olubadan-in-Council members in a meeting held at the popular Mapo Hall on Wednesday urged the members of the public to shun any form of rumours and speculations that have been going round lately on who will become the next Olubadan of Ibadan land. Olubadan Succession Tussle: Lekan Balogun Calls For Calm Speaking on behalf of the Council at a world press conference that was boycotted by the Osi Olubadan, Senator Rasidi Ladoja, Iyalode of Ibadaland, Chief Mrs. Theresa Oyekanmi, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola called on members of the public to shun rumours going around about who will emerge as next Olubadan. He said, there is no iota of truth in the rumour going round about who will become the next Olubadan of Ibadan land.” “We have endorsed the Otun Senator Lekan Balogun as the next Olubadan of Ibadan land.” “This is the decision that was taken by ten out eleven Olubadan-in-Council and there is no going back on it, it is the tradition that we need to follow to the later,” Ajibola said. POLL Also in his contributions, the Ekarun Olubadan of Ibadan land, High Chief Amidu Ajibade maintained that Olubadan stool cannot be politicize. Stressing that the case in court has nothing to do with who becomes the next Olubadan. Amidu said, “those people(Otun) and others were promoted during the reign of late Olubadan with their crowns and there was not a problem, so there should not be a problem now when the next person to late Olubadan need to be supported to emerge as Olubadan. “Those people were duly promoted and their promotions were approved by the governor, so why are they now peddling rumours that are not irrelevant to the issue on the ground, after this conference, we will submit our resolutions to Governor Makinde,” Amidu said. In their separate remarks, the Oba Sulimon Akinsola Oladepo, the Alajia of Ajia of Ona-Ara local Government, Oba Dauda Omotosho Alawatan of Awatan of Ido Local Government, Oba Olasunkanmi Abioye the Oniroko of Iroko, Akinyele Local Government commend the Olubadan-in-Council for their peaceful selection of the the next Olubadan. In his speech, Senator Lekan Balogun said as a bonafide indigene of Ibadanland, there is a natural need for me to join you in commiserating with the family of the late Oba on the sudden home call of our Kabiyesi, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso II the late Olubadan of Ibadan land, by the way of duty, as the Prime Minster of the Olubadan-in-Council, we owe the people of Ibadanland and Oyo State, in general, the obligations to inform and update you all on the latest development at our Palace. “I, therefore, enjoin you all to discard with all unfounded rumors and insinuations capable of disturbing the peace of Ibadanland, irrespective of the quarter from which such fake news emanate.In line with the traditional practice of Ibadanland when an occasion like this arises, the Olubadan-in-Council has been up and doing liaising with the Oyo State Government to ensure that every necessary step to sustain the peace of the City is strictly followed.” Balogun said. Among chiefs that present at the press conference are, High Chief Abiodun Kola-Daisi, High Chief Eddy Oyewole, Senior Chief Adebayo Akande among others.