AKURE  – The traditional head of Eleyowo community in Ak­ure North Local Government Area of Ondo State has been restrained by an Akure High Court from taking any action on a disputed family land locat­ed in the community. Chief Cecilia Taye Ologede, the Iyalobirin of Eleyowo com­munity, and Pastor Akintade Oni were told by the court that they lacked the powers to unilat­erally transfer any interestinthe Arijodi/Ologunmolaare family land without the knowledge of all members of the family. In his ruling, the presiding judge, Justice A. Adegoroye upheld the leadership of Chief Cecilia Taye Ologede and Pas­tor Akintade Oni, who were respondents in the matter, as the family head and Secretary respectively. 100 Shops Built On DSC Land Brought Down In Udu Alao-Akala To Be Buried On February 18 The court, however, held that they lacked the power to exercise their leadership posi­tions unilaterally. The respondents were sued by some other members of the family in persons of Iyabo Alonge, Boluwaji Ajayi, Olug­benga S. Omolere along with five others for themselves and on behalf of Arijodi/Ologun­molaare family in Akure. Among the seven reliefs sought by the applicants are declarations that the defen­dants cannot unilaterally transfer any interest on the land, cannot confer title on any person or group, a declaration that the defendant had not been authorised to transfer land. The applicants, therefore, sought an order of court that such transfer made to be void and an order of perpetual in­junction restraining any per­sons or groups from interfer­ing, meddling or dealing with any portion of the claimants’ family land. All the reliefs were therefore granted by the court. POLL The presiding judge also ordered the immediate con­stitution of a standing com­mittee with members drawn from among the applicants and respondents in the matter as well as some other principal members of the family. Furthermore, the court ruled that the committee would take charge of the por­tioning, sales, transfer or any other forms of dealing with the family in a way that will affect the right of ownership of any persons or groups. The court also held that all sales, transfer or alienation of any portion of the land earlier done by the respondents shall be re-validated by the standing committee.