ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan and former President of the Senate, David Mark on Tuesday mourned the death of former Head of the defunct Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan, who died on Tuesday at the age of 85. While PDP described the death of Shonekan as a national tragedy, Lawan commended him for saving the Nigerian ship from hitting the rock and Mark described him as a patriot and gentleman, who gave his all for the sake of Nigeria. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba said that Chief Shonekan was a very courageous, humble and patriotic leader; a bridge builder and extraordinary statesman, who dedicated his life and made immense sacrifices to ensure the unity and stability of the country in the heat of the political crisis that threatened the corporate existence as a nation following the annulment of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election. Makinde Condoles With Family of Late Aide, Tijani Wase Greets Senate President, Lawan At 63 “The late Head of the Interim National Government was an accomplished personality and a visionary leader, whose efforts in applying his vast experience as a consummate lawyer and businessman to reposition our nation, despite the daunting challenges faced by his three-months regime between August and November 1993 cannot be forgotten. “Chief Shonekan’s commitment to the entrenchment of democracy was evident in his determination to restore the rule of law and transparency in governance. “Even outside office, Chief Shonekan remained committed to the unity, stability and development of our nation. Our Party grieves that he left the stage at the time the nation needed his wealth of experience and wise counsel the most. The PDP commiserated with the Federal Government, the government and people of Ogun State and the Shonekan family and prays to God to grant the nation and the bereaved family the fortitude to bear this huge national loss. Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser(Media), Ola Awoniyi, condoled with Chief Shonekan’s family, the Government and people of Ogun State over the death of the former Nigerian leader. POLL “My condolences go to the family of Chief Shonekan, the Government and people of Ogun State and entire Nigeria over this great loss. “Chief Shonekan was a lawyer, business captain, boardroom guru and statesman. But he will be most remembered for heeding the nation’s call to duty at a very turbulent period in the history of Nigeria. “Chief Shonekan’s services as Chairman of the Transitional Council and later as Head of the Interim National Government were selfless and contributed greatly to saving the Nigerian ship from hitting the rock,” Lawan says. The Senate President prayed for the sweet repose of the soul of the elder statesman and for his loved ones the fortitude to bear his loss. Mark, in a statement by his Special Adviser, Paul Mumeh, said that history will be kind to Shonekan for his bravery and contributions to the peace, unity and development of the nation. Shonekan, An Uncommon Patriot – IBB FG Trains 1,376 Civil Servants On e-Government Reacting to the demise of the elder statesman in Abuja, Senator Mark recalled that Shonekan was appointed Head of the government during the critical period of national challenges to pilot the affairs of the nation. Senator Mark noted the finesse, humane and due process Shonekan brought to bear during his short-lived tenure as Interim Head of State for the smooth administration of the Country. He noted the entrepreneurial accomplishments of Shonekan as the Chairman of the United Africa Company (UAC) before he was appointed Head of the interim government as a technocrat to help find solutions to the political quagmire that arose after the annulment of June 12, 1993 presidential election. The ill fated election was believed to have been won by business mogul Chief M K O Abiola. Senator Mark said Shonekan will be remembered for his meritorious and selfless services to the nation especially during critical times. The former Senate President urged the federal government to immortalise Shonekan as a leader who gave his all for the nation to remain peaceful and united.