LAGOS – The national leadership of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Delta State governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa has been urged to call Barr. Kingsley Esiso, the State Chairman of the party and Sen. Ighoyota Amori, the party’s Deputy National Organising Secretary to order before they destroy the party before the coming general election. Mr. Augustine Okporu, Director General (DG), Delta Ijaw 2023 Governorship Advocacy Group (DIGAG), im a statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT in Lagos on Saturday, said the duo as top party stalwarts are expected to be neutral arbiters in the party’s elections. He said that Esiso and Amori should not see themselves as aspirants to the Delta State governorship primary election since they had been occupying executive positions in the party which require them to be neutral in all processes of elections within the PDP. Delta 2023: James Manager Pledges Good Governance, Political… Delta 2023: Gbagi Kicks Against Candidature From Delta South The group maintained that the two party officials had chosen to throw their caps in the rings by openly canvassing for the interest of a particular senatorial district, the Delta Central Senatorial District. It added: “Before Chief Amori was elected as the Deputy National Organising Secretary, he was the Chairman of the 2023 governorship lobby group, by name, DC-23. “Having been elected into the national office of our great party, we thought that he would resign from his lobby group since they are canvassing for support for his Delta Central Senatorial District. “To our utter dismay, Chief Amori still sees himself as leading his Urhobo people to negotiate for the unconstitutional zoning of the governorship office to his Delta Central Senatorial District. “He is now an unapologetic crusader of Urhobo people’s governorship ambition in a race that other senatorial districts/tribes are also scheming to contest. POLL “In a similar vein, Kingsley Esiso, who is the State Chairman of the party, has become the advocate of zoning of the governorship office to the Delta Central Senatorial District. “Esiso took such despotic adventure in flagrant violation of the known conventional practices in the state PDP. The party has been in power since 1999 till date. “There was no time a state party chairman has openly canvassed for the zoning of the party’s office to a particular senatorial district. That is a sacrilegious act of impudence in breach of the oath of office and the ethical code of conduct in the party office. “Considering the partisan interest of Esiso and Amori in the Delta State PDP governors “To save the party in the state from the likely precipice, we call on the National Working Committee to immediately suspend Chief Ighoyota Amori from performing the functions of his office. His dual offices within the party amounted to a conflict of interest. BREAKING: Mulade Withdraws From Delta Governorship Race Delta 2023: DC-23 Aspirants Screening Committee Swings Into… “Similarly, we also call on Governor Okowa to prevail on the State Working Committee of the party to immediately suspend Barr. Kingsley Esiso as has veered from his neutral position to become an interested governorship aspirant. “We have no problem whatsoever if Esiso and Amori solicit for support for their Urhobo aspirants, but doing same with the toga of their offices is a serious violation of the party’s constitution.”