Kidney stones, also known as renal calculi or nephrolithiasis, or urolithiasis, occur when a solid piece of material or complex acidic salts or waste products made up of crystals develop in the urinary tract, causing obstruction, infection, and flank pain. Causes and Types of Kidney Stones: Kidney stones mostly occur with dehydration, low oral water intake, or certain medications or medical conditions. There are four main types of kidney stones. Invest In Quality Health Services, Nutrition To Meet SDGs,… Link Between Retrograde Ejaculation And Male Infertility Signs and Symptoms: Kidney stones can often pass or eliminate without any significant signs or symptoms. However, sometimes the stones may be too large or lodged within the urinary systems such that they may be difficult to pass. As such, there are numerous symptoms and signs of kidney stones, including: Diagnosis: POLL Diagnosis of kidney stones can be made by obtaining a history, physical examination, urinalysis, and radiographic studies. Causes and Risk Factors: Dehydration from low fluid intake, obesity, immobility, and sedentary lifestyles are leading risk factors. High dietary intake of animal protein, sugars, sodium, including honey, refined sugars, fructose, and excessive consumption of fruit juices may increase the risk of kidney stones due to increased uric acid excretion and elevated urinary oxalate levels. Kidney stones are more common in people with other comorbidities like Crohn’s disease; Crohn’s disease is associated with hyperoxaluria and malabsorption of magnesium. HubCare Uses Smart Technology To Provide Cheap Healthcare For… FG Says 3,598 Cholera Deaths In 2021 Unacceptable Inflammatory bowel diseases that increase calcium absorption and taking medications such as certain diuretics, antiseizure drugs, and calcium-based antacids are also risk factors for kidney stone disease. Prevention: Increase total water intake to more than two liters per day of urine output, including limiting and sugar-sweetened soft drinks, to less than one liter per week. There is a need to limit animal protein intake to no more than two meals daily: Increasing citric acid intake, including lemon and lime juice. Examples of some foods that should be limited or avoided: chicken, beef, pork, fish, organ, meats, shellfish, eggs, processed meats, milk, cheese, yogurt, fast food, frozen meals, and salty snacks. Treatment: Often, kidney stones are small enough to be passed if you drink a good amount of water. However, the treatment for kidney stones depends on the type of stone, the size of the stone, whether it is causing pain and whether it is blocking the urinary tract. Medication: In general, medication administration depends on the type and cause of the stone. For example, for calcium stones – a diuretic medication is prescribed if caused by hypercalciuria (an inherited condition); If struvite stones – antibiotics to help prevent a urinary tract infection or kidney infection; If uric acid stones – a medication to lower uric acid levels) and alkalize urine; And if cystine stones – a medication to lower cystine levels in urine. Of course, the pain medication should be administered to manage pain, antiemetics should be administered to manage nausea or vomiting, and antipyretic should be administered to manage fever and chills. Lithotripsy: This is the process of using shock wave lithotripsy, which uses sound waves to break up large stones so they can more easily pass down the ureters into the bladder. Tunnel surgery (percutaneous nephrolithotomy): This surgery removes the stones through a small incision in the back. This is only necessary when: the stone causes obstruction and infection or damages the kidneys, the stone has grown too large to pass, or when the pain can’t be managed. Prognosis: It is a lifelong disease, and the recurrence rate is 50% at 5years. Most stones are usually passed out spontaneously, and only a few patients require hospital admission due to severe pain, hydration, and inability to retain the enteral fluids. The most morbid and dangerous aspect of stone disease is the combination of Urinary Tract obstruction and UTI. Here, complications like pyelonephritis, pyonephrosis, and urosepsis can ensue, most likely being treated by surgery. The key for all renal calculi patients is to remain hydrated because, without hydration, no medical therapy is successful. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital, Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com