LAGOS – Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, has lament­ed the invitation of Chair­man of Cubana Group of Companies, Obi Iyiegbu, by the Abuja headquarters of the National Drug Law En­forcement Agency (NDLEA) on alleged drug deals, which he described as unfounded and baseless allegation. It would be recalled that Cubana, a social and hotel magnet, was in November 2021 invited by the Econom­ic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on what he termed “trumped up and faceless allegations, just to let him know that it is a sacrilege for an Igbo man to be successful.” According to a statement issued by Kalu, National Coordinator, Peoples Dem­ocratic Party Coalition (PD­PCO) and Director General, Director General, Global Initiatives for Good Gover­nance (GIGG), on Saturday, “Today, we are talking about grilling the same person for four hours in NDLEA office for interrogations, harass­ment and blackmail. Leaders’ Honesty Will Check Security Challenges – Bishop Eichie IPOB Allays Fears Of Lockdown In South-East, Announces… “What marvels us each time funny happenings of this nature takes place is whether the anti-graft agen­cies are established specif­ically to witch-hunt every successful Igbo man. “This is a philanthropist and young employer of la­bour who has been provid­ing jobs for numerous Nige­rians in different capacities. A detribalised industrialist with great passion for youth development and indepen­dence. “From the reports gath­ered on published news, we come to realise that NDLEA is predicating her suspicion that Obi Cubana received huge foreign cur­rency transfers from three convicted drug dealers in Malaysia, Nigeria and In­dia, respectively. “Here, we ask: When someone is convicted of a drug crime, does such con­viction automatically deny him or her the lawful right of legitimately dealing in other legal transactions with people across the world? “If those three drug con­victs, as alleged by NDLEA, paid money into Cubana’s account, does it logically im­ply that Obi Cubana is their crime accomplice?” POLL Kalu maintained that in the eyes of the law, what makes a transaction illegal is when the subject, context and contents of a transac­tion are found to have con­travened a given law and are proved beyond reason­able doubts within the re­quired standard. Only on this ground could an act be termed a crime.” He stressed that when someone is tried and con­victed of a crime by a court of competent jurisdiction, operating banks in the do­main country are placed on notice, wondering how come the same bank, hav­ing known that those per­sons were crime convict, allowed them to make monetary transfers of such magnitude and even facili­tated the said transactions to reach their destinations.