LAGOS – The University of Lagos (UNI­LAG) Law Alumni Relations Committee and Faculty of Law, says some Judges and Senior Advocates will lecture law undergraduates of the institution, at its reunion. Chairman of the committee, Distinguished Prof. Taiwo Osipitan (SAN) disclosed this at a news con­ference to announce activities lined up for the institution’s alumni asso­ciation’s maiden reunion, tagged; ‘The Great Homecoming’ on Friday in Lagos. “The great homecoming will be a five-day event which will kick off at 9 am of February 7 with a formal open­ing ceremony at the Faculty of Law. 2023: I’ll Rather Return Home Than Join APC – Senator… NURTW Clashes: Bode George Blames Sanwo-Olu, Says Lagos Island… “Thereafter, invited alumni among whom are judges, Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN), private legal practitioners and those in the corporate business world will serve as guest lecturers on that day and the two subsequent days, February 7 to 9. ”Justice Helen Ogunwunmiju (JSC), Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye of the High Court of Lagos and Justice Oyejoju Oyewunmi of the National Industrial Court are among our guest lecturers,” the chairman said. He noted that the maiden home­coming sought, for the first time, to bring most living alumni of the Fac­ulty back to their alma Mater and the university community, to relieve their days as students. Osipitan added that the homecom­ing was also to provide a platform to bond among past and present stu­dents, as well as give back. According to him, the Faculty of Law of the university is one of the first of the institutions, at the time of its establishment in 1962, noting that former students of the faculty had remained good ambassadors of both the faculty and invariably, the university. POLL He said the occasion would also be used to mark the university’s Di­amond Jubilee anniversary. The chairman further noted that other events that would mark the oc­casion would be a colloquium, sched­uled for Feb. 10. He added that Sen. Bashir Ajibola and Mr Ade Ipaye, and Deputy Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, among others, would be speaking on the topic; “Stare Decisis and the Future of Legal Practice”. Osipitan noted that Prof. Fidelis Odita (SAN), also a member of the association, would be the keynote speaker.