ISAAC ASABOR To most people, the consumer sector of the economy is no doubt on the brink of 2022, and they seem predictive that the year may not be different particularly when viewed from the perspective of the rising inflationary trend that unarguably characterised the year, 2021. Assuredly, they have remained pessimistic that the inflationary trend is likely to get worse against the possibility of the emergence of a more infectious coronavirus variant other than Omicron. Respite As NBS Sees Fast Recovery Post COVID-19 In Nigerian… Extolling Irukera’s Ingenuity At FCCPC As New Year Beckons The basis of their collective pessimistic disposition cannot be farfetched when the inflationary trend in 2021 is dispassionately analysed. For instance, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), few weeks ago, released its consumer price index (CPI) report for the month of November. Expectedly, headline inflation slowed to 15.40% from 15.99% in October expressive of its 8th consecutive monthly decline and the lowest recorded inflation rate in 2021, yet Nigerians remain unimpressed. The inflationary trend, no doubt, is overbearingly been felt as there is consistent rise in food items, electricity, gas, and other household goods that are burdening a lot of Nigerians. A breakdown of the report showed a broad-based moderation across the inflation baskets. On an annual basis, food inflation declined by 1.07 percent to 17.21 percent, core (inflation less seasonalities) rose by 0.46 percent to 13.85 percent, urban slowed by 0.6 percent to 15.92 percent while rural dropped by 0.59 percent to 14.89 percent. This is largely due to base year effects. On a monthly basis, the all-items month-on-month inflation rate increased by 1.08 percent in November 2021, this is 0.10 percent rate higher than the rate recorded in October 2021 (0.98) percent, food increased by 1.07 percent in November 2021, up by 0.16 percent points from 0.91 percent recorded in October 2021, core dipped 0.46 percent when compared with 0.80 percent recorded in October 2021. POLL Rivers (13.36%) and Edo (13.50%) recorded the lowest inflation rates in October. The states with the highest inflation rates are predominantly in the North – Gombe (18.54%), Jigawa (17.54%), and Nasarawa (17.43%), while Kwara (11.73%), re-emphasising the impact of insecurity on food production. Uche Orji, the Managing Director and CEO of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), during a media parley with Journalists on Macroeconomic Outlook, stated that the rising inflationary trend was related to the supply-and-demand chain imbalances that can be traced directly back to the pandemic and the reopening of the economy and this has subsequently eroded investment growth by 60 percent in most economies globally this year alone. He explained, “When inflation rises, the government increases interest rates; when you increase interest rates, it makes you take money out of equities and transfer it to savings or other consumptions. However, inflation erodes the value of such, thus if you are saving money in an inflationary environment, you are actually losing money and that would lead to spending. He added that “Spending, on the other hand, is not a strong base for savings and if you do not have a strong base for savings, the investment would elude such an economy and that is the challenge the world is currently facing”. He further indicated that inflation would also stand as a political liability for the subsequent aspirants in the upcoming 2022 elections, considering that it is making day-to-day life more difficult for many Nigerians, especially those who rely on savings held in relatively low-risk investments like savings accounts or certificates of deposit. Those people are seeing the value of their holdings decrease. Understanding Black Friday Through Jumia’s Promotional Efforts Fidelity Bank Solid Q3 Numbers And Robust Earnings Support… Orji said that inflation in the last 2 years has evolved from being an emerging economic problem to a global one and was not transitory. “I have come to the conclusion that global inflation is not transitory and this is because the current supply-demand chain disruptions cannot be resolved overnight,” Orji said. “So, as the world begins to come to terms with it and we start tightening monetary policies, gradual corrections would begin to manifest across various economies of the world in due time,” he added. Michael Ugwu, an Insurer, says, “I am not seeing the rising inflationary rate in the country getting better soon. I am even seeing it becoming worse as we have been witnessing rising inflation by every passing year. So it is not new”. Analysed from the perspective of consumers’ lamentation over rising cost of living as the country’s inflation continues to be equally high, their somewhat collective prediction that 2022 would not be better cannot be argued against. At the popular food markets in Ogba and Agege within the Ikeja axis of Lagos, traders and customers were unhappy about the soaring prices when DAILY INDEPENDENT interacted with them. Mrs. Titi Akindelu said: “You come to the market, just like the way you saw me pricing things, you no longer get them the same way we used to buy again. Even themselves they keep complaining, they buy it very costly”. When asked about her expectations in the consumer market in 2022, she angrily replied in pidgin, “Wetin dey change? Na so things dey go high every year. Next year fit worse pass”. Kenneth Akujo, a worker in one of the companies located on Wempco Road, Ogba said, “For workers like us, it has not been easy as we find it difficult to save, and the inflation rate which I believe will continue to rise is affecting our savings because the income is not really increasing but the prices of items are increased. So, it makes it so difficult for us to cope with the economy”. In his view, Mr. Peter Uweru said, “The inflationary rate is not likely to ease in 2022 as long as the naira exchange rate keeps depreciating coupled with foreign exchange liquidity shortages. “Worse of all, the impact of the climate change and worsening insecurity on farming communities is worsening contrary to reports and comments from the politicians”. Despite the pessimism been expressed by somewhat a wide spectrum of the consumers, it would be recalled that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) few months back assured that Nigeria’s inflation rate may drop to single digit in 2022. Hassan Mahmud, the apex bank’s Director of Monetary Policy Department, gave the assurance at a virtual mid-year economic review and outlook on 2021. At the programme organised by the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s Centre for Financial Studies, Mahmud said that the full implementation of the CBN’s recent policies designed to boost different sectors of the economy, the nation’s inflation rate would be kept at bay. He recalled that in June, 2021 that the NBS said Nigeria’s inflation rate fell to 17.75 per cent from 17.93 per cent recorded in May, and added that since the Nigerian economy recovered from recession in the last quarter of 2020 that it had maintained a path of recovery notwithstanding challenges triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic and insecurity. Be that as it may, not few experts and observers of the economy have been of the view that the consumer sector will remain parlous as long as the challenges of insecurity, exchange rate market pressure, declining capital inflows, high debt service payments and rising fiscal deficits persist as it has been since the last few years. However, Mahmud said: “If the CBN forecasts for GDP growth are sustained and there is improved vaccination and the health hazards and lockdowns are not resurfacing, we will see GDP getting close to three per cent by the end of 2021”. “We will also see the inflation number coming down less than 13 per cent by the end of the year and further down to the NBS projection of single digit by 2022 or the middle of 2022. “We will start seeing a downward trend in inflation numbers, particularly, headline inflation.” Mr. Mahmud said that with the right policy mix, including an effective supply system, the country would experience positive growth in the beginning of 2022, and there will be a drop in food inflation. In his intervention, the Chief Consultant of BAA Consult, Biodun Adedipe, noted that the growth of the oil sector would impact positively on the economy.