But the jury is still out on that score as events in the scheduled February 26 APC national convention would reveal whether there would be tailwinds or headwinds to quicken or slack Tinubu’s current political flight into Aso Rock Villa which has officially departed from the tarmac this January. Whether the flight would be aborted at the APC convention next month or it would land in Aso Rock Villa in May 2023, and Tinubu ends up being the numero uno on May 29, is like a much awaited delivery of a baby from a very troubled pregnancy. The anxiety, and if you like fear, is derived from the experience of another notable figure who desperately sought to become the president of Nigeria, but failed to make it. I am talking about Odumegu Ojukwu who had tagged Pa Awolowo, the president Nigeria never had. Ojukwu’s forceful, but futile struggle to carve out the Republic of Biafra from Nigeria of which he could be president is typical of a potential great president whose lofty dreams never materialised even after the gutsy effort to make it happen. Another gadfly in Nigeria’s political pantheon that failed to make it as Nigeria’s president and even lost his life in the struggle is the entrepreneur and philanthropist of gigantic proportion is MKO Abiola of blessed memory who was a presidential candidate in 1993. His battle to become president of Nigeria after winning the June 12, 1993 presidential contest on a Muslim-Muslim ticket with Ambassador Babagana Kingibe as running is considered impossibility in Nigeria was epochal. Novak Djokovic’s Unforced Error Results Don’t Lie! But he dramatically lost his life while in government detention in the course of his struggle to claim his mandate when Nigeria was under the vice grip of the military dictator, General Sanni Abacha. Subsequently, MKO Abiola’s amazing first wife, Kudirat Abiola was felled by the bullets of government goons, (led by the infamous sergeant Rogers) that were hell bent on silencing her after she carried on with the struggle while MKO was incarcerated by the authorities. Fortuitously, under the watch of president Buhari, government has converted June 12 the day Abiola won the presidency in 1993 to democracy day for observation as national public holiday as a way of immortalising the indefatigable Abiola whose professional background as an accountant (a president that could read a balance sheet) would have given him the heft to salvage our beloved Nigeria before its fortunes sunk into the abyss where it has remained as if moored , one year shy of 30 years (1993) after MKO Abiola presumably won the presidency, but was denied the crown by then military head of state lbrahim Badamasi Babangida, IBB. Now, compare the showcased aggressive seekers of the presidency in our clime that never saw their dreams become reality to the reluctant ones like Shehu Shagari, (president 1979-83) a humble school teacher who was literarily head hunted to become president over the erudite and oratorical Maitama Sule who coveted the presidency but was passed over and instead made Nigerian ambassador to the United Nations, UN. There is also the case of Umaru Yar’Adua, (2007-10), who is another school teacher that was practically pulled into the political arena to become a governor riding on the legacy of his father Musa Yar’Adua – minister for Lagos Affairs in the first republic and subsequently, on the wings of his elder brother, Shehu Musa Yar’Adua, whose exploits in the political firmament as chief of staff Supreme Headquarters during Obasanjo’s military reign made him a political icon. Umaru Musa Yar’Adua was later to become president of Nigeria in 2007. But he suddenly passed away in 2010 as a serving president. It is on record that the one thing that late Yar’Adua wanted to do after his sojourn as governor was to go back to his profession of teaching. That was until then outgoing president, Olusegun Obasanjo, OBJ (1999-2007) tapped him as his successor. And Goodluck Jonathan, who was handpicked by the community from an institution where he was a researcher/teacher to become the running mate to Diepreye Alamiesegha -an ex air force officer who was contesting for the governorship position of Bayelsa state in 1999 , won the contest and Jonathan , his running mate became the deputy governor (1999-2005). True to his first name -Goodluck, Jonathan would later be fortunate enough to advance to the next level of becoming governor without flexing any muscle when his principal, Alamiesegha was impeached in 2005. Shortly after, and 2007 to be precise, Goodluck Jonathan subsequently became the running mate to Yar’Adua in 2007. Following the sudden demise of his principal, President Yar’Adua in 2010, lady luck smiled once again on Goodluck who became president of Nigeria via the infamous doctrine of necessity invoked by the National Assembly, NASS under the watch of David Mark’s senate presidency. POLL There are a few other instances whereby those who aggressively sowed seed for the office of president of Nigeria reaped whirlwind. But l guess the point has been made with the cases cited. Although, l am not a soothsayer or clairvoyant by any stretch of imagination, my permutation is that the one that would be president of Nigeria in 2023 has not started beating the drums openly and personally, how much more dance in the political arena like the motley crowd of presidential candidates currently gyrating. And my guess is enlightened and underpinned by president Buhari’s revelation in his last Channel’s Television interview which is to the effect that he knows the person that would replace him as president in 2023, but he was unprepared to reveal his identity yet, because he does not want him eliminated. It is unsurprising that a plethora of closet contenders are currently laying claim to being that anointed candidate to whom president Buhari was alluding. Although the political class and Nigerians in general are currently as blind as the mice in the three blind mouse kindergarten mythologies, president Buhari must be resolute about who is the candidate that he has in mind. Whether he will have his way without a fight by political foxes who are adept at the game of politics is another kettle of fish. On a final note, l would like to crave the indulgence of readers to allow me conclude this intervention applying colloquial language. Presumably, l have been able to convince readers that those who desperately want to become president of Nigeria, don’t get it. And if you don’t gerit, forgerit. Concluded Onyibe, an Entrepreneur, Public Policy Analyst, author, development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.