ABUJA – Dr Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi, an aspirant for the position of national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has challenged Abdulaziz Yari, former governor of Zamfara to prove his membership of the party, insisting that the top APC Chairmanship aspirant is not qualified to run for the office. Addressing journalists Wednesday at the APC Secretariat, in Abuja, Shinkafi said the former governor did not validate his membership during the last nationwide Membership Registration and Validation exercise conducted by the party. Shinkafi also dismissed the claim that he (Shinkafi) entered the race to whittle the chances of the former Zamfara State helmsman in the race for APC National Chairman. Tinubu’s Associates Split Over Osinbajo’s Alleged Presidential… Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (20/01/22) Instead said he joined the race so as to ensure that the state does not miss out on the effort to reposition the party, saying that as a former National scribe of All Progressive Grand Alliance, he has what it takes to guide the APC. “As far as the national record of APC is concerned, in my text of press briefing, I have made more emphasis on the credible and verifiable membership register. I challenge you and I challenge everyone here to go and meet Abdulazeez Yari and ask him, let him show you his authentic and revalidated membership card as a card-carrying member of APC. “As far as we are concerned, he is already automatically disqualified from this race and based on that, I don’t want our State to take risk of not participating, of not taking a slot in our great party and I have decided to join the race. You can go and verify From his ward, his name is not on the register and he doesn’t have an authentic membership card. “If elected as the national chairman of the party, I will govern the party with the fear of God” he vowed. He said he is in the race to help enshrine the elusive internal democracy in the operation of the ruling party, dismissing the claim that he would not be trusted leader of the party POLL On the zoning of the national offices of the party away from his zone, Shinkafi declared that he would abide by the decision of the party should the slot be zoned to any zone in the country.