The Reconciliation Committee of All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) on Friday vis­ited Ogun State and met with Governor Dapo Abiodun, the leader of the party and former governor, Segun Osoba and the immediate past governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. The 11-man committee led by Senator Adamu Abdullahi, after meeting with Governor Abiodun at the Presidential Lodge, said it was in the state on a mission to reconcile ag­grieved party members. Adamu equally assured all members of the party in the state that the Committee would adopt the principle of fairness in solving the crisis facing the party in Ogun. Buhari Inaugurates NNPC Board, Outlines Guidelines For… NIA DG Never Failed Promotion Examination – ONSA The former governor of Nasarawa State who said the committee visited the gover­nor to intimate him with its mission, noted that the desire of the party at the national lev­el is to have peace among its members in Ogun. “We are here with a mission of meeting our party members and to see the best way we can pilot the reconciliation efforts of the party “It is the concern of our party at the national level that peace prevail in this state. And we will do everything to ensure that nothing truncates that peace. “We owe the party a duty by ensuring that principles of fair hearing is given to all parties involved”, Adamu stated. In his remarks, Aremo Oso­ba, while describing the com­mittee as comprising seasoned administrators and people of proven character, enjoined the members to ensure equity, fair­ness and ensure that justice is done in the course of carrying out their assignment. POLL Speaking, Governor Abio­dun acknowledged that there is bound to be friction in a party as big as the APC and lauded the party for choosing the path of reconciliation to guard against polarising the party in Ogun. “This Committee was carefully chosen to further strengthen the party. It is im­portant to continue to have peace and harmony among us. Though there is bound to be conflict here and there, we must continue to find a way to cooperate, and I am happy to have you with us today. We will cooperate with to ensure peace in our state,” Abiodun said. The governor, who ex­pressed delight with the cali­ber of people appointed into the Committee, said they were made up of committed party members who understand how party works, assuring that the Committee would have opportunity to meet with executive members of the par­ty in the 20 local government areas to have a feel of what is going on in the state. The Reconciliation Com­mittee Chairman, thereafter, presented a copy of petitions received so far to the governor