LAGOS  – After complet­ing a hat-trick of wins at the group stage of the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), the Super Eagles of Nige­ria seamlessly berthed at the round of 16 with high expectation from commen­tators within and even out­side the continent. The high expectation from the team ahead of the round of 16 clash against the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia is not unfound­ed given the manner and ways they dispatched their group foes. Even when not much was expected of the team for so many reasons, par­ticularly after just replac­ing Coach Gernot Rohr with Coach Augustine Eguavoen with less than two weeks to the start of the competition, the three times African champions braced the odds to put up performances that have been adjudged the best from all the participating countries. Super Eagles To Battle Black Stars For Qatar 2022 Ticket … “33” Export Lager Charges Team After Exciting World Cup Draw Nigeria started the jour­ney with a 1-0 win over the Pharaohs of Egypt as the Super Eagles complete­ly dominated the seven times African champions. They followed that up with yet another commanding performance against Su­dan with a 3-1 thumping of the Falcons of Jediane, before rounding up the group stage with a 2-0 win over the Djurtus of Guin­ea Bissau. Thus, the Super Eagles become the only country with the maxi­mum points at the group stage, raising expectations among the fans and com­mentators. According to Henry Nwosu, while applauding the performance of the team so far, said the main work has just started as the three times African champions looks set to tackle the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia who finished third in Group F that was surprisingly topped by the Eagles of Mali and fol­lowed in the second place by The Scorpions of The Gambia. Nwosu spoke to our correspondent. “The players have done well and Eguavoen has also done very well. They have shown the true Nige­rian spirit. “But we must not forget that from this stage, you lose and go home; there is no second chance so the work before them is such a big one. “This is the time they have to repeat those good performances at the group stage because all eyes are on them now; the main work has started,” he said. POLL The Super Eagles will face their counterparts from Tunisia, the Car­thage Eagles, later today and if they fail to hold their own, all that they had done at the group stage will pale into insig­nificance Like was the popular position prior the com­mencement of the tourna­ment, the Super Eagles en­tered the 2021 AFCON on the backdrop of so many doubts trailing them. That was also not unfounded be­cause under Coach Gernot Rohr who qualified the team for the AFCON, the Super Eagles played with little or no precision and form, as the players lacked the spirit to fight. Also, the team merely scratched through the qualifiers on what com­mentators believed was on the strength of individu­al players’ skills with no clear cut playing pattern, as they hardly asserted themselves in games they played. But after three group matches, the Nigeria’s flagship national team has raised the hope that they could be trusted to rule the continent again. The national team has incidentally started to im­pose themselves on oppo­nents as seen in the three games they have played so far, rediscovering their winning mindset. Qatar 2022 Qualifiers: Nigeria To Know Foes Today AFCON 2021: What We’ve Learned So Far For instance, tactical­ly, the personal training innovation Eguavoen has brought in for players to express their games style has been prominent. In the past, Rohr has been conservative with his strategy, operating less from the flanks and prefer players to cut in rather than cross. Prominently, Rohr had no first 11 and kept recycling his teams for every game for the past four years, thus was al­ways experimenting with styles and strategies, giv­ing room for errors during match days. In terms of focus and solidity at both flanks, midfield and attack, Coach Eguavoen seems to have gotten the formula that could see the vibrant play­ers and zeal in the team, even as they prepare for Sunday’s meeting with Tunisia. So as they prepare for the task, Finidi George, the coach of Enyimba and Eguavoen’s contemporary in the national team, has charged the players to re­alize that goals win match­es. “They should not waste any chance as they did during the group matches, particularly in the game against Egypt where they saw chances went away. “At this level now, it is either you win or you forget about the competition because teams at times play well at the group stage but an error will cost them their progression at the knock­out stage. They should score goals,” he was quoted as saying by an online medium. Tunisia, who finished third in Group F that had both Mali and The Gambia in the first and second spots respectively as automatic qualifiers, are not unfamiliar foes as Nigeria has played them a couple of times. In fact, Nigeria defeated Tunisia 1-0 in the losers’ final of the 2019 AFCON in Egypt. En route to winning the title on home soil in 2004, Tunisia de­feated Nigeria 5-3 on penalties at the semifinal after the full and extra time could only produce one goal apiece for either side. But overall, the two countries have met on seven occasions since that 2004 with one win each while the rest games end­ed in draws. Like George said, what mat­ters now is goals and no matter how a team dominates posses­sion, failure to score will likely see the team off the tournament and this is the time for the Ni­gerian forwards to take their chances. It is obvious that Eguavoen will maintain his main lineup by starting Union Berlin’s Taiwo Awoniyi who is pairing Leices­ter City’s Kelechi Iheanacho in the attack. Recall that Rohr pre­ferred the combination of Victor Osimhen and Iheanacho in the frontline and doubts would have been if Awoniyi would make the cut even as Osimhen missed the party to Cameroon; certainly Awoniyi might not be a starter if the Franco-German was to still be the manager, that is if he was even considered good enough to be in Cameroon. Being a box striker, Awonyi, though with one goal to his name so far, must justify the con­fidence Coach Eguavoen has in him by getting the job done. Admittedly the Super Eagles is playing a team that ended third in a group where unher­alded teams stole the show, thus may look weaker on paper, but the experience of Ghana who saw their chances of pro­gression from the group stage thwarted by the less fancied Co­moros Island, should be a wake­up call to the Super Eagles later today that the ongoing AFCON is full of surprises. As has been seen in this tour­nament, creating chances has not been the problem of the Su­per Eagles but converting same seems the monster the three times African champions will have to effectively confront if they hope to remain in the tour­nament. Tunisia, despite struggling in the group stage, is a typical North African team with the penchant to hold onto the ball and frustrate an opponent; they play flat and try to hit an oppo­nent on counter attacks, thus any slip from the Super Eagles, allowing them to score could lead to frustration. Obviously, Nigeria, despite impressing so far, has some weaknesses which could be ex­ploited by the opponents. The central defensive combination of William Troost-Ekong and Omeruo Kenneth seems to carve in under intense pressure as the Djurtus of Guinea Bissau so much rattled them at the closing stages of their game against Ni­geria and nearly took advantage of this. The same thing applied when Super Eagles played Su­dan. Also, goalkeeper Maduka Okoye showed vulnerability during the Sudan game and slipped the ball a couple of times which an opponent could have exploited. While the Hol­land based safest pair of gloves is the team’s first choice, Coach Eguavoen should, during train­ing, take a closer look at his choices before arriving at a con­clusion for today’s game. But the greatest weakness of the Carthage Eagles is that the team is depleted following the outbreak of COVID-19 in their ranks, leaving out five first teamers in the squad. Meanwhile, ahead of the potential round of 16 clash be­tween Nigeria and Tunisia, Etim Esin, the Super Eagles’ former midfielder, has charged the play­ers to maintain the same tempo they have shown, ensuring that they score goals. “Right from the first match, they have played so well and as they want to play in the knock­out, they should maintain the same form; particularly they should take their chances be­cause knockout stage does not respect individuals or big names. “The only way we can get past them is to score goals and once we score goals, we will win. From what we have seen, the chances are created but the strikers should be fast enough to score,” he said. On his own, Uche Okechuk­wu warned the team against conceding a goal first; saying such could be dangerous as the Tunisians would come up with their antics to frustrate them. “Allowing them to score ear­ly of first is one thing the team must avoid because we know how those guys behave while looking to hold onto their lead. “I think while we will be ea­ger to score, we should be mind­ful of letting too much space at the back; this will help to push them away,” the former Super Eagles captain said. Meanwhile, the match against Tunisia will be live from 8pm Ni­gerian time.