Watch as Ainsley Maitland-Niles explains why he chose to join Roma on loan, including discussion with Tammy Abraham and ‘one of the best managers in the world’ Jose Mourinho. The 24-year-old completed the transfer today on a six-month dry loan, without option to buy, and could make his debut against Juventus tomorrow evening. “It’s one of the best feelings, you know. I’ve come here to make a statement and show people how good I am – and what a game to potentially come into to do it. So the platform is there, it’s just about how I perform,” he told the official Roma channel. Newcastle Suffer Huge Injury Blow With Wilson Out For Eight… Rodgers ‘Absolutely Thrilled’ With Patched-Up Leicester Maitland-Niles is the third England international in the Giallorossi squad after Abraham and Chris Smalling. “I spoke to Tammy, Tammy’s a great guy. I don’t know Chris like that, but I am sure I will get to know him better now that I am here. Tammy told me what a great club it is and he wanted me to come so much, so we spoke back and forth about it. “I decided to come here for myself, for my career and for my future – and to help the team too. So I am here now and I am ready to get to work.” The call of being able to work with Mourinho was also a decisive factor as he interrupted his loan at Aston Villa six months early. “It’s very big. He’s one of the best managers in the world – if not the best. He’s won numerous titles and he’s just a great person. He speaks the truth, he’s a happy person and he wants to win. And that’s what football is about: winning. So to be working under a manager like that; you can’t really ask for any more than that as a player. POLL “He came to dinner last night. We were speaking about the plans going forward and what he wants from me and what he expects. It was a good conversation.” Maitland-Niles has been catching up on Serie A games recently and is ready to face Juventus tomorrow evening. “There have been a lot of fast tempo games and there are a lot of aggressive teams in the league. I think I am suited for this type of football, you know. Coming from the Premier League, I don’t think Serie A is so different. I just want to be out there on the pitch, take it all in, and play well.”