…Direct Primaries Not Bad If Done Properly–Former INEC Chair, Jega ABUJA – Ahead of the resumption of the National Assembly from its break, stakeholders who are drawn from the Nigerian Governors Forum, Civil Society Organisations, including the legal, media and political class have requested the National Assembly to expunge the direct primary clause from the electoral amendment bill and pass it speedily. They unanimously agreed that other provisions contained in the electoral bill which would be impactful to our electoral processes were too germane to be jeopardized on account of controversies raised by the direct primary clause. 2023: Delta ZLP Predicts Credible, Free, Fair Election 2023: Akpabio May Succeed Buhari- Jackson Ojo The stakeholders came to these conclusions in a town hall meeting organised by Yiaga Africa, a civil society organisation with an interest in driving positive reforms in Nigeria’s electoral processes and the European Union. Welcoming participants to the town hall meeting, Samson Itodo Executive Director, Yiaga Africa, said time was fast running out as it is exactly 399 days to the 2023 general elections. According to Itodo, the National Assembly which will resume for legislative duties on Tuesday, has until January 31st 2022 to amend the bill, correct the cross-referencing errors and send it to the presidency for assent. One of the panel members, former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, Attahiru Jega said it would be better off if the country goes into the next general election with the new electoral law, in order not to jeopardise the electoral process. According to Jega, since 2010 no substantive electoral amendment has been initiated in our democratic processes. He said the new law when assented to would improve the integrity of our electoral process. POLL He confirmed that out of the 36 recommendations made by INEC, 25 were adopted without any input while 5 had some minor corrections. In his opinion, Jega said he was not averse to direct primaries but if it was a basis for the distraction it can be expunged to enable the law to come into effect. He said his fears were on the manipulative tendencies of the governors, and the sincerity to organise acceptable primaries. Another panelist, Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule said governors were not averse to direct primaries but that the people mostly misunderstand the mindset of their colleagues, the governors. He however assured that President Muhammadu Buhari would ascent to the Bill if the direct primary clause is removed from it. Oyo Seeks Stakeholders’ Collaboration To Develop Own Energy… (UPDATED) 2023: APC Does Not Belong To Tinubu, Says Kalu President, Nigeria Labour Congress, Ayuba Wabba said there was no justification why the bill has not been assented to, if truly the leaders of this country were desirous of progress. He described the situation as disappointing, noting that when such meaningful laws that are expected to back the credibility of our electoral processes are not in place, the citizens will continue to bear the brunt of bad governance. Ezenwa Nwagwu of the Partners for Electoral Reforms said there appears to be a conspiracy by the political elites to frustrate any genuine motives to improve our electoral laws. He cautioned that Nigeria would continue to run in circles if the political gladiators do not take it upon themselves to leave a legacy for themselves. On the cross-referencing errors noticed in the bill, the National Assembly took a bashing, especially for the deployment of consultants who did a dirty job. The panelists wondered how taxpayers funds would go into the payment of consultants who did a shoddy job.