MAKURDI  – Colleges of Education and polytechnics in Benue State, under the aegis of the Aca­demic Staff Union of Tertia­ry Institutions in Benue State (ASUTIBS), have embarked on an indefinite strike action. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the Chairman and Secretary of ASUTIBS in the state, Dr Chagba Kurayemen and Comrade Dennis Eka, respec­tively and issued to newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday. The strike was part of measures to press home their demands for the payment of benefits of their members among them non-payment of five month-arrear of 2017 salaries that have accrued to members of the union. NYSC Gets Commendation On Innovative Service Delivery Absence of Governing Council Hindering AAU Progress, ASUU… This was even as the meet­ing between ASUTIBS and government on Wednesday to assuage the union to rescind its decision ended in a deadlock. The duo noted that the strike, which commenced on Monday was seeking that the govern­ment address the issue of “im­proper implementation of the Benue state contributory pen­sion scheme; non-implemen­tation of the new minimum wage and its consequential adjustment which should have commenced in 2019. “Others are the improper interpretation and conse­quent unilateral and wrong­ful implementation of our schemes and services as well as the non-removal of the threat to implement the Benue State Health Insurance Scheme that we are opposed to.” The statement further in­dicated that, “ASUTIBS met in Makurdi on Friday, 7th January, 2022 and rose with a resolution to commence a strike action with effect from Monday, 10th January, 2022. “The resolution became necessary after a thorough review of our failed attempts, over the past two years, to get the Benue state government to resolve our outstanding grievances. POLL “Specific note was taken of our latest ultimatum dat­ed 10th December, 2021 which expired on Friday, 7th Janu­ary, 2022.” The statement was cop­ied by the State Governor, Samuel Ortom; Secretary to the State Government; Com­missioner, Ministry of Edu­cation; Rectors and Provosts of all tertiary institutions in the state as well as the State Director, DSS. Meanwhile, the meeting between the state government and ASUTIBS on Wednesday ended in a deadlock. Chairman of the union, Chagbe Kurayemen who spoke with newsmen after the meeting, stated that there was no end in sight to the strike action. He explained that rath­er than bring a proposal to the table, the Government had appealed to the union to shelve the strike action. Cattle Encroachment: Leadway Assurance Extends Agric-Insurance… FCTA Staff Throng Vaccination Centres Over No Vaccination, No… Kurayemen noted that at the end of the day, ASUTIBS and government agreed that they would meet again next week, itemise the issues con­tained in the statement and thrash them out. The Union chairman in­sisted that the state govern­ment must document their appeals and resolutions be­fore the union backs down.