*Says He Has No VP Pact With Anyone Former governor of Ondo state, Dr Olusegun Mimiko has thrown his weight behind the Southern governors’ call for power to shift to the south in 2023. The Southern governors led by Mimiko’s successor who doubles as chairman of the Southern Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu had on three occasions, called for a president of Southern extraction to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. Ugwuanyi Mourns Anthony Obi FCT State Minister Orders Clean Up Of Abuja Satellite Towns But Mimiko who denied some media reports about an alleged pact between him and Sokoto state governor, Aminu Tambuwal said, rather than having secret meetings as regards purported vice presidential ambition, he stood by the resolution of the Southern governors. In a statement signed by John Paul Akinduro, his SA Digital and Media, Mimiko said the permutations are all false and do not represent his interest and position on the political reality of the PDP as Nigeria coasts home to the 2023 election. “Dr. Mimiko is aligned with the aspiration of the people of Southern Nigeria as exemplified by the call of the Southern Governors for a Southern president in the next dispensation and he has not in all his deliberations within Afenifere muted any idea of seeking their support for a VP ambition. “Inundated with calls from friends and associates about a story in The Telegraph of  Tuesday 4th of January, 2022, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko has denied any meeting to discuss a phantom vice-presidential ambition and some other false permutations as reported in The Telegraph about his person. The newspaper had reported that Governor Aminu Tambuwal and Mimiko met in Abuja recently where the decision to pair up as presidential and vice-presidential aspirants were muted. POLL Mimiko in the statement said no such meeting was held and so no such proposal could have been considered. “Above all, Mimiko has made it clear that he is in the PDP to work towards actualising the decision of the majority of party members towards rescuing and rebuilding Nigeria for the good of the people and not any personal, individual agenda,” the statement reads. The statement further asked: “Is it not curious that the Telegraph report, speculative in its entirety, neither quoted any source nor sought confirmation or denial of any of its specious conjectures before publishing?” Mimiko in conclusion asked Nigerians and PDP members, in particular, to disregard the report as it is false and conjectural.