Comrade Baba Aye, a seasoned activist and trade unionist, is Co-convener, Coalition for Evolution (CORE) as well as Health and Social Services Sector Policy Officer, Public Service International, a Global Trade Union Federation. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the unfolding events towards the 2023 general elections and how the nation’s masses can liberate themselves. Excerpt: Could you tell the readers your antecedents? I was active in the struggle against military dictatorship as a student leader and under pro-democratic movements as a leading member of the Campaign for Democracy (CD). I was also a founding member of the United Action for Democracy (UAD). I was Speaker in the University of Ilorin and the University of Lagos and the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). After school, I became a trade unionist. I became the Deputy Secretary General of the Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria; Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) Caretaker Committee in Lagos and was deployed to the NLC National Secretariat for some time as Special Projects Officer after I returned from the Global Labour University in Germany and Brazil. I was also Deputy National Secretariat of Labour Party (LP); Director of Strategy and Mobilisation of LP’s Caretaker Committee. Also, I was the Director of International Mobilisation and Coordinator of the National Conscience Party (NCP). I left the NCP because of the unholy alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that led to the formation of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). Then I aligned myself with the African Action Congress (AAC) as a supporter. So, I have come a long way in social and political activism. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… APC Drifting, Exposing Damaged Profile – Lukman Warns… How did you become the Co-Convener of the Coalition for Revolution (CORE)? The CORE emerged as an alliance of socialist organisations on one hand and the Action African Congress (AAC)/Take It Back (TIB) movement on the other hand. When CORE was established, it was run in an informal manner. But, it became clear that there was a need to strengthen internal democracy in the coalition. During the election of the Coordinating Committee, I emerged as a democratically elected Co-Convener of CORE. How do you see the number of presidential contenders that have announced their interest in the 2023 presidential election? First, the point of departure is that those that have emerged for the rich people’s parties and exploiters do not have different agendas. One thing that makes it spicy is that Bola Tinubu has verbalised his long-time dream of contesting for presidency. Either way it goes, there will be infighting among the class of exploiters themselves. But one of the things to avoid is a situation where poor people are coerced or get carried away to join different sides of the exploiters to fight for them. What we should be thinking about as activists who want a better society is to mobilise the people around a revolutionary alternative, social services, universal access to health and educational services. The people are poor. But, a handful of people corner all the money. These are members and supporters of the APC and PDP. However, it is too early to talk about the number of presidential contenders. In 2019, 70 people ran at the last count. There are some that will bring relevance to the contest, while others will just end up as aspirants and candidates. As times go on, more people will emerge, while some will fall by the wayside. It is not the number but who they represent. Can they work with people who want real change? There will also be candidates with socialist inclinations. Is it possible for them to synergise? Beyond the presidential contest, there are still other positions. Elections alone cannot bring the change we need because the system is largely rigged against the poor. Assuming that a radical presidential candidate wins, the possibility of having a revolutionary legislature is low. In Rimi’s Kano and Balarabe’s Kaduna, the PRP was in power as governor, but they could not get a majority in the House. Would you say that anything has changed among the nation’s political leadership? POLL Essentially no. There is a difference between the military and civilian set up. I want to stress that pro-democracy activists brought this democracy but the corrupt regime is disregarding the rights we won. While it is better now, we fought and won these rights. The current APC/Buhari regime destroyed everything and got away with it. For example, on the call for revolution, Buhari called for a revolution when he lost elections and he was not arrested. Sowore called for a revolution and he was arrested, detained. He is still in city detention and is being attacked by deactivating his NIN, thereby rendering him stateless. His right as a Nigerian has therefore been nullified. This is criminal. The current regime acts more like a military regime than a civilian dictatorship. It treats democratic rights that were hard won with disdain. It is incompetent, arrogant, dishonest, evil and vile. Posterity will call it out for what it is, a disgrace in the annals of the nation’s history. The AAC came out as a radical, masses-oriented party, but factionalisation entered, even as the leader, Omoyele Sowore has been undergoing trials. Do you see a future for the party? It is not just that I saw a future for the party. I see the party as the future for the working masses and youth emancipation through struggles at the polls and at the streets. The exploiters want us to believe that politics is about elections. But, the masses election involves the people’s action. Is there factionalisation in AAC? In a factual sense, yes. In an essential sense, no. Leonard Nzewnwa has no weight within the membership of AAC. What we see is the voice of Jacob and the hand of Esau. Leonard does not represent any faction. He is a representative of a factionalisation from outside thrown into the party. The case is still in court. There will be a ruling in March. We are positive that Leonard will be shown for what he is, a fraud of a faction. Do you see the possibility of President Muhammadu Buhari handing over to an APC president after his tenure? This year, 2022 will be one of the most interesting years in Nigeria because of 2023. There will be a transition election from one administration to another. The dynamics of transitional elections are different. It is difficult to make a categorical statement on it. PDP wanted to rule for 60 years. The APC possibly handing over to itself depends on how it can manage the sharpening internal conflicts thrown up by Tinubu’s candidacy and the extent to which a credible alternative is nurtured in the unfolding year. However, it is very important to stress that the issues are beyond APC handing over to itself. There is the APC/PDP. There is no difference between the two. Can workers, youths, the oppressed, the exploited can adequately mobilise, not just for electoral victory, but also for popular power structures from below, work place, communities and campuses? That is the way the working people can emancipate themselves and build a more just society. My Aspirations Is To Champion Cause Of Youths In Nasarawa… Nyanya Bus Terminal: FCTA Summons Contractors, Others Is there any hope for the youths leading this country as the 2023 general elections beckon? When I hear of youths, I think the reality is more complex. The exploiters we are talking about also have youths among them. So, it is not just a matter of generation, but social classes in the primary line of decision, but between the rich and the poor, the exploiters and the exploited, the oppressors and the oppressed. All these classes have youths. Often when they talk about youths, see those they bring out. How many are children of the farmers, market women, vulcanisers? None. Rather what we have are children of the rich and the oppressors. Those are not the youths we are talking about. The youths that come out are those whose parents stole Nigeria’s money to send their children to the best schools. Their parents stole oil money and operate in national and international circles to represent the interests of the rich people. So, such youths cannot bring any societal change. Those cannot be a qualitative difference between what they can do and what they current exploiters can do. What is your advice to Nigerians as they march towards the 2023 general elections? Only we ourselves, the masses, can liberate ourselves through struggle. We need to fight for our democratic rights to free and qualitative health, education, and housing for all. The exploiters will not give these to us. We can win concessions if we consistently fight. But the ultimate aim of our struggles has to go beyond winning concessions to winning power with which we can build a more just society. Workers and youths should unite and fight.