The Super Eagles of Nigeria would clash with Egypt on January 11, 2022 in their opening AFCON Champi­onships match in Cameroon. Some of the key players will be missing out of the tournament, given to injuries and positive tests to the COVID-19 virus. The most signifi­cant amongst them at the front line is the Edo born striker who plies his trade with Italian Napoli side, Victor Osimhen, whose goal scoring skills can’t be over-emphasised. In spite of his replacement with Hen­ry Onyekwuru of the Greek league, Osimhen’s skills will be greatly missed in the Eagles’ attack. The team which had been ful­ly packed with both Europe and South African based professionals and a few ones from the domestic league gives me a thought of nei­ther here nor there intuition of what the team may likely face with the Pharaohs of Egypt come Janu­ary 11. The Egyptians originally do only depend on few Europe based players while concentrating much on professionals from their local league especially in tournaments like the AFCON and the FIFA Mun­dial and other competitive events; trust Egypt, they rely on their native Pharaohs mostly unlike Nigeria. However, that formula had always favoured the Egyp­tians all the ways but this time around, yours truly don’t really think that system would be de­faulted in any form! This is not the forum for us to start the thought of building our league or to start trusting in our local players for events like this as I had earlier mentioned. We already have an NFF who love everything foreign but wholeheart­edly detests our nativity in terms of development and bringing our league and its participants to lime­light. We will keep buying into ev­erything foreign in football and its competitions. That is why the foot­ball federation and the ministry of sports are always in a panic mode anytime we are in for a tourney, be it continental or intercontinental. The federation and the ministry have come this far, therefore, they should deal with their usual panic mode circumstances and not beck­on anyone when the failure comes! This is another acid test for the fed­eration and the ministry, whose lack of interest for the local league must be held responsible for whatever failure that may arise in Cameroon! How Digital Remittance Revolution Is Transforming Lives How Anambra Diaspora Can Support The Political Process At Home Nigeria from time in history had always played second fiddle to the North African countries in terms of football. We cannot in any way think the Pharaohs of Egypt will be an easy ride, No! The Egyptians as they were had always taken plea­sure in punishing Nigeria in the AFCON because they know what it takes to beat the Eagles without skin pain. Mention any of the past and present great players of the Ea­gles, who has one time or the other been opportuned to meet with the Pharaohs; you will hear various but ugly testimonials of individual encounters! They have always been a difficult side for Nigeria to navi­gate like an ocean wave tide from the beginning of African football history. The Egyptians have also dominated the contest of victory for the AFCON coveted trophy just like the Indomitable Lions of Cam­eroon! So, the Eagles must tread cautiously. Since Coach Eguavoen knows that the Pharaohs cannot be a mincemeat for his Eagles, he should therefore, guide his loins well to face all the old tricks of the Pharaohs while on the pitch of play as they’re fast on the ball, plays with lots of skills, full of energy to attack, with dribble runs and ac­curate passess of both short and long thrusts. They have the speed and reflexes to recover quickly from errors, falling back from the attack to the defence at the same time. They are articulate with the ball, calculative and precise at the goal with shots on their very good day. The Eagles should be able to match them one on one in their ev­ery move from the defence to the attack and always capitalise on any minutest mistake from allow­ing them that chance to fast recov­ery; for that is one of the only good chances the Eagles can use to cur­tail their usual excesses for victory. The North Africans are usually a difficult side to contend with. I am not saying they are unbeatable; they have the history of dominat­ing the West African sides. Talk about Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and a host of them, they’re always tough when meeting Nigeria and they don’t want to lose chances; hence, it is my candid opinion here that the Eagles should know that their opening match is an uncom­mon duel that could either make or mar their chances for advance­ment in the games as the tourney expands with various teams and styles of play. Having played well in the January 11 match will be like having won the trophy; the reason Eguavoen must make a wise choice of a good side to confront and keep the Pharaohs at bay and to have a field day of the match anyhow. I will not make any input in this regard of any other team in this group until their represen­tation with the Egyptian team is concluded. If the Eagles are able to surpass the Pharaohs in that open­ing match, then, the sky is the limit for Eguavoen, his Ambassadorial Coaches, Nigerians, the federation and the ministry of sports. There­on, we will begin to touch all other aspects expected as the tourney begins to expand towards the final stages. It is my utmost wish that Ni­geria wins this one against Egypt, otherwise, there’s nothing to cheer about as we intend to progress or perhaps retrogress – this is the de­ciding duel, take or leave it in this starter! Every department of the game must be properly manned, from the goal keeper, the defence line, mid­field, the wings, and attack, must live up to its expectation as this is not a match for experiment or for poor substitutions of players and strategies. The Eagles must repli­cate the instances of yesteryears to be able to subdue whatever ob­stacle that comes their way in the form of any opponent. It is by will of choice, determination, com­mitment and patriotism that they can summount their challenges in this tourney amongst the comity of football nations in Cameroon. Therefore, Eguavoen must be spe­cific on what he deserves from this match. He should not go by gam­bling or experiment, otherwise, the match will be an exercise in futility. POLL The Eagles must also look be­yond the expertise of the coach (es) during the course of play es­pecially when the going begins to get tough and rough. They should be able to connect amongst them­selves on the pitch, do the extraor­dinary needful when the moment arises to get their targets. This is where the vast knowledge of the team’s captain will come into fo­cus. The skipper should be able to telepathically communicate with his team mates on the pitch of play to change a bad situation for good, even if the coach is saturated with ideas; this is where the expertise of a seasoned captain takes effect on the pitch. Like in the days of Chair­man Christian Chukwu, Henry Nwosu, Austin ‘Serezo’ Eguavoen, Stephen Okechukwu Keshi, Kanu ‘Papilo Nwankwo, Austin ‘Jay-Jay’ Okocha and a host of them as skip­pers of the Eagles who in the past once made exploits on the pitch with team mates for victory! Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria