LAGOS  – Deliberate policy engagements and incentives by the Federal Government that will enhance the capacity of the private sector by creating investment opportunities as well as address Nigeria’s fiscal challenges will be largely determined by successful implementation of 2022 budget, Bismarck Rewane, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited has said. Rewane, the key note Speaker at the 2022 Budget Analysis Session, organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry (LCCI), made the assertion the hint in Lagos He also said: “Widening the country’s revenue base by increasing its productive capacity by the Federal Government will Boost financial resilience and reduce vulnerability to oil price shocks” SMEs Workshop Will Bridge Participants’ Gaps On Production… FCMB’s FastCash Offers Up To N200,000 Support For School Fees,… With the theme: “Budget Analysis for Business Intelligence”, with emphasis on what the figures and policy statements meant for businesses, policymakers, and investors, he noted that “ The 2022 budget is an offspring of the 5-year development plan” He stated that the first half of the year, H1 2022, will focus on Economics while the second half, H2 2022, will be Politics centred. He said: “GDP should be expected to be 3.9% higher than the projected rate and we could see inflation on an upward ride before reducing”. He added that: “external reserves will reduce during the year and we will see the Naira strengthening as exchange rate differential drops and converges”. On debt, he said Nigeria’s fast-rising debt profile, which has triggered concerns across board, understandably put the Federal Government under pressure to diversify its revenue sources in such a way that would not roll a burden down the road for future generations. POLL “With a N17.13 trillion budget for 2022, which has over N6 trillion deficit, the Federal Government hope to slow down its borrowing spree by looking inwards to raise the needed revenue. Taxation became an easy resort. Owing to the global inflationary trend linked to COVID 19 Mr Rewane hinted that, Nigeria’s economic activity in 2022 will be similar to that of 2021 While taking a deep dive into Nigeria’s projected fiscal outcomes, he stated that the lingering global supply shortage, which will weigh on the supply of imported raw materials and may continue to impact Nigerian businesses. On what will be peculiar to Nigeria will be different from 2021, oil price expected to average $70-85pb as oil production quota expected to rise further as OPEC+ continues to exria this year, he said: “Politics of 2022 pand output, but output will remain limited by sabotage: 1.4 – 1.6mbpd “CBN likely to increase forex supply to manufacturers while Pre-election spending will drive up cash in circulation and increase money supply” BUA Foods Reports N79.7bn Turnover In 9 Months, PAT Of N16.6bn FG Calls For Fair, Balanced Reportage On Labour Migration Asiwaju (Dr.) Michael Olawale-Cole, President of LCCI, in his opening remarks, said the essence of hosting this budget analysis session is to facilitate conversations and share perspectives from diverse sectors of the economy on the details of the budget and what they mean for business in 2022. He said: “The revenue and capital expenditure performance of the 2021 budget indicates the fiscal resilience of the Nigerian economy. “This should be consolidated for better outcomes in the 2022 fiscal year. A higher non-oil revenue projection in comparison to oil revenue if effectively implemented and actualised will minimise the impact of external shocks, arising from oil volatility, on the economy”. He, however said: “this session aims to enlighten stakeholders, corporate and business executives on how the budget will likely impact each sector and industry of the economy, and how they can explore the opportunities for profitability and sustainability”.