***As Delta PDP Governorship Aspirant, Olorogun Abel Oghenevo Esievo Says He Will Deliver In Line With World Best Practices ASABA – Foremost Governorship aspirant in Delta State for the 2023 Gubernatorial election in Delta State, Olorogun Abel Oghenevo Esievo, has appealed to the leadership of People’s Democratic Party, Delta State Chapter, and entire people of Delta State to give him the needed support to emerge as the party’s flag-bearer this year 2022 to govern Delta. Olorogun Esievo made this remark during the weekend in his Campaign Office at Asaba, Delta State capital while fielding questions from some group of Journalists stated that he will deliver in line with world best practices in governance. Delta 2023 Governorship: We Will Not Oppose The Choice Of DC-23… 2023: Abia Foremost Philanthropist, Chief Omerekpe Declares For… The 1986 graduate of University of Benin, a native of Ekpan-Ovu, in Agbon Clan of Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State, stated that he will consolidate on achievements of this present administration led by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in promotion of a Prosperous and stronger Delta Agenda policy mantra. The Governorship aspirant says he has built enduring relationships with colleagues and other Deltans. He also meritoriously served in Delta state Civil Service for 31 years, where he held sway as Auditor-General Local Government in Delta State (2015-2021) and Chairman Conference of Auditors-General For Local Governments in Nigeria (2018-2021), noted that he is hundred percent qualified to govern Delta. Esievo is a Harvard and Wharton Universities trained Accountant and a management expert and administrator. He is a Fellow and Associate Member of different Professional bodies. When asked on his vision for the people of Delta State as he prepares to take over the mantle of Leadership from Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, told newsmen that his political vision is hinged on 18 different Economic blueprints that bothers on rapid Socio-economic development of the state. Esievo’s vision for Deltans as highlighted by him in his office during the interview, included amongst others : Massive Industrialization with multiplier effect on the state economy, establishment and vitalization of industries, general employment opportunities, Women empowerment, focus on pensioners and elderly, Grassroots development, and organized Public Private Partnership, PPP. The accomplished and World distinguished financial expert also stated some other of his visions to Deltans to make the state a place to live and people to do businesses, if he emerges PDP flag-bearer to govern Delta State come 2023, which includes: Health and Social Security, Road Construction and Consolidation, Urban Renewal, fiscal discipline, Driving non-oil revenue and Educational restoration and so many others too numerous to mention. POLL He finally added that he will be poised towards the promotion of Youth and Women empowerment, improved Security, Peace and Conflict Management, vibrant and viable Local Government Administration and general Socio-economic development of the state.