EMMANUEL OBETA There are many benefits to building and maintaining positive stakeholder relationships, including: • Helps to lower project risks/ costs. Certain stakeholders despite all due approvals for the project can frustrate the project through picketing and other forms of resistance if they are not duly consulted, convinced and carried along with the project implementation. All those time and energy wasted in handling such conflicts can be avoided through effective identification and management of the relationship between these stakeholders The London School Of Public Relations Launches In Nigeria Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (14) • Stakeholder relationship management can build or effectively bolster the image of your project or your organization’s reputation. If all notable industry and stakeholder groups express their support and interest on these projects then definitely the image profile and reputation of the project will increase. This can also be achieved through high profile stakeholders’ endorsement for the project. • The only way to gain useful buy-in for the project is by managing the relationship with the various stakeholders and never by force. In this world of democracy different litigations and appeals can hold up the project for a very long time as well as incur undue costs for the project. • It is also mandatory for different kinds of projects to gain the support of the various stakeholder groups as a mandatory regulatory requirement for such kinds of projects to be carried out. For instance, if a particular number of stakeholders are not in agreement, then government approvals for such projects may not be obtained. • Stakeholder relationship management also helps you gain competitive advantages in the management of the projects Industry Relations POLL Inter – industry/ Industry Relations Industry relations or inter industry relations refers to the study of the interrelationships between the various production sectors within an economy. A particular sector of the economy requires inputs from other sectors, be it raw materials, intermediate goods and services, or labour, in order to produce output. The interdependence between industries, or sectors, is not linear but complex. The success of one industry player within the economy does not preclude the success of others as a matter of fact the more meaningful collaborations exist between these industry players the more the cumulative success of the entire industry as a whole. This is so because there are some structural and infrastructural requirements for the entire industry to survive which are often beyond the scope of just one industry player to provide; which is why industry collaborations and networking usually result in the greater success of the entire industry. Industry relations therefore, cover the activities related to seeking, developing, and maintaining relationships with business entities within the same industry. Standard Chartered Launches Agency Banking Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (13) It identifies, develops and maintains external relationships, primarily with companies and other industry players. It creates value, and collective development, promotes research, interactions and outreach missions for the entire industry. It also connects Industry stakeholders, in order to fully understand industry needs, facilitate and supports the work of Sector advisory groups whose mandate is to advise or provide detailed information to the various industry stakeholders on different industry specific issues that affects their operations. It promotes partnerships and industry collaborations that aims to develop training and development programs that will deliver the various skills and competences needed by industry. It also enables the industry to collectively present their common issues jointly as a body to the government while acting also as a pressure group on such issues; which is why organizations like the various Chambers of Commerce, Manufacturers Associations have come to exist so as to collectively further these industry or group interests. Relationship as the Cardinal Point of Public Relation Relationship is a cardinal and central pillar in all that you do in public relations, whether it is press or media relations, financial relations, industry or stakeholder’s relationship, employee relations, community relations etc. This is so because we live in a relational world where Everything we do in life is controlled by relationships. Relationship is Currency, Capital & Equity and cuts down Your Years Of Effort in trying to achieve a particular objective or result, which is why we People PROVIDE collaterals or stand as guarantors for others in a particular situation based on existing relationships. Decisions even at world levels like UN security council etc. are based on relationships and alliances. As individuals and corporate entities, we are already involved in different kinds or relationships; consequently the knowledge and wisdom on how to build and navigate these relationships so as to achieve the desired objectives of these relationships are very important. Relationship refers to the way in which two or more people or things are Connected, or Linked Together or associated to one another, (May be physical, social or circumstantial or situational). It also refers to a mutual dealing, emotional or other connection between people, or feelings that exist between two parties, countries, people; a continuing attachment or association between persons, firms as well as the way they behave towards or are involved with each other. Relationships can be physical, emotional, mental, behavioral or even spiritual and are basically based on choice. It is however, important to note that for a relationship to exist there must be certain conditionalities that must be present or precede it: Continued Interest/Attraction Human beings are like onions or webs that keep on unraveling same as life in its dynamic nature. So long as there is a mutual interest to unravel together or to jointly explore the mysteries and developments of life together without shutting off the other party then there will be continued interest and enthusiasm to be part of one another’s lives. For this to happen there must be patience a deliberate room to tolerate and accommodate each other as well as inclusiveness of one another through the instrumentality of communication. Intimacy – close familiarity or friendship this refers to a feeling or consciousness of knowing one better that the other as well as a trust that what is known or exposed to one another as a result of the privileges emanating from the relationship is safe or well-guarded. It is a huge privilege to know someone or one to open up to one another and as such should not be taken for granted else the privilege to such a continued interface or interaction will be withdrawn. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com