Justice Will Be Done, Ayu Assures Ekiti Aggrieved PDP Members ABUJA – The crisis rocking the Ekiti state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday took another dimension, as protesters in their numbers stormed the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, over what they alleged as manipulation of the just concluded Ekiti governorship primary ward congress. The party had cancelled its meeting with Ekiti stakeholders scheduled for Wednesday before the protesters stormed the party headquarters. NSCDC Commandant Advocates Security Training For Pupils In Ondo Bayelsa Assembly Wants Probe Of Moribund State-Owned Motel The protesters armed with different placards said Senator Iyorchia Ayu led National Working Committee has failed in its first assignment. Some of the placards by the protesters read: “Why should the NWC of PDP allow Fayose fool them; We say no to the manipulated congress in Ekiti state; Congress was never held in Ekiti state; Ayu has failed in his first assignment; Fayose is an APC agent in PDP,” and many more. Addressing newsmen during the protest, Hon. Titilayo Akerele Owolabi said that in the whole of the state, there was no Congress in Ekiti on Saturday, adding, “everybody waited till about 6 pm before we departed. “We were amazed when we heard that congress was conducted. We are demanding that the PDP National Working Committee declare null and void whatever happened on Saturday because there was no Congress. “We advised them to go and investigate independently in Ekiti state if anything like that happens. Nothing like Congress.” POLL Speaking further, the aggrieved former House of Representatives member stated that people who were chosen as delegates in their respective wards, were disenfranchised, stressing that they were not able to elect those who they want. “We want them to know that if they win PDP for Ekiti State, there will be a South-West victory for them. Destroying PDP in Ekiti State is laying the foundation of a failed presidential election for PDP. “We want a cancellation. We don’t know why there will be an appeal when there was no Congress. I don’t know… how can you build legality on illegality when there was no Congress? “We are here to express our mind that they should please save PDP in Nigeria, they should remember the people are serving. APC has destroyed the economy of this nation. We are all relying on PDP. As a female, I’m calling on all Nigerian women and civil societies to come out and bail us out.” Another protester, who identified himself as Deji said they were surprised that the NWC set up an appeal committee when the election did not hold. Wizkid, Tiwa Savage , Omah Lay Nominated For NAACP Award 2022 2023: Your Children’s WAEC Fees Will Be Paid If I’m… He said: “It is when an election is conducted that an appeal committee can be set up. “Again, we are also surprised that Ayu-led NWC allowed Fayose to manipulate them. Can you imagine that the people sent to Ekiti state are Secondus men, people like Emmanuel Enoidem, Kola Ologbodiyan. “All we are saying here is that, no congress in Ekiti state. Unless PDP doesn’t want to win Ekiti again.” Addressing the protesters at the party national secretariat, the party National Chairman, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, assured the aggrieved members that justice would be done. Represented by the Deputy Organizing Secretary, Senator Ighoiota Amure, Ayu said, “we have received your petition on what happened in Ekiti. The petition is been looked into. The position is been addressed. I can assure you that justice would be done. “Normally the party has a provision for protest, petition, after any primary. That has been done. We have received your petition, a committee has been established, headed by a very notable member of the party and that petition is been addressed. I repeat I can assure you that justice will be done. “So be rest assured that your grievances will be addressed. Believe me and if justice is not done, come and hold me responsible.”