Ecobank Nigeria in partnership with Learntor, a comprehensive Agile Digital Transformational training and consultancy company has provided intensive Digital Technology training for select youths being part of the bank’s youth development initiative. The training focused on developing capacity of the youths in Agile, Scrum, Data Analytics, Business Analysis, Cyber Security, and Scrum Master Certification. Olajuwon Abayomi, Team lead, Youth Banking, Ecobank Nigeria, while speaking during a courtesy visit by the beneficiaries to Ecobank Pan African Centre (EPAC), in Lagos, explained that the bank had engaged the services of Learntor, to prepare the youths for future local and international job opportunities. Air Peace Approves Priority Boarding Policy For Nigerian… Stanbic IBTC Introduces Smart Loan To Support Customers According to Mr. Abayomi, “these skill sets are for the future, hence, our preference, to ensure that the youths who are offered the scholarship by the bank would be positioned for relevance in the long haul. “Ten youths from across different states of the nation were sponsored after emerging successful from an online real time test . The training was for a period of three months and at the end, the awardees undertook the international agile Scrum Master Exam to become Scrum Masters.” Patrick Akinwuntan, Managing Director/Regional Executive, Ecobank Nigeria, in his comment, said youth empowerment is a strategic policy of Ecobank, stressing that it aligns with the overall long-term vision of building a world class Pan African bank, that contributes to the economic and financial integration of the continent. Mr Akinwuntan, who was represented by Head, Consumer Banking, Korede Demola-Adeniyi noted that “Ecobank Nigeria is commitment to support youths by offering them opportunities to upgrade their skills and contribute more to the economic development of the country. “Supporting capacity building of youths is one of several activities to demonstrate that Ecobank is a youth friendly financial institution. We also seek to empower young people by offering them convenient, affordable, and accessible financial services anytime and anywhere from their mobile phones, which is their primary mode of communication”, he stated.