LAGOS – Organised Private Sector under the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), have advocated the need for fiscal and monetary authorities to liberalize foreign exchange market by unifying the multiple foreign exchange rates and ensuring that the rates are market-driven in the country. They noted that the effect of the macroeconomic environment that prevailed in the last quarter of 2021 was overwhelming in differing magnitudes on key manufacturing indicators in the nation’s economy. MAN told Daily Independent that 75.1% of manufacturers in its Manufacturers Confidence Index (MCCI) for Q4:2021 claimed that foreign exchange sourcing by the sector did not improve in the quarter under review, which is higher than 59% that disagreed in the preceding quarter. Danbatta Pivots Nigeria’s Socio-Economic Development On ICT… SON To Checkmate Hackers, Cyber Crimes With Standardisation They emphasized that the segments of manufacturing with high levels of backward integration had lesser degrees of shocks from foreign exchange crises in the economy, adding that domestic inflationary pressure, weakening purchasing power, poor public infrastructure, and port-related challenges have continued to present as headwinds to the sector’s performance. They advocated that portfolio investors may likely dump assets in Naira unless compensated by a higher yield environment and a market-reflective exchange rate as a result of sustained pressures on Naira in the Foreign Exchange Market Asiwaju (Dr.) Michael Olawale-Cole, LCCI President in his first squarely review on the state of the nation told Daily Independent that: “looking forward into the year, we expect headline inflation to remain elevated as the combination of food supply shocks, foreign exchange policies, higher energy costs, foreign exchange illiquidity, heightened insecurity in major food-producing states, will continue to mount pressure on domestic consumer prices. “We believe a broad-based harmonization of fiscal and monetary policies towards addressing the identified structural constraints will significantly help to moderate inflationary pressure in the medium term”. On investment, he said: “In 2022, we are likely to see portfolio investors dump assets in Naira unless compensated by a higher yield environment and a market-reflective exchange rate. POLL We reiterate our position that monetary authorities need to liberalize the FX market by unifying the multiple FX rates and ensuring FX rates are market-driven. This is critical in the process of enhancing stability, liquidity, and transparency in the FX market. “The unification is expected to improve the country’s currency management framework given that the multiple exchange rate systems had been creating uncertainty issues and sources of arbitrage”. On economic recovery, he said: “sustaining the pace of recovery recorded in 2021 requires both fiscal and monetary policymakers to be well-co-ordinated in promoting growth-enhancing and encourage private and foreign capital inflows into the economy. confidence-building policies that would “We note that in the last quarter of 2021, the economy was confronted with several challenges including subdued business and commercial activities across various sectors (evidenced by PMI data trend); significant FX pressures (evidenced by widening premium between official and parallel market rates); revenue pressure from oil and non-oil sources, inflationary pressures, subdued purchasing power, weak employment levels, worsening internal security situation and weak investor confidence. He added: “The CBN, having adopted the NAFEX rate as the official rate, needs to initiate a gradual transition to a unified exchange rate system and allow for a market reflective exchange rate.The currency market is still beset with persisting liquidity challenges evidenced in the wide premium between the NAFEX and parallel market rates. To consolidate on the interventions earlier initiated, the CBN needs to roll out more friendly supply-side policies to boost liquidity in the market. This would help bolster investor confidence and attract foreign investment inflows into the economy. FG Should Regulate Ports To Protect Nigeria’s Interests –… Losses Caused By APP Fraud In UK Soared By 71% – Report “Deliberate efforts towards making the business environment more conducive for MSMEs and large corporates at the national, subnational, and local government levels are imperative. “This can be achieved by addressing the structural bottlenecks and regulatory constraints contributing to the high cost of doing business. A supportive and conducive investment environment is critical in facilitating private sector involvement in the economic recovery process” He advised the government to initiate moves towards having cost-reflective tariff in the power sector as this will attract the needed investment to boost power supply”. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, in its MCCI for Q4:2021 report, stated that the perception of a mixed grilled performance by investors, visibly exposed the hotspots and served as a pointer to the fact that the sector is still challenged and requires comprehensive policy support. The report emphasized that the effect of the macroeconomic environment that prevailed in the quarter under review was overwhelming in differing magnitudes on key manufacturing indicators such as production and distribution costs; apacity utilization; volume of production; investment; employment; sales volume; and vost of shipment. The report shows that the difficulty in sourcing forex by manufacturers further dipped in the fourth quarter of 2021 as against what obtained in the preceding quarter “75.1% of manufacturers claimed that that forex sourcing by the sector did not improve in the quarter under review, which is higher than 59% that disagreed in the preceding quarter”, it said. The Manufacturers Confidence Index (MCCI) is an index constructed by MAN to measure changes in quarterly pulsation of manufacturing activities in relation to movement in the macro economy and Government policies. According to the survey report, “high-cost borrowing remained a perennial constraint of manufacturing in the country. Manufacturers believe that current lending rate discourages productivity in the sector. “75.1% of manufacturers observed that the current lending rate discourages productivity in the sector. This is higher than 68.0% which took the same position in the preceding quarter. “Limited access to funds variously has been identified as a persisting challenge of the manufacturing sector. In this quarter 71.1% of manufacturers noted that the smallness of size of commercial bank loans to manufacturing does not support productivity in the sector. “71.1% of manufacturers interviewed observed that the current commercial bank loan does not encourage productivity in the sector. This is higher than 62% that made the same observation in the preceding quarter”. The report noted that government has consistently budgeted for upscaling infrastructure to support economic activities through execution of capital projects. It however, said low patronage of local industries, slow completion and general poor implementation of identified capital project has been the bane of the system with high-cost impact on manufacturing concerns. It added that 57.4% of manufacturers enumerated are of the view that Government capital expenditure implementation does not encourage manufacturing, emphasizing that capital expenditure implementation does not translate to adequate economic infrastructure and higher productivity. The report noted that limited access to funds variously has been identified as a persisting challenge of the manufacturing sector. It added:“In this quarter 71.1% of manufacturers noted that the smallness of size of commercial bank loans to manufacturing does not support productivity in the sector. “71.1% of manufacturers interviewed observed that the current commercial bank loan does not encourage productivity in the sector. This is higher than 62% that made the same observation in the preceding quarter”, it said The CEOs from the report, affirmed gradual reduction in inventory of unsold finished goods; improvement in local sourcing of raw materials and patronage of made in Nigeria goods. “On the low side CEOs confirmed that issues of multiple and duplication of regulation, which often find expression in excessive drive for tax revenue instead of widening the tax net; unfriendly tax practices of government agencies; poor access to the national ports leading to high cost of clearing cargo and transporting goods are seriously impeding the performance of the manufacturing sector”. On the way forward, the CEOs said: “in order to improve the performance of the sector, Government needs to intentionally put in place mechanism that will address these challenges permanently by considering and implementing the following recommendation: “Further incentivize investment in the development of raw-materials locally through the backward integration and resource based industrialization initiates. “Government should call for more investor to key into these initiatives with appropriate and definite incentives. For instance, there is need for urgent investment and production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) in the country; investment and production of machines; iron and steel; petrochemical materials, etc to support manufacturing activities”. “Give specific attention to the security of life and investment in industrial areas; properly delineate and upscale security infrastructure in the various industrial areas in the country, particularly in the northern part of the country for priority attention. Government should also quickly invest in modern security such as drones, camera, etc. for robust monitoring of the areas. “Ensure effective allocation of available forex to productive sectors, particularly the manufacturing sector for importation of raw materials and vital machine and equipment that are not available locally. Government also needs to expressly direct the Central Bank of Nigeria to consult with the Ministries of Industry Trade & Investment and effectively engage MAN on measures for improving forex supply to manufacturing concerns. “Direct the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation to inaugurate the Secretariat that will implement the strategies for the Executive Order and SON to designate local manufacturers of LPG Gas Cylinders as priority provider of the 10 million Cooking Gas Cylinders to be procured by the Government for 12 States in the Federation”.