AKURE – The Ondo state capital, Akure, as well as major cities and towns, were rid of refuse all through the Yuletide to forestall the epidemic outbreak, a source at Ondo State Waste Management Authority (ODSWMA), has declared. The ODSWMA source also emphasized that environmental laws were enforced all through the festive season so that the Yuletide celebration would not be marred by the epidemic. According to the official, who preferred anonymity, one of the environmental service providers, ZL Global, which was hired by the state government, was on the ground all through the festive season. Asus Unveils ZenBook 14X OLED Space Edition To Nigerian Market 2023: Why Nigerians Should Vote For Me As Next President –… The source explained that “contrary to the claim that ODSWMA officials kept the metropolis clean, what the senior official of the authority was saying is that the officials of the authority ensured that all service providers carried out their services even on Christmas Day and during the New Year.” The source stated, “It is a known fact that officials of ODSWMA do not pack refuse or remove bins from the streets anymore. The Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration had from inception concessioned the keeping of the environment clean to private organizations. “He took the decision for effective and prudent reasons. The state capital, major cities and towns were divided among the concessionaires and this had helped a great deal in keeping the state clean. “ZL Global, which is headed by Dr Abiola Bashorun, is in charge of the Oja Oba/Post Office axis and in major cities and towns across the state, but we ensured their staffers packed the refuse generated by sellers and buyers in the market per time to forestall epidemic outbreak. “The magnitude of the refuse generated during the season was huge, but just as the senior official said, we were on the ground to help them enforce environmental laws to prevent people from dumping refuse indiscriminately, particularly on the median. POLL “The Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration had assisted immensely in making the residents obey environmental laws through sensitization programmes. “Despite his tight schedule as the Chairman, Southwest Governors’ Forum, he still has time to attend to other things including the environmental issues. “The new Commissioner for Environment, Sunday Adekunle also hit the ground running as he moves round to see how the concessionaires are working. He commended the management of ZL Global for the yeoman’s job they did during Yuletide.” The source also commended the efforts of the governor on ensuring the service providers are promptly reimbursed as and when due.