LAGOS – One Ekpo Lawrence was on Thursday sentenced to life imprisonment by an Ike­ja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court for defiling and impregnating his 15-year-old daughter. The trial judge, Justice Abiola Soladoye, said the prosecution diligently proved the ingredients of the charge of defilement that was prof­fered against Ekpo by the La­gos Government. Commending the prosecu­tion, the judge said that the evidence adduced by the pros­ecution has been consistent while that of the defendant has been inconsistent and manifestly unreliable. Tanker Explosion: Delta Will Take Steps To Avert Reoccurrence… How Hoodlums Invaded Ogun Community, Kill 44-Year-Old Man, Shoot… Soladoye in the judgment noted that the denial of the 42-year-old father who was convicted on the allegations was a calculated attempt to mislead the court. She held that, “The inglori­ous conduct of this defendant is dirty, scandalous and un­pardonable under Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015 and condemnable in all ramifications. “The immoral behaviour of having sex with his own biological daughter is toxic, absolutely disgraceful and an abomination contrary to the law of nature. It is morally reprehensible as it is incest. “Where is the self-respect of this defendant? How ab­solutely bizarre. Having sex with his daughter obviously took away his ability to make rational decisions. He foolish­ly tampered with the purity and self-esteem of his child. “I pray for inner peace for the victim to relieve her of fear and hatred for her fa­ther who sexually molested her severally so that she can deal with her pains, trials and tribulations and go on to live a purpose driven life. POLL “A father should be a trust­ed person in the life of a child. He supposed to keep his child safe but betrayed her sexually he ripped purity off her body and her soul.” “This is a taboo and he must no doubt face the music for his morbid, sordid sexual misconduct. For the above stated reasons, the defendant is sentenced to life imprison­ment with no option of fine. She said the incest came to light when the she confided in a social worker in her school about her father’s actions. Dr. Maria Fadaka of the Mirabel Center (a Sexual Assault Referral Center) in her evidence, said that after examining the survivor, her findings had revealed evi­dence of vaginal penetration and early pregnancy.