Chinyere Ukor is the pioneer leader of Herbx International Company, a health and beauty company with headquarters in Malaysia. In this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, she speaks on how the company has created employment for Nigerians and other related issues. Excerpts: What do you do at Herbx international company? Herbx international company is less than one year old in Nigeria. It is a product marketing company. Success In Business Requires Good Operational Knowledge –… Inflation Is Killing Businesses In Nigeria – Ogbuehi The products that we market include herbx men plus and herbx women plus, Herbx toothpaste, herbx shower gel, herbx relaxing shower gel, herbx turmeric cream, herbx latex coffee, and the beauty products include herbx perfume, intrinsic male and female perfume. We also have new ones that will soon join the chain of the cosmetics products like the herbx pomade, etcetera. Our two major products are herbx men plus and herbx women plus. They are the flagship products and they have curetic and preventive properties, designed to cure and prevent over 100 diseases, including fibroid, hormonal imbalance, ovarian cyst, infections like the sexually transmitted infection, urinary tract infection, eye problem, ear problem and so many others like epilepsy, arthritis, rheumatism and host of others. They help to rebuild dead cells, rejuvenate dead cells, they boost the immune system, and they increase the general wellbeing of people. The herbx men plus as the name implies is strictly for men while the herbx women plus is strictly for women. POLL How has your business impacted on Nigerians? When you consider the cost of medical care in the country, you will discover that our activities have helped the Nigerian people because the products are very effective, and apart from that we also offer employment opportunities that we provide to the citizens. We have a lot of testimonies to that effect. When we received herbx men plus and herbx women plus last year therechas been huge testimonies, from treatment of infertility, fibroid, sexually transmitted infection, urinary tract infection and a host of others. We have testimonies of women who got pregnant after using the herbx women plus. We also have a case of a woman who had fibroid, she used about six packets of herbx women plus and the fibroid fell off without her undergoing any surgery. We also have a case of a man who had a kidney stone, after using the herbx men plus, he discovered that the kidney stone was no longer there. I Was The Fourth Woman To Go Into Uber/Bolt Business – Abiola Planning Before Investing In Business Will Check Failure –… We also had a 67 years old woman with tumor in her womb, she took about nine packets of herbx women plus and the tumor disappeared. We also have testimony of someone who had eye problem, with itching and watery eyes, he took a packet of the herbx men plus and he discovered that the itching stopped and the water that was coming out of his eyes ceased. There was also a Pastor who had issue with erection, the herbx men plus helped to restore his erection. Considering the economic situation in the country, and the fact that some of these products are expensive, how do you get customers’ patronage? We do get patronage because when they consider how much they are going to spend on drugs made from chemicals to take care of their health issues, they will have no other option than to patronise us, especially when they spend money on these drugs or other products and there is still no result. If they use our products and they get positive results, they will continue to patronise us. I will give an example of a woman with fibroid who was to go for surgery and was expected to spend over N300,000 but she only used four packets of the herbx women plus at the cost of N60,000 and that took care of her problem. The fibroid came out on its own so she was free from the ailment. A woman who had an infertility issue came to my office with her laboratory test result on 12th November 2021. She told me that she came to share her testimony that she took one packet of the product in September and another one in October and by November her problem was solved. She had spent so much on drugs and other products to no avail. When people hear the testimonies of others they will be encouraged to buy the products. We have been enjoying patronage despite the economic challenges because our products are working. How will somebody who wants to invest in this business go about it? The unemployment in the country is huge and our company has helped in so many ways to reduce the unemployment because a lot of people, especially the youths have taken advantage of the platform to get employed. We really provide employment for those who really want to work. Anyone who wants to work at the business development desk can do that with N24,750. If you don’t have the money to register but you are interested in working, you can attend our free seminar, learn about the business. If you can get those who are interested in the product, you can help them buy from the company and as you make more purchases, you will get commission and that can help to get you registered. We have five packages and for any of these packages that you introduce to a customer, the company pays you commission instantly in dollars and you can cash it in naira. You can be the country leader in any country where you are and you can as well be a state leader in any state that you reside. You can also get a job by just advertising the product and when somebody places an order, you will come to the office to buy and make your commission. We have an office at Ajangbadi and you can also reach me through facebook, Chinyere Ukor. Apart from the herbx men plus and herbx women plus, other products are going to be brought into the country and so you have an opportunity to start a business even without having any cash of your own. Some Nigerians are concerned about network marketing companies because those that they tried in the past looked attractive but somewhere along the line they had their fingers burnt, because some of them later turned out to be ponzi schemes. How would you convince anyone that your company is different? No one will be hurt here, because when you pay N24,750 at herbx international company, you will be given products worth the amount that you paid so you cannot lose anything. The registration is free, what you have paid for is for products. It is not a ponzi scheme where you will be asked to bring N5,000 and in two hours you will be paid N10,000. It is a genuine company that has come to stay. The investors already have other companies in Malaysia before herbx international company was established. Herbx is the sixth company that the investors have. They have a legacy to protect. The company was launched in Africa in March 2021. Since the product is foreign, how do you cope with the hike in foreign exchange to import the products and what other challenges do you have? We want the government to reduce the import duties paid on these products. It will make it easier for our products to come into the country and cheaper too. There are some African countries that don’t even pay import duties on these products. Like in Cotonou this class of product is import duty free. Government should reduce import duty on health related products to make them affordable to Nigerians who are in need of the products. The cost of med-care is expensive in Nigeria so if well-to-do Nigerians can do charity work, buy these products and give them to the vulnerable people who are in need of them, it will go a long way to assist them because some sick people need the products but cannot afford them. We will also appeal to the government to create an enabling environment for these companies to come into the country and site their factories, it will help reduce the cost and also create employment for Nigerians. Since I joined the company last year they have not defaulted in all that they said concerning their marketing plan.