The Governor of Ogun state, Prince Dapo Abiodun, seized the opportunity of the visit of His Excellency, President Mohammadu Buhari to the state last week to reiterate to the president that the state has the highest number of federal roads in the country, hence the need for special funding status to keep up with the huge cost for maintenance, repairs, upgrade and reconstruction purposes when the need arises. The governor while asking for the special funding status, stressed that the strategic significance of federal roads in Ogun state to the socio-economic development of the country cannot be over-emphasised. He said: “Your Excellency it is noteworthy that Ogun State has more Federal roads than any other State in the Country. Therefore, we are passionately requesting again that Ogun State be accorded a Special Status for Federal Government Infrastructure Funding, especially on roads.” Police, VIS, TRACE To Synergise For Effective Field Operations… Why Transport Operators Clamour For U-Turn At Ota Tollgate Axis Prince Abiodun said Ijebu-Ode-Epe Road; a Federal Road earlier commissioned by Mr. President, is another strategic arterial road that links the Lekki / Epe corridor of Lagos State to the eastern corridor of Ogun State at Ijebu- Ode. “With this road, socio-economic activities in the South East and South South zones of our country will receive a boost through the linkage of the road to Sagamu-Benin Expressway for easier access by motorists to Lagos, Nigeria’s largest economy. “In the same vein, the Sagamu Interchange-Abeokuta Road is 42km in length and is the main arterial road that leads to our Capital City. It is a dual carriageway with street lights, median and other road furniture. This road, though a federal road, was redesigned and reconstructed to address the daily challenges being experienced by commuters, and to make commuting between the State Capital and other parts of the State and, indeed, the rest of the country a safe, secure and pleasant experience. The two roads are very significant and critical to the socio-economic development of not only Ogun State but the Nation at large. “The longest stretch of that road is also in Ogun State and is due for completion this year. These projects are particularly strategic to the economic development of not only Ogun State but the entire Nation.“ The governor said. In the light of the achievements made by his administration in improving the state of the federal roads in the Ogun, the governor appreciated the president for including the Sagamu-Interchange-Papalanto-Ilaro Road in the Federal Government’s tax credit scheme to be executed by Aliko Dangote Group. POLL “We appreciate your approval of Aliko Dangote for the reconstruction of Sagamu-Interchange-Papalanto-Ilaro Road through the Federal Government’s tax credit scheme. “Let me also appeal that the same tax credit scheme be extended to the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) for the reconstruction of Sagamu-Ogijo-Ikorodu Expressway. This road not only leads to one of the largest depots of NNPC at Mosinmi, Sagamu, it is also an alternative road to the ever-busy Lagos-Ibadan expressway. “We also look forward to the Federal Government’s approval of similar creative funding arrangements for the Otta-Idiroko Road and other federal roads traversing our dear State. “We passionately appeal to Your Excellency to graciously direct relevant Federal Government agencies to expedite action towards prompt rehabilitation and completion of these roads. This will improve the welfare and wellbeing of our people.” Prince Abiodun added. The president in his response said, “I have also listened to your requests to give priority attention to the Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta and the Sango Otta-Idiroko Roads respectively. Govt, Crisis Of Articulated Vehicles In Nigeria FG Seeks More Participation In Tax Credit Scheme For Road… “Let me assure the people of Ogun State that these roads will receive Federal Government attention. We are considering extending tax credit as a funding option for the reconstruction of these roads, as we have done for the 100km Sagamu Interchange-Papalanto-Ilaro Road. “I will also consider the approval of the reconstruction of Sagamu-Ogijo Road by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) under the tax credit scheme.” Buhari added. The president also said he had on arrival commissioned the 14km Ijebu Ode- Mojoda – Epe Road, which has been reconstructed into a modern expressway by Abiodun’s administration. “This impressive road will complement the Sagamu-Benin Expressway that the Federal Government is currently reconstructing; also due for commissioning this year. “Just across the road is the 42-kilometer Sagamu-Interchange-Abeokuta Road which the state Government has reconstructed and equipped with street lights and other modern road furniture. That road, which I will commission shortly, enjoys a direct linkage with the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway that the Federal Government is rebuilding and due for completion later this year. “I am particularly impressed by the quality and standard of your road projects, and the creative way you have deployed resources to reconstruct and rehabilitate them. It is significant to note that the two road projects being commissioned today are federal roads. This is an example of constructive engagement, cooperation and collaboration between the States and Federal Government. “These roads also fit well into our rail transportation master plan that connects Lagos, Nigeria’s economic capital to Kano, with Ogun State having more rail stations, along the Lagos-Ibadan rail corridor.” Buhari said.