P/HARCOURT  – Two-time governor­ship candidate in Rivers State, To­nye Princewill, has welcomed the presidential ambition of APC leader, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, but noted that his own candi­date remains the Trans­portation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi. “My candidate remains the Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amae­chi and I say so not just be­cause he is from my state, because that is not enough. I say so because his track record, his commitment, his energy, his ability to get things done, his age and his ability to reach a consen­sus over the years, stands him in good stead. As our speaker, he was the Chair of Speakers, as Governor, he was the Chair of Gover­nors, as Minister, he is the best performing minister, by far. So, as president, I know the trend will con­tinue,” he said. He also stated that the passage of the much-talked about Electoral Act Amend­ment Bill is not enough to be equated to the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference Princewill noted that the opportunity of passing the Act had not been lost, but noting that “the Presi­dent’s legacy is bigger than the passage of one bill into law.” He admitted that though the bill was not an ordi­nary one, and granted its passage had the potential to change the landscape of how elections would be conducted in the future, “it is my firm belief that the two branches of govern­ment (National Assembly and the Executive) under the umbrella of the same party, will reach a consen­sus because they have the capacity to do so. “Extracting direct pri­maries, which I favour, should give us a way for­ward. Future amendments can tick that box. “Like I have said, how we choose our leaders is important. I will go further to say, the cost of doing a direct primary is small in comparison to the cost of flawed primaries when you consider the cost of bad leadership,” he said. Speaking in an inter­view weekend, the former governorship candidate of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), said that PDP was weak and so, would not win the next presidential elec­tion ahead of APC, adding that the major opposition party was “also prone to a customised implosion of its own, but nobody should ever be underestimated.” POLL He said that Nigerians had very short memories to have forgotten what PDP represented and cut off their nose to spite their face. “I’ve seen men do very strange things, only to re­gret it later. Besides, power­ful men being out of power for eight years, can do powerful things like swal­low their own vomit to get back in. “For many, politicians, politics and power are all they know. They can do anything to remain rele­vant. The other factor to consider is 2023 may not be about party. It may be about candidate. “If PDP brings a popular candidate, he or she can give the party a new image. The message to us in APC is ‘Do not take Nigerians for granted’. And I am so sure, we will not,” he said.