One of the defining events in the run up to the 2023 presidential election was recorded on Monday when leader of the ruling All Progress Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, finally declared his intention to contest for the exalted position of president. He also revealed that it has been his lifelong ambition. This was after a closed-door session with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. But the information may not have come to many Nigerians as a surprise because despite his reluctance in the past to confirm that well-guarded ambition, almost everybody who has been following political developments in the country in the last ten years would readily come to understand that Asiwaju had been positioning himself for the most exalted office in the land. He has now let the cat out of the bag, so to say, and that is how it should be. I believe that Asiwaju has the requisite resources to pursue and probably achieve his dream to lead Nigeria. I believe, also, that he has the political network. These are facts already known. Indeed, consider the welter of mixed reactions that greeted his revelation and the traction it cornered in the press, especially on social media. It was a message long awaited. But it came, alas, against the backdrop of his party’s miserable performance in the last eight years. Incidentally, fast on the heels of Tinubu’s announcement was a similar one by Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi, who also visited President Buhari in Abuja, ostensibly also in commencement of consultations. Instructive in Governor Umahi’s revelation in a Channel’s Television interview on Tuesday night was his direct admission that he would continue the policies and programmes of President Buhari. “I am also close to Mr. President. I know his heartbeat for the country, and I know what he desires for this country. So, I think that I understand his programmes,” Umahi said, and added: “This is my conviction and that we can also build from where Mr. President would stop.” 2023 Elections: The Leadership Qualities Nigerians Deserve And The Campaign Has Kicked Off My attention has been drawn to the last part of the quoted message from Governor Umahi, and I am still wondering why he chose to align with the present administration’s failure. In doing so, he has very early in the race given enough to the electorate, including his APC members, to chew. Now, it is left for those who have heard to assess the administration of Buhari and decide whether to pull their weight behind a man who has sworn to continue with the rationality or irrationality of the administration. Methinks much has already been lost even before the contest by the governor’s hasty desire for acceptance by those who currently call the shots in the party. I am also now reminded of a similar message being attributed to Tinubu on social media. In a chat shared on WhatsApp this week, I came across this from an anonymous poster: “If I become president, I’ll continue from where Buhari stops – Tinubu. Me: Is this a threat or promise?” I have not been able to ascertain whether the party leader truly made that statement, and I hope he didn’t. At this point, I would like to refer to my column of April 1, 2021, titled: ‘Letter to Bola Ahmed Tinubu’. The first wave of speculations regarding Tinubu’s presidential ambitions was heavy in the press, and there was all likelihood that he would indeed join the race. But like in other subsequent engagements, he refused to confirm or deny the rumour even though he had begun to express sentiments which portrayed his conviction that it was time a change was made in the direction of governance. In that piece, I stated: “As you begin this new journey which, by the way, is all too familiar to you, you will have to reorder your political priorities and present alternatives to all the faulty moves of the present administration. A difficult task, maybe, but you would have to choose either to applaud or excoriate the present political charade in Abuja which your party members call governance. Either choice will put you at risk, but you will also have to choose which risk you prefer to take. “Well, as a political gladiator that you are reputed to be, I know that you have already decided on your strategies long before now, but, please, don’t try to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds. It would be dangerous. You have to chart a new (that means different) course right away – because no ambitious man identifies with a failure. POLL “Sir, don’t tell people you’re continuing with what your party began in 2015 – because it began nothing. It had no compass, no roadmap and, I guess, that was why it floundered for a long while until it was able to design some harebrained programmes.” My point is this: the bare absurdity of promising to continue where someone stopped would be a most insensitive message except the speaker truly believes that the trajectory should have its full circle. Anyone familiar with stylistics in language study should be able to decode Governor Umahi’s unspoken message. Let’s attempt some interpretation: “I am also close to Mr. President. I know his heartbeat for the country, and I know what he desires for this country.” (Because I am close to the president – since some of you are not – I can tell you what he desires for this country even though he has not been able to achieve it). If he has been able to achieve it, all Nigerians – not only those close to him – would know. “So, I think that I understand his programmes…This is my conviction and that we can also build from where Mr. President would stop.” (I can conjecture what he has in mind even though there are no evidence of this anywhere … my opinion, based on my conjectures, is that we can make what he has in mind – but unable to do – happen). Why Nigerians Should Patronise Only Licensed Drug Outlets Effervescent Bolaji Akinyemi At 80: They Don’t Come This Good… My linguistic ability to decode unspoken messages fails at the point where Governor Umahi uses the term “build from where”. Your Excellency, sir, with due respect, you cannot build something on nothing. Ask legal minds. Please, believe me if I say I do understand why presidential aspirants on the platform of the APC insist on laundering the rusty image of this administration and determined to point at things that don’t exist – they’re part of it. Also, it could be like shooting yourself in the foot admitting that Nigeria had been taken on a long ride to nowhere in the past seven years. In that case, the party would have no justification asking to be voted back to government. It’s quite a quandary to be in. Nevertheless, I consider it necessary for any leader worth his salt to admit where mistakes had been made and to point out solutions. It would then be left to the electorate to adjudge if the diagnosis had been correctly made and if the prescriptions appear promising. The next step would be deciding whether there are evidence that the prescriber is capable of effectively dispensing the prescriptions beyond merely mouthing them. For instance, it is on record that Buhari had nothing backing his strident declamation of corruption and promise to redirect the country from the path of decadence except his actions as a military head of state when the then Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters, the late General Tunde Idiagbon, held sway and virtually determined the tempo of governance. In comparison, consider his management of the Petroleum (Special) Trust Fund as Executive Chairman from its inception in 1994 to its disbandment by the Obasanjo administration in 1999. It has been reported that he handed over PTF to a single consultant, Afri-Projects Consortium, APC (does that remind you of anything?), as sole adviser and gave it exclusive power to initiate projects, assess their costs, approve the costs, execute the projects, and assess the quality of execution. The intervention fund was duly discredited when the Olusegun Obasanjo government reviewed its activities. In his personal column in The Guardian of June 5, 2018, Ray Ekpu wrote a piece titled, ‘Petroleum Trust Fraud’. Here is an extract: “Buhari’s personal integrity was not soiled by the Petroleum Trust Fraud but he displayed supreme incompetence as a manager. As an Executive Chairman, the buck stopped at his desk and no matter how you want to slice it he takes vicarious responsibility for the humongous fraud that took place in that institution. “Secondly, the grossly lopsided distribution of the PTF projects between North and South is an awful testimonial for a man of his national standing to whom the nation, through the coup makers, had given the highest position in the land. His lopsided appointments today constitute a déjà vu.” Despite that unflattering record, he was entrusted with the task of cleaning the gargantuan Nigerian Augean stables. Now the outcome of that tragic error of judgement stares us vulgarly in the face. My argument, then, is that people are not necessarily capable of doing what they claim they can do. There must be something to convince us next time to believe promise-makers. And it would be highly recommended that a sincere analysis of the circumstances in which they have operated is done. We have seen that it is not a laughing matter to throw your future and that of the unborn into the hands of people who can barely articulate programmes and policies, who have a tilted sense of fairness, and who would keep praising themselves over failures which they see through their misted lenses as successes simply because they are cut off from the brutal reality which the common man cannot escape from. As for APC presidential aspirants, think twice before you promise to extend the Buhari legacy – the potential backlash could be unpredictable. Don’t let your desperation for party ticket make you proclaim that the present administration is the most adorable thing that has happened to Nigeria. You could drop the hint that your party may not have got it right in the past seven wasted years, but that efforts are being made to address all stinking areas. That’s much better. Thank you.