Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta believes Sadio Mane deserved a “clear red” card for Liverpool in their clash with the Blues at Stamford Bridge on Sunday. The Spaniard was left in pain on the ground following a leading arm from Mane as both challenged for the ball in the air. Referee Anthony Taylor gave the Senegal international a yellow card for the challenge that came just six seconds into the game, though there was belief that it should have been upgraded to a sending off. Biden To Talk With Ukraine’s Zelenskyy To Counter Russian… Everton In Talks To Sign Nathan Patterson From Rangers Chelsea head coach Thomas Tuchel was seen saying: “Unbelievable. [expletive] unbelievable”, that summed up his feelings on the challenge. Mane then went on to score not long after, pouncing on a Trevoh Chalobah mistake to round goalkeeper Edouard Mendy and give his side the lead in the opening 10 minutes. Mohamed Salah doubled the scoreline for Liverpool, but a quickfire double from Mateo Kovacic and Christian Pulisic meant that the game was level come half-time. The Blues continued to push in the second half, but were unable to find a winner in the game. Chelsea defender Azpilicueta then discussed the match with Sky Sports after the game and was quick to mention his thoughts on the potential red card for Mane. POLL He said: “It’s a clear red. I don’t mind it it’s five seconds into the game or the first action, it’s a clear red. “He doesn’t want to challenge, he doesn’t see the ball, he just wants to hit with the elbow. I honestly don’t understand. “We have had these kind of decisions the other day. Two penalties, VAR at the end didn’t come. “Today, the first action is a clear red card and, of course, we are getting decisions against us. Of course, it could change a lot the way of the game.” Chelsea have felt aggrieved on a number of decisions going against them recently, most recently two handball shouts against Brighton in midweek that Azpilicueta mentions. Correa Nets Brace As Atletico End Losing Streak With Rayo Win Leeds United Dealt Another Injury Blow Many believed the chances should have been checked, but neither were given as penalties and now the captain believes the red card is the latest on a list of decisions against them. He continued: “Always they say what they think but in my opinion it’s not. I can understand we are promoting the challenges in the Premier League, 50-50 with the ball. “Sometimes we are seeing a joke of penalties honestly and sometimes we see real dangerous actions and we don’t take action so a lot of meetings we do every season. “We see that there are a few game-weeks where the referees become a bit softer, soft penalties, so in terms of red cards then it’s opposite because they speak, I don’t know what happens. “We don’t see the consistency even in the same game or through the season. It’s disappointing these kind of decisions, they’re clear. “I watched the replay but I didn’t need this because in life I knew this was a clear red.” The Chelsea captain was clearly frustrated following the match about the challenge, with those of a Blues persuasion believing that yet another decision from the officials has not gone in their favour.