A renowned environmental rights activist, Comrade Chief Sheriff Mulade, has charged stakeholders in the Niger Delta region, especially those in the oil and gas-bearing communities not to compromise with oil companies that do not operate in line with environmental best practices. Mulade who is the National Coordinator of Center for Peace and Environmental Justice, CEPEJ, gave the charge in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State Capital on Monday, 3rd January 2022, as a new year message. He said; “One big challenge faced in promoting growth and development in our communities is compromised from those whom we believed should fight to ensure that the needful is done. Leaders should strive at all times to work for the economic growth and advancement of the people”. BREAKING: Mulade Withdraws From Delta Governorship Race Petroleum Industry Act Holds Greater Prospects For Niger Deltans… He strongly appealed to Niger Deltans particularly leaders of oil and gas host communities, to protect and save their environment from further devastation in 2022. Chief Mulade while reacting to the oil spill at Nembe area of Bayelsa State, advised stakeholders to task oil companies to tackle the challenges of pollution in other to reverse to its original status the degraded environment of the Niger Delta Region, as well as protect and sustain the environment for future generations. “It is worthy of note that the National Oil Spill Detection and Responses Agency (NOSDRA), Nigeria Upstream Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) and other environmental regulatory agencies now seemingly appeared to be tools in the hands of multinational oil and gas exporting companies in Nigeria by compromising and taking biased actions against the local people when it comes to the need for objectively in dispensing oil spill matters because the locals have nothing to offer Government officials”, he said. Chief Mulade, urged the Federal Government and other stakeholders to prevail on the oil multinationals in 2022, to come up with urgent measures towards reversing the degraded Niger Delta environment, so as to protect the flora and fauna of the region. Speaking further, he appealed to leaders especially Ijaw Nation Congress (INC) to set up what he called Environmental Impact Assessment/Sustainability Committee to ascertain the level of degradation for recovery. POLL He said it is wrong to allow oil companies to award cleanup contracts to incompetent contractors to save costs and create divisions among the people, as there are standard procedures for carrying out oil spill cleanups globally. He, therefore, enjoined leaders in the region to ensure that oil companies adhere strictly to global best practices, instead of awarding clean-up jobs to contracting firms that lack the capacity and experience to do the job.