Lecturers in Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife have declared an indefinite strike over the failure of the university management to pay their Earned Academic Allowance (EAA). The teachers declared the strike action on Monday after an emergency congress held at the university. A statement issued after the congress by its Chairman, Dr. Adeola Egbedokun said that the union embarked on the action because of alleged unserious commitment on the part of the university to effect payment of Earned Academic Allowance to deserving members. MDCAN Begins Indefinite Strike ASUU Strike: Parents, Students Call For Quick FG Intervention He explained further that all political and diplomatic means to resolve the imbroglio between the university management and the union have failed. The union maintained that the strike will not be called off until all the demands of the union are met. The statement further said that the strike is comprehensive and payment of EAA must be based on ASUU computation. Anything short of this is unacceptable. In a swift reaction, the university management said it is not holding on to the Earned Academic Allowance of the lecturers in any way. Speaking through its Public Relations Officer, Abiodun Olanrewaju, the management said the university is ready to pay or give every eligible member their entitlement. He stressed that the university had paid the allowance to non-teaching staff but because of disagreement between the members of the academic staff which the university management want them to resolve and come up with a common position. POLL He said when that is done, the university management will release the money and give every eligible academic staff their due. The strike however not affect the Congress of Universities Academic (CONUA). ASUU and CONUA are the two academic unions that operate parallel bodies with almost similar modus operandi, even though the latter is a breakaway faction of the former. CONUA came into being in February 2018, when some aggrieved lecturers of ASUU, OAU complained of marginalization and of being unfairly treatment, a development that resulted in a splinter group that birthed CONUA the following month. CONUA which started three years ago in OAU has a tentacle in Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Federal University, OYE EKITI, Federal University Lokoja and Kwara State University, Malete.