RAJI ADEBAYO; KAZEEM AWOJOODU IBADAN  – Installation of a new Ol­ubadan may after all be delayed following a letter written to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo by a for­mer Commissioner for Jus­tice and Attorney-General in the state, Michael Lana, over issues that must be resolved before a monarch as­cends the throne. In line with the ancient procedure and laid down rules and regulations, following the exit of the Olubadan, the late Oba Saliu Adetunji, the next in line in the Ibadan traditional council is High Chief Lekan Balogun. Frustrated Heavyweight Boxer Leases Heavy Jab On Referee For… Jonathan Pays Tribute To Late Olubadan But this might not be the case as an Ibadan-born lawyer, Michael Lana, has written the state government against do­ing this. In the letter, sighted by Daily Independent, the lawyer cited various legal infractions that reportedly mean the vacant seat of the Olubadan cannot be filled by High Chief Lekan Balogun, who was already crowned as king by the late governor of the state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, except the cases he filled against the state government are withdrawn. According to the letter by Lana to Governor Makinde, “May I firstly, commiserate with you on the demise of His Royal Majesty, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso 1, the Olubadan of Ibadanland. May his soul rest in peace. “Secondly, may I humbly draw your attention to a tradi­tional aberration and illegality that may occur in an attempt to install another Olubadan of Ibadanland in view of the existence of suit no.1/22/2020 HRM Oba (Senator) Lekan Balogun & Ors Vs Governor of Oyo State & Ors. “Kindly note, Your Excel­lency, that your predecessor in office, without thinking of the legal effects of his actions on the future of Ibadan tradi­tional institution, conferred the title of Obaship on some High Chiefs and Baales and gave them the right to wear beaded crowns and coronets, in 2017. POLL “This action was chal­lenged in suit no. M317/2017- High Chief Rashidi Ladoja Vs the Governor of Oyo State. The High Court per Aiki 1 nullified the said conferment, which was actually a total con­travention of both the Chiefs Law and the Ibadan chieftain­cy customary law. “However, the Court of Appeal in Appeal No. CA/1B/99/2018 set aside the said judgment of Aiki on technical grounds without touching on the merit of the case and sent the case back for retrial. “Upon Your Excellency’s assumption of office, it was resolved that the matter be settled amicably and same was settled through the instrumen­tality of a terms of settlement which became the judgment of the court. “The said terms of settle­ment recognised the illegality of the said actions and there­fore set aside the gazettes by which the said Chiefs became Obas with a right to wear bead­ed crowns and coronets. “These High Chiefs and Baales were dissatisfied with this consent judgment and therefore instituted two sepa­rate suits to set aside the con­sent judgment while at the same time clinging to the title of Obas which actually is in contempt of court. Obiano Attaches No strings To My Governorship Election, Says… Ochi’Idoma: Gov Ortom Didn’t Victimise Anyone –CPS “One of these cases is suit no: 1/22/2020–HRM Oba (Sen­ator) Lekan Balogun & Ors Vs Governor of Oyo State & Ors. Now, may I draw Your Excellency’s attention to the fact that in committing this aberration which changed the Ibadan chieftaincy customary law, the Olubadan Chieftaincy Declaration of 1957 was not amended and therefore re­mains extant. “Under that declaration and all relevant laws, no Oba can ascend the throne of Ol­ubadan. In other words, as long as the High Chiefs still cling to the title of Oba, they cannot ascend to that throne and any installation of any of them during the pendency of that suit is illegal, null and void. “In the entire history of Ibadanland, we have never had such a situation where the legality or otherwise of the installation of the Olubadan would be an issue and this was what your predecessor did not take into consideration before venturing into an illegal jour­ney. Ibadan chieftaincy eleva­tion had always been smooth and without any rancour to the envy of all other towns. “It is in line with this legal situation that I advise, most humbly, that you should with­hold any approval of any High Chief to become the Olubadan so that you will not also join in the desecration of Ibadan chieftaincy customary law. “There are only two ways to deal with this situation: one is for the High Chiefs to withdraw the aforementioned cases and the other is to wait for the court to pronounce on it before any step is taken to install Olubadan. “If the court holds that they have the right to be Obas and entitled to wear beaded crowns, then they are perpet­ually barred from becoming another Oba. Nowhere in the customary law of any Yoruba town is an Oba elevated to be­come another Oba. “If on the other hand, the court holds that the terms of settlement stand, and their Obaship title is illegal then they are free to be elevated to the post of Olubadan. “The ball, Your Excellency, is in their court: I wish you well as you consider, as an Ibadan man and as governor, your place in history”. Meanwhile, friends, rela­tives, well-wishers as well as traditional drummers, among others, were sighted at Alli-Iwo compound of Senator Lekan Mashood Balogun, the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, to celebrate with him as the next Olubadan. Senator Lekan Balogun, as gathered by Daily Independent, is the Otun Olubadan and has been getting set for crowning as the next Olubadan. In line with the hierarchy of ascension to the throne in Ibadanland, the Otun Ol­ubadan is the next in line to mount the throne. There are two lines of as­cension to the throne of Ol­ubadan and they are the Ba­logun and Otun lines. These are the lines that are qualified and are direct beneficiaries to the throne of Olubadan, with the most senior on each line ascending the throne on rota­tional basis. The late Olubadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji Ajeoguguniso I, emerged from the Balogun line. Senator Lekan Balogun, who is from the Otun line, is the most senior and the one to succeed Oba Adetun­ji. He was promoted from Mogaji to Ajia Olubadan few decades ago, most of the well-wishers at Alli-Iwo com­pound were sighted singing and rejoicing that eventually the Olubadan stool will come back to their compound after several decades.