Akwa Ibom Coordinator of Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) Dr Aniekeme Uwah has raised public consciousness to the endemic nature of Onchocerciasis (River blindness) in four LGAs of the State. Uwah listed the affected LGAs to include Ibiono, Ini, Ika and Ikono and therefore called on stakeholders to join hands with Governments to eliminate the disease which he said are spread by blackfly. Uwah who  is the National Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA)  made the call  In a chat with newsmen in Uyo on Monday, as part of the activities to mark the 2022  World NTDs Day, celebrated every 30th of January 2023: Akwa Ibom Begins Peace Building Initiatives No Going Back on Power For All Initiative- Akwa Ibom Assures He also raised public awareness on Soil-Transmitted Helminthiasis (STH), commonly known as intestinal worms, which  he said was prevalent in all the 31 local government areas of the state. Another NTD that the medical expert reported being common in the Udung Uko Local Government Area of the state is Schistosomiasis,  commonly called snail fever with water snails as vector.. Lymphatic filariasis,  commonly called elephantiasis with mosquitoes as a vector, according to the immediate past state Epidemiologist is common in 11 local government areas. Uwah who listed about 20 neglected tropical diseases in existence and many of which have been identified in Akwa Ibom, blame the prevalent nature of these ailments on poverty, the reason they are easily identified in communities in the tropical regions. In his words “These are diseases that are commonly found in tropical and subtropical parts of the world and they are closely associated with poverty, poor housing, poor access to potable water supply, poor access to healthcare delivery. POLL “They are not really reported, probably because they don’t kill as fast as other diseases like HIV, COVID-19 and the rest. And apart from that, probably because they affect the world’s poorest, they don’t get the kind of attention they should get. “But unfortunately, these disease conditions are affecting our people. We have high morbidity even though the mortality is relatively low,  they make our people not live optimally and fulfill their destinies. Sadly,  this set of diseases is endemic in Akwa Ibom. “There are different types.  Some are endemic in all Local government areas, some are endemic in about 11 LGAs while some are endemic in about four Local government areas. “Most times we drive on the streets and see people with swollen legs or you go to the communities and see people with their swollen scrotum. “We also have some which lead to people having rashes on their skin. And these are rashes that you treat and treat and they just don’t heal, it could also lead to blindness. Akwa Ibom Seals 12 Quack Medical Laboratories Kidnapping: Youths’ Leader, Four Others In Akwa Ibom… “Most of us have heard of river blindness that is spread by blackfly. these disease conditions are there in our state,” He said Uwah lamented that in spite of the fact that these diseases affected the common people, there was no provision from governments for regular free medical services for victims. The state Coordinator, therefore, appealed to politicians, philanthropists and well-meaning Akwa Ibom people to join hands with the government to eliminate these neglected tropical diseases.. “So, if there is a condition that affects the child’s nutrition because these worms stay in the stomach of the child, they suck the nutrients the child should get. As the child is growing up, the child is not getting enough nourishment,” he explained.