***Promotes 32 Professors Kogi state Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has been awarded doctorate Degree, Honoris Causa and Alhaji Dahiru Barau Mangwai and Senator Jibrin Isah Echicho by prince Abubakar Audu University Anyigba at the sixth Convocation ceremony to hold on Saturday in Anyigba Dekina Local Government Area of the state. This is just as no fewer than 60 graduands will bag first class degrees out of over 19,000, others who will bag different classes of Degrees, higher Degrees and postgraduate diploma that spanned through six sets of the university, between 2016 to 2021. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… NYSC Trust Fund Bill: NGO Lauds Buhari, NASS Synergy On Youth… This was disclosed on Thursday by the Vice Chancellor, Professor Marietu Ohunene Tenuche during pre convocation press briefing held at the conference hall of the University, Anyigba. Professor Tenuche noted that through the massive investment of the Alhaji Yahaya Bello led administration, the university was able to secure NUC full accreditation for 24 programmes on offer saying that the university was equally ranked 25 among the 170 universities in the country. She disclosed that following the passage of the bill for the change of name by the kogi House of Assembly and assented to by Governor Alhaji Yahaya Bello, kogi state University has formally been renamed as the Prince Abubakar Audu, University PAAU , the democratic pioneer Governor of the state. The Vice Chancellor stated that the convocation lecture will be delivered by a former Vice Chancellor, and secretary general of the Association of vice chancellors professor Yakubu Aboki Ochefu, with the theme ” Education and Security challenges in Nigeria.” The VC who commended the Governor for the implementation of cash backing of promotions, stressed that his magnanimity has spuned lecturers and staff to contribute their best to teaching and learning that has brought out mutual labour relations. POLL She promised to ensure sustained linkages with international scholars and institutions so as to enhance the visibility of the University. To this end , she disclosed , that some Faculties and Departments in the University have risen to the challenge for exchange of knowledge as the Department of Computer Science in conjunction with the Society for the Advancement of ICT and Comparative Knowledge and the Faculty of Management Sciences held conferences which drew scholars from the United States, South Africa, the United Kingdom, Pakistan and other parts of Nigeria to deepen the frontier of knowledge. While commending the active sipport of the State Government , the Tertiary education Trustfund the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) , Federal Roads Maintenance Agency , FERMA the university is steadily achieving its core mandate. While rolling her achievement, she disclosed “Through such support, we have been able to complete some projects inherited from the previous administrations and commenced and completed new ones. “These include the new student hostels for male and female, the asphalt laying of the road linking the Dangana Hostel Junction and Law Faculty, equipping the Language Laboratory in the Faculty of Education, equipping the Entrepreneurial and Skills Development Centre. Why Nigerian Women Want Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 Why Nigerian Women Wants Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 “Others include the landscaping of the Law Faculty, rehabilitation of the Prince Abubakar Audu Ways with complete asphalt lay in partnership with the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) renovation of existing hostels, erection of an extension to the University Health Centre and installation of CNSL equipment at the Cashew Processing Plant. “The social vices the University is conscientiously working against include drug abuse, cultism, armed robbery, indecent dressing, among others. “In place of this, the administration has tried to channel the creative energy of students into sporting activities, theatre for community development, and productive utilisation of the internet facilities which have been provided on campus, among others.” While applauding the Governing Council ,who at her 59thRegular meeting held on Friday, 17th December, 2021, confirmed the promotion of 17 new Professors and 15 new Readers that cut across Departments and Faculties in the University. “The promotion of six of the new Professors was with effect from 1st October, 2019, while the remaining eleven had their promotion taking effect from 1st October, 2020” She informed Meanwhile, the University administrator who is the first to be appointed within the university thanked the security agencies, alumni association and individuals for their contributions to the development and sustainable peace of the university.