IBADAN – The newly ordained Chairman of Kaduna District of Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church (CSMC), Worldwide, Special Apostle Prophet Samuel Leke Samson and other ordained members of “Let’s Share The Grace” (LSG) District have been advised to see their ordination as service to humanity and an avenue to move closer to God. The advice was made by Senior Special Apostle Bisi Adedire, who represented the Spiritual Father and Chairman CSMC Worldwide Ayo ni o, Most Reverend Prophet Samuel Adefila Abidoye at the inauguration of LSG District and installation of Kaduna District new Chairman,Special Apostle Prophet Samuel Leke Samson. Apostle Adedire while delivering the sermon on a topic, “A Call To Higher Height” said ordination into various positions within the vineyard of God should be seen as a call to service but not to served. Court Declares Deductions From Federation Account For Police… 2022: Bisi Kolawole Wins Ekiti PDP Guber Primary He charged them to as well see ordination as a call to higher height accompanied with more responsibilities. According to him, “We must all know that ordination is for service not to be served. Some people think that after they have been chosen and ordained by God then people should serve them while they sit down to enjoy. It is not like that at all. “As from today, you must know that you are now into service to God and humanity. And I must tell you, service may not be so easy. It would require humility, perseverance, determination and sacrifice. Your ordination today is only telling you that you are now a servant of God called to serve His people. “I need to let you know that ordination is not for jamboree or status upgrade, it is a call to a higher height which also means higher responsibilities. For every height a man attains, there are responsibilities. “The higher you go, the more responsibilities you have. In geography, it is said that the higher you go, the cooler it becomes but spiritually and in ministry, the higher you go, the tougher it becomes. POLL “Let me implore all those who are ordained to please pay attention to the word of God. The knowledge of God and His word you carry will determine the success of your ministry. “This is the time you need more prayers because this is the time you need God’s power. You need power for you not to be overpowered by the devil.”