The Project tagged “Bauchi Opportunities for Responsive Neonatal and Maternal Health (BORN) which is a GlobalAffairs Canada-funded MNCH/SRHR project that commenced in February 2016 to June 2020 with a costed extension period of one year project (Feb 2021-Jan 2022) in Bauchi has come to an end. The BORN project which was implemented in the state by an NGO, Plan International gulped a total value of CAD15,650,694 contributing to the reduction of maternal and neonatal mortality rates among women of childbearing age. The project was implemented in 10 Local Government Areas of the State, Bauchi, Dass, Toro, Kirfi, Misau, Ningi, Darazo, Katagum, Jama’are and Gamawa in partnership with Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN) and Community Initiative for the Promotion of Health and Education Sectors (CIPHRESS). FG Strengthens Health Regulatory Agencies To Actualise Mandate –… 2023: Orji Uzor Kalu Wants Presidency Zoned To South-East According to information made available to Journalists, the goal of the BORN project was to contribute to the reduction of maternal and neonatal mortality in targeted regions among the most marginalized and vulnerable women and newborns. The goal was realized through a 3-pronged theory of change approach that increased demand and unlocked socio-cultural and engendered barriers, improved the quality and gender responsiveness of MNH: services, and addressed governance and sustainability issues. The project improved utilization of maternal, neonatal, and family planning services by women of childbearing age (WCBA), newborns, and male community members as well as Improved quality of maternal, neonatal, and family planning services for WCBA, newborn male community members; and Strengthened health governance structures to ensure high quality, gender-responsive and oriented maternal and neonatal health (MNH) services. Key Achievements of the project were measured via the improved utilisation of maternal, neonatal, and family planning services by women of childbearing age (WCBA), newborns, and male community members. It also increased the number of women of reproductive age accessing ANC services more than during their pregnancy from 57% in 2016 to 61% at the end of the project; increased the proportion of married women using modern contraceptive methods from 7% in 2016 to 26% at the end of the project in 2021. POLL The key activities carried out during the period included 82,806 households were sensitized by 2,475 Community Health Volunteers ongoing for ANC immediately after pregnancy sets in, giving birth in the health facility, going for postnatal car within 2 days of delivery and on key COVID-19 prevention protocol including social distancing, wearing of face masks washing of hands and importance of COVID-19 vaccinations. Also, Members of 100 women groups and male champions conducted 2,768 Courtyard Sessions to promote women participation in the decision-making process at the household and community level, as well as participating in the leadership of community associations and groups, including addressing negative narratives around the inferiority of women and addressing rumors and misconceptions around COVID 19 vaccination and other health-seeking behaviors.