LAGOS – During the France ‘98 FIFA World Cup, not so much hope was placed on the Super Eagles and that was quite understandable then. The pessimism among Nigerians was quite apt and was not because the country did not have a rela­tively easy qualification for that year’s Mundial. In the qualifiers for that year’s World Cup, Nigeria amassed a whopping 13 points from Group 1 that also had Guinea, Kenya and Burkina Faso. But the pessimism stemmed from the fact that there was instability and ruffling at the head of the Super Eagles at that time as late Coach Shuaibu Amodu started the qualifiers and was later shoved aside for Frenchman Coach Phil­lippe Troussier to take charge. Can Balotelli Fire Italy To World Cup? We Will Be Back Stronger – Iwobi And no sooner had Nige­ria qualified than a Serbian, Coach Bora Milutinovic, took charge and guided the country to the World Cup proper. Stakeholders were united in expressing their disaffection over the insta­bility at the coaching de­partment of the team, and doubted the ability of the players to hold their own over the development, par­ticularly with the kind of opposition Nigeria would face in the trio of Spain, Bulgaria and Paraguay at the group stage. But if there was pessi­mism on the chances of the Super Eagles to do well at the event proper, Such doubts were quashed in their very first game of the competition. Just like what happened at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) where not much confidence was placed on the Super Ea­gles given the unexpected change of guard at the helm of affairs as well as other considerations patterning their form before the AF­CON, Nigerians weren’t sure the Super Eagles would then overcome Spain with a record of more than 19 unbeaten games before meeting Nigeria. But goals from Mutiu Adepoju, Garba Lawal and Sunday Oliseh capped what was a commanding perfor­mance in that World Cup and they followed that up with a 1-0 defeat of Bulgar­ia as Victor Ikpeba grabbed the only goal of the match. Despite losing the last group game to Paraguay, the Super Eagles were assured of the top spot in Group D. But in the round of 16 and like making real the phrase ‘flash in the pan’, Nigerians were optimistic of a place in the quarterfi­nal having had to play Den­mark, a team that finished second in Group C with a paltry four points, the Ea­gles not only lost but were humiliated 4-1 by the Bri­an Laudrup-inspired Danes who tore Nigeria apart. POLL Similar scenario oc­curred as Nigeria failed to inspire when it mattered most at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), even after lifting the expec­tations of Nigerians with commanding group stage performance. Thus, after winning only one match against Maurita­nia and losing to both Mali and The Gambia, ending on three points with quali­fication for the round of 16 assured on the strength be­ing among the best losers, could anyone have predict­ed that Tunisia, also heavi­ly depleted by Coronavirus, would beat Nigeria to the quarterfinal ticket? To so many Nigerians and just like the France ‘98 episode, much was not expected from the Super Eagles at the AFCON not because the team is de­pleted or bereft of quality players. In fact, the Super Eagles as presently made up are filled to the tilt with European-based first team players. But Nigerians were pessimistic of their chances at AFCON be­cause of how the team had evolved in recent time with no clear cut pattern of play. Before going to Cameroon, the team would hardly as­sert itself in games and never played as a unit, lead­ing to Sierra Leone coming back from four goals down to pull a shock 4-4 draw against Nigeria in one of the AFCON qualifiers in Benin City, Edo State. But playing against the Pharaohs of Egypt who so many Nigerians believed were Super Eagles’ main challenger in the group, Nigeria not only asserted themselves but dominat­ed the Pharaohs to the surprise of many. That performance ignited hope and fresh optimism among Nigerians and the players justified that by defeating both Sudan and Guinea Bissau. Nigeria ended up with nine points and became the only country at the group stage to win all their matches. These factors thus tailored the favour­ites tag to the Super Ea­gles going into the round of 16 against the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia. But the giant birds of prey failed to fly, crashing the hope of millions of Nigerians in a match they were heavily favoured to win. JUST IN: Fury Set For Whyte Clash In WBC Heavyweight… Reps, Sports Ministry Disagree Over Creation Of Youths Devt… While Nigeria dominat­ed possession, they failed to create any noticeable chance as the Carthage Eagles soaked the pressure from the Super Eagles, oc­casionally hitting Nigerian on the counter. The laxity in Super Eagles’ display merely helped the Tu­nisians to grow in the game and confidence, and gradually re­laxed into the match, as Nigerian forward line, manned by Kelechi Iheanacho and Union Berlin’s Taiwo Awoniyi, failed to click or bury very few chances they man­aged to create. In the flanks, the duo of Moses Simon and Samuel Chukwueze were the shadows of themselves compared to their performances in the three previ­ous games. They were clipped as Tunisia studied their moves and relevance in the team. Like a condemned crimi­nal destined to be taking to the gallows, the defensive combo of Troost-Ekong and Kenneth Omeruo did not show enough grit and were occasionally caught napping by the Tunisian counter attacking charges. In the goalkeeping depart­ment, Maduka Okoye came for a bashing as he was accused of not doing enough in what was a direct shot at him. According to an LMC source who craved an­onymity, while speaking to our correspondent, the Super Eagles failed in their own game. The source who also came hard on Coach Austin Eguavoen, ac­cusing him of not having a plan B when the Carthage Eagles got the better of the Super Eagles in tactical approach to the match, said the entire team might have allowed their previous wins to enter their heads. “Tunisia came with a match plan. Let me take you back to our first game against Egypt; our play­ers pocketed Mohammed Salah and cut ball supplies to him, this rendered him almost non-existent or irrelevant on the field. “In that match against Tunisia, they showed that they watched our previous matches and knew where our strengths lied. “They almost completely ren­dered Moses Simon and Samuel Chukwueze useless on the night with the two players completely marked out. This is where tacti­cal approach comes in. Our coach did not come into the match with plan b and that is why when we failed in the flanks which have been our strength in the three matches we had played earlier, we cannot recover. “One lesson we should learn from this is that we shouldn’t al­low success to enter our heads. The team felt they had won the match even before entering the field,” he said. Meanwhile, recall that during a post-match conference, the Tu­nisian coach confirmed that they worked on the Nigeria wingers because they knew how danger­ous they could be. “Today we came up with tac­tics to put pressure on the Nigeri­an wingers because they are very dangerous. And we also know they have difficulties when they lose the ball,” he said. But during a chat with our correspondent, two experienced coaches in Nigeria, Kadiri Ikha­na and Godwin Izilien, came in for a defence for the team, though also blaming the attackers for not converting the fee chances they created. The coaches said what failed the team was their inabilities to convert chances as goal-scoring opportunities were created even after Alex Iwobi was red-carded. The coaches believed that though Nigeria dominated the game, the more tactical side won. Ikhana said: “There was noth­ing wrong with the match as we played very well. The only thing was that we couldn’t convert our chances; even with the red card, we still created chances. We dom­inated the game and played very well. We had the match in our hands but the chances we creat­ed, we failed to convert, giving Tunisians the room to win. Tac­tically, they played well,” he said. On his own, the former Super Falcons head coach, Izilien, said it was a game of wits between two sides. “It was a good game, a game of wits between the two teams. The more tactical side won. Tunisia were careful in the whole 90 min­ute and we were anxious to score but they won. “Simon and Chukwueze were always trying to dribble deep without trying the post. Ndidi was doing the right job but we lacked the penetrating passes that could rattle their defenders. “The right back (Ola Aina) did not threaten the goal scorer and the Tunisian had all the chances to fire the shot, which beat the goalkeeper,” he said. The coach said the officiating left some rooms for questioning, noting that Iwobi’s red card was not deserved. “On officiating, the referee saw when a Tunisian handled the ball in their 18 yard box and even Awoniyi was shown telling him that but he looked the other way. “Iwobi’s tackle was not inten­tional and you know football is a contact game. The Tunisian over­played the tackle and the referee did not take the decision right. “Tell me, what medical treat­ment was administered on him that made it a career threatening tackle? It was a shame because I knew when we posted impressive results at the group stage, all eyes would be on us. We didn’t leave Cameroon in shame. Eguavoen tried his best,” the coach said. On his own, Friday Ekpo, the team’s former midfielder and an AFCON third place winner in Senegal in 1992, said it was high time Nigerians came to the reality of the situation and plan ahead of the 2022 FIFA World Cup playoff against the Black Stars of Ghana. “What is most important now is to plan ahead because the AF­CON door is closed already. We have World Cup playoff in March and all efforts should be devoted to it now,” he responded to our correspondent when his views were sought. Meanwhile, Ghana were elim­inated at the group stage of the ongoing AFCON and will take on Nigeria in March in one of the 2022 World Cup playoff, with the aggregate winner qualifying for the first World Cup in the Middle East starting in November.