BAUCHI –The Bauchi State governor, Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has lashed out at some politicians in the state who are inciting youths to perpetrate violence and attack Emirs, saying that instead of fostering unity and peace amongst the people, they are heating up the political atmosphere of the state. Governor Mohammed stated this on Sunday during the official presentation of N7 million take-off grant/cheques to selected facilities and schools by the House member representing Darazo/ Ganjuwa federal constituency, Hon Mansur Manu Soro, held at Bauchi state University, Yuli campus. The Governor urged politicians in the stats to set aside party differences and work for the development of the state, stressing that his administration is ready to work with anyone in the state irrespective of party differences as long as the person has the interest of the state at heart. PDP Board Chairman, Senator Jibrin Launches N330m Dambam General… Bauchi Governor To New CP: Use Community Policing To Combat… “Honourable Mansur Soro has done so much within a very short time, if all our representatives can be like him, I think the state government will have little to do. This lawmaker built four hospitals, four schools, carried out empowerment of women who are our mothers and youths. We are looking for people like Mansur Soro to take over from people like us” “We want to create a movement in Bauchi state, a movement that is hinged on progress, development, impacting the well-being and the quality of lives of our people. We took over leadership with a very deplorable condition of service, especially in the public service, salaries were hardly paid, pensions were hardly paid, our primary schools were all blown off, our Primary Healthcare centers were bad, even our traditional institutions were left to wallow in want and poverty” “Some people, especially in the APC were accusing this gentleman that he is always coming to me, he has no choice if he is to perform. He asked for land and we gave it to him, he has called us here and we have come even though he is in the APC. When I came in as governor, I bought brand new vehicles for all the house of representatives members, that time, I had only one member in the house of representatives.I did that to facilitate their oversight function in the National Assembly” “The project that he is executing in his constituency is from the budget, so representation can only be made positive if you know the people and you are in touch with the people at the grassroot, local and national level. I am challenging other members of the house of representatives in the state to do what Mansur Soro is doing, not people who will cause mayhem, instigate our youths and women and stone our royal fathers” he said Speaking during the event, the House member representing Darazo/ Ganjuwa federal constituency, Hon Mansur Manu Soro, commended Governor Bala Mohammed for executing developmental projects across the state, pointing out that the interventions which cut across health, education and other sectors were meant to support some segments of the society, particularly the less privileged. POLL He said that the project was aimed at complementing the effort of the governor towards his developmental projects in the state. The Lawmaker named one of the health facilities he constructed after the wife of the Governor, the First Lady, Dr. Aisha Bala Mohammed in honour of her contribution to the development of the state. Daily Independent reports that other interventions the lawmaker executed include the distribution of 441 cell phones to women volunteers who would soon be trained in healthcare delivery in his constituency, six ambulances, newly constructed gifted schools and a special school for IDPs, Orphans and Almajiris.