LAGOS – A group, Voters Awareness Initiative (VAI), has urged Nigerians to guide against the use of sentiments, like tribe, religion, other mundane variables in electing political leaders during 2023 general elections. The group in a press statement on Tuesday signed by its President, Wale Ogunade, cautioned that Nigerians cannot continue to do things the same way and expect a different result. “We have conducted ourselves in a particular way, which is electing the same set of people using sentiments, like tribe, religion, quota, zoning, consensus and other mundane variables, to pick or select candidates for elective offices. Oyo APC: Put Party Interest Above Ambitions, Party Chieftain… 2023 Presidency: Kofa Organizes Special Prayers For Tinubu “The 2023 general elections are around the corner and it is an opportunity to turn around the fortune and future of Nigeria for the better, politically, socially, economically, morally, psychologically and all facets of the life of Nigeria,” the statement reads. VAI has warned that the electorate can’t continue this way and expect to progress, pointing out that a people that throw away merit and embrace mediocrity and sentiments cannot but retrogress. “It is only in Nigeria, that the best is rejected in the process of head-hunting for political offices, in particular. The process of head-hunting in Nigeria does not give room for the best to present themselves for leadership and when sometimes they do, the process emasculates them and scares them away. “To change this situation, we must all put our hands on deck, join hands together to partake fully in the electoral process. The time to start is now, the political train is about to move, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will soon roll out time table, there are about 18 recognised political parties and aside from two, all others have not organised their congresses and conventions, which means there is still opportunity for you to be involved in the 2023 general elections,” the statement further reads. The group also announced that it would be engaging Nigerians from time to time in the next few weeks on how to go about this journey of getting it right this time around, as it starts the official count down to the elections coming up in February 2023. POLL The statement added, “This is the time to organise and not agonise. The politicians, particularly the conventional politicians, have been organising and positioning themselves since 2020. The time to organise ourselves is now and we have to do it or we will be worse off again and the agony will be very grave. “We will not talk about the economy and security now which does not need rocket science to solve, despite being an oil-producing country, we are not enjoying this God-given resource, this is akin to the child of a meat seller having bone as meat,” the statement reads.