IBADAN – Some gunmen whose identities have not been ascertained have killed a commercial motorcyclist in Akinyele local government area of Ibadan, the Oyo state capital on Sunday. It was gathered that the motorcyclist whose identity is yet to be known was gun down by the assailants. The incident occurred in the early hours of Sunday at Labi junction, express area along the Oyo-Ibadan expressway. Kebbi Government Confirm Release Of 30 Students, One Teacher By… NAPTIP, Police Arrest Female Trafficker, Six Female Victims In… It was gathered that the gunmen killed the commercial motorcyclist by gunshot and took his motorcycle away. A source said snatching of motorcycles has become a rampant thing in the area. He however called on the security agencies to beef up security in the area. According to him, “A man was killed this morning at express road his bike was snatched. A call was put to the Chairman now, but he replied that he was at Mapo for Olubadan fidau. We need to get rid of this killing in our community. “We are calling on Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Oyo State Commissioner of Police to please intervene on this matter, we are also appealing to Oyo State Government to please save our soul”. POLL All efforts made to get a reaction from Public Relations Officer, Oyo State Police Command, Adewale Osifeso proved abortive as calls put through his mobile phone were not answered. A message sent to Osifeso asking for his reaction has not been answered as at the time of filing this report on Sunday. It could be recalled that Akinyele local government area has been witnessed series of killings and kidnapping of innocent citizens in 2020. Prominent among the cases was cases of killing of innocent citizens perpetrated by one Sunday Shodipe. Shodipe was in July 2020 arrested along with an herbalist who was believed to be the person sending the teenager to commit the crime. Police Nab 35 Year old Theft In Yobe Binniyat: 64 Days In Custody Without Bail, HURIWA Raises The… The whereabout of Shodipe who was a suspect believed to have masterminded those criminal activities has not been revealed till this moment.