ABUJA – Major General Bernard On­yeuko, Director, Defence Me­dia Operations (DMO), has disclosed that a total of 863 terrorists and their families have surrendered to troops in Banki, Bama, Dikwa, Gwoza and Gamboru towns in Borno State, within two weeks. General Onyeuko who re­vealed this during a bi-week­ly press briefing on the op­erational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, on Thursday at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja said, the surrendered terrorists comprised “136 adult males, 251 adult females and 476 children.” He said troops have ag­gressively sustained their operations on the terrorists, bandits and other criminal elements by maintaining of­fensive engagements in all theatres of operation within the country, which recorded appreciable results. BREAKING: 3SC GM, Rasheed Balogun Dies At 62 JUST IN: Potiskum Grains Market Razed Down The surrendered terror­ists, he noted, have been properly profiled and hand­ed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary actions. He also explained that troops of Operation HADIN KAI conducted various land and air operations in differ­ent locations of the theatre with renewed vigour that recorded significant results in the last two weeks. General Onyeuko said some of the operations were conducted at different locations in towns, villages and forests under Konduga, Mafa, Dikwa, Gwoza, Bama, Bayo, Kukawa, Monguno, Nganzai and Damboa LGAs of Borno as well as locations in the Sambisa forest. He said, “Troops also re­corded significant results at various locations in Adama­wa and Yobe states, around the Mandara Mountain and along Damaturu – Potus­kum road, respectively. “Notably, ground troops with the support of the Air Component aggressively foiled terrorists’ attempted infiltration into Biu town in Borno State. During the en­counter, troops neutralised scores of the terrorists and captured their gun trucks and other weapons. POLL “These operations result­ed in the elimination and arrest of several terrorists, recovery of assorted arms, ammunition, livestock and other items of security con­cern as well as rescue of ab­ducted civilians. “Furthermore, troops’ operational activities have continued to drive terrorists out of their camps into sur­rendering with their arms and families in the North East Zone of the country. “Consequently, within this period under review, troops have neutralised a to­tal of 37 terrorist elements, arrested 17 of them as well as recovered 21 assorted arms and 117 rounds of different calibres of ammu­nition, while a total of four gun trucks were captured from the terrorists. “Additionally, troops res­cued a total of 16 abducted civilians within the period.” In a related development, the Air Component of Oper­ation HADIN KAI was said to have scored devastating hits on terrorists’ strong­hold at Arina Chiki village in the Lake Chad Basin in Borno State, which result­ed in the neutralisation of scores of terrorists, while several others escaped with various degrees of injuries. Abducted Man Freed In Delta, Police Raid Kidnappers’ Den,… FRSC Records 9% Reduction In Road Crashes, 26% Reduction In… He said the feat was achieved on January 14, 2022, when on the heels of credible intelligence, a force package of NAF plat­forms were dispatched to attack the identified loca­tion which the terrorists used as venue for bi-weekly meetings. “The NAF platforms took out the terrorists in success­ful turns of airstrikes. “However, like Oliver Twist, we hereby solicit for more cooperation and understanding. Gentlemen of the press, we appreciate you for your immense sup­port and further encourage all to continue to avail se­curity forces with credible and timely information that will aid our proactive oper­ational engagements in the country,” he added.