ABEOKUTA – The National Leadership of Ijebu Youth Association, IYA, has sent an appeal to the Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, pleading for the confirmation of Prof Wole Banjo as the substantive Vice-Chancellor of Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED) Ijagun. Prof Banjo was appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of the university in acting capacity over a year ago after his predecessor, Prof Abayomi Arigbabu was appointed as the Commissioner for Education in the state. In a letter to Gov Dapo Abiodun, signed by the National President of the Association, Okikiola Fayomi, copies of which were presented to the journalists during a press briefing held at Iwe Iroyin, the secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Ogun State Council, Abeokuta, the youth group declared that Prof Banjo had so far demonstrated capacity and managerial acumen to take the ivory tower to a higher height of excellence. Ogun To Join Oil-producing States Soon, Assures Abiodun Don’t Lose Hope, Be Prayerful, Abiodun Admonishes… Addressing the press briefing, Fayomi, supported by other executives of the youth group disclosed that it was high time Prof Banjo became the substantive Vice-Chancellor of the university haven risen to the challenges of effective management of the school, the staff and its teeming students as well as other stakeholders since his appointment for over a year. Fayomi said, “Prof Wole Banjo is no doubt a thoroughbred academician of repute and administrator per excellence. He had since his appointment proved beyond reasonable doubt that he has what it takes to continue to make TASUED a reference point of excellent university education. “Our dear governor should please waste no further time to immediately approve Prof Banjo as the substantive Vice-Chancellor of the university. He has done so much for the university in his acting capacity and will surely do so much more if our governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun will graciously approve his confirmation as the substantive Vice-Chancellor of the university”. Okikiola further lauded Gov Abiodun for his massive investment and commitment to repositioning the education sector in the state saying that the youth group would also leave no stone unturned to ensure that his second term bid suffered no hitch.