BENIN – No fewer than 100 women and youths in Ovia Federal constituency of Edo State were on Saturday provided with starter packs containing 50 birds, 12 bags of boiler starter mash, finisher and other items. The empowerment programme was facilitated by the representative of the constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Dennis Idahosa in collaboration with the Nigeria Institute of Animal Science. The lawmaker said that distribution of the empowerment items under the Strategic Empowerment of Youths and Women in Ovia followed as intensive training on poultry by the beneficiaries. Ondo Partners FG To Provide Grants For MSMEs RED ALERT: New Ransomware Attacking Organisational Networks… He noted that the objective is to make the beneficiaries be self-sustenance, wealth creation as well as income generation. Idahosa reiterated his commitment to continue to attract empowerment programmes and development to the constituency. According to him, “You will recall that a few weeks ago, I distributed motorcycles and vehicles to over 180 members of my constituency. “I will continue to do my best to put smiles on the faces of my people by attracting dividends of democracy to the people.” A beneficiary, Mrs Maureen Ekhoragbon, who described Idahosa as a “working representative and transformational leader” said Ovia federal have never had it this good. POLL She said aside from making the women and youths to be entrepreneurs, it would also boost the confidence of the women especially. A chieftain of the party and also a poultry farmer, Mr Amadin Enabulele noted that the gesture is sustainable empowerment for the youths and women. He said Idahosa has continued to positively impact the development and growth of Ovia and its people. “We have had representatives in Ovia, but it has never been like this, Idahosa has changed the narrative. The coming election will be termed operation shoe your results,” he stated. The distribution of the empowerment items was supervised by Mr Umoh Umoh, Zonal Development Officer, South-South Zone of the Nigeria Institute of Animal Science.