There are two types of soul winning in the Bible, personal soul winning and mass soul winning. Act 2:14, 41. Paul thought publicly, and from house to house Act 20:20. We have observed that despite numerous posters printed and considerable amount of money and energy expanded on the church growth, the results and the efforts put on it have not yielded much expected fruits. Every Christian Is A Soul Winner C&S Addressing Long Hours Of Service – Apostle Churches Should Probe Members’ Wealth – Matilukuro In the divine programme of God, every believer is expected to be a soul winner: “And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you fishers of men” Mark 1:17 “And He said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature” Mark 16:15 “For it is written in Mark 16 vs 15, Jesus said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. Meaning that I and you is a must to preach the gospel, nobody is exempted, we should all, everybody should go and preach the word of God to all Creatures i.e. to everybody living on the surface of this earth, we should tell them about who Jesus Christ is, in another Language, we should make Jesus Christ known to everybody that He is the Lord and the Saviour of the world, he is the Kings of Kings and the Lords of Lords, and in verse 17 says “He that believeth in Jesus Christ and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not, Jesus shall be damned and in verse 17 says, if you believe the Lord Jesus automatically these signs shall follow them that believe, he did not end there, he also told them that, in my name, I mean in the name of Jesus Christ they shall cast out devils, not only cast out devils but they shall speak with new tongues i.e. another language you cannot understand and they shall take up serpents and it would not bite them. No wonder Apostle Paul said in Romans I verse 15 – 16 has this to say – I am ready to preach the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ and in verse 16: has this to say for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ for it is the Power of God unto Salvation to everyone that believeth. “Ye shall be witness unto me” Act 1:8 POLL Right from the beginning to the time of His ascension, Christ impressed it upon his followers that they were going to be soul winners, individually and collectively. While the apostles were in Jerusalem, the disciples who were “scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word” Act 8:1-4. In Matthew 4:19, Jesus likened Soul Winning to fishing. “And he said unto them, follow me and I will make you fishers of men.” In Matthew 4:17-18, it is written: “From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, repent for the Kingdom of heaven is at hand, and in verses 18 has this to say and Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw the brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishers, i.e. meaning that Peter and Andrew were fishermen and Jesus called them and said to them; follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And they immediately left their nets and followed Jesus Christ. Jesus called James and John in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets and he called them and they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him. The bottom line is that when the Lord call you, immediately you have to follow him, no excuse and by so doing your heaven is open. That is why God has called us to serve him and to tell others about our Lord Jesus Christ, no wonder John the Baptist was telling people about Jesus Christ. No wonder we were told in the book of Matthew, 4 verse 25, “And they followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and from De-capolis and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea and from beyond Jordan. Ironically when you are going out for soul winning, you need to have some bait that you will attract the fish to you before you catch it in your net or hook. This is the same way we must approach soul winning. If you make it obvious while approaching the gospel, they are likely to put up a front, but if you approach them with a possible point of interest and they warm up to you, then you can present the gospel to them. For it is written in the book of Acts 17 verses 22 – 26, Paul wanted to win a community for God. Having noticed that they were already ignorantly worshipping God at an altar dedicated to “THE UNKNOWN GOD” he decided to start when you want to preach to someone, find out their interest or curiosities first, then start from there. If you approach a person to discuss his or her area of interest, you would definitely get their attention and then you can present the gospel to them. Prayer points Conscience The Unquestionable And Compassionate God That Needs To Be Served 1.O lord give me fire to preach the gospel of Christ to people, in Jesus name. 2.My father, I need your power from above, to win soul for Christ, in Jesus name. 3.O lord as I win soul for Christ, let my heaven open, in Jesus name. 4.O Lord as I win soul for Christ, connect me with signs and wonders, in Jesus name. 5. Thank you Jesus for answering my prayers.        