LAGOS – After almost a year of delay, AFCON 2021 kicked off on Sunday, January 9, 2022 when host nation Cameroon welcomed the stallions of Burkina Faso. Two days later, Nigeria faced Egypt in the first game of Group D with the Super Eagles emerging triumphant after Kelechi Iheanacho scored the only goal of the game in the 30th minute. As the official communications partner of the Nigeria Football Federation, MTN Nigeria’s Chief Executive Officer, Olutokun Toriola, is effusive and confident in the ability of the players and staff to go all the way to the final, “We are committed to supporting the Super Eagles, we trust the team and we believe that our players will make the country proud in Cameroon. We are relentlessly backing them to bring home the trophy.” He also restated his support for the Amaju Pinnick-led administration and the coaching crew, “We trust the knowledge and leadership qualities of the president of the Nigerian Football Federation and the coaching crew. They have shown incredible commitment to the team. He has a clear vision, and we will support him in every way to bring his vision to fruition.” Winning Supercopa El Clasico Can Be Turning Point For Barcelona… Ronaldo’s Former Team-Mate Says Man Utd Star Is… MTN Nigeria signed a three-year multi-million naira partnership deal with the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) On September 2, 2021. The communication firm became the official communications partner for the Super Eagles and other National Teams. However, MTN has long supported the Super Eagles before the official documentation. They have been pushing the Super Eagles and voicing their support for the team. Earlier last year, the mobile communication giant provided two 24-seater boats for the Super Eagles trip to Porto Novo to face the Republic of Benin. A gesture which the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) President Amaju Pinnick thanked them for. MTN replied by reiterating their support and belief in the squad. Augustine Eguavoen is the man currently leading the country’s charge as the interim head coach for the tournament. Former Venezuela manager Jose Peseiro has been announced as the head coach, but he will only take over after the tournament.