Arsenal will attempt to sell Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to Barcelona before they push through a deal to sign Dusan Vlahovic, according to reports. Aubameyang is currently with the Gabon squad at the Africa Cup of Nations. But he has no future at the Emirates and has been told he can leave this month. Aubameyang was stripped of the Arsenal captaincy last month by Mikel Arteta. He was punished after another breach of discipline and has not featured in a match-day squad since. Newcastle United Push Atalanta For Gosens Benitez Says Everton Future ‘Not In My Hands’ After Norwich… Arsenal are strongly linked with a move for Fiorentina star Vlahovic. The Gunners want to get a deal done for the Serbia star in this window. However, the Daily Star says Arsenal want to move Aubameyang on first. Barcelona have a long-standing interest in the 32-year-old striker. Arsenal have made contact with the La Liga giants to see if they would like to sign him. POLL Barca are still in major financial difficulty and will have to sell some players before making big additions to the squad. Newcastle are also a potential destination for Aubameyang on loan. Arsenal want Aubameyang out of the club as they aim to focus on finishing in the top four this season. Vlahovic is their top target to replace Aubameyang. The 21-year-old has scored 16 goals in 20 Serie A appearances so far this season. He scored 33 goals in 2021, equalling Cristiano Ronaldo’s all-time record for a calendar year in Serie A. Norwich Beats Everton To Pile More Pressure On Benitez Diego Costa Makes Feelings Clear About His Next Club Vlahovic’s contract at Fiorentina is set to expire in the summer of 2023. Club chiefs have repeatedly stated the forward is not willing to sign an extension. The Daily Star claims Arteta wants to sign a target man and Vlahovic fits the bill. Arsenal would likely face further competition for his signature if they wait until the summer. That is because Fiorentina would likely accept a lower fee due to his contract situation. Aubameyang may not be the only striker to leave Arsenal in 2022. Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah are both out of contract at the end of the season. Arteta is adamant he wants Nketiah to stay but the academy graduate has rejected all renewal offers so far. The former England under-21 international is keen to move on to get more regular game time.