ABUJA – The lull witnessed over the years in the dunking game of basketball gave way to jubilation as the much anticipated 2022 edition of Mark D Ball Basketball Championship got underway inside Indoor Sports of the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja on Saturday with Sunshine Angels of Akure overpoweringHotcoal Slizzers of Abuja 28-20. Already 16 teams are on ground for the Basketball festival with women playing for 8 days while the Men dunk for a total of 12 weeks. An excited Igoche Mark Coordinator of the Championship, who addressed the participants, expressed joy that life has finally returned to the courts and that basketball is bouncing again in Abuja courts , as he urged the players to make the most of the tournament. Djokovic To Be Deported From Australia After Losing Appeal Djokovic Detained Again In Australia, Declared Public Threat He gave insight into the vision behind the New Face of Basketball Project, noting that the project is focused on the reviving the domestic component of the slam and dunk game and unite disparate basketball stakeholders. “The championship we are starting is just the young talents a chance to play and then we take it from there. For me I want to see how the players can play as many games as possible. In the NBA for example,in the regular season they play up to 82 games. Even though we cannot play up to 82 games ,but let’s play something close in a season. “That’s the whole idea, that’s what we are trying to do. So my message to all basketball stakeholders is let’s come.together. the reason why we are basketball stakeholders is because we love the game of basketball. “So we have something in common, just like the team playing right now. You might be in the court and for some reason, you don’t like me .but if we want to win, if I’m free, you have to throw the ball to so that I can score.” Basketball is a team game . Also our success has to be team effort. I urge all basketball stakeholders, let’s come together let’s join hands let’s develop this game we so love.” POLL Prior to the opener, players of all the 16 participating teams, aptly dressed in fitting branded Mark D Ball tops as file out before cheering spectators unto the Court of the Multi Purpose Indoor Sports Hall At his unvieling last, where he declared his intention to run for the President of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF); Igoche assured on his determination to reflate basketball which not been bouncing for a long time, using the ongoing “Mark D Ball, the New Face of Basketball in Nigeria”.as.linchpin . According to him the championship is not going to be a one-off, pointing out that many sponsors who believe in his vision are supporting the project . “The turn out has been massive, everybody is happy to play. Effective planning is key, we put a whole lot to planning. We have a lot of sponsors who still believe that Nigeria basketball can still rise again, we approached them and they obliged our request”, Mark added.