LAGOS – The Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria, OAAN, has decorated two of the leading traditional leaders as National Patrons. They are the Arole Oduduwa, Olofin Adimula, Oonirisa Eniitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife and the Sarkin Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero. The colourful event which took place recently at the palaces of the two eminent traditional personalities was a follow-up to their unanimous appointment by the Association in 2021. Speaking at each of the colourful ceremonies Chief Emmanuel Ajufo President of OAAN had informed the traditional rulers that members were unanimous in their selection and appointment, which was in recognition of the fact that as custodians of the traditions and cultures of the nation, they occupied a pedestal that positioned them as a formidable rallying point, for peace and national unity which are essentials of national economic growth. JUST IN: Gunmen Abduct Ex Speaker’s Mom In Kano Police Seals Venue For Anti Corruption Lecture In Kano Ajufo informed each of the newly decorated National Patrons that OAAN member companies operate their businesses across the country, hence the Association’s interest at ensuring the promotion of peaceful coexistence everywhere in the nation. Ajufo also informed the Onirisa and the Sarkin Kano that OAAN members held them highly as epitomises of wisdom and would henceforth be looking on to them as fathers in the hope of getting fatherly guidance from them on every issue of concern. He added that the decision to honour the traditional rulers was influenced by the Association’s conviction that such a step would ultimately be in the best interest of OAAN and the practice of Outdoor Advertising in the country. Ajufo said the emergence of the first class traditional rulers as national patrons for OAAN is because the out-of-home business is routed in every area of the country and there was the need to give members who are in various parts of the country sense of belonging. POLL “Traditional rulers are individuals with high-level integrity with wisdom that we can tap from because our businesses are routed in every part of the country and so, we got to relate with the cultures of the country. “Therefore, it is in demonstration of our high regard for the traditions and cultures of Nigeria that we are identifying with those that are custodians of those values,” he said. The traditional rulers were also unanimous in their response, and the two royal fathers pledged their support which include helping OAAN overcome problems that the industry is facing.They both also urged OAAN to use their platforms to educate Nigerians on the importance of peaceful coexistence among Nigerians. They both acknowledged the power of the outdoor advertising media platforms and urged members to deploy such in fostering brotherly love across the Country. The Ooni’s charge was that “because your platforms are always out there it is easy for people to relate with the messages on them, and that makes the veritable platforms to also teach people about the cultural values of Nigeria and to address some social vices and inculcate virtues that make up good neighborliness”. Kano Court Sentenced ‘Yahoo Boy’ To One Year… NGO Dole Out Over N600k To Widows, Orphan, Vulnerable In Kano The Oonirisa Eniitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife, promised to support members of the Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria, OAAN in all areas that will help them achieve both their corporate and individual goals. He also encouraged them to seek ways to adopt technology in order to boost their business and enhance their continued relevance in the marketing communication industry. The Sarkin Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero who expressed appreciation for the appeal and decoration also pledged to support the Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria, OAAN in every way possible to help members achieve their corporate objectives. He also charged the Association to at all times seek to contribute to the promotion and propagation of peaceful cooperation and coexistence in the country. He however urged OAAN to use their platforms to promote unity among Nigerians, saying: “it is when there is the unity that there can be peace; and it is in an atmosphere of peaceful coexistence among the various groups in any nation that businesses can thrive productivity, fruitfully and profitably. He commended the Association for recognising traditional rulers as custodians of native wisdom and the cultural values of the nation; and for appointing them as National Patrons. At the Ooni‘s palace, Chairman Board of Trustees of the Association Mr. Kole Ademulegun gave a brief history of OAAN saying that the more-than-50-years-old Association had had a chequered trajectory.The President was joined at Oonirisa’s Palace at Ile Ife by Otunba Kole Ademulegun and Mr. Charles Chijide (respectively Chairman and Secretary of the OAAN BoT) as well as Sola Akinsiku the General Secretary and Tunde Oyekan, the Publicity Secretary. He was also joined on the trip to Sarkin Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero’s palace by a member of the Board of Trustees, Alhaji Danladi Yaro and a Kano-based member of the Association, Alhaji Yusuf Ibrahim. The General Secretary and the Publicity Secretary were also with him.