JOS – Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong at the weekend charged Nigerians to be circumspect and deliberate in their choice of public office holders by supporting candidates who have the fear of God and respect for humanity. Governor Lalong stated this at the 1st General Assembly of Catholics in Politics and Catholic Business Leaders in Abuja. Lalong said Nigerians of all faiths must fully participate in the political process before, during and after elections by ensuring that candidates that vie for public office possess godly principles that will guide them to govern with the fear of God and do justice to all. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… 2023: Bauchi People Don’t Want Me To Go For Presidential… He said bringing Catholic politicians and captains of industry under one roof to discuss their roles in the Nigerian project at this particular time is very significant, because the nation is in dire need of godly men and women to champion the rebirth that will lead Nigeria to achieving its national aspirations. The Governor said Christians and indeed Catholics are taught to follow the principles laid out by God in the Bible and the examples left by Jesus Christ, such that they will always make a difference wherever they find themselves. He emphasized that the forum provides the participants an opportunity to discuss the challenges confronting Nigeria such as insecurity, corruption, violence, diseases, poverty, and poor infrastructure with a view to peer-reviewing one another and giving stewardship of their responsibilities in various offices. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo commended the Catholic Church for organising the General Assembly which is in line with its long tradition of speaking truth to power and creating consciousness among citizens. He said the theme of the meeting is hinged on Catholic social teaching which harps on the common good as a basis for public service and governance. POLL Osinbajo said the pursuit of the common good pushes people in or out of positions of authority, to seek equal treatment, fairness, justice, and human rights of others outside their ethnic, religious, political and other affiliations. He said raising leaders with such qualities in Nigeria will require that parochial interests are put aside in all leadership recruitment processes. This he argued cannot be achieved accidentally because Christians have to fully participate and commit to build bridges across religious, ethnic, social and economic lines. Guest Speaker Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Mathew Hassan Kukah represented by Rev. Fr. Raymond, speaking on the theme “Moral Principles in Catholic Teachings and the Nigerians Political Business Life”, said the Catholic social teaching prescribes that participantion in governance is beyond elections. He said leaders, particularly those who profess to be men and women of faith must live sacrificially, shun evil, love one another, embrace honesty and righteousness as well as remember always that heaven is their goal as their lives on earth are tenured. He warned politicians to desist from using the Church for personal and selfish political gains, stating that the Church is not a political party and embraces candidates of all political parties who are God fearing and ready to serve honestly and build a better nation. 2023: My Presidency, Solution To Biafra Problems -Mazi Ohuabunwa My Aspirations Is To Champion Cause Of Youths In Nasarawa… Deputy Governors of Edo, Osun, Cross Rivers State as well as the Senator representing Plateau South Senatorial District, Dame Nora Dadu’ut gave goodwill messages at the event.