LAGOS – Hon. Moshood Salvador, a chieftain of ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Moshood Salvador has charged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to be alive to its responsibilities by checking the activities of the commercial banks which engage in extorting their customers. The APC chieftain in a press conference yesterday maintained that the regulatory bank no longer monitors the activities of commercial banks’ customer relations, thereby giving room for the banks to keep extorting poor customers of their hard-earned resources through various unregulated bank charges. Salvador, who is a former member of the House of Representatives, made the call while addressing newsmen at his Surulere residence, saying such practice whereby banks remove frivolous charges from the meagre salaries of their customers, “with a daily rise in dollar rate,” must not be allowed to continue. CBN To Improve Access To Credit For Households, Businesses In… Bureau De Change Operators Beg CBN To Lift Forex Ban This was just as the APC chieftain faulted the CBN on his pronouncement that the inflation rate in the country stands at 18per cent, expressing surprise at such declaration, giving the daily rise in the prices of products and services in Nigeria. “The CBN governor needs to be called to order as banks customer relationship is not monitored again. “This gives all banks the opportunity to keep extorting poor customers of their hard-earned resources. “Imagine COT was removed but replaced with management fee which is never charged elsewhere in the world. Their responsibilities include protection and safekeeping of customers’ funds,” he said. Salvador, who is also a former chairman of the Lagos chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), recalled the case whereby an alleged sum of N755,000 was fraudulently withdrawn from a customer’s account via cyber shopping. POLL According to him, the bank involved only provided the particulars, including pictures, phone number, ID card, the bank account of the fraudster to his customer to pursue the case by himself, saying the affected bank only did this, claiming that “the customer was careless with his ATM Card. “This is the same ATM Card that you provided for POS transactions. Then how can the customer be more careful when he has to give the card to a 3rd party for POS transaction? he queried. “I think the point is that banks should be ready to take responsibility of the lapses in their choice of technology. “Furthermore, they should be ready to fight cybercrime with the support of the customers,” the party chieftain said. Salvador, while noting that the frivolous charges by banks were part of problems causing inflation in the country, said he was surprised to see the CBN talking of inflation rate at 18per cent. CBN-imposed Challenges In Accessing Forex Affect Business… Extortion: FG Threatens To Sanction Security Agencies “I am surprised to see the CBN talking of inflation rate at 18 percent “The chlorine I bought for N500 per kg in January 2021 is now N2,600, a bag of rice we bought for N18,000 in January 2021 is now N32,000. “A 25kg of gari in January 2020 was N10,000, now it is N28,000, etcetera. “Then, how come the inflation rate is 18%? Nigerians don’t deserve to be treated like this. The CBN must rise up to its responsibility,” he said.