Impressed by the Kaduna Urban Renewal Project of Governor Nasiru El-Rufai’which has given the state a facelift, the Director General of Jamoh Support Groups (JSG), Mohammed Salihu has commended the governor for his commitment and keeping to his promise of transforming the state. The group also recommended the person of Dr Bashir Yusuf Jamoh as the next governor of Kaduna State. Speaking with SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, Mohammed Salihu, said: “His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Kaduna State has kept to his word of transforming Kaduna state into a modern city that can stand the test of time, and that is the new facelift the Governor is giving to the state.” Akpabio Urges Electorate To Re-elect Performing Officeholders Tanker Explosion: Soludo Commiserates With Victims He stated that the JSG is very much aware of the institutional transformation of his Excellence to enable effective service delivery to the good people of the state, Kaduna State. The Director General noted that rehabilitation and rebuilding of schools in the state have effectively increased the number of enrollment of pupils and students in schools which have also helped in raising the confidence of parents and believing in the public educational system. “His Excellency has displayed leadership with style, courage, humility and fearlessness, Kaduna State has never had it this good in any governance since 1999 to date,” Salihu stated. He advised the El-Rufai’s administration that in order to sustain the growth and development of the state, it is very important that Kaduna consider for itself a good patriot, a servant, a foresight man and a believer of transformation for the state. Mohammed Salihu told SATURDAY INDEPENDENT that “Dr Bashir Yusuf Jamoh is the right person for this continuity and transformation. POLL “It will be continuity and consolidation focused on sustainable development and infrastructural development. He disclosed that “Dr Jamoh has all it takes because he remains a visionary leader who shares the same attributes of development, integrity, courage, resilience and intellectual know-how as Mallam Nasir El-Rufai. “Bashir will take Kaduna to greater heights and united,” he assured. SATURDAY INDEPENDENT learnt that there has been speculations in different quarters that Jamoh is likely to succeed Governor El-Rufai for his dedication and passion for the upliftment of the people and the state.