AKURE – Immediate past governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, has been challenged in court over his current status as the leader of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Mimiko, who defected to the party from Zenith Labour Party(ZLP) in October 2021 after four PDP governors visited him in his residence in Ondo city, was sued on Monday by a member of the party who is also the Coordinator of PDP Support Group (PSG), Mr Bode Obanla. He filed the suit in a State High Court in Akure praying the court to bar the two-term former governor from assuming the leadership position of the party on grounds that he had dumped the party when members needed him most. Remembrance: Military Men Make Unquantifiable Sacrifices,… School Resumption: Oyo Govt Not Impressed With Low Turnout In the suit filed by the applicant through his attorney, Messrs Kalu Kalu Agu and Oladimeji Oyesusi, the court is sought to declare Mimiko as an ordinary member of the party based on the dictates of Chapter two Article 17 of the Constitution of the party. Obanla had prayed for “a declaration that Mimiko is not entitled to be accorded the seniority and privileges attendant to his status as a former Governor in his membership of Ward Executive Committee, Local Government Executive Committee, State Executive Committee and the National Caucus in that he was not a Governor produced by the PDP not having won any Governorship Election under the party.” He, therefore, sought for an “order of perpetual injunction restraining Mimiko from holding out himself or parading himself as a member of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the PDP as established in chapter four article 13 (1) and 31(1) (w) of the constitution of the PDP. Also sought is “an order of perpetual injunction restraining the Dr Ayu, NWC and Adams from granting the Mimiko the seniority and privileges attendant to the status of a former Governor produced by the PDP, as provided in the Constitution of the PDP and in particular from being a member of the National Executive Committee of the party established in Chapter 4 Article 13 of the Constitution of the party.” The applicant had claimed that Mimiko had on December 8, 2006 relinquished his post as the Minister of Housing, Lands and Urban Development in the President Olusegun Obasanjo-led government, and defected from the PDP to Labour Party (LP) the platform on which he contested and won the governorship election in the state. POLL He added that Mimiko won his second tenure on LP but returned to PDP towards the end of his second term. The applicant emphasised that Mimiko dumped PDP again in 2017 and joined ZLP where he contested and lost Central Senatorial seat in 2019 general elections. He claimed that Mimiko could not assume position of a leader in the party on grounds that he had never contested any elective position on the platform of the party. Joined in the suit as respondents are the National Chairman of PDP, Dr. Iyochia Ayu, members of the National Working Committee (NWC), State Chairman of the party, Hon Fatai Adams, members of the State Working Committee and the PDP. The court is yet to fix a date for the hearing of the suit.