LAGOS – Scores of Customs Officers were on Thursday attacked by alleged smugglers in a village along the Sokoto/Illela border, destroying a patrol vehicle. However, no Customs officer was killed, maimed, or wound­ed during the attack which occurred at a Customs Check Point in Asara Village along the Sokoto/Illela Border Road a patrol van belonging to the of­ficers and other seized vehicles were burnt. According to a statement made available to journalists by the Command Public Rela­tions Officer (CPRO), Assistant Superintendent of Customs (ASC1), Balarabe Yusuf, the attack was the aftermath of a vehicle carrying contraband items, tried to evade Customs officers’ stop and check at the point, by Team A of the com­mand. Buhari Inaugurates NNPC Board, Outlines Guidelines For… NIA DG Never Failed Promotion Examination – ONSA “The team A, based on in­telligence discovered that the car was carrying contraband goods and in effort to evade being stopped and searched, an accident occurred as there was a head-on collision with anoth­er oncoming vehicle from other direction. “Only one passenger in the bus and not four persons died during the accident where one officer also narrowly escaped being knocked down by the vehicle at the scene of the acci­dent. Others, however, sustained various degrees of injuries,” the Customs spokesperson said. “In the new, officers of the Nigeria Customs Service, Sokoto/Zamfara States Com­mand’s mobile Team ‘A’ based on credible intelligence of some smuggled goods, mounted a stop and search operation at Asara village along Sokoto Illela Road. “At about 08.00hrs a vehicle, Toyota Avensis with tinted glass believed to be conveying smug­gled items was flagged down for search but the driver upon sight­ing officers tried to escape and in the process almost knock down one of the officers who quickly jumped out of his way. “However, some unscrupu­lous elements who disguised as sympathisers mobbed our officers at the point and in the process set one patrol vehicle and a car belonging to one of the officers ablaze,” Balarabe said. POLL “In order to curtail the situ­ation from further escalation, the Customs Area Controller, Comptroller Abdulhameed Ma’aji sent a reinforcement team who succeeded in restor­ing law and order in the area.