The Nigerian debt capital market (DCM) provides the opportunity for institutions looking to unlock the required financing in Nigeria’s agriculture sector. In keeping with its mandate to continuously enhance its service offerings and generate long-term value for its stakeholders in the Nigerian DCM, FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited through its Board Listings and Markets Committee, has approved the registration of the Babban Gona Farmer Services Nigeria Limited N15.00 billion Commercial Paper (CP) Programme on its platform. Babban Gona Farmer Services Nigeria Limited is a social enterprise that seeks to sustainably improve the lives of smallholder farmers in Nigeria through the provision of comprehensive farming services. Bolarinwa Emerges President Of ACAMB DisCos Must Go EKEDC As Case Study Mr. Bukola Masha, the Managing Director, Babban Gona Farmer Services Nigeria Limited, while speaking on the successful registration of the CP Programme, stated, “we are an agricultural franchise committed to curbing the growing trend of poverty and violence in Africa by creating opportunities of dignified and fulfilling work for the rural farmer youths. “We aim to make farming more profitable for smallholder farmers as we support them across the entire production chain. With the successful registration of this N15.00 billion CP Programme, we are a step closer to achieving this goal; we are delighted at the opportunity to diversify our short-term funding sources and look forward to the participation of the investment community when we launch Series 1 of the CP Programme”. Mr. Abimbola Kasim, the sponsor of the CP Programme and a Registration Member of the Exchange, FCMB Capital Markets Limited, through its Acting Managing Director, also commenting, said: “FCMB Capital Markets is pleased to have sponsored the registration of the Babban Gona CP Programme. Babban Gona is an impact company, operating in the agriculture space by providing practical and innovative solutions to smallholder farmers, leveraging technology to make farming more profitable by creating millions of youth jobs and stimulating strong economic growth.