AKURE – One of the presidential aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, has declared that if he won the presidential ticket and the election in 2023, the Biafra feud would be over. He stated that if the electorate could vote for him in the 2023 general elections, he would unite all the ethnic nationals in the country more than ever. Ohuabunwa gave the assurance at weekend in Akure, Ondo State capital, while on a courtesy visit to the secretariat of the state chapter of PDP where he met members of a socio-political group, the New Nigeria Group. 2023: APC N’West Legislators Drum Support For Yahaya Bello… 2023: PDP Accuses APC, FG Of Hiding Under Fuel Subsidy Scam To… He dismissed as spurious, the speculations that if any Easterner should become president of the federation, s/he would bulkanise the country and allow the creation of Biafra Republic, saying Easterners were more comfortable with united Nigeria. The former President, Nigerian-American Chamber of Commerce (NACC) and Chairman, Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), pointed out that the 1967 civil war history was distorted to portray the Igbo and Southeast people in a bad light, which had led to recurring injustice, pogrom and marginalization. He said: “The Southeast didn’t want to break Nigeria, the civil war was not because the South East wanted to break Nigeria. I fought in that war as a young army officer. The persons that want Nigeria together more than others are the Igbo. “If you take all of us here, the person that wants a united Nigeria is the Igbo man; not by word of mouth but practice. Most communities in Nigeria, after the indigenous community, are the next. “And if they come, they don’t come with bags just to do business and go, they buy land, build houses, some get married, train their children in local names. Over time, you can’t differentiate them, that is their nature. POLL “They killed them hundred times in Kano State and they are back in Kano; same in Sokoto and they are back. Are these the people who want to break the country? It is not in the interest of the Igbo to break Nigeria, they are global citizens. “If I become President of Nigeria, it will finally settle the Igbo problem because I won’t maltreat the Igbos, being an Igbo. If they are quarreling with Nigeria, they will suspend it. “They will have the consciousness that we are part of Nigeria now. It will increase the unity of Nigeria and bring more peace. Igbo Presidency cannot and will not lead to breaking up Nigeria, it will be actually the antidote and panacea to such threat. “Nigeria will become a first-world nation where all the citizens live in harmony, are treated equally to achieve peace and prosperity for all. A nation that works for all.”