KANO – Former House Minority leader, Abdurrahman Suleiman Kawu Sumaila on Wednesday said it would be a disservice to the ruling All Progressives Congress to allow former President Goodluck Jonathan to fly its flag in 2023. Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila, a former ranking member of the National Assembly explained that Jonathan had played his role and should be left alone. Kawu in a statement he personally signed that was made available to INDEPENDENT in Kanosaid APC has candidates with better credentials from the southern part of the country. Jonathan Condoles With Tofa Family 2023: Northerners Will Never Betray Tinubu – DOJ He described Jonathan backers as “enemies within adding that APC has qualified and credible candidates from the southern part who can eminently contest for the APC presidential ticket in 2023. “I don’t think those pushing for Jonathan to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari under our great party wish the APC well. Yes, Jonathan is a reformed democrat who deserves our commendation. “But he had played his own role under the PDP. Nobody will take away the credit of conceding defeat as a sitting president and handing over power to the opposition peacefully from Jonathan. As a matter of fact, he is better than some of the people in our party. “However, we cannot as a party say Jonathan should come and pick our presidential ticket when we have better candidates in our midst. That will mean we have failed,” he said. POLL Kawu said if APC is interested in giving his presidential ticket to the southern part of the country, there are stalwarts of the party that contributed immensely to the success of the party. For example, he said, from the South-South, the likes of Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who served as the Director General of the APC presidential campaign twice should be considered. He said Amaechi is a team player that has demonstrated good leadership during his assignment as the DG twice, noting that has all it takes to lead the country better than Jonathan. Also, Kawu said from the South Westel, Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who has proved to be a worthy deputy to President Buhari since 2015 is eminently qualified to succeed his principal. He noted that Osinbajo has good knowledge of how to lead the country haven worked closely with President Buhari. 2023: Tinubu Has Edge Over Osinbajo – Jibrin Kofa 2023: Ebonyi Senator Declares Interest In Governorship Position From the South East, Kawu said the Minister of State for Education, Chief Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, who has made a lot of sacrifices and made significant contributions to make the APC gain acceptance in his region has the credentials to be nominated as APC presidential candidate. He said apart from having the age on his side, Chief Nwajiuba is a silent achiever as a politician of repute. Kawu added that the era of imposition has gone forever, hence the few people calling for Jonathan’s candidature should be careful. “We cannot be talking about Jonathan when we have these people in our midst. Let them know that Nigerians know what they are doing.,” Kawu said.