Dele Alli is reportedly set for a shock deadline day move to Everton on a FREE TRANSFER. Alli will join up with the Toffees on a two-and-a-half-year deal, according to the Telegraph. Everton will then reportedly stump up just £10m for Alli after he has played 20 games for the club. Chelsea Have Ousmane Dembele Transfer ‘99%’ Wrapped… Sociedad Knock Back Arsenal’s Deadline Day €70m Bid For… Toffees new boss Frank Lampard has got his wish after asking his new Goodison Park chiefs to try and sign the fallen Spurs and England star. The move will be a permanent one, as the Merseysiders have already taken up their loan quota. Alli’s transfer is subject to a medical, which is pencilled in to take place in the coming hours. After being officially confirmed as new Everton boss on deadline day, Lampard is quickly making moves in the transfer market. Donny van de Beek will also be announced as an Everton player later today after agreeing a loan move from Manchester United. POLL And Alli is likely to be confirmed too should the medical take place without a hitch. Alli, 25, took the Premier League by storm after Spurs snapped him up from Milton Keynes Dons for a bargain £5m in 2015. But having established himself as a Prem star, twice being named Young Player of the Year and being part of England’s historic 2018 World Cup, his career has gone on the slide in recent seasons. He was linked with a move to Newcastle earlier in the window, but is now on his way to Everton. New boss Lampard wanted to land the player, and after falling out of favour with Tottenham boss Antonio Conte, Alli is keen on a fresh chance to change his fortunes. Osei-Tutu Completes Deadline Day Loan Move From Arsenal Newcastle Table £7m Loan Offer For Jesse Lingard Alli started just eight games in the Premier League this season at Spurs, and only twice since September, as he stewed on the bench under Conte. And with a World Cup on the horizon later this year, a permanent move to Everton offers Alli the chance to force his way back into contention for Gareth Southgate’s squad. (SOURCE: The Sun UK)