ABAKALIKI – The Chairman of the Ebonyi State Chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, has said that the Ebubeagu Security Outfit is not for political witch-hunting. Ebonyi State APC Chairman explained that what is in place today as Ebubeagu Security Outfit had been in existence prior to the administration of Governor David Umahi in Ebonyi State as Neighborhood Watch. He stated: “The Governor only rebranded the security outfit through training and retraining of its personnel and was backed up with a law to avoid abuse of power in any form.” Over Seven Ebubeagu Operatives Killed By Gunmen In Ebonyi, Says… JUST IN: APC Fixes National Convention For February 25th Emegha, who is also Special Security Consultant to Ebonyi State Government, stated this while briefing newsmen in Abakakili during the weekend. He noted that up to eight personnel of Ebubeagu had been killed in a very gruesome manner in the course of discharging their official assignment. He explained that their gallantry have helped to boost the security arrangement in the state hence citizens can now sleep with their eyes closed. He, however, condemned the motion moved and supported by the member representing Afikpo North and South Federal constituency at the green chamber of the National Assembly Bar Igariwey Idu and his PDP allies from Ebonyi State calling the Inspector General of Police and other Security intelligence to investigate the Ebubeagu Security Outfit and her activities. Emegha, who admonished them to be more constructive and productive in their criticisms of the Ebonyi State government. POLL He urged the lawmakers to bring their scorecard to the public rather than being envious of the numerous legacies of Governor David Umahi. “To start with it is very painful to record incidences of killing irrespective of status because it is not good to take life and as such it is condemnable and the Governor has already done that. “It is unfortunate that things like that will happen and the opposition party will like to catch in just to heat up the polity and discredit the government in power. “Despite the fact that up to eight personnel of Ebubeagu have lost their lives in the course of discharging their duties, the opposition party never had sympathy even on their families. “The rules of engagement of Ebubeagu is well spelt out in the law of the state embarking its existence. For instance, if any of the personnel derails in eyes of the law, the person will automatically go in for it. 2023: APC Welcomes Development As Tinubu Informs Buhari Of… Ondo South Senatorial Seat: APC To Compensate Chieftain With… “If you get to the police you will see some bad eggs among them in their custody. For example, some engaged in extorting money from motorists. Some were in the past arrested, prosecuted, dismissed and now at the correctional facility. “The Ebubeagu Law 2021 also stipulates that every arrest made must be handed over to police within a time frame. The opposition party capitalising on the incident that took place in Ivo Local Government Area to cause a crisis is highly unacceptable and despicable. Just like what the ex former legislator Linus Okorie is doing. “For the record, the formations of Ebubeagu makes it easier to tackle insecurity hence they are closer to the people thereby reducing response time to the barest minimum, the security expert opined. The Special Security Consultant, Chief Emegha explained that the Governor, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi places a premium on security because he understands that it drives the development and sustainable growth of any economy. “May I use this singular opportunity to advice the law-abiding citizens of the State to continue to leverage on the atmosphere of conviviality already created by our wonder-working Governor, Chief Engr David Nweze Umahi to better their lots and not to allow the Enemies of Ebonyi to distract them from achieving greatness bearing that the Ebubeagu Security Outfit is not a militia group that inflicts injuries and pains to people.”