LAGOS – Chief Emeka Kalu, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, has lamented the invitation of Chairman of Cubana Group of Companies, Obi Iyiegbu, by the Abuja headquarters of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on alleged drug deals, which he described as unfounded and baseless allegation. It would be recalled that Cubana, a social and hotel magnet was in November 2021 invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on what he termed “trumped up and faceless allegations, just to let him know that it is a sacrilege for an Igbo man to be successful.” According to a statement issued by Kalu, National Coordinator, Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO) and Director General, Director General, Global Initiatives for Good Governance (GIGG), on Saturday, “Today, we are talking about grilling the same person for four hours in NDLEA office for interrogations, harassment and blackmail. Customer’s Death At My Club Not Caused By Electrocution –… CCTV Footage Shows How Clubber Died In Cubana’s Club Abuja “What marvels us each time funny happenings of this nature takes place is whether the anti-graft agencies are established specifically to witch-hunt every successful Igbo man. “This is a philanthropist and young employer of labour who has been providing jobs for numerous Nigerians in different capacities. A detribalised industrialist with great passion for youths development and independence. “From the reports gathered on published news, we come to realise that NDLEA is predicating her suspicion that Obi Cubana received huge foreign currency transfers from three convicted drug dealers in Malaysia, Nigeria and India, respectively. “Here, we ask: When someone is convicted of a drug crime, does such conviction automatically deny him or her the lawful right of legitimately dealing in other legal transactions with people across the world? “If those three drug convicts, as alleged by NDLEA, paid money into Cubana’s account, does it logically imply that Obi Cubana is their crime accomplice?” POLL Kalu maintained that in the eyes of the law, what makes a transaction illegal is when the subject, context and contents of a transaction are found to have contravened a given law and are proved beyond reasonable doubts within the required standard. Only on this ground could an act be termed a crime.” He stressed that when someone is tried and convicted of a crime by a court of competent jurisdiction, operating banks in the domain country are placed on notice, wondering how come the same bank, having known that those persons were crime convict, allowed them to make monetary transfers of such magnitude and even facilitated the said transactions to reach their destinations. Kalu stressed: “All were mere oral and mouthy allegations without evidence to prove Cubana’s true involvement in the said crimes. “It is a pity that Igbos are on a daily basis used as experimental tools by the Nigerian anti-graft agencies. There are clear and provable cases of financial fraud and funds diversions on the neck of most past governors from other parts of the country, but only people from Igbo nation are being hijacked, blackmailed and ridiculed.” The PDP chieftain lamented that Nigeria for over 10 years had become a hotbed of terrorism and criminalities, with published names of persons as sponsors through which logistics were given to those terror groups, but none of them had ever been invited by the security agencies for ordinary interrogations. Our Staff Never Took Pictures With Obi Cubana – EFCC BREAKING: Finally, Obi Cubana Regains Freedom After 72Hrs In… He said: “UAE few months ago published names of persons and companies used in running terrorism in the world and about 12 Nigerian citizens were mentioned, but the government, to the surprise of watching Nigerians, kept mute and sat on the fence till date. “But, once any successful Igbo man begins to extend help and free will donations to the people, that instantly raises the nerves of the government and plans would be in the pipelines to bring him down. What an acidic treatment! “This is very unfair in a country that canvasses oneness and unity. Part of the ethnic agitations was caused by this level of marginalisation, intimidation and unhealthy jealousy. “It reads meaning in the consciousness of Igbos that they are not fairly treated and it is industrialists from Igbo land that generate 80 percent of labour employment in the country today. So, why the acrimony and injustice against their people?” He reiterated that the ways and manners Igbos were treated in Nigeria should stop, adding that “It is anti-progressive and does not show good sense of togetherness as people of one entity called Nigeria. “We do not defend, aid or abet crimes, nor do we advocate that criminals should be pampered simply because they are Igbos, rather our concern is that when it comes to crime fighting, let sentiment and pretentious ethnic favouritism be buried in favour of justice for all not minding whose ox is being gorged. “Global Initiatives will not hesitate to use whatever is within the ambit of the law to defend any Igbo man or persons from other tribes of the country when their fundamental rights are being scorned, hurt and infringed upon,” he stressed.