Kabiru Rabiu, Group Executive Director, BUA Group, after addressing market stakeholders with facts behind the listing presentation of BUA Foods PLC, hosted a closing gong ceremony on the main floor of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited recently. In these conversations with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, he speaks on how the Company has received significant acceptance going by the volume of demand for the shares which has boosted the market capitalisation of the Nigerian Exchange Limited by over N1trillion since it listed on the Nigerian Exchange on January 5, 2022. Excerpts: Can you please, tell us why BUA Group management is at Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited today? Thank you. We are here on behalf of the Chairman of BUA Foods Plc to host the closing gong ceremony on the main floor of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited. Ogun APC Govt Busy Providing What People Don’t Need – Hon… Only 20% Of Nigerians Will Require 5G Extra Services – Bello Today for us is very historic and we are excited to begin the year with the listing. The population of Nigeria is over 200million and our food production capacity is still not enough to meet current demands. However, with the listing of our food business on the NGX, there is high hope for Nigeria in terms of building capacity for food sufficiency. As a country we have agricultural resources coupled with human capital to harness needed raw materials to produce what we need for our consumption, and develop our nation. We are positioning our brand to take advantage of export opportunities through our strategically located plants from which foreign exchange can be generated both for the company and economy We are excited that our fast paced and strategic investments in the food industry positions us to capture growth opportunities within the sector, create headroom ahead of demand, generate sustainable employment while promoting national food security. POLL At NGX, this milestone transaction is in line with our strategic objectives to improve listings and enhance investors’ participation in our market. As a multi-asset Exchange, NGX is strategically positioned to be the preferred listing and investment destination connecting Nigeria, Africa, and the world. I must, therefore, encourage capital market players and enthusiasts at home and abroad to pay closer attention to the plethora of opportunities available in our market both to list securities and make the most of their investments. NGX will continue to provide innovative solutions that meet the ever-evolving needs of our stakeholders. Are you saying BUA Foods PLC recently listed on the Nigerian Exchange is out to promote national food security? Many Parents Dreaded My Rascality As A Teenager –Jide Kosoko FG Should Use Opportunity Of COVID-19 Challenges To Strengthen… Yes. BUA Foods PLC recently listed on the Nigerian Exchange Limited has since received significant acceptance going by the volume of demand for the shares which has boosted the market capitalisation of the Nigerian Exchange Limited by over N1trillion. The company has maintained an unbroken record of year-on-year growth and has eight ultra-modern manufacturing facilities across the country. BUA Foods currently has a refining capacity of 1.5 million metric tonnes of sugar yearly from two ultra-modern sugar refineries in Lagos and Port Harcourt. As part of its expansion strategy, BUA Foods plans to double its flour milling capacity from about 500,000 metric tonnes per annum to over a million metric tonnes per annum this year. Similarly, pasta will grow from 5 lines to 11 lines. The company’s rice mill, one of the largest in the country, has a capacity to produce 200,000 tonnes of rice per annum with work currently in progress on a rice plantation that will change the face of rice production in Nigeria. Please, tell us how BUA Foods PLC is supporting the host communities Since its incorporation BUA Foods has implemented a corporate social responsibility strategy which focuses on five key areas – People and Skills Development, Infrastructural Development, Security, BUA Foods in partnership with BUA Foundation established to drive its efforts to promote human development and complement the efforts of the government in the provision of basic infrastructural services with the host communities. The foundation leverages the power of public-private partnerships in complementing the efforts of various levels of government and seeks to make an impact on the socio-economic development of society. In addition, in partnership with BUA Foundation, BUA Foods has made substantial donations across the country to decrease the impact of COVID-19 on individuals and some government agencies in the health sector. What about the environmental matters? BUA Foods recognises the importance of the environment and sustainability as key principles in its business operations. The Company aims to proactively minimise its energy footprint, waste, air, water usage and noise that arises from its operations. BUA Foods maintains an ISO 14001:2015 certified Environmental Management System and allocates adequate resources to manage its environment and sustainability commitments while making necessary efforts to reduce and abate the environmental impacts associated with its operations by continually reviewing and adopting best practices that will ensure the Company meets its environmental commitments. In compliance with relevant environmental protection laws and international guidelines BUA Foods continually take steps to minimise its dust and noise emission, water and energy usage and other acts capable of negatively impacting people and environment. The Company has installed integrated noise and dust level control systems to manage environmental pollution in all its plants. The Company has brine recovery system in place in its manufacturing plants to process and recover industrial effluent. BUA Foods uses alternative energy sources such as natural gas, which is cleaner, safer for the environment and therefore reduces greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. The packaging materials used by the Company are designed to be recycled. In general, the Company returns up to 90% of its operational waste and by-product in its Sugar, Flour, and Rice Divisions and uses those by-products in production as alternative revenue source. The Company’s Sustainability Policy sets out guidelines for the use of clean energy, safe handling and disposal of waste, effective use of water among others, it establishes procedures and a management hierarchy, which monitors the environmental impact of the Company’s operations. Under its Sustainability Policy, the Company is required to carry out monitoring exercises at least once a year to assess the effectiveness of its initiatives and ensure prompt identification and mitigation of potential sustainability, health and environment risks associated with its operations. The Company has not been subject to any material fines or regulatory action involving noncompliance with environmental regulations. The company is not aware of any non-compliance in any material respect with the applicable environmental regulations Could you please throw lights on the overview of the food and fast-moving consumer goods industry in Nigeria? The Nigerian retail food segment for instance is dominated by informal trade, although this is quickly starting to change with the entry of supermarkets and the increase in the number of shopping centers. The US Department of Agriculture recently notes that the major traditional foodstuffs consumed by the majority of Nigerians are predominantly unprocessed and/or semi-processed food. However, changes that are occurring with regard to purchasing power, demographics, lifestyles, and consumer preferences are resulting in increased demand for a wider range of products. Food spending is expected to reach N37.1 trillion in 2021 and rise to N61.6 trillion by 2025. As the wide-ranging reforms in Nigeria’s agricultural sector are ongoing, these are centered on import restrictions to boost local production, better distribution of fertilisers, a scrapping of import duties on agricultural equipment, and easier access to credit for farmers. Though the policy of restricting imports is meant to support local production, farmers have been unable to satisfy demand, resulting in shortages and causing headaches for grocers. Despite the upward revision of the minimum wage by 66.7% to ₦30,000, non-implementation of the new wage structure provided no support to consumer wallets as consumers ignored big brands for