-Says No single Individual  can lead the party to victory Policy expert and frontline governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Kayode Adaramodu has admonished stakeholders in the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) to tread softly and not to waste the golden opportunity to return to power in 2022. Addressing journalists at his GRA situation office in Ado-Ekiti, the PDP stalwart cautioned that the internal crisis rocky the party must not be allowed to fester for too long. 2023: Electoral Amendment Bill: Stakeholders Urge NASS To… Convention: APC Governors In Crucial Meeting Though, Adaramodu posited that he remains the only aspirant who enjoys a cordial relationship with all the political tendencies in the PDP, adding that such behaviour was a reflection of what the people and the party would enjoy if he was given the opportunity to fly the party’s flag. The  Ex-Deputy Managing Director of Guarantee Trust Bank(GTB) noted that the PDP looked good to dislodge the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC), if only the principal actors would play the game carefully and exhibit a high level of maturity. The ex Bank Chief, specifically urged the gladiators to drop their ego, stressing that the task of reclaiming  Ekiti could not be accomplished by a single individual, but a collective one. He argued that the PDP only needed the unity of purpose alleging that the people of Ekiti were already fed up with the alleged maladministration of the ruling APC. ” My party has the capacity to win the June 18 governorship poll if we are united. No single individual can win the election. We need unity of purpose and togetherness to upstage the ruling APC, without which will be difficult. POLL “So, because I recognized the importance of unity and in the party, from day one,  even before I declared my interest, I have started talking to the two gladiators and appealing to them,” Adaramodu said. Adaramodu disclosed that the electorate were keen on using the power of the ballots to halt the alleged monumental failures of the APC in Ekiti. The financial expert who described himself as a ” local international politician said he had studied and worked in advanced democracy and I  know what real development is all about. ” Those who had stayed long at home seemed to be comfortable with the level we are in Ekiti. But I say, with the abundant human and material resources Ekiti deserves better than this.” The  PDP Chieftain said he was in the race to bring his wealth of experience to bear. Electoral Bill: National Assembly Preventing Poor Nigerians From… Lagos Govt To Close Dopemu-Agege Road For 3 Months The governorship aspirant stated that he possessed the qualities and experience required to harness the state’s resources for developmental purposes, adding that he would tackle headlong the economic and security challenges facing the state. He stated that he would make education, health the priorities of his government and better lots of citizens of the state through the implementation of people-oriented policies and programmes, if he won the PDP ticket and was elected as governor. “If the ability to demonstrate the value of Ekiti is what will determine who will be the next governor, I will tell you that I don’t need to campaign. The value system, Ekiti terrain, the pains and sorrows of our people, I am so proud to say to you that I have the true picture, understanding and solutions”, he said. “To our leaders and those who are still hoping to use the same platform, we need to play our game carefully. I deliberately decided not to join any of the warring groups but rather visiting and talking to all party members on the importance of unity”, he said. Adaramodu said that unity was required for the opposition PDP to upstage the ruling party in the epic contest. Adaramodu expressed optimism that the internal crisis afflicting the chapter would soon be over and party leaders would put aside their differences and unite in the best interest of the party. He advised party delegates and electorate to concentrate on the background, integrity, personality, experience, competence and credibility of individual aspirant rather than on money politics as they choose the party flag bearer.