With the problems of insecurity heightening in the country, the Head of the Department of Public and Internal Law Nile University Abuja, Suraj Yakubu has proffered solutions to Insecurity challenges bedeviling the country. Suraj who said that community policing would address the challenges of insecurity in the country stated this during the commemoration of Sir Ahmadu Bello (Sardauna of Sokoto) and investiture of Radio Nigeria Kaduna Grand Patrons and Patron Award organised by Nigeria Union of Journalists, Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) Kaduna under the Distinguished Chairmanship of Dr. Mansur Liman held at the Arewa house during the weekend. According to him, community policing will solve the problem of insecurity in the country and as such will make Local Governments and councils actively engage with the rural populace. Nigeria Has Mineral Resources Needed To Power Electric Cars,… Lack Of Personal Responsibility Needs To Be Addressed For… He further said it would make local government and council also engage with the community leaders, town unions and other stakeholders. Other solution includes proper parenting, poverty alleviation. He stated In a speech, former Vice president Mohammed Namadi Sambo called on Nigerians to exhibit the good moral conduct of the nation’s founding fathers beyond the rhetorics of annual celebrations in their honor. Represented by a former Director General Media and communication Mallam Ahmed Maiyaki, emphasised that the observance of days in honor of the national heroes must be backed up with conduct and characters. Earlier at the opening of the event, Zonal Director of Radio Nigeria Kaduna, Mallam Buhari Auwalu, explained that the Radio Nigeria Kaduna which is one of the legacies of Late Ahmadu Bello Sardauna of Sokoto was established to balance regional reportage of events which he said was lacking at that time. POLL Mallam Buhari Auwalu appealed for Unity in diversity and the harnessing of human and material resources for national development. Explaining the purpose of organizing the event, the Chairman, FRCN chapel of the NUJ, comrade Umar Adamu Sarkin Fada stated that it was to bring to knowledge the virtues of the late Sardauna which according to him should be the guiding principles of the present and future generations.