AWKA – Retired Chief Judge of Anambra  State and Professor of Law in the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Prof. Peter Nnanna Umeadi has said that only good leadership can bring the change Nigeria desires and that is why he is in the race. Umeadi spoke yesterday when he sought blessing from the national chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Chief Victor Ikechukwu Oye, as the party’s presidential aspirant in the company of all the party’s chairmen in the South East and South-South. Before now,  Umeadi had secured the endorsement of past Presidents-General of the South East which was represented during his visit to Oye. 2023: Nigeria Can’t Afford Another Setback With Tinubu As… Sanwo-Olu, Police Saga: Only Restructure Can Save Nigeria… He said: “Nigeria requires change which only good leadership could provide. We need to change the way we think so we could change the way we do things”. Giving insight into his rise in politics Umeadi said he had related one way or the other with many politicians live and dead, among them Chief Obafemi Awolowo whom his late uncle and running mate to Awolowo, Chief Philip  Ezebilo Umeadi, SAN, introduced him at Ikene. He said that uppermost in his mind is how Nigerians will reconcile with themselves across the length and breath of the country. He said his ambition is to entrench a new political culture and thereby galvanise different segments of the country. He said: “We all need to roll up our sleeves and go to work in all facets of our national life and should be able to reposition Nigeria in 4 years from 2023. POLL “I am stepping out as a champion of rule of law, separation of powers and due process. The bulwark of my Presidential bid is predicated on popular votes at the polls from a majority of Nigerians. We should respect the ballots”. He said he has the capacity,  sense of history, humility and self-efficiency to reconcile and weld our ethnic groups together. According to Umeadi,  his efforts would be geared towards a Nigeria where justice would reign for all citizens,  equally,  irrespective of tribe and status. He said that if he gets the party’s ticket and runs in the Presidential election APGA would have a good chance of winning the election. He described himself as the Moses which the Igbo need to be properly entrenched in Nigeria. Save Nigeria From Disintegration, OPU Urges Buhari Revd. Mother Esther Ajayi Declares 2022 As Year Of New Glory For… But Chief Oye in commending the courage of Umeadi said he is the David of the time and needs the guidance of God. Oye believed that Umeadi had been called to run for president haven reached the apogee of his carrier as Chief Judge, a position he held for eight years. He blessed Umeadi describing him as a good man, humble,  intelligent and learned; the attributes that are needed in a Nigerian leader. Umeadi was accompanied to Oye by two Board of Trustee members: Dr. Mrs. Uju Okeke and Hon. Patrick Obianwu, the national chairman of APGA in South-South Ogbueshi Tony Eboka, the party’s chairman in Delta State Chief Afam Enemokwu and chairman in Imo State Hon. John Iwuala. Others were: chairman of Delta Rev. Augustine Ewemere, that of Akwa Ibom Joseph Patrick Otu, Ebonyi El- Stephen Okoronka, coordinator of the party in Enugu State Ernest Biosa and Deputy chairman of Anambra State Chief Tony O. Elee# Photo: Prof. Umeadi in red dress having a handshake with Chief Oye, APGA National chairman