ABEOKUTA – More than a century after it was founded, Oba James Taiwo has been installed as the first Monarch of the Moriwi Kingdom in the Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State. Governor Dapo Abiodun of the State installed the Monarch of the sleepy community in Ogun which was said to have been founded by Baale Salako during the first World War in 1914. The governor presented the letter of appointment to the monarch, while the staff of office was handed over to him by the Olu of Ilaro and Paramount Ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, who was represented by Olu of Imeko, Oba Benjamin Olanite. JUST IN: Abducted Ekiti Monarch Regains Freedom Monarch Canvasses Psychological Clean-Up For Niger Delta People Governor Abiodun, represented by the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Afolabi Afuape, while presenting the letter to the Monarch, said his appointment is a call to serve, as well as an opportunity to create a sustainable conducive environment for credible investors. He noted that the new position should also be used to champion efforts that would further enhance peaceful co-existence among his people and other neighbouring towns. The Governor enjoined the people of Moriwi and its environs to cooperate with the new King, in order to bring about development they have been yearning for in the community. Abioun, however, cautioned the monarch against going beyond Moriwi to install Baales or chiefs. “Let me inform you that as a Coronet Oba, your domain remains Moriwi. You are not expected to extend your authority beyond Moriwi and you have not been authorized to install Baale over any settlement in your neighbourhood,” he said. POLL In his acceptance speech, Oba Taiwo appreciated the Governor for the trust reposed in him, promising to discharge his responsibilities with the fear of God, equity, fairness and justice. He also called on the Federal and State Governments to urgently construct Abeokuta-Imeko Moriwi – Okeagbede- Okuta Wasinmi- Iwoye- Jabata road in order to bring rapid developments to Moriwi Land and its environs.