The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET), said it has intensified efforts at creating additional data sources by investing in over 120 secondary and tertiary institutions across the country through the setting up of meteorological stations. The agency also said that plans had reached advanced stage for the deployment of additional over 30 Automatic Weather Observing Stations to strategic locations in the country. Prof. Mansur Matazu stated these over the weekend in Abuja in his keynote address at the One-day Stakeholders’ Workshop for NiMET Draft 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP). Why SIFAX Group Is Interested In Airport Concession – Chairman Sanctions: France, Senegal, CIV Cancel Flights To Mali According to Matazu, for NiMET to fulfill its mission and vision of generating, analysing and developing all meteorological information for the purpose of advising decision and policymakers in all tiers of government and across all sectors of the economy with accurate and reliable weather and climate information, it required adequate and quality data. He added that in the agency’s over 130 years of existence, it had improved capacity for meteorological observation, analysis and reporting through ground-based instruments, upper air instruments, satellite-based observations, modelling, forecasting and now-casting activities. He added: “The agency has generated robust database of climate information across every part of the country. Meteorological stations; conventional and automatic are situated in every state of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Matazu further explained that the changes in the country’s climate had become more obvious in recent times following the observed anomalies in occurrence of extreme weather and climate events, which he said had become more frequent and result into hazards such as flooding, droughts, heat waves, increasing temperatures, sea level rise, changes in onset and cessation dates and frequent dry spells. He observed that these anomalies had threatened livelihoods, human existence, food and nutrition security, infrastructures and sustainable development across the globe, recalling that the devastating effect of the 2012, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 floods in Nigeria could not be over-emphasised. POLL The helmsman pointed out that in a bid to prevent this sordid experience; NiMET had adopted the impact-based forecasting and early warnings of weather hazards. He told the gathering that the SCP, which is a scientific document that relies on long-term database of meteorological data, soil information, crop information and skills-sets of NiMet team of experts, is the flagship product of the agency.