LAGOS – The joy of residents of Odumade/Sholumade Phase Two Community Development Association, Macaulay, Igbogbo/Baiyeku Local Council Development Area, Ikorodu Zone, Lagos State knew no bounds last Tuesday as they received a 300 KVA transformer to boost power supply in the area. The donation was facilitated by the council chairman, Mr. Olusesan Daini. By 8. am that day, some of the residents were already in jubilation as they welcomed the new transformer into their community. Ondo APC Congress Turns Bloody, Ex-Lawmaker, Council Boss,… Receiving the transformer on behalf of the community, the CDA Chairman, Prince Femi Adelaja, said the community had cried to the council boss when there was a need for an alternative transformer to complement the existing one that was overloaded due to expansion. He said: “We are grateful to our council chairman Olusesan Daini for granting our request and illuminating our community in the New Year.” Corroborating, the traditional leader of the community, Chief Sharafadeen Tijani, urged the state government to rehabilitate the only access road linking the community to several other communities in the LCDA. He said, ”Igbogbo/Baiyeku Road needs urgent attention from the state government to make life bearable for us. “My only car has been grounded while I move around on bikes due to the dilapidating nature of Igbogbo/Baiyeku road. POLL “We are afraid that as another rainy season approaches, many residents may experience hardship by paying through their nose to move to and fro the community. The state government should come to our aid by fixing it.” Speaking with Sunday INDEPENDENT at the occasion, Daini disclosed another 300KVA transformer was donated to Lajo Community under the LCDA the same day. The council boss said the essence of governance was to bring succor to the people, noting that the transformers were part of his electoral promises to the communities. He advised the beneficiaries to protect them against vandalisation. “Doing this will encourage us to extend the gesture to other communities. Though, our interventions were based on the needs of each community. “Thank God that we have donated two 300KVA transformers to two communities in Macaulay and Lajo today. I urge them to put it to good use,” he said. Some of the residents said they were grateful to Daini for looking into their plights. A resident, Mrs Aboyeji Kofoworola, said, “I was overwhelmed when I saw the transformer because the community has been experiencing electricity challenges for a period of eight years that I have packed into the community. I thank the council chairman for facilitating this.” Also, Abdulahi Adekunle said, “We have been expecting this gesture for several years and it came to pass today. We are very happy. “