Barcelona are reportedly willing to submit an offer worth €45 million to sign 15-year-old Brazilian wonderkid Endrick from Palmeiras.According to a report by Spanish outlet Fichajes, Endrick is starting to become a key target for Barcelona. The Catalan giants are preparing a bid worth €45 million to secure the services of the 15-year-old Brazilian whizkid from Palmeiras. Endrick is widely regarded as one of the brightest young players in Brazil, having taken age-group football in the country by storm. The teenage prodigy has an unbelievable record of 167 goals in 170 outings across various youth teams at the Brazilian club and has particularly appeared on the radar of several European bigwigs after making his debut in the Copa Sao Paulo, the most prestigious Under-20 tournament in Brazil. A striker by trade, the 15-year-old has impressed with his prolific displays while also showing the pedigree to play for age-group teams beyond his budding age. Suffice to say, Endrick has become one of the most coveted players in South America, with Barcelona among his prospective suitors. The Catalan giants do not intend to bring Endrick to Catalonia immediately and will let him continue his development at Palmeiras. The decision makes a lot of sense, considering the Brazilian wonderkid is on the verge of breaking into the first-team setup at the Allianz Parque, with the 2022 season likely to be his breakthrough campaign. Experiencing first-team football will likely further his growth exponentially, as Palmeiras could be vying for different honours. Barcelona’s reported proposal will entail them to submit a bid worth €45 million, with the Blaugrana distributing the reimbursement in three equal instalments of 145 million. Endrick will remain at Palmeiras in the 2022 and 2023 seasons before joining Barcelona after he turns 18. Such a deal could work well for all parties involved, as the 15-year-old Brazilian wonderkid could arrive at Camp Nou ready to play for the La Liga heavyweights’ first team, competing with whichever striker they decide to buy in the summer. While €45 million is quite a steep sum, it will be an investment for Barcelona’s long-term future, much like the kind of outlay Real Madrid sanctioned for Vinicius Jr. and Rodrygo Goes. In the meantime, Barcelona will continue getting linked with several strikers, with Jonathan David and Brazilian prodigy Yuri Alberto among those on their radar.