ISAAC ASABOR Sequel to government’s plan to reduce cooking gas prices, not few consumers of the products are filled with excitement. Mr. Dayo Adesina, Programme Manager, National LPG Expansion Implementation Plan (NGEP), Office of the Nigerian Vice-President, stated: “It is in government’s interest for the price to go down consistently and there are certain initiatives that are being taken at the moment, which hopefully will see to further drops in price regardless of the international cost.” 2022: Consumers Pessimistic, Say Inflation May Deepen Respite As NBS Sees Fast Recovery Post COVID-19 In Nigerian… The Nigerian Government had set a target to double LPG demand to 1.5million tonne in 2020, and reach 5 million tonne/ year by 2030 under its LPG expansion and implementation programme in the country. In regard to any of such initiatives to further reduce cooking gas prices for consumers of the product, Adesina was quoted to have said that, “Discussions are still ongoing and there are certain things that you can do to stimulate the market, which will have an effect. One of them also has to do with storage.” As gathered, the government has assured that it was putting measures in place to ensure further reduction in the cost of cooking gas. The disclosure was made in reaction to the recent marginal drop in the cost of cooking gas. According to findings, the price of 12.5kg LPG has dropped from N8, 800 to between N8400 and N8200. In some outlets, the price of the commodity dropped to between N7, 800 and N8, 000 as of Thursday. The foregoing is contrary to its rise In November, 2021, when the cost of LPG soared by more than 240 per cent between January and October 2021. The development forced some LPG users to resort to the use of charcoal or firewood. POLL In fact, the product sharply increased by 240 per cent for 12.5kg thereby triggering the price to move up from N3, 000 to N10, 200 within the first 10 months of 2021. Against the foregoing backdrop, Dayo Adesina assured that, “It is in government’s interest for the price to go down consistently and there are certain initiatives that are being taken at the moment, which hopefully will see to further drops in price regardless of the international cost”. When asked to state one of such initiatives, he replied, “The discussions are still ongoing and there are certain things that you can do to stimulate the market which will have an effect. One of them also has to do with storage.” He explained that about 65 per cent of the LPG is imported into Nigeria, while domestic production accounts for 35 per cent, hence the cost of the commodity in the global market affects the price locally. He added that the international price of the LPG had risen so high in October last year, but dipped towards the end of 2021 into January 2022, as this also contributed to the recent drop in the LPG price across the country. Shoppers Worry As Inflation And Shrinkflation Hit Christmas… Understanding Black Friday Through Jumia’s Promotional Efforts He said: “If you look at the international pricing of the LPG, and that might change again because it is not a fixed price, in January last year, it was $250 per tonne. “It rose to $875 per tonne by the end of October and started dropping by the end of November into December, and came down to around $500 per tonne at some point but went up again in December to $708 per tonne. “Now, as of the third of January this year, that figure is $744 per tonne. So you can see there is a drop from about $800 around November to $700 in January. The issue here is that the price has been fluctuating. “Yes you have the effects of Customs and the position of the VAT that made people pay tax for what they imported even in 2019 and 2020. Of course, some importers stopped importing, but there is a resolution going on to resolve that aspect.” Adeshina assured Nigerians that the government would come up with additional measures that would see to a further reduction in cooking gas prices regardless of the price fluctuation in the global market. Mr. Christopher Nwandu, in his view on the issue said “Even as government is determined to make the price of cooking gas affordable, the fact is that the cause of the soaring price is tripartite in nature. Hence, the tripartite cause should not be discounted. Rather, it should be addressed. First and foremost, the government should stop depending on imported gas. It will shock anyone to know that up to 70 per cent of the gas we use is imported”. Secondly, the prices of petroleum products have been rising in the international market in tune with the high cost of crude oil from which these products are made. But by far the greatest source of increase in the price of cooking gas is the introduction of the 7.5 per cent Value-Added Tax (VAT) on imported gas. “How can the government be as parochial as it is now, and insensitive as to impose VAT on a premium energy source on which the people depend to cook their food on daily basis? Would it not have been practical to impose such levy or tax on luxury goods?” As gathered by DAILY INDEPENDENT, the high cost of cooking gas has forced most consumers of cooking gas to resort to the use of charcoal and firewood for cooking. This, no doubt, has imposed a huge toll on the environment such action will lead to further deforestation. To Mrs. Anthonia Iwuoha, a restaurateur, “I am highly excited because it is not easy to be cooking with firewood and charcoal that are equally not cheap. Thank God the price of cooking gas is coming down because it is less harmful and faster for cooking as well as more affordable. In fact, firewood and charcoal are not that cheap as people erroneously think”. Also excited as well as ostensibly corroborating Iwuoha’s view, another restaurateur who simply identified herself as Kate, said: “To me, government should try and bring down the price of cooking gas as promised. It is cheaper and faster so that I can stop using charcoal and firewood which is not to inflame during cooking, and we have to go very far from here to buy them. “To worsen the situation, when I put food on it, it cooks up slowly and I have to wait for long. Cooking gas is far better, and I used to buy the full 3kg for my cylinder that will last through daily cooking for around three weeks. “In view of the assurance given by the government that the price of gas would be brought down, not few consumers have expressed excitement over the plan as the current high prices of cooking gas are unaffordable. They urged the government to intensify measures to address the situation. Mrs. Elizabeth Megbon said: “The price has increased like four times last year, and it was not funny at all as the situation has made life unbearable for us. I will be very glad if government can do something to bring down the price. “As a customer, the increasing prices of gas is affecting me because I have a budget for the month that I spent on cooking gas but it keeps going up. Today, I must confess that I usually struggle to buy gas as we depend on it in cooking for the family. I think the government just have to expedite action on its plan because gas is the safest means of cooking”.