ABUJA – A legal luminary, Chief Mike Ahamba (SAN), has called for investigation into circumstances leading to the long adjournment of an appeal in respect of the controversial Gwandu Emirate headship tussle by the Supreme Court of Nigeria to November 23, 2023. This is just as an Abuja based legal practitioner, Inno­cent Daagba, has called for the creation of regional Supreme Courts in the country to decon­gest backlog of appeals at the Supreme Court of Nigeria. The apex court had on No­vember 29, 2021, ordered a two-year adjournment, further shift­ing to November 2023, hearing in three appeals challenging the five-year-old order of the Court of Appeal, Sokoto Division, which reinstated Frustrated Heavyweight Boxer Leases Heavy Jab On Referee For… Jonathan Pays Tribute To Late Olubadan HRH Alhaji Mustapha Ha­runa Jokolo as the 19th Emir of Gwandu. Justices on the panel that ordered the two years adjourn­ment were Olukayode Ariwoola (presiding), Amina Augie, John Inyang Okoro, Abdu Aboki and Emmanuel Agim. Reacting on the long ad­journment, Chief Mike Aham­ba urged the Bar to convene a discussion on the issue and to investigate the real causes of long adjournments and delay in dispensation of justice, par­ticularly at the Supreme Court, with a view to finding solution in the interest of justice. “Our courts are congested, the Supreme Court too is con­gestedwith appeals. Nobodycan explain, they say its workload, but one has to investigate the causes of long adjournments. “We must find out why it is so now. I hope the Bar will one day call for a discussion on the issue. The truth is that the Supreme Court is congested.” POLL On his part, Daagba blamed the country’s procedural law and court system for the delay in justice dispensation. Daagba posited that when you unbundle the Supreme Court by creating regional divi­sions, cases like land disputes, chieftaincy matters, etc., em­anating from certain regions will terminate at the regional Supreme Courts, thereby reduc­ing appeals and workload at the Supreme Court of Nigeria. “Some of us have been clamouring for establishment of regional Courts of Appeal and regional Supreme Courts so that certain matters will ter­minate there. “I feel for the Supreme Court, I believe it is the busiest in the world. “By our constitutional mak­ing, every conceivable appeal goes to the Supreme Court, and this causes long adjournments, which in turn delay justice de­livery. Obiano Attaches No strings To My Governorship Election, Says… Ochi’Idoma: Gov Ortom Didn’t Victimise Anyone –CPS “To ensure quick dispensa­tion of justice, we must create regional Supreme Courts and give them power to terminate certain proceedings there.” Daagba noted that long adjournment of cases by the Supreme Court may have been due to heavy workload, but he insisted that “Nigeria’s law is too procedurally inclined than substantive law”. He posited that due to the country’s procedural structure, every little interlocutory appli­cation, most times, find its way on appeal at the Supreme Court. “We need to rework our court system. For instance, a land case in Benue, Ekiti or Eb­onyi states, why can’t it termi­nate at the regional Appeal or Supreme Court. Why bringing it to the Supreme Court of Nige­ria to encumber the apex court”, Daagba queried. A Senior Advocate of Nige­ria, Ishaka Dikko, admitted that justice delivery in the country is characterised by incessant de­lays due to the psyche of Nigeri­ans, structureof theconstitution as well as the way and manner lawyers practice law in Nigeria. “Quick dispensation of jus­tice to my mind will remain a mirage in Nigeria until our con­stitutional structure is changed, and the psyche of Nigerians changed, andlawyerstoochange the way and manner they prac­tice law in Nigeria”. Though Dikko noted that the Supreme Court is overworked due to heavy workload, however, he said, “The procedural struc­ture of law that allows appeal to be filed on every trivial issue is not helping matters”. It would be recalled that the protracted Gwandu Emirate headship tussle commenced in 2005, and in what was described as “unusual” in legal circles, the Supreme Court had to adjourn itshearingonNovember29,2021, in deference to a fresh appeal filed by one of the appellants at a court below. TheNovember29, sittingwas for the court to hear a motion for substitution of the names of de­ceased kingmakers in the three appealsmarkedSC2/2013(Attor­ney-General of Kebbi State and others against Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo); SC314/2016 (Alhaji Muham­madu Iliyasu Bashar against Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo & anor); and SC266/2017 (Governor of Kebbi State and others against Alhaji Musta­pha Haruna Jokolo. The briefs for the appeals were filed in 2019 and consolidated. HRH Jokolo was deposed in 2005 and he promptly went to court to challenge his dethrone­ment. In 2014, a Kebbi State High Court 6, sitting in Birnin Keb­bi, ordered his immediate rein­statement, having been satisfied he was illegally deposed. In his ruling, the presiding judge, Justice Abbas Ahman said the deposition was con­trary to law and that due process was not followed. Not satisfied with the judg­ment, Kebbi State government and Jokolo’s successor, filed an appeal challenging the decision of the Kebbi State High Court. In a unanimous judgment passed in April 2016, the three judges of the appellate court led by Justice Tunde Awotoye held that the 2005 deposition of the Emir by the then governor of the state, Senator Adamu Aliero, contravened sections 6 and 7 of the Chief Appointment and Deposition Law of the state because the governor neither made an inquiry into the alle­gation against the Emir nor con­sulted the Kebi State’s Council of Chiefs before arriving at his decision. The Kebbi State govern­ment and Jokolo’s successor approached the Supreme Court for a final decision. Specifically, the appeals before the Supreme Court are aimed at reviewing the verdicts of the two lower courts to affirm or deny that Kebbi State gov­ernment contravened section 6 and 7 of the Chief Appoint­ment and Deposition Law of the state because the governor neither made an inquiry into the allegation against the Emir nor consulted the state’s council of chiefs before arriving at his decision.