BAUCHI- As political activities for the 2023 presidency in the nation’s two leading political parties hot up, the National Coordinator of a sociopolitical group called the Disciples of Jagaban (DOJ), Comrade Abdulhakeem Adegoke Alawuje has declared that Northerners will never betray the National leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Sen Bola Ahmed Tinubu in his presidential ambition come 2023. Alawuje who was addressing newsmen in Bauchi on the insinuations that some Northern elites are trying to bring in former President Goodluck Jonathan to run for the Presidency under the umbrella of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in order to sideline the 2023 ambition of its principal, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “This is a democracy where an election has to be who won; this implies that some others have to run. What we know is that Tinubu is coming, and he is not just coming out; but he is coming to contest and win, by His grace. JUST IN: Tinubu To Deliver LASU 25th Convocation Lecture 2023: Prof Greg Ibe Declares Intention For Abia Governorship “Tinubu is a political project made by the Almighty God, which takes him beyond ordinary human limitations; even Jonathan and others can testify to this as the impending reality” “DOJ would appreciate Jonathan’s coming out; at the end, he would join Tinubu’s campaign team after the primaries, by the special grace of the Almighty God. Tinubu is not the type that brags in the public. Rather, he is silently consulting and involving the Almighty God before he declares to the public” “We believe very much in the Almighty God, and this is the first time in the history of Nigeria that grassroot politicians will stand independently on their own to choose our preferred candidate, unlike the previous efforts that were usually hijacked by the elites and diverted towards their selfish interests”. “DOJ vehemently says enough of that; what ever dimension they come with this time around, we stand on our own to independently determine our political direction while they also stand on their own” POLL “The only way to change our political system to be positively working is to proactively change the approach of our political system; thankfully, DOJ have taken a front lead towards that, and since the grace of the Almighty God is involved, then who are you?” “Nigerian masses are ready to pay Tinubu back for all his past positive sacrifices, as well as his being detribalized without discriminating based on religion; infact, he is arguably most deserving of the Nigerian unity award. ” We are rewarding him with our votes in 2023, and this will hopefully encourage others to be kind and progressive in nature. Quote DOJ as an authority; Tinubu is coming to win the 2023 general elections because we have left everything at the hands of the Almighty God, to enable us to see the positive impact of His abiding grace in everything we do”. “Tinubu is a political script designed by the Almighty God, and when the Almighty God is working to bring His perfect script to fruition, then why worry? Infact, we need more Jonathans to come out as complete gentlemen, to enable us to have more respectful and respectable leaders in support of our principal in the 2023 general election” he said He however stressed that Victory to become the President of a country like Nigeria, is by the grace of the Almighty God, and not by manipulation saying that any popular presidential candidates will end up pushing for the Tinubu 2023 agenda. 2023: Ebonyi Senator Declares Interest In Governorship Position 2023: Action Alliance Not Interested In Zoning Of Presidency,… According to him, “The Almighty God has used Tinubu to push many to attain their present and past lofty positions, and He is going to direct some of them positively to assist Tinubu’s victory; a few others may be working negatively but will still result in assisting Tinubu’s ultimate victory, by the special grace of the Almighty God. Both the positive and the negative tendencies will end up in favour of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in 2023 by His grace”. As for Chief Obasanjo, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Dr. Saraki, Senator Rabiu Kwankwanso and others, they all know within their minds that Tinubu is the next President by God’s grace. “We in DOJ insist that the 2023 general election is going to work in favour of the Jagaban, beyond all their political imaginations, and he will overwhelm their political capacities, by His grace”, he said. “DOJ started from the North and got spread across the country. DOJ has declared that let whoever wants to run to run; but, by the special grace of the Almighty God, Tinubu is coming out to win the 2023 presidential election” he said