World kickboxing champion, Kamaru Usman has partnered with Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) promotion company, 5Five 4Four Limited for the first-ever ‘Face-Off Night’. Announcing the partnership at a press conference held at Lagos Continental Hotel, on Wednesday, January 5, Natasha Belousova, Executive director and co-founder 5Five 4Four said that the goal is to take the championship to greater heights while giving young fighters a chance to prove their worth. “It is no mistake that we are holding the press conference at the Lagos Continental Hotel because they are our official host. I want to thank them for their hospitality and for all support they provide. We really appreciate your patience. This is a big start of a really great event which we are witnessing and we would like you to be a part of the beginning,” she said. Deyemi Okanlawon Marks Nine Years Of Marital Bliss Lupita Nyong’o Tests Positive For COVID-19 On the essence of the partnership, Kamaru Usman noted that it is his own way of giving young Nigerians a chance to excel in the MMA. According to him, the vision is to create opportunities to be able to give people an opportunity to change their lives. “This is our introductory event for everyone. We must remember, Rome wasn’t built in a day but it takes time to get the formula right. And it’s going to take help from you guys, take help from everybody across this great country of Nigeria to eventually take it across the continent of Africa and then eventually take it across the world. We’ve got future plans. It’s not just about doing a show and be done with it. We want to do big things with this event, we want to be able to change the culture,” he said. Also speaking, the Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Sola Aiyepeku noted that there is no underrating the influence and the impact sports can make to our environment. “When Kamaru visited last year and he put together a show at Landmark, it was just part of the dream coming together till this point. I’m here to tell you that the Lagos State Government is interested, just as we are interested in so many other martial arts. So we are coming together to ensure that the job is done and the plan is executed successfully. Also, we want to take it a notch further. The whole plan is to ensure that this foundation is properly laid so that we can build a tall skyscraper that would last forever. And in so doing, there is a plan to establish an MMA Federation here in Lagos state, which will be the first in Nigeria,” he added. The maiden ‘Face-Off Night’ took place yesterday, January 7 at the Lagos Continental Hotel.