TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI With activities for the 2023 general elections already gathering momentum, both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have begun moves to outwit each other at the polls. One key state Nigerians are looking forward to is Kwara state which is currently being controlled by APC led by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazak. It took the APC 12 years to wrest power from the PDP in Kwara state. In 1999, the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) was the ruling party in the state under the late Governor Mohammed Lawal. In 2003, the PDP led by the acclaimed strongman of Kwara politics, Dr. Olusola Saraki dislodged the ANPP and installed his son, Bukola Saraki as the governor. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the current Minister of Information and Culture, who resigned his position as Chief of Staff to Lagos state governor, Bola Tinubu also contested in the election under the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) but lost. 2023: North-Central’s Allegations Of Marginalisation Untrue –… Osun 2023: Oyetola, APC Party To Beat – Senator Ajibola In 2019, Lai Mohammed and other progressives who were fed up with the Saraki dynasty in Kwara joined forces to form the ‘O To Ge movement. In order to win the election, they settled for a popular and grassroots politician in the state, Abdulrahman Abdulrazak as governorship candidate. Analysts believed that the choice of Abdulrazak made the job easier for the APC given the fact that he is seen as the face of the oppressed and downtrodden in the state. With his candidature, the APC convincingly won the governorship election, thus putting an end to PDP rule in Kwara. Politics Of Godfatherism In APC structure, in any state where the party is ruling, the governor of that state automatically becomes the party leader in the state. However, that is not to be in Kwara as Lai Mohammed and some of his supporters believed that given his role in the O To Ge movement, he should be the party leader of the state just like Tinubu in Lagos state. Their position did not go down well with some prominent stakeholders in Kwara APC such as Barr. Kunle Sulyman; Sen. Sulyman Makanjuola Ajadi; Sen. Ahmed Muhamad; Chief J. B. Ayeni; Chief Wole Oke; Amb. Nurudeen Muhammed; Alh. Folorunsho Ayinla ; Hon Ilias Ibrahim; Prince Sunday Fagbemi; Alh. Iliasu Alabi Iponrin; Princess A. R. Babalola; Pa G.G. Jaiyeola; Hon. Agbaje Wahab Femi White; Chief Titus Ashaolu SAN; Chief M. T. Lawal; and Chief J. A Shogo. Others are Hon. Yahyah Yinusa; Brig. Gen . Ibrahim Agbabs; Engr. B. O. Oyeyemi; Chief Teju Oguntoye; Hon. Al-Hassan Yahyah Bagudu; Dr. Sheu Ibrahim; Salman Jawondo Esq; Hon A.S. Katibi;Alh. Mustapha Kobe; Sen. Bisi Oyewo; and Hon Faruk Saruk; among several others. They all affirmed support for Governor Abdulrazak as the undisputed leader of APC in Kwara. Latest events in Kwara state have shown that the APC in the state is firmly under Governor Abdulrazak’s control. Few weeks ago, the Minister was denounced by majority of the members of the Kwara State House of Assembly who all pledged their allegiance to the governor. POLL Also, the three senators representing the state in the National Assembly also pledged their loyalty to the governor as the undisputed party leader in the state. The trio, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe (Kwara-Central) Lola Ashiru (Kwara-South) and Sadiq Umar representing Kwara-North said they met with the Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, in Abuja over the crisis rocking the party in the state. They added that the national leadership of the party affirmed that Governor Abdulrazak remained the authentic leader of the party in the state. Also, the former Chairman of the APC in the state, Bashir Bolarinwa, a loyalist of the Minister, was removed and replaced with his deputy, Alhaji Abdullahi Samari who belonged to the governor’s camp. In July 2021, Lai Mohammed set up a factional secretariat of the party in Ilorin and constituted a parallel state executives of the APC in the state. This however earned him a query as the national caretaker summoned him to explain why disciplinary actions should not be taken against him for such action. The party’s National Secretary, John James Akpanudoedehe said “The Minister is an elder and we shall accord him that much respect and the party will not allow anything to put him to disrepute. The party on the other hand will no allow anybody to violate the constitution of the party”. The governor in a recent interview accused the Minister of duping him of hundreds of millions of naira donated to him for his governorship campaign. He said he pocketed a huge amount of money donated to him (AbdulRazaq) by an undisclosed Igbo businessman towards his political campaign in 2019. Preserve Nigeria’s Unity, Cede Power to the South-East… No Candidate Better Placed To Succeed Buhari Than Osibanjo… “The Chief of Staff to the Kaduna State Governor called and said Lai gave us an account but it’s not going through, ‘can you give us another account so we can send you the money?’ But I was going to campaign so I said fine. “I came back two days later and remembered, and I said they should call him and give him an account number. When we called, he said Lai had sorted it out. That one and several. Until today, as we speak, he never told anybody that he collected money. “There’s a businessman from the South-East. His banker came to me and said his Oga (boss) wants (sic) to speak with me. I spoke with him and he said he was sending money to me. I said, thank you very much. After the election, he called me to congratulate me. When he saw I was just saying ‘thank you’, then he asked if Lai didn’t deliver the money, I asked him what money? He said N100 million,” the governor said. The governor said Mohammed has failed to account for hundreds of millions of naira donated towards his campaign, which the minister allegedly pocketed. He complained that the information minister humiliated him and worked against his interest in the run-up to the exercise. In his response, the Minister described the comments by the governor as false allegations, adding that he was solely responsible for the successes recorded by the APC in Kwara state. He said “You see, the truth of the matter is that the governor of Kwara State was never part of us. And I say this with all sense of humility. I am a founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He only came to join us in 2018, when Dr. Bukola Saraki went back to join the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)”. “So, you can see that this is where the real problem is. He does not understand what our own brand of politics stands for. And when you look at his own background too, you begin to understand better why there’s this problem between me and him. You see, in his own words, he said two things which are very significant, and which actually describe him and point to his character. One, he said he is a person that can stay in a place for 10 days, without talking to anybody, which means a person like that has no business being in politics. A person like that should not be elected to any office at all, talk more of being a governor”. ‘This is because as a politician, you engage on a continuous basis, you consult. As a politician, you carry people along. So when a man confesses and admits himself, that ‘my nature is that I can stay in one place for 10 days, and I won’t talk to anybody’, then you begin to understand the kind of problem you have. That kind of person has no business being in politics at all. Now, he said something that frightened me. He said he tore to shreds the manifesto of the party and he’s implementing his own. So that person again, has no business being returned on the platform of the same party. What the party stands for is the manifesto”. “But you practically disowned that manifesto when you came to power. No, that’s a different ball game. But for a governor, who was elected on the platform of that manifesto to say he tore it to pieces? Honestly, I’m being very restrained. I see the governor as a deeply troubled soul. Honestly, because it takes a deeply troubled soul to make the kind of statements he is making. You see, why I’m saying this is because when I look back at the history, how he came in and what he’s doing today, I get a bit concerned about his person, and I get much more worried about the party itself. Let’s situate these things in the proper context of when he came in”. “As I explained, he came in only in 2018. And when he came in 2018, he came in shortly before the bye-election. When we chose him as a candidate for our party, people were very worried and concerned that they hoped we were not making a mistake. That this candidate of yours, his political history is that he might get a ticket, and just disappear like he did in 2015. In 2015, he was the senatorial candidate of the PDP in Kwara Central and as soon as he got the ticket, he simply disappeared. The records are there. You can talk to anybody who was in PDP in 2015”. With efforts by the APC national reconciliation committee towards uniting aggrieved party members ahead of the party’s convention, will the Abdullahi Adamu-led national reconciliation committee succeed in its quest to unite the two gladiators? It remains to be seen whether Lai Mohammed will support the APC in retaining the state for the party or will work against its interests and allow the opposition PDP return to power.