Alhaji Usman Sulaiman Shehu, Chairman of the Coalition of Northern Supporters of Ndigbo for President,2023, has extoled the virtues of Senator Anyim Pius Anyim declaring that his aspiration for president deserves the support of Nigerians of all persuasions. Describing the former Senate President as an honest, peace loving leader, Alhaji Shehu said the country needs kind- hearted politicians like Anyim at this time to stabilize the nation currently in chaos. He also hailed Senator Anyim as a respecter of all religions and a detribalized Nigerian, and pledged the total support of the coalition toward the realization of Senator Anyim’s Presidency in 2023. Bagudu Directs Renovation Of Burnt Dadin Kowa Market Senate Moves To Protect Witnesses In Corruption Cases Alhaji Usman Sulaiman Shehu, popularly known aka SK who led some of his group members to the Senator in Abuja said that after analysing all the presidential aspirants as well as prospective ones, the group was convinced that Senator Anyim would give Nigeria the right leadership that will take the country out of her present deplorable situation. He said that after long deliberation, the Group was convinced that the only person from the South East who meets the Coalition’s criteria for the Presidency “is none other than Distinguished Senator Anyim Pius Anyim.” Expatiating on their criteria for choosing Anyim, Alhaji Shehu said, “During one of our Executive meetings held on the 26th December, 2021 here in Abuja, it was decided that our focus must be based on a single candidate from the South East” and that such a candidate must be a “person with high personality profile” and a person with developmental leadership quality. Other criteria according to Shehu are: “a person who cares for the less privileged and the masses, a person whose vision is for the peaceful co-existence of Nigerian citizens as a whole, a person whose experience would enable him to raise the level of our country by means of curtailing the continuing hike of prices of goods and services. Alhaji Shehu went further to list other criteria as “a person who will provide employment opportunities to our teeming youth and women, a person who dedicated his life for service to humanity, a person who will stabilize the fuel and power sector of the economy, a person who will design means for affordable or free quality education”, among others. POLL Nudging Anyim to intensify his pursuit for the top seat, Shehu said they are seeking his approval to commence consultation on his behalf. “We wish to seek for your approval sir, to commence consultations and to register lots of members in the north” pledging to continue to pray for Anyim’s success “in this formidable journey knowing fully well that your success is Nigeria’s success as well.” Receiving the Coalition, Senator Anyim thanked them for their support and commitment to work for his victory. He assured them that he would work with the Coalition once campaign begins and urged them to feel free to join other campaign groups that were already supporting his aspiration in registering with the Anyim Campaign Organisation.