Capt. Alkali Moddibo, the Rector of the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), in this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI speaks on challenges and prospects of the foremost aviation college in Nigeria. Excerpts: Sometime in July last year, the college through the Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Agency (KASUPDA), reclaimed its landed property through the demolition of no fewer than 160 houses. What have you put in place to prevent illegal encroachment in the future? This college, the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria is about 58 years old and the college was here before the illegal occupants became the residents of that area and the land allocated to the college is mapped. JUST IN: Air Passengers Protest Azman Flight Cancellations In… BREAKING: Pwajok Takes Over From Akinkuotu As NAMA MD Now, if you encroach on a land, the government has the right to take it back. We are trying to secure that area by building a perimeter fence to cover those areas that were recovered and we have armed and unarmed security personnel patrolling that area to keep people away from coming back to restart construction of building or farming in the areas. For those who want to go to the court or are already in the court, it is left for the court to decide on the issue. We have some cases brought to us, which we have forwarded to the Ministry of Aviation. The ministry has a legal department that is in charge of taking court cases against it or its agencies to the right places. NCAT will not be the legal department that will be attending the court cases, but, we will be there as observers and give some advises and information whenever they are required. POLL So, the matter is going to court, we will not say so much about it. We leave the court to decide. About three years ago, NCAT was upgraded into a Regional Training Centre of Excellence (RTCE), while the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), also endorsed it as an Approved Training Organisation (ATO). What has changed in the institution since the upgrade and the approval? This is an Approved Training Organisation (ATO) and we have been having renewals yearly and the Regional Training Centre of Excellence (RTCE) is a certification by the International Civil Aviation Oragnisation (ICAO). The benefits of this certification are that we can increase training activities like the ICAO training courses and the conventional courses in the college. In 2021, we had over 50 courses conducted in this college in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic; we are still doing those courses. That will give us more visibility internationally and locally by having the RTCE. Y Sanctions: France, Senegal, CIV Cancel Flights To Mali Trending Video Isn’t New, Incident Occurred In Aug. 2017 – NIS ou cannot train if you don’t have the reviewer of the ATO. So, these are the benefits of the RTCE and ATO. NCAT recently took delivery of a fire simulator equipment. When will it be put to a use? The equipment is an automated firefighting simulator, which gives room for simulating incident and accident activities that require fire. The firefighting simulator is undergoing process of certification; we are in stage two of the process and NCAA is responsible for issuing certification for the equipment and it cannot give you the certificate until you are through with all the processes, which we are working hard to get. As soon as the second phase is completed, the machine would be put to use. The year 2022 is still new, what are your priorities for NCAT in 2022? We are going to try as much as possible to conduct more training locally and internationally and we intend to get the certification of the automatic rescue firefighting training provider certificate from the NCAA, which I told you about. Also, we are working on the Boeing 737 equipment certification. It is taking us longer than we intended, but we will try our best to ensure that by March this year or April, we will have the B737 simulator equipment certificate and put it to use. You need to have the international accredit certification before NCAA will now give you its own certification. For an example, you must have the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or European Union Safety Agency (EASA) certification and NCAA based on one of those certifications, will now issue you its own certificate. We are looking to be an Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) we started last year, but we put it on hold and we intend to continue this year. Hopefully, we will get the AMO certification this year. NCAT about three years ago commenced off-campus Post-Graduate Degree (PGD) programme in Lagos and Abuja, what is your assessment of the programme since you commenced? The course was intended to be a year course in Zaria as a full-time, but requests from a lot of quarters, stakeholders and others, wanted it to be done at their doorsteps. We considered two places; Lagos and Abuja. So far, we are doing very well with the post-graduate courses. The courses started in 2013 in Zaria, but were extended to Lagos in 2019. Initially, when you look at the number of participants, you will be discouraged, but I can tell you right now, we have more than 100 participants. In Abuja, we have about 38 students and in Lagos, we had 100, but we lost one of them. So, there are 99 participants in Lagos. The programme is growing daily and people are applying and seeking for a way to get admission into the programme. The programmme is tailored to suit your way of life. Most of those who participate in the programmes are workers, aviators who work in different establishments in the sector, but they still find time to participate to take part in the programme. If you miss a module, you can always take it later. We are doing very well with the programmes. Since you were appointed the Rector of NCAT, what has been your major challenge running an institution like NCAT? Life is never straight; it composes of ups and downs, nothing is straight forward in life. We do have challenges here, but the most pressing issue here just like somewhere else is fund. The funds are not sufficient for our day-to-day running and the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) is also inadequate. So, we try to see if we can get more IGRs to carry out our mandates and expend them on our facilities and hostels. There is an executive hostel near the rector’s house, a contract has been given and the contractor is working to complete the hostel, which will be a very good one to our students when they come for training. Also, the contract to renovate the AA Hostel has been approved by the ministry. So, we will start working on it. We are going to make sure you have more standard rooms whereby when you come, you will love the place. Also, I must tell you that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved 150 new hostel rooms in the budget and another one will be coming in the next budget, which is for 100 rooms. So, we are working towards getting good and better accommodation for all our students. How has the insecurity in the North and Covid-19 pandemic impacted your operations? The issue of insecurity is a nationwide one and I am sure that that there is no nation, community and an environment, which doesn’t face this challenge. The country is going through some challenges, which governments at all levels are working hard to address. At NCAT, we have formidable security equipment and gadgets, which are installed everywhere. If you walk into this college, someone is seeing you going and coming. We have advanced security gadgets in every nook and cranny of this college, working for 365 days a year. Also, we have armed policemen, civil defence officers and we have our own internal security personnel who help them to ensure total security is maintained. However, people that want to commit havoc are not sleeping and we also are not sleeping. We will continue to improve on our security discretion and day-to-day arrangement. On the issue of Covid-19, it is a pandemic and we have been coping with it by following the protocols layed down by the Federal Government, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the World Health Organisation (W.H.O). Although, we know that we have very limited cases of COVID-19, but Nigeria and other countries have been mandated to make sure it follows all the protocols layed down. We cannot take it as a guarantee and let loose our guards. We have to keep on obeying the protocols until the pandemic is over. Even with the protocols, there are limited numbers of students you can have in a class at ago, but I want to tell you that we are doing very well with that. How many trainer aircraft do you have at the moment and which fuel are you using for them now? So far, we have Diamonds, Tampicos and Beech Baron 58 aircraft. We are looking at getting more Diamond aircraft; seven of the Diamond aircraft were supplied in 2020 and this year, we will be taking delivery of two of the Diamond aircraft – double and single engine. At a given time, you have at least five to six serviceable airplanes. Also, at the moment, we have some that are under maintenance. Presently, we have 20 serviceable aircraft in the college. Like I said earlier, we intend to take delivery of more airplanes this year. We will take one in February and another in April. The Diamonds will be about 15 in all. They are advanced cockpit; we have the latest technology that you can find in any machine in it and it uses Jet A1, which is cheaper than the Aviation Gas (AvGas). Aviation gas is not easy to come back, we have to import it into Nigeria and that is what the Tampicos are using. It will gladden me to tell you that we are moving another step higher. We are thinking of getting Magnus, which is another airplane that is manufactured in Hungry. We have been to their factory with NCAA and the Ministry of Aviation. We conducted our technical inspection; sooner or later, we will start to have those machines here. The advantages of that machine are that; one, it is made from carbon fibre, very light and it uses Premium Motoring Spirit (PMS) like the one you use in your car.