BAUCHI – The People of Jama’are LGA in Bauchi state have appealed to the State Government not to relocate the Faculty of Agriculture, campus of Bauchi State University sited in Jama’are, saying that the institution has brought development to the area. The community organized a special prayers at the Jama’are central Mosque for divine intervention by Allah to touch the heart of all those who are behind the move. The prayers session was led by the Chief Imam of Jama’are Central Mosque, Mal Harisu Dauda who said that though they are used to such prayers every Friday before the Jummaat prayers, this one was a special session focusing on the development. Emir Of Fika Charges Citizens On Patriotism Stay Away From Bauchi Fulani Affairs, National Leader Of Kautal… The Islamic Cleric said that the importance of siting the institution in Jama’are cannot be overemphasized as it has boosted development of the area as students from different places across the country are studying in the school. He then appealed to the State Government to in the interest of fairness, allow the faculty to remain in Jama’are. Speaking to Journalists in Jama’are on the development, Secretary of Jama’are Development Forum, Saleh Ahmed Malle said that the insinuation is rife that the state government is planning to relocate the Faculty of Agriculture to another place. The development according to him was necessitated by the approval by the State Government granted to the TetFUND for the immediate takeoff of the newly established Federal College of Education, Jama’are. According to him, the Jama’are community have a copy of the approval granted to TetFUND by government to that effect as signed by the State Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir himself. POLL “With the approval granted for the takeoff of the FCE, it means that the Faculty of Agriculture will be moved away from Jama’are to another place even though such has not been communicated”. “since the siting of the Faculty in Jama’are by the administration of the former Governor of the state, Isa Yuguda, the area has developed in all ramifications particularly economic which has been boosted” The Secretary said He said that because of the number of students coming into the town, people of the area have their businesses boosted just as the town has gained more popularity and attention. “if the FCE must takeoff from the Faculty of Agriculture, we don’t have problems with that, our demand is that the Faculty of Agriculture should be made to remain in Jama’are” Saleh Maple said He pointed out that the two institutions can operate together because the space is big enough to contain them pointing out that the only thing needed is additional structure which the Tetfund can do within a short period. ACYM Raises Alarm Over Plot To Impersonate His Office BREAKING: Gazargamu Emirate Prince Is Dead According to him, “the two institutions are for the development of not Jama’are LGA alone but the entire state. We are in support of educational development, that is the reason we are appealing to the State Government to let the status quo remain”.