 The Chairman, National Population Commission, Hon. Nasir Isa Kwara has disclosed that the first-ever Digital Population Census is realistic by May 2022. Isa Kwarra stated that the Commission is more than ready to conduct a first-ever digital population census in the country. Subsidy Removal Will Help 2022 Budget Implementation — CSOs Gunmen Enforcing Sit-At-Home Kill Two, Burn Vehicles In Enugu,… The Commission’s Chairman made this revelation in Kaduna after paying a courtesy visit to Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir El Rufai. According to him,Juliet the Commission is more than ready to conduct a first-ever digital population census in the country. “We are ready to give the country a first-ever digital census by May 2022. “We have the map data in our system, androids which, unlike the analogue era will make it very easy for a reliable and credible census,” he said. He expressed optimism in President Muhammadu Buhari’s willingness to make a proclamation for the census, saying the commission was prepared. POLL He pledged the commission’s capacity to tackle insecurity in all the states of the Federation during the census. Speaking earlier Hon. Kwarra saidthat the aim of his visit is to create public awareness of the forthcoming census, and solicit the support of the Government and the good people of Kaduna State for the success of its activities which have direct bearing on the social-economic and political life of the people. The Chairman told Governor El Rufai that the Commission has intensified efforts towards the forthcoming Population and Housing Census, saying it has conducted Enumeration Area Demarcation exercise in 99″% across the state of the federation” A total of 772LGAs have been successfully demarcated across the 36 States and FCT. “The Demarcation of the last 2LGAs will be completed in the next one month” In Kaduna state only Birin Gwari LGA remaining because of insecurity” he said The NPC Chairman outlined the mandates of the Commission to include: Conduct of Specialized Surveys, Registration Of birth and death Turkish Minister Receives Serdar Kilic For Normalization With… FA Cup: Man Utd Ride Luck Against Aston Villa To Reach 4th Round Hon. Nasir Kwarra commended the Kaduna State Governor for all the assistance and support extended to the Commission while requesting for continuous support of the State Government in areas of sensitization and mobilization of the populace in the LGAs; provision of adequate security for the safety of personnel and materials and; provision of accommodations and logistics for field staff for the next Population and Housing Census. In his remarks, Governor El Rufai said Kaduna state needs an update of the census in the state to ensure that plans are done in line with the numbers According to him, as the third most populated state in the country the state will work with NPC to ensure a successful Housing and Population census He expressed his condolence and the people of Kaduna state of the death of one of the staff of the Commission who was killed by bandits. Governor El Rufai assured the Commission of the support and cooperation of the Government and the good people of Kaduna State to help ensure smooth conduct of the next census exercise, saying his doors are open to any support required.