Success has many fathers but a loser is an orphan is an old proverb, which I have ascribed the wrong meaning to for a very long time. I have always believed that this proverb means that success will naturally attract people to its side, while the opposite will be the case with failure. However, while I was considering what today’s column will dwell on, something propped me to seek a clear­er clarification from Google of the true meaning of this English proverb and behold I got a different meaning. According to Google, this proverb attributed to Mussolini’s son in-law, Count Galeazzo Ciano, means, “Many people will seek credit for success, but few will accept responsibility for fail­ure.” Of Ambition And National Interest Why Nigerians Should Patronise Only Licensed Drug Outlets But can one relate this to a Yoruba adage, which states, “Òsì ló nje tani mo e ri, owó ló nje mo bá o tan,” translated lit­erarily, it means, “Poverty is lonesome, while success has many siblings.” However, this Yoruba adage, which I have long known since I was young, best describes what I have in mind for today’s column. The truth about this is that this adage is a fact of life. Whether one agrees or not, it does not matter. For example, is there any person re­lated to Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Nigeria’s Vice President, who will deny him or be ashamed to be associated with him? I doubt if such a human being has been born. What of President Muhamma­du Buhari, Nigeria’s President? Even with him being loathsome because of his economic policies, his siblings will still align with him, no matter what. Well, let me stop with these two examples in my illustration and go straight to the issue I have in mind. Today’s column will dwell on Nigeri­ans’ passion for football that knows no bounds. Because of this passion, they easily align with anyone that gives them the joy that they so much craved for in football. You know nature abhors vacuum. The failure of Nigerian foot­ball to meet the yearnings of Nigerians created a vacuum and because of their desire to fill this vacuum, in droves they started supporting European football, aside that they’ve developed passion for quality football. Quality in the sense of not only getting value for their money, but also in the time devoted to watching the beautiful game. This brings me to the Nigerians’ reaction to the Super Eagles opening group game defeat of Egypt last Tuesday in Cameroon in the ongo­ing 33rd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations. POLL The 1-0 win has generated a lot of furore in the country because of the political shenanigans before the Su­per Eagles left for Cameroon. We need to remind ourselves that the Nigeria Football Federation had sacked Gernot Rohr after over five years in the saddle. Before the football house took this decision, Nigerians cried out, calling for the sack of the Franco-German be­cause he failed to raise a team that sat­isfied their yearnings. But the football house prevaricated, doing the needful at the eleventh hour. While Nigerians yearned for a Ni­gerian coach, the football house still went ahead to employ a Portuguese coach, who will take over from Austin Eguavoen, the Super Eagles interim coach, after the Africa Cup of Nations. But it looks like luck is smiling on Cerezo, as he is fondly called, who in his first major test after being asked to take over the Super Eagles in an inter­im capacity, passed his first major test on Tuesday convincingly with the win over Egypt. And trust Nigerians, the electronic and the print media, the so­cial media inclusive, all chorused one thing the following day, let Eguavoen be. Their position is premised not only because of the win, but because for the first time in many years, a semblance of how Super Eagles used to play in days of yore was reenacted in Goroua, Cameroon, by an indigenous coach, when those who appointed him did not believe he could do a good job. While there are some who felt it was too early to root for Eguavoen, many believe in him and that he has what it takes to lead the team to the 2022 World Cup qualifier in March. My senior colleague, Ikeddy Chine­duIsiguzo, postedonhisFacebookthus, “If Eguavoen were a foreign coach… What he did with the Super against Egypt, against Mo Salah would have been described in superlatives.” How Not To Treat An Ex-Convict Ganduje, The Most Beautiful Bride For VP In his subtle campaign, Chief Segun Odegbami (MON) asked, “Is the nation­al team of Nigeria reborn? “One match into the AFCON 2021 campaign under the guidance of a consortium of Nigerian coaches they appear to be a different team from what Nigerians had carried like ‘dead weight’ for six years under Gernot Rohr. It is not that they won the match against Egypt deservedly, butaboutstyle, attitude, con­viction and spirit. For the first time in a very long while the Super Eagles played against one of the strongest teams on the African continent and the hearts of 200 million Nigerians were not in their throats. What happened? Is this a rebirth of the real culture of Nigerian football? Is this a one-off performance? If this trend continues and Cerezo does ‘what Napoleon could not do’, what would happen to another unknown foreign coach already hired after AFCON 2021? It has been only one match under a Ni­gerian coach and the team is looking completely different.” For Abdul Oroh, “We must restore faith in ourselves. We can do it. The former foreign coach couldn’t motivate the boys because he didn’t have faith in them. Rushing to smuggle in another foreign coach when Eguavoen had not even started was an act of bad faith and a vote of no confidence by NFF. The crooks running the place should simply resign. If properly motivated and remunerated, Eguavoen, Joseph Yobo and their team can take us to the World Cup. We’ve seen the evidence if any was needed.” Coach Uni Dan Kakwi, while sum­marising Eguavoen’s performance, not­ed that he re-introduced the orthodox 4-4-2 formation prioritized by Clemence Westerhoof in the 90s; possessive foot­ball and high pressing with team struc­ture vibrant in defence, midfield and attack. Tactically the build up play and distribution to attack was flexible with viable options with Joe Aribo and Wil­fred Ndidi joining attack at intervals; substitutions came timely and effective after loopholes seen in weakness and tired legs; team zeal and winning spirit was electric-something most Nigerians have not seen in ages. Truth is that the Super Eagles showed strong character unlike what we had in the recent past, but we need to be cautious if the view of Sam Ahmedu is anything to go by. He stat­ed, “Just after one match? We are in too much of a hurry. I like what I saw yesterday (Tuesday), but can we please be patient and not get carried away. It’s like we have won the AFCON already just after one match. We should also be ruing the missed chances and the ten­dency of some players failing to pass to open teammates.” But the good thing is that Eguavoen is not carried away, saying on Thursday that, “I am focused on winning against Sudan for now; I don’t want to think about any record or how we go about our third match. Sudan is in focus now and we have to deal with that, squarely.” Has the campaign not kicked off, even in earnest?