Southern and Middle Belt Alliance (SaMBA) has called on the public to hold Governor Nasir El Rufai responsible if anything happens to Luka Biniyat, spokesman of Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), who has been in prison detention over a matter in court instituted by Kaduna State government. The group made the call while calling for the immediate and unconditional release of the SOKAPU official. The Group condemned the continuous detention of Southern Kaduna Born Journalist and wondered how a Nigerian citizen could be detained for two months in a civil matter. 2023: PDP Set To Take Over Lagos As Ayu, Saraki, Wike, Makinde,… I’m Not Seeking To Be President, I Want To Be APC Chairman… In a statement signed by Prince Rwang Pam Jnr., SaMBA further stated that while the illegal detention at the maximum-security prisons in Kaduna was at the instance of the Kaduna State Commissioner for internal Security Samuel Aruwan, the facts show that the illegal detention enjoys the approval of the Executive Governor of Kaduna state. SaMBA also warned Aruwan that he can never be in corridor of power for life. “Our Attention has been drawn to the continuous detention of the Spokesman of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), Luka Biniyat for the past two months on the Orders of a Magistrate Court in Kaduna on the trumped-up charges filed by the governor El-rufai led administration using the Kaduna State Commissioner for internal Security Mr Samuel Aruwan, SaMBA said. The group said that such practice is shocking and alien to democratic traditions. “That a matter that ought to be civil in nature is twisted into a high-profile criminal case traceable to terrorism and therefore brought under the terrorism prevention Act is strange. POLL “There is no doubt that the Kaduna State government is using its DPP to haunt and use the Judiciary in persecuting its perceived enemies,” it added. The SOKAPU Spokesman was arraigned before the Magistrate Court on an initial offence of injurious falsehood which is ordinarily bailable however when the Bail application was moved before the Magistrate the Kaduna State government through its DPP quickly filed charges of Internet stalking under the terrorism prevention Act that is not ordinarily bailable.