The total demand for air travel in November 2021 – measured in Revenue Passenger Kilometers (RPKs) was down 47 per cent compared to November 2019, the pre-Covid-19 era, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said. This is as the international association said that African airlines’ traffic fell 56.8 per cent in November versus two years’ ago, improved over the 59.8 per cent decline in October compared to October 2019. November capacity was down 49.6 per cent and load factor declined 10.1 percentage points to 60.3 per cent in the same period. Why We Intend To Take Delivery Of Magnus Trainer Aircraft –… 2022 Tourism 100 Members To Be Inducted In March At 8th Abuja… IATA noted that the recovery in air travel continued in November 2021, prior to the emergence of the new variant of Covid-19 pandemic – Omicron. The international association said that international demand sustained its steady upward trend as more markets reopened, while the domestic traffic, weakened, largely owing to strengthened travel restrictions in China. Because comparisons between 2021 and 2020 monthly results are distorted by the extraordinary impact of COVID-19, unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are to November 2019, which followed a normal demand pattern. According to IATA, domestic air travel deteriorated slightly in November after two consecutive monthly improvements. Domestic RPKs fell by 24.9 per cent versus 2019 compared with a 21.3 per cent decline in October. Primarily this was driven by China, where traffic fell 50.9 per cent compared to 2019, after several cities introduced stricter travel restrictions to contain (pre-Omicron) COVID outbreaks. POLL International passenger demand in November was 60.5 per cent below November 2019, bettering the 64.8 per cent decline recorded in October, IATA said. “The recovery in air traffic continued in November. Unfortunately, governments over-reacted to the emergence of the Omicron variant at the close of the month and resorted to the tried-and-failed methods of border closures, excessive testing of travelers and quarantine to slow the spread. Not surprisingly, international ticket sales made in December and early January fell sharply compared to 2019, suggesting a more difficult first quarter than had been expected. “If the experience of the last 22 months has shown anything, it is that there is little to no correlation between the introduction of travel restrictions and preventing transmission of the virus across borders. And these measures place a heavy burden on lives and livelihoods. If experience is the best teacher, let us hope that governments pay more attention as we begin the New Year,” said Willie Walsh, IATA’s Director-General.