Hell was let loose on Thursday 22, January when fracas ensued among factional members of the National Union of Road Transport Union, (NURTW) in Lagos state. The ever-busy areas of Lagos Islands were turned into a ghost town that day as the crisis grounded business activities especially at the Idumota, Kosoko, Tom Jones, and Balogun areas of the market, leading to several members of the union sustaining machete cuts, gun wounds and leaving four dead. Witnesses said the clash gave some robbers the opportunity to rob traders, customers, and commuters. Role Of Special Marshalls Enshrined In Act Establishing FRSC –… Ogun Seeks Special Status For Federal Government’s Funding Of… Following the clash, two security trucks with operatives including the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) were spotted on Monday around the Idumota and Oke-Arin areas of the market to maintain peace. The police said they have arrested two principal characters involved in the clash. A few hours later, the Lagos State government announced the suspension of NURTW activities in the Idumota axis of the state. The state government through Honourable Toyin Fayinka, Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation announced that the activities of the National Union of Road Transport Workers’ (NURTW) have been suspended indefinitely at Eyin Eyo, Church Street and Idumota Bridge, on the Lagos Island area of Lagos State. Meanwhile another report filtered in which was published by Sahara Reporters revealing that no fewer than 10 policemen were injured while attempting to arrest members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers at Diamond Hotel, Alakia Isebo, Ibadan, Oyo State. POLL According to the report, Lamidi Mukaila popularly called ‘Auxiliary’, who is chairman of the NURTW in the state, is the owner of the hotel. According to a source, Mukaila had ordered his men to shoot at any officer who tried to make an arrest in his hotel. The officers, who are currently admitted at a hospital, had visited the hotel to make an arrest, but due to Mukaila’s orders, the men immediately attacked the officers, overpowered them and seized their guns. Meanwhile, a source in the camp of the NURTW told the reporters that the AK-47 rifles the road workers seized from the police were currently with one of the auxiliary boys simply identified as Adebowale Abiodun at Akure Park, Ibadan. The source said, “There is one beer parlour close to the auxiliary’s hotel. The police were informed that armed robbers were being harboured at the spot. So, the police were on the trail of the robbers when the auxiliary boys sighted the officers and opened fire on them. They stabbed the officers like bush meat.” Why Transport Operators Clamour For U-Turn At Ota Tollgate Axis Year 2022: FG Will Consolidate On Completion Of Road Projects –… He added that Auxillary had been fingered in many killings and violence in the state in recent times. In a swift reaction made through a press release, Alhaji Ibikunle Baruwa, National President, National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, denied the report, stating nothing short of being malicious, and threatens to take legal actions against Sahara Reporters and the Oyo State government within 24 hours if the report is not retracted and apologies made to the union. According to Alhaji Baruwa, the NURTW as a transport union does not exist in Oyo State due to the proscription of its activities by the Makinde led government. He said: “Since the ban, the state government put in place what it calls Park Management Services PMS, led by Lamidi Mukaila popularly called ‘Auxilliary’, an appointee of the Oyo State Government. “With the creation of the group some three years ago, it took over the role of administering the affairs of transport associations outside of. the purview of NURTW in Oyo State.” He added. The President of NURTW, explained further said that It is therefore clear that any activity involving transport groups or associations in the state will be those of the members of the park management services as the only existing umbrella body of transport operators in the state. He asserted, “When Auxillary was appointed by the state government to lead its own version of transport union, NURTW rejected the arrangement and especially the choice of Auxillary because of his anti union vices and questionable actions, leading to our proscription by the state government.” The NURTW since the appointment of the Park Management Services in Oyo, was therefore, proscribed and its activities suspended till further notice. It’s therefore highly provocations to associate our Union or members to any transport union activities, especially that which is inimical to the well-being and peace of the state. NURTW therefore, calls on the Media house and the Oyo State government to retract the report with apologies to the union; else it will be forced to take a legal action against them. You will also recall at the APC campaign flag-off in January 2019, at Skypower Grounds, beside the Archbishop Vining Church on Oba Akinjobi Way in GRA Ikeja, where Governor Akinwunmi Ambode presented Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos APC governorship flag bearer, The campaign rally was supposed to be a meeting point for APC faithful in an atmosphere of peace, conviviality, solidarity chants, chest thumping and galvanising the base. But ,it turned out contrary to expectations when factional members of the popular road transport union – NURTW engaged in a fierce battle of supremacy at the campaign ground. The bloody fracas led to the shooting of several innocent persons, leading to the deaths of three people and others sustaining varying degrees of injuries from gunshots, which includes hapless journalists who are out doing their jobs. It was also reported that Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo, the current state Chairman, NURTW, was stabbed during the incident and was hospitalised for several weeks. However, the Lagos state government appears to be getting fed up with the union’s activities, especially with the Gestapo manner deployed in levy collection, has rolled out a new way to go about collecting levies from transport operators which seems to negate the system used by the union. According to Dr Rabiu Olowo, Commissioner for Finance, Lagos state, as part of measures to curb the menace of touts on major highways, Lagos State Government has planned the introduction of a consolidated N800 daily levy on the informal transport sector, scheduled to commence operation from February1, 2022. Therefore, with regards to the N800 daily payment, each bus driver is expected to pay at least N288,000 annually into the state government’s coffers. Explaining further, Fayinka said with the new development, a bus driver who pays at any given local government at the point of departure, would not have to pay any levy again in the course of his journey on the highway. “A bus driver from Badagry having paid N800 to Badagry local government and going to Mile 2, won’t pay again to Ojo local government. The payment from the points of departure takes care of the daily levy and other charges by the government,” Fayinka stated. Contrary to what the government said, MC Oluomo stated that the N800 would not cover the levy collected by the transport union members on the road, called, ‘agberos,’ saying it only affected the taxes and other charges being collected by the Government. According to him, “I want to make it clear that the N800 only covers all the money collected by the MDAs; it does not affect the NURTW ticket.” An independent group in 2021 had revealed following research that Lagos generated not less than N125 billion annually from the collection of levies from the transport sector, the bulk of which goes to the transport unions. Seventy two years old, Apostle Erastus Aladesuru, the founder of People of Praise International Ministry, located in Ikotun Egbe, and a former NURTW chairman in Kwara state in the eighties, said, although the first roads in Nigeria were built within the first decade of the twentieth century, road transportation did not become generalised until the 1920s. According to him, “In the year 1978, a milestone in the history of road transporters in Nigeria occurred with the formation of the National Union of Road Transport Workers popularly known as the (NURTW). “Even though the union consists of people of integrity, probity and sound intellectual reasoning, yet there is this misconception held by the public against its members who perceive them as school drop outs, irresponsible, lazy and a bunch of miscreants. It is unfortunate that this label was brought upon them by the unguided attitude of quite a number of them.” Aladesuru added. A member of the NURTW branch executives at Iyana Ipaja who spoke on the condition of anonymity said “The union is an organised labour union and not a cesspool of thugs, area boys or murderers. He said the gestapo style employed in the collection of dues by members is regrettable, it is necessitated by the recalcitrant nature of members (drivers) who will not readily pay their dues as at when due.” He revealed that drivers are some of the most evasive set of people we have. They will naturally not obey simple laws undergirding the running of the union, so some level of force had to be applied.