In Nigeria football is the undisputed king of sport, so it is in almost all African countries. Despite the dark cloud that hovered over the possibility of the tournament holding as schedule; having been postponed twice due to COVID-19 concerns, and the European clubs politics of trying to deny African players taking part; the tournament will kick off with Senegal, defending champions, Algeria, Cote d’ Ivoire and Egypt favourably tipped to win the tournament. Nigeria, winners of the tournament in 1980 as host and in 1994 and also in 2013 is not one of the countries tipped to win the 33rd edition of the tournament kicking off in Cameroon on Sunday with the 24 countries participating already in. For the first time, though outsiders may tip Super Eagles as one of the team to win the tournament, Nigerians know that the possibility of the team winning the tournament is near impossibility, giving the level of preparation and the shenanigans that went on before the team left for Cameroon on Wednesday. Oil Wealth And Nigeria Pseudo Unity (1) Nembe Oil Spill And The Crocodile Tears As at Thursday, three of the invited players-Odion Ighalo, Tyron Ebuehi and Jamilu Collins- were yet to report to camp. What of Victor Osimhen last minute withdrawal from the tournament under hazy circumstance? Injury also played its own part with Oghenekaro Etebo, Paul Onuachu and Kingsley Miachael ruled out. Emmanuel Dennis was denied the opportunity of featuring for Nigeria by Watford on the premise of the NFF failing to request for the player’s release at the appropriate time. The sack of Gernot Rohr by the Nigeria Football Federation with about a month to the kick off of the tournament will also have its own negative effect on the team as the Super Eagles under Augustine Eguavoen never had a full training before leaving for Cameroon. To worsen a bad situation, several Nigerian players were in the country but failed to report to camp only for them to report one after the other giving the impression that the tournament is there for them for the taking. For crying out loud, this is one of the reasons why the service of Rohr was dispensed with- indiscipline in the team. How will Eguavoen, who unlike 2006 when he led the team to the tournament assisted Christian Chukwu, before Chukwu was sacked, raise a team capable of winning the tournament for the fourth time? Before he took over in 2006, he had inside knowledge of the team and the players than now. In 2006, he had the opportunity of playing two World Cup qualifying games, and through training camp for the Nations Cup; he had more time to prepare the team for the AFCON. POLL The truth is that he’s not availed of such opportunities, with him meeting the players with 14 days before their opening game of the tournament, and no time for a proper friendly game to gauge the team’s preparedness. However, despite the gloomy situation, Eguavoen is confident in the team’s ability to do the unexpected in Cameroon. Maybe he thinks he can spring the type of surprise that Late Stephen Keshi did in 2013 in South Africa when against all expectations, he won the tournament. “I think this team is ready to compete anytime they are called upon,” he told espn.com in an interview. “And yes, the time is quite short, we all know that. But we are Nigerians and once you get to a tournament, everybody expects you to win. “Nobody cares what happened before. From the blast of the whistle, nobody wants to hear excuses, but with the quality of players we have, I don’t think we will struggle.” It is good that Eguavoen realises that Nigerians hate excuses, but he needs to be reminded that if wishes were horses, beggars would ride. This is the biggest tournament in Africa and we treat it with levity and hope to just go there and pick it up because the trophy is reserved for Nigeria. Like what Fela would say, second base ‘jare’. Improving Access To Safe, Voluntary Modern Contraceptives Family… Obasanjo’s Ingratitude To N-Delta Is Characteristic Though the Nigeria Football Federation had made it clear when Rohr was sacked that winning the trophy was no longer a priority, should this be the situation if we had done the needful? “We don’t believe we would have won the Nation Cup with Gernot Rohr,” NFF president Amaju Pinnick said at the time of Rohr’ sacking. “The team will use the competition to prepare for the World Cup qualifiers.” A serious football federation would not have allowed Rohr that luxury of staying after the 2018 World Cup with his handling of the team’s last group game against Argentina. While we put ourselves in this unsavory situation, this cannot be said of countries like Senegal, Algeria, Cameroon, Egypt, Tunisia, Cameroon and Morocco who are in pole position to win the tournament. These countries are consistent in performance all through these years, and this is why they’ve been that consistent. But this cannot be said of Super Eagles who have not been convincing in their performance. I know there are some pessimists, who will disagree with my position of writing off the team because of FIFA rankings where Nigeria is the fifth best-ranked African team. Ranked number one is Senegal followed by Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco and Nigeria. Egypt is the sixth best African team. But if we are to go by ranking it means there are four teams in pole position to win the tournament before Nigeria. Though winning a big tournament, as the AFCON, is a function of several factors chief among is preparation, quality of team, players’ psychological makeup, discipline and luck, among others, predicting the winner will be very tough. My prediction will be on February 7, 2022.