After almost a year of de­lay, AFCON 2021 kicked off on Sunday, January 9, 2022 when host nation Camer­oon welcomed the stallions of Burkina Faso. Two days later, Nigeria faced Egypt in the first game of Group D with the Super Eagles emerging triumphant after Kelechi Iheanacho scored the only goal of the game in the 30th minute. As the official communi­cations partner of the Ni­geria Football Federation, MTN Nigeria’s Chief Ex­ecutive Officer, Olutokun Toriola, is effusive and confident in the ability of the players and staff to go all the way to the final, “We are committed to support­ing the Super Eagles, we trust the team and we be­lieve that our players will make the country proud in Cameroon. We are re­lentlessly backing them to bring home the trophy.” He also restated his sup­port for the Amaju Pinn­ick-led administration and the coaching crew, “We trust the knowledge and leadership qualities of the president of the Nigerian Football Federation and the coaching crew. They have shown incredible commitment to the team. He has a clear vision, and we will support him in ev­ery way to bring his vision to fruition” Wasteful Nigeria Begins 2021 AFCON On A Winning Note …“33” Export Lager Hails Super Eagles’ Bright Start MTN Nigeria signed a three-year multi-million naira partnership deal with the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) On Sep­tember 2, 2021. The commu­nication firm became the official communications partner for the Super Ea­gles and other National Teams. However, MTN has long supported the Super Eagles before the official documentation. They have been pushing the Super Ea­gles and voicing their sup­port for the team. Earlier last year, the mobile com­munication giant provided two 24-seater boats for the Super Eagles trip to Porto Novo to face the Republic of Benin. A gesture which the Nigerian Football Fed­eration (NFF) President Amaju Pinnick thanked them for. MTN replied by reiterating their support and belief in the squad. Augustine Eguavoen is the man currently leading the country’s charge as the interim head coach for the tournament. Former Vene­zuela manager Jose Peseiro has been announced as the head coach, but he will only take over after the tourna­ment.