IBADAN – Founder of One Love Family, Satguru Maharaj Ji, has called on leaders, politicians, and kings to come for divine knowledge, saying this is the only key to human afflictions. Maharaj Ji disclosed this in a press statement through the One Love Family Divine Minister for Information, Ojo Mogbadewa, and made it available to journalists on Sunday. Divine knowledge, according to Maharaj Ji, is necessary at this point in time because from the way things are now, stealing has become the norm where tribalism, ethnic and religious considerations have become the albatross of those around the government recycling fraudulent people in the corridors of power, private and public institutions. Stop Inflicting Hardship On Nigerians, NDYCN Cautions FG Foreign Group To Renovate Olumirin Water Fall To Boost Osun… According to him, “As we transit from the Kali Yuga Age to the era of the Golden Dawn, let’s come for Divine Knowledge, the bedrock of excellence and absolute self-recovery of man’s lost imagery with his Divine Father, Maharaj Ji. “The death of our leaders we have been witnessing in the last few months at the ages of 60, 70, 80, 90, shouldn’t be the case because as the perfect image of the Creator, it is not sanguine to see untimely death ravaging our social economic landscape and this is why we are begging you once again to please tell the people whether you’re a Yoruba leader, Igbo leader, Itsekiri leader, Hausa leader, Fulani leader etc. “Let’s build the kingdom first before the houses, cars and the money because those are the economic booms that will reincarnate you. “Divine knowledge is the key. Please be concerned, sell everything to seek for divine knowledge. The scripture says, “My children are dying because they lack knowledge.” It’s not knowledge of science, Bible, Gita, biology, math, psychology, chemistry, physics but the knowledge of the Creator within man and today, the Chief whistle blower of life as revealed by The Satguru the potent/true name of the Creator is Maharaj Ji.”