IBADAN – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Oyo state chapter, commiserated with the entire Otunba Also Akala family over the death of the former governor on Wednesday, saying that the deceased was very passionate about Oyo state and Ogbomosoland in particular while he reigned as the number one citizen of the state under the PDP. The ruling party said it received the news of Akala’s death with very rude shock noting that the Ogbomosoland political kingmaker was loved by his people because of his closeness to the grassroots adding that he was always beaming with smiles and full of life, and will be sorely missed. A press statement issued by the Chairman, Oyo State PDP, Hon Dayo Ogungbenro and made available to the pressmen by the Oyo State PDP Publicity Secretary, Engr Akeem Olatunji, on Thursday, January 13, indicated that Otunba Alao Akala left a strong legacy of already made political sons and daughters across different political divides while he was Oyo state governor on the platform of PDP and even after leaving office. 2023: Northern Group Cautions Tinubu, Insists On Osinbajo, Zulum… Suspension Of Twitter In Nigeria Paid Off, Keyamo Tweets It will be recalled that Akala was the executive governor of Oyo state between 2007 and 2011 when among other great achievements he improved the healthcare system of Ogbomoso by building a well equipped and functional Teaching Hospital which has since brought more developmental presence to the Ogbomoso zone. Akala according to Oyo state PDP also constructed roads across Ibadan metropolis including Akala express among other critical infrastructural developments brought to the state at large The Oyo state PDP also noted that it was Akala’s vast political experience and clout while as a governor that made him occupy the leadership position of the main opposition party in the state even after leaving the PDP for personal reasons. The party stressed that Oyo state is going through a very trying time at the moment following the painful passing of its prominent and illustrious son which include the late Soun of Ogbomosoland, Alayeluwa Oba (Dr) Oladunni Oyewumi Ajagungbade III, the late Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji Aje Ogungunniso I, and the former governor, Otunba Bayo Alao Akala. Oyo state PDP maintained that even though these highly respected leaders who have passed away were all well advanced in age, it noted that there was no better time to die adding that their wealth of experience and leadership will be sorely missed by the state as a whole. POLL “Death, of course, is an incontrovertible debt all mortals must pay but the exit of loved ones leaves pain and sore taste to swallow especially when they depart at a time their wealth of experience in public service and service to humanity are still needed. “We, therefore, with heavy heart commiserate with the Otunba Akala’s family, Ogbomosoland, and Oyo state as a whole. Just at a time the state and of course, the PDP were recovering from the passing of our highly respected ‘baba’, the Soun of Ogbomosoland, Alayeluwa Oba (Dr) Oladunni Oyewumi Ajagungbade III, Oyo got hit again by the passing of our father and king, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji Aje Ogungunniso I at a well-advanced age of 93. “While we still brood over these losses, Oyo state was hit again by the sudden death of the former governor, Otunba Bayo Alao Akala, the political kingmaker of Ogbomosoland, who held sway as the number one citizen of the state for four years on the platform of PDP. “Late Otunba Akala was so passionate about Ogbomoso that he most of the time left Ibadan for Ogbomoso most Fridays after work just to be amidst his people back at home. He made many people politically and held forth Ogbomosoland land for the people of Ogbomoso by bringing physical developments to the area including Ogbomoso Teaching Hospital. “Akala was always full of life and beaming with smiles even at such advanced age of 71 years old but we submit to and take solace in the will of God Almighty because we know that from dust all mortals were made and to dust all must return. 2023: APC Does Not Belong To Tinubu, Says Kalu BREAKING: Buhari Arrives Ogun On One-Day Working Visit “It is our earnest prayer as a political party and as a people that God grant the entire Akala family the fortitude to bear the pain of his passing and the deceased the eternal rest.”