What is a surprise? Surprise is an unexpected event or the feeling caused by something unexpected happening. Surprise can be either positive or negative. God is full of surprises because He does whatever He likes, an unquestionable God. He said in the book of Jeremiah 32 : 27 “ I am the Lord, the God of mankind, is anything hard for me” God surprises people by making them to sleep in the night and wake up in the morning, providing daily bread for them. In fact the growth and development of man is a surprise. The positive and negative surprises belong to God because the Bible says in Isaiah 45: 7 “I form the light and create darkness, I bring prosperity and create disaster, I, the Lord do all these things” Imagine a single parent lady got two surprises the same day. The first surprise was that she made a huge sale where she was working as a sale executive. She made a very high sale, she had never made since she joined the company. She was very happy because God surprised her positively, while on this faithful day, she got a phone call from one of her neighbors that her attention was urgently needed at home. On getting home, she met her only daughter lifeless on the floor. The daughter was knocked down by hit and run vehicle. Summarily this lady experienced two surprises the positive and negative the same day. I fervently pray that positive surprises shall be everybody’s portion in the name of Jesus. Similarly, God surprised King Hezekiah both negatively and positively. He was informed about his death by Prophet Isaiah immediately he brazed up, prayed and reminded God about his uprightness and diligent services to HIM. God heard his prayer, plea and granted his petition. Later the same Prophet was sent to inform him that 15 years had been added to his life (Isaiah 38:1-6 or 2king 20: 1-7) Pray Hard To Avert Wars, Olukoya Tells Nigerians, Other Nations The Enduring Mercies Of God An unfulfilled promise is a big surprise. A man of God or Islamic cleric doing a negative act or conduct is a surprise to others Brethren let people positively surprise their neighbors, wife, husband, brothers and sisters. Sincerely, a devil that surprisingly gives something to someone, expects that person to give some in return to him. Also people need to give to God the glory HE gave us because man was created for the for the glory of God (Isaiah 43:7) The widow surprised Jesus Christ with the two shekel she gave as offering because that was the only money. A well- to- do shunammite woman Elisha by providing an accommodation for him in her home. In return, God surprised her through Elisha by prophesying that by this time next year the woman would have her own son .In fact this prophesy came to pass. And again the woman got another surprise when the son died and God through Prophet Elisha again revived the son(2 King 4: 9-37). Therefore, let people endeavour to create surprises in their neighborhoods churches mosques, families, hometowns know that Jesus Christ expect you to surprise s people by rendering help others. Surprising people by giving out people especially the less privilege. It is therefore pertinent to surprise people positively so that God can surprise you positively in return.