YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has decried the non-redeeming of pledges made by most individuals and institutions during emblem appeal launch to raise funds for legionnaires and fallen heroes who paid the supreme price for the unity of Nigeria. Diri also argued that the annual fund raising event alone is not enough to take care of the war veterans and their families. He has, therefore, called for a proper legislation that will cater for the families of legionnaires and fallen heroes for their sacrifices for the country’s indivisibility. Osun APC To Party’s National Reconciliation Committee:… Fulfill Your Electoral Promises To Us, Ifon-Orolu Community… The governor represented by his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, spoke during this year’s state emblem appeal fund launch of the State Legion in Government House, Yenagoa. He maintained that only laws passed through the national and state houses of assembly could promote and protect the welfare of families of surviving and departed heroes in the country. Diri urged government at all levels, especially the Federal Government, to take the initiative that will increase and expand the social security portfolio including provisions that will offer scholarships to the children of fallen heroes. Bemoaning the manner in which the labour of the nation’s past heroes and legionnaires are not being adequately recognised, he said it was high time those at the helm of affairs practised what they sing in the national anthem. He said, “I really want to suggest that the National and State Houses of Assembly should look at the possibility of making laws that would expand the coast of the present provisions for fallen heroes. POLL “So let me use this opportunity to encourage government at all levels, especially the Federal Government to take the initiative to increase and expand our social security portfolio to include provisions that would take care of the needs of fallen heroes.” Responding to some of the demands made by the state legionnaires, Diri endorsed the suggestion that the emblem launch in the state should hold before the end of every year. While promising to look into the request of including legionnaires in the annual Armed Forces Remembrance Day organising committee, the governor urged the leadership of local government councils in the state to equally mark the day in their respective areas every January 15. Speaking earlier, the State Chairman of Nigerian Legion, Ogele Okubokeme, recalled that the armed forces remembrance day was set aside to honour all the veterans both living and dead who had paid the supreme price to defend the sovereignty of Nigeria. Okubokeme noted that the objective of the emblem launch was to give patriotic citizens the opportunity to make freewill donations that would go a long way to alleviating the challenges faced by families of legionnaires and the departed heroes. Anyam Vows To Create Over 20,000 Sports Related Jobs In Benue Former Rep. Member Gives Recipe For EKSU’s Self… He also appealed to the state government to make the emblem appeal fund launch at least two months to the main event in order to give enough room for people to support the programme. Highpoints of the event were financial donations made by Diri, his deputy, Ewhrudjakpo, House of Assembly Speaker, Abraham Ingobere, the Chairman, State Traditional Rulers Council, Alfred Diete-Spiff, among others, and their decoration with the Armed Forces Rememberance Emblem.