LAGOS – The Take It Back Movement, a coalition of activists and civil society organisations, has alerted on the ongoing and unimaginable suffering currently being endured by Nigerians living in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Chidi Nwanyanwu Director of Media, Communications, and Public Relations,TIB Global, in a statement in Lagos on Monday,alleged that Nigerians living in the UAE had been deprived of access to work permits for the past six months, leading to unbearable suffering. The TIB Movement maintained that in some cases, several Nigerians had died due to the unjust policies of that country. BREAKING: UAE Purchases 80 Rafale Fighter Jets From France Why Buhari Govt Will Not Expose Sponsors Of Terrorism – Femi… According to the group, the Nigerian consular in that country had not only allegedly abandoned the victims to a horrifying fate but also had continued to intimidate any Nigerian who tried to bring this development to her notice. One of such ugly occurrences, the group revealed, was the incident on October 7, 2021. It stressed: “The consular, Talabat Atinuke Mohammed, had invited some of the organisers, who publicised and stirred the victims to action, to a meeting, where she threatened to arrest them should they continue agitating against the refusal of the government of UAE to issue and renew the work permits of Nigerians. “Another instance was the last visit of President Muhammadu Buhari for expo 2021 in Dubai, where the consular invited police to arrest a Nigerian citizen, Mr. Oluwatosin, who was trying to bring the President’s attention to this unpleasant development. “Hundreds and hundreds of Nigerians are victims of this refusal to renew a work permit, policy. POLL “This UAE government policy has been active since the first week of June 2021.” The group stressed that more and more Nigerians had been losing their jobs due to the inability to get or renew work permits. It added that many of those affected by the policy had become penniless, homeless, and utterly hopeless. “Some are losing their lives to sickness and depression. “To state that the situation is horrific would seriously underestimate the circumstances many are facing. FG Suspends Emirates Flights From Nigeria UAE, Cuba Advances In Bilateral Cooperation “It is to this end that we call for immediate action for the renewal of work permits of Nigerians living in the UAE. “We demand that the Nigerian government moves swiftly to put an end to the aggravated pains and agony being faced by hundreds and hundreds of Nigerians living in the United Arab Emirates. “It should be noted that the inhumane and highly disrespectful treatment is being suffered by Nigerians and has been directed by foreign governments and their citizens remain a reflection of how our government handles us with disdain even in our own country. “Aside from being citizens of the country ranked as poverty capital of the world, third most terrorised nation in the entire universe with unimaginable corruption indices, we equally have leaders who lack respect for its citizens, both home and abroad. ‘These are leaders that deal with their citizens with impunity and have no modicum of regard or respect for their rights or lives. “This is why Nigerians, whether living at home or abroad, must take as important and highly exigent, the struggle to take our country away from the stranglehold of decades of mismanagement and impunity. “This is the only way we can have a country where we are citizens whose dignity is respected at home, and abroad,” the group concluded.