LAFIA – Rt. Hon Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, the Speaker Nasarawa State House of Assembly has on Thursday called for frequent meeting of the ruling party APC in both the state, local government and ward levels in order to strengthen the party and give it more grounds in the state. The speaker made his mind known when the Facts Finding and Reconciliation Committee of All Progressives Congress ( APC) in Nasarawa State visited him at the State House of Assembly in Lafia, the state capital. Balarabe Ibrahim explained that there should be regular meeting of the party where stakeholders and other people in the state, local government and ward levels will air out their views. 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello Approval Of Rail Line Project: Buhari Scores Another Milestone… The Speaker of the House appreciated the committee for the visit and assured them of their readiness to continue to mobilise support for the party. According to Speaker,” I heard all what the chairman said. I want to happily inform you that we have 20 members out of 24 members in this House. “I have a discussion with a member of the opposition in the House, he will join us very soon.” ” Mr. Chairman and other members of this committee, the problem is that some people are in the party but are working against the interest of the party for their own selfish and personal interest.” “We must all unite for the unity and peace in our great party and for the party to continue to grow and succeed ” he said. POLL He has assured the committee that APC members in the House are always ready for unity, peace and progress of the party and will continue to work in synergy with their people fo the overall development of the party and the state. Arc. Salihu Agyebola, the Chairman of the Committee said that the committee was on a facts finding mission as a result of the Local Government and Ward congresses of the party in order to strengthen the party in the state. “We are here on facts finding over the local government and ward Congresses of our party, APC. “There are issues, conflicts, misunderstanding or complaints by party members in some local government areas of the state over the congresses in the state. “Most especially in Akwanga, Nasarawa Eggon and Doma Local Government Areas of the state. 2023: PDP Group Warns Against Fielding Candidate Above 70 Years Reps To Probe Alleged Arbitrary Charges On Contractors By MDAs “Please let continue to unite in the interest of our party, for the continue victory of the party in future elections,” he said. He urged the Speaker and Members to continue to work in synergy with their stakeholders and other people at the grassroots for the progress of the party.