Governors elected on the plat­form of the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP) on Monday urged National Assembly to quickly conclude deliberations on the Elec­toral Act Amendment Bill either by overriding President Muhammadu Buhari’s veto or deleting areas of complaints. They also berated the Federal Gov­ernment for allegedly mismanaging the nation’s oil and gas resources. Noting that the administration of Federation Account remittances has remained opaque, confusing and non-transparent, the governors urged Nigerians to use the next elec­tion to end the dominance of the All Progressives Congress (APC) govern­ment. Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… The governors, in their commu­niqué read by the PDP Governors’ Forum Chairman, Aminu Tambuwal, shortly after their meeting that lasted for about four hours in Port Harcourt, urged the National Assembly to quickly conclude deliberations on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill either by overriding Mr. President’s veto or deleting areas of com­plaints. ­ The governors also ex­pressed regret that Mr. Pres­ident is unwilling, from his recent comments discoun­tenancing the proposals for state policing, to participate in reviewing the structural prob­lems of tackling insecurity in Nigeria. The communiqué read in part: “The PDP governors requested the National As­sembly to quickly conclude deliberations on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill either by overriding Mr. President’s veto or deleting areas of com­plaints. The meeting advised that the option of sustaining Mr. President’s veto would lead to a quicker resolution and would deny Mr. President the opportunity to once again truncate a reformed electoral jurisprudence for Nigeria. An early concluded Electoral Act is vital for credible elections. “The meeting lamented the continued state of insecurity in the country, the persistent and ceaseless flow of Nigerians’ blood on a daily basis in many parts of Nigeria, the near col­lapse of the security situation in Nigeria. The strategies to confront terrorists, kidnappers, bandits and other criminals is still a major problem of the APC administration. “The meeting expressed regrets that Mr. President is unwilling, from his recent comments discountenancing the proposals for state policing, to participate in reviewing the structural problems of tackling insecurity in Nigeria and urges Mr. President to reconsider his position and consider decentralisation and restructuring of the security architecture as the most viable solution, together with proper arming, funding and training requirements for security agencies. POLL “The Nigerian economy has continued to deteriorate and Nigerians have become numb and accustomed to bad economic news as exemplified by the inconsistent and differ­ential exchange rate regime, high interest rates, unsustain­able unemployment figures and borrowing spree some of which have not been applied to important projects, and other bad economic indicators. “In particular, it is clear that the APC government is a mas­sive failure when compared with the records of PDP in government. The PDP handed over a $550 billion economy (the largest in Africa), but un­der APC, Nigeria is the poverty capital of the world. “In 2015, under PDP, the ex­change rate was N198 per dol­lar, it is now under APC almost N500 to a dollar; In 2015, unem­ployment rate was 7.3% under PDP, it is now 33%, one of the highest in the world under APC; In 2015, the pump price of petrol was N87 per litre, it is now N165 per litre and climb­ing under APC. Debt servicing now under APC takes over 98% of the federal budget. The tales of woe is endless. “The PDP governors not­ed that the management of our oil and gas resources, the administration of Federation Account remittances have re­mained opaque, confusing and non-transparent. In addition, the transition to NNPC Ltd under the Petroleum Indus­try Act has not been properly streamlined to ensure that the interests of all the tiers of gov­ernment are protected, consis­tent with the 1999 constitution.” The governors, in their communiqué also urged “eli­gible Nigerians of all walks of life, particularly the youths, to register en masse with INEC to exercise their franchise in the 2023 general elections. Mental Health: Lagos Tackling Challenges With Building Of First… Oyo CP Leads Routine Patrol Team To Onigari, Assures Commuters… “It further noted that the next election is a very conse­quential election that should be used to end the dominance of very youth unfriendly APC government; a government that had the arrogance to deny Nigerian youths of the use of Twitter, a business friendly tool for the young, for over a year. The youths should empower themselves to determine who leads them.” The governors that attend­ed the meeting were Tambu­wal (Sokoto), Udom Emman­uel (Akwa-Ibom); Sen. Douye Diri (Bayelsa); Samuel Ortom (Benue); Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta); Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu); Engr. Oluseyi Abio­dun Makinde (Oyo); Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa); Bala Mohammed (Bauchi) and the host governor, Nyesom Wike (Rivers).