**Legislation To Cushion Effect Of Outrageous Rent On FCT Resident ABUJA – The Senate in a bold move is to pass a bill that will mandate landlords in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to collect three months rent only, from tenants. The bill if passed by the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly will bring an end to the regime where tenants pay bulk rents for apartments ranging from one or two years. Despite Security Challenges, Nigeria Is Not A Failed Nation –… SMEs: Ugwuanyi Empowers Enugu Youths Through Cyber Security… Sponsored by the Senator representing Kogi West, the Bill passed first reading in Senate during plenary on Tuesday. Explaining the intendment of the bill to journalists after plenary, Senator Smart Adeyemi said it is targeted at cushioning effect of outrageous tents on properties on poor residents in the Federal Capital Territory. According to him, the bill when fully considered and passed into law, will regulate rent collections from tenants to three months at first instance and subsequent monthly payments as against one, two or three years first payment being collected by property owners now with subsequent yearly rent payment renewal. “Many residents of FCT are finding it very difficult to cope with huge rent payment, the reason why many of the Houses built for such purposes are empty. “The law is targeted at welfare and wellbeing of the downtrodden , majority of whom elected those holding public positions into offices. POLL “Some landlords always insist their tenants pay for one year or two years rent. That is wrong. By this bill, Nigerians especially Abuja residents will now be paying rent on monthly basis after the expiration of the initial three months. “The law we are proposing stipulates a maximum advanced rent payment of three months. After the expiration of the three months rent, the tenants are expected to pay monthly. “There are many tenants whose salaries are competing with their rents because they live in cities like Abuja”, he explained. When reminded of the scenario that played out in Lagos when Governor Marwa implemented similar law but with stiff resistance from landlords, Senator Adeyemi said the law being proposed will take of such resistance by providing window of petitioning for any tenants forced to pay rents above three months . “Most Nigerians need the protection of the law to be able to meet their basic needs after paying rents. Senate Charges FG To Declare Full Scale War Against Terrorists N10b Fraud: Afegbua Denies Withdrawing Petition Against Secondus “Many landlords did not secure loans to build their houses, they are products of free money they acquire from the system, yet they make lives difficult for poor Nigerians who do not have such privilege of making ill-gotten money from the system and put up structures”, he added.