ABUJA – Former Governor of Enugu State and Senator representing Enugu East in the Senate, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani has said that the state governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi will determine who succeed him. Senator Nnamani reiterated that it is the prerogative of the state governor to produce his successor without challenges. The lawmaker, in a statement, said it was in line with the precedent for the incumbent governor of the state to determine his successor at least since 1999. Ugwuanyi Signs N186.64bn 2022 Budget Into Law Ugwuanyi Has Enhanced Thriving Of Businesses In Enugu –… Senator Nnamani said: “We have a tradition in Enugu State politics. The governor is the leader who directs affairs. He will determine who succeeds him without compromising the electoral processes and whomever he chooses will be our next governor. “I have absolute loyalty and respect for my governor who is also the leader of Ebeano political family. He has demonstrated capacity and leadership. We are waiting for him to lead the way to go in 2023 and we shall follow.” Enugu State is among the few in the country that enjoys political harmony on account of adherence to zoning or rotation of key political offices in the three senatorial districts especially the governorship seat since 1999. Senator Nnamani from Enugu East was the state governor from 1999 to 2007, Sullivan Chime from Enugu West took over from 2007 to 2015 while the incumbent governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi from Enugu North is expected to complete the cycle in 2023. It is expected that the governorship slot returns to Enugu East for the second round of the rotation in 2023. POLL Senator Nnamani said he was excited by the political developments in the state where accomplished sons and daughters are showing interest in the politics of the state and prayed that the best amongst them emerges as governor in 2023. He said: “All the aspirants belong to the Ebeano political family. One hundred percent of them are my primary, secondary and by-products. Some may have a close affinity with me which explains the understandable speculations on whom I may be supporting. But it is the governor that will choose his successor. The political machinery in the state including the Ebeano family will be rolled out to support whomever he chooses.” He advised those fanning the embers of war to sheathe their swords “because there is no war to be fought. We are one family, whoever emerges will be governor for all. “No matter the machinations, conspiracies and subterfuges over the governorship primary of our party, we will have a successful transition under the leadership and guidance of our governor. “It is understandable that some of those who are posturing are seeking for relevance or seeking for political appointments in other parties. That is the beauty of democracy.” Ugwuanyi Reiterates Commitment To Open Govt Partnership,… Enugu Community Lauds Ugwuanyi For Inauguration Of Website For… Senator Nnamani reiterated that he has forgiven all those who may have wronged him in the past saying, “I harbour no grudges against anyone. I have no fears or concerns about anyone. That era is confined to the dustbin of history. We are moving forward as one family for greater Enugu State.”