AKURE – Edo State Government has collaborated with some selected waste management organizations from private sectors on sustainable waste management. In a one-day workshop, organised by the state Ministry of Waste Management and Sustainability, the participants deliberated on repositioning the waste management sector of the state. Some of the invited waste management organizations from outside the state, among which is ZL Global Alliance a concessionaire in Ondo State, were at the workshop to rob minds with the state on how to engender a sustainable clean and healthy environment in Edo State. Tesla Cybertruck Customers Receive More Bad News Facebook Faces $3.2bn UK Class Action Lawsuit For Exploiting… During the workshop, the involvement of the local government in waste management, monitoring and enforcement of waste/environmental laws and sensitization of the public were critically deliberated with a view to keeping the state clean. Besides, decentralization of waste management and enumeration, as well as categorization of properties, were discussed. Speaking at the workshop, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki highlighted his administration’s commitment and readiness to support practicable initiatives to resolve the challenges of waste management in Edo State. He stated that the resolutions arrived at during the workshop would form the template which would be implemented in the next six weeks. Obaseki emphasised that Edo State was open to investors, especially for the environmental management sector in order to keep the state clean always. POLL Osadebamen Charles Imariagbe, the General Manager, Edo State Waste Management Board, in his presentation, highlighted the need for the people of the state to embrace the culture of proper waste disposal across the state. He noted that the reintroduction of the monthly environmental sanitation exercise would bring back the culture of keeping quality hygiene across the state. ZL Global Alliance, which is currently the most prominent and functional waste management concessionaire in Ondo State, was represented at the workshop by the company’s Head of Business, Ogunnaike Olaoluwa and Head of Operations Field Ops, Tobi Benjamin. Among other government functionaries present at the workshop include the Special Adviser to the Governor of Edo State on Environment, Ola Oresanya.