Barcelona have been handed a boost in pursuit of Layvin Kurzawa, with Paris Saint-Germain ready to sell the French defender to the Blaugrana.According to a report by Catalan outlet El Nacional, Layvin Kurzawa could soon be a Barcelona player, with Paris Saint-Germain willing to sell him to the Blaugrana for €5 million. But the final decision will rest with Xavi Hernandez, with Jose Gaya also an option for the Barcelona manager. Layvin Kurzawa has been a part of Paris Saint-Germain since arriving from AS Monaco in August 2015. However, six years since joining PSG, the 29-year-old is yet to carve out a place for himself in the first-team setup and has been a backup option for Les Parisiens in the last few years. Nuno Mendes’s signing last summer has compounded his woes further, with the French defender managing only nine minutes of game-time for the Ligue 1 giants in one outing thus far. And PSG would not mind cashing in on the French defender if a bid came their way and they have slapped an affordable €5 million price tag on him. Such a situation has captured the attention of Barcelona. Man Utd Star Paul Pogba’s Stance On PSG Move Amid Lionel Messi… PSG Want Barcelona Striker To Replace Mauro Icardi The interest from Barcelona could be stemming from Alejandro Balde’s slow start to life as a first-team footballer at Camp Nou. The Frenchman is not good enough to usurp Jordi Alba despite the Spaniard’s declining form in the last few years. The PSG defender will thus only be a short-term solution if the Catalan giants, even though he is younger than Alba. Hence, Barcelona will be better served to sign a left-back who can be a long-term solution in the first-team setup at Camp Nou. But Joan Laporta could press ahead with a move for the 29-year-old, with PSG ready to conduct business with Barcelona to that end. Paying €5 million will unlikely be a tall order for Barcelona, despite their financial woes, and a move could come to fruition soon. However, the final decision will rest with Xavi Hernandez, and this is where things get a little complicated for Kurzawa. The Barcelona boss might prefer signing Jose Gaya, who is reportedly keen on ending his stint with Valencia to join Barcelona. Gaya’s €20 million price tag might also be affordable for Barcelona, and signing him instead of the PSG defender will be a step in the right direction.