ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has been urged to cede power to the South and especially the South East geopolitical zone as a lasting legacy to preserve the nation’s unity. This as consensus continues to build on the need for the power to shift down south in 2023 with Senator Shehu Sani insisting that the ruling All Progressives Congress APC should respect the feelings and mood of the nation to zone the presidential slot to the South. The 8th Assembly senator who represented Kaduna Central senatorial zone urged President Buhari and Political elites to put the unity of the country above every other consideration by giving every part of the country a sense of equal ownership of the nation called Nigeria. Kwara APC: Can Adamu-led Committee Reconcile Lai Mohammed,… 2023: North-Central’s Allegations Of Marginalisation Untrue –… Speaking in television programme on Tuesday, Sani told Buhari that as the leader of the ruling party in the country the responsibility squarely rest on him to ensure that his party, the APC recognises every part of the country as equal partners in Nigeria by giving the South particularly the south East the chance to produce the next president of the country. According to him, since 1999, the North had ruled Nigeria twice in Shehu Yar’Adua and Mohammed Buhari and the South West, eight years in Olusegun Obasanjo while the South South, six years in Goodluck Jonathan. He maintained that morality, equity and sense of equal recognition therefore demand that the South East be allowed to also have a stake in the presidency of Nigeria. Sani stressed that the only way power can go to the South is for the major political parties, the People’s Democratic party PDP and APC to zone their presidential slots to the South. Insisting that it’s a a clear lack of sincerity for one of the parties to pick a candidate from the North while believing that another with a candidate from the South could still win. Sani who voiced his support for Nigerian of Southeast extraction noted that it was unfair to promote marginalisation of a section of the people and expect protests and agitation to stop, saying “if my own part of the country is marginalised, I will join the protest too.” According to him, if you have a system that takes care of educationally backward states, why can’t the same system be applied to politically disadvantaged states like the South East, he argued. He emphasized further saying, “if one part of a country can be given special consideration on quota basis why not same consideration be given to another part that has been denied an opportunity to have a shot at the presidency too all this while.” He however reasoned that the greatest legacy that Buhari should leave behind is to preserve the unity of Nigeria by allowing power shift to the South, particularly the South-East.