. Says Truth Will Prevail Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele (M.O.B.), has urged his supporters to maintain the peace, pledging his determination to rescue the state from the current state of darkness and make the light of Ekiti and her people shine again. Recall that last Thursday, January 27, primary which produced Mr. Biodun Oyebanji as the party’s candidate has been rejected by all other contestants. Ekiti APC Primary Was Hijacked, Truncated, Compromised By State… Oyebanji Wins Ekiti APC Governorship Primary Senator Bamidele, however, has vowed to take immediate steps within the confines of the party constitution and the law to seek redress, for what he described as “this blatant abuse of trust and due process by the state actors.” Although Bamidele and six others had pulled out of the race, he garnered 706 votes to emerge distant second while Oyebanji got 101, 703 votes to emerge the winner. In a statement made available to Daily Independent on Sunday, Bamidele insisted that the process that produced Oyebanji, who is believed to be the anointed choice of Governor Kayode Fayemi, was fraught with irregularities as there was no election held on January 27 across the 177 wards in the state.He said, “The process of conducting these primaries was hijacked, truncated, compromised and bastardised by those at the helm of affairs in Ekiti State, which is tantamount to a complete abuse of trust and leadership. “The underlining level of impunity, desperation and perfidy which characterized the entire rigging process was so much and thought beclouding that I was allotted 700 plus votes in a Statewide gubernatorial primary election in a state where I had scored over Ninety Four Thousand votes in just one out of three Senatorial Districts to emerge as a Senator. This was less than three years ago and after then I had done much more to earn the confidence and greater love of the people through effective representation on the floor of the Senate as well as life touching empowerment programmes and constituency development projects. “More specifically, the breakdown of the votes allotted to me indicated that I got 150 votes in Ado Ekiti, my beloved second home where I had recorded Twenty Eight Thousand votes out of the 42,000 votes that gave me the House of Representatives the mandate way back in the year 2011 to represent Ado / Irepodun-Ifelodun Federal Constituency. POLL “But we will remain resolute, strong, focused and faithful in the face of this impunity, total lack of regard for the electoral due process and executive rascality by a chosen few who were elected to represent the interests of Ekiti people. “We are of course taking immediate steps within the confines of our party constitution and the law to seek redress for this blatant abuse of trust and due process by the State actors. “So whilst on this quest to seek an amicable resolution to this impasse, I urge all to remain calm and prayerful that justice and truth will prevail for the benefit of the people of Ekiti. “Once again I say a very big thank you from the bottom of my heart for a battle well fought, a strategy well executed and a message well delivered but as children of God, in all things, we must give thanks. For we believe God will take control. “To the glory of God, I have fought quite a number of battles in my life based on my sense of indignation to injustice; but I had never been this resolved to stand up and challenge principalities and powers in utmost determination to defeat darkness and make the light of Ekiti and her people shine again. There is no doubt that Ekiti is, today, groping in darkness. We must work together for the glorious dawn of light. Titan Farms Ordeal: Investor Pleads For Calm, Condemns Sponsored… Olubadan Succession Tussle: Lekan Balogun Calls For Calm In working together, let us please not rely on our strength or wisdom but on the wisdom and grace of God, drawing strength from the scripture as contained in 2nd Chronicles, Chapter 20, Verse 12 saying: “We do not know what to do, but our eyes are on God.”