BENIN – Joint Security personnel have been drafted to wade into herders and farmers clashes, which had provoked outrage in Second Abumwenre Camp in Ovia North East Local Government Area of the State last Sunday. The security team, comprising the Nigeria Army and the Nigeria police were accompanied by a team of journalists to visit the multi-ethnic Camp on Tuesday after it was reported that the residents of the community were sacked by scores of suspected Fulani Herdsman who allegedly dressed in militaryuniform. The said herdsmen reportedly invaded the farming community, chased away the villagers and took over their farms, homes and properties. LASTMA Debunk Using Thugs To Brutalise Driver, Impound Bus,… 73 Ekiti Communities Captured In N2.4bn Projects Facilitated By… The Ekiadolor Police Area Commander, Badaru Wase, an Assistant Commissioner of police represented the State Commissioner of police, CP. Phillip Ogbadu, while an Army Major A.J. Isah represented the 4-Brigade Commander on the visit. The spokesman of the Nigeria police, Edo State Command, SP. Kotongs Bello, while addressing newsmen at the camp said from what were could see here there was no house that has been burnt by Fulani herdsmen, people are still living. The PPRO who spoke on behalf of CP Ogbadu said investigation into the reported sack of some residents of the Camp by herders has started. According to him, the use of fireworks by certain persons in the area during the yuletide might have provoked the herders in the area to come out of bushes to sound a note of caution to the farmers. He said that a team of security personnel would be deployed to the area to prevent breakdown of law and order in the locality. POLL “We want to assure the Community and residents of Edo State that the State government has decided to send a delegation to douse the tension and ensure the people that they are safe. “The work of every security personnel is to protect lives and property.We will continue to patrol around to ensure sanity is restored in the Community”, Kontong said. In a remark, the leader of Second Abumwenre Camp, Mr. Solomon Omoragbon said he was in Benin City when the herders came to issue the stern warning to the people. “They instructed us not to ring our bell anymore and we should bring out any vigilante out, stop setting fire at night. Vigilante in the area should stop shooting guns. “I haven’t seen the herdsmen and their animals but I saw the food items they ate”, he said. Back-To-School Campaign: Tuition Fees, Levies Hamper Resumption Customs Comptroller General Warns Ibarapa Residents Over… Another resident of the Camp, Mr. Osadebamwen Aigbe, said on Sunday, we went to Ekiadolor police station to give report following the invasion of the herdsmen to the community. “This morning we were called that the police will be visiting the Community. All my property are not here because we were instructed by the herders to stop complaining of their invasion”. He opined that the herders said they own cassava and plantain while cocoa belongs to the farmers. “They (herdsmen) wore camouflage, carried Ak-47 and shoot repeatedly for sometime now. They destroyed plantain, yam and cassava. They also destroyed our farms” he said.