BENIN – Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo North Senatorial District, have condemned the continued deprivation of some constituency in the State of representation in the Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA ). The leaders of the party made this known in a statement issued after their meeting in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo and made available to newsmen in Benin on Monday. In the statement signed by Sunny Ifijen, convener of the meeting, it noted that people have been deprived of their voice in the Assembky because of non-inauguration of their elected representatives. Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC He further added that these constituencies have been denied of enjoying democratic dividends haven lost a voice through which they channel their needs and challenges to the government. He stated that the present situation where only 10 members currently sits and makes law in the EDHA us am affront on the constitution and have also make mockery of the nation’s democracy. “Where only 10 members where nocturnaly inaugurated in June 17, 2019 and 14 others deprived their inauguration by Governor Godwin Obaseki who have also muzzled the Judiciary over the fate of the 14 lawmaker elect, is executive rascality and a slap on Nigeria democracy. “It is regretably historic that nearly three years after the election, 14 constituencies are without representation in Edo Assembly. “The implication is that the voices of over 1.6million people are not being heard in the Edo assembly. The absurdity in Edo Legislature is a rape on Nigeria democracy. POLL “Bauchi state that had similar crisis in June 2019 had resolved in same 2019 because the governor, Senator Bala Mohammed proved to be a better democrat than Edo Governor,” he stated. Ifijen regretted that despite efforts by the 14-members elect and Civil Society Groups to seek Democratic anomaly from the State High Court, National Assembly and Code of Conduct Bureau, Obaseki has subverted all potential justice on the matter.