SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Akinwumi Adesina recently described Dangote refinery and fertiliser projects as the best venture fueling the economic growth momentum of Africa’s industrialisation Adesina also described the oil refinery and petrochemical plant projects as a “game-changing initiative” that will spur Africa’s development and deepen regional integration. How Sourcing Forex By Manufacturers Further Dipped In Q4 : 2021–… What Emefiele’s Projection On GDP’s Growth Portends For… The AfDB boss, who was on a tour of Dangote refinery and fertiliser projects over the weekend with the board members of the bank, styled Aliko Dangote as an enigma, who should be honoured in Africa and even beyond for his passion, vision and determination to develop and ensure that Africa, as a continent, is out of the poverty circle; with his aggressive employment generation scheme across most African countries. He said these projects, which are far beyond the expectation of his team and himself, would positively affect the economic growth and development of not only Nigeria but Africa as a continent. According to him, “One of the things I admire the most about Alhaji Dangote is that, he actually believes in Nigeria, and he invests his money in Nigeria. He believes in Africa and invests in Africa. Nobody could invest the type of billions of dollars that is here, unless the person not only has the vision but also the commitment and passion for his country. We are extremely proud of you and of your commitment to the continent. “Aliko is quite an inspirational and visionary business leader and for anybody to have done what I have seen here, I think that person deserves world class kudos for that… I see a company that I will proudly call Africa’s growth accelerator company. With this project, we see an acceleration of how to reduce imports. We see an acceleration on how to have an outbound on export; a value chain development and how to compete regionally and globally”, the top banker said. “I am completely blown away with what I saw here today…I can’t believe what I saw…this project will reverse the huge sum the nation spends on foreign exchange…when you look at how much we import, it is about $57 billion worth of different products and we export only about $50.4bn, so we have to balance that with about $7bn and talking to them here, they showed us that they can have a domestic market of about $11bn and that is an incredible market and that will save Nigeria about $9 billion dollars, a year from importing petroleum products, so this is huge for Nigeria and even for Africa as a continent,” Adesina enthused. POLL On the fertiliser complex, he said: “being a man passionate about agriculture, this is a company that is producing three million metric tonnes of urea, which will make Nigeria totally self-sufficient”, and added that, “Nigeria will become net exporter of fertilisers. It will drive productivity growth in Nigeria, prices will come down and the quality will also improve.” Aliko Dangote, President of Dangote Group, while thanking the AfDB team for their visit to the Plants, said: “The Refinery will commence operation by the third quarter of 2022. On the mechanical completion, we are almost finished but we have started hydro testing, almost 70 per cent gone, hopefully before the end of Q3 operation will commence.” According to the Dangote Group president, the refinery, which has the capacity to meet 100% of Nigeria’s requirements for refined products with a surplus for export, is the largest single train petroleum refinery in the world, with a capacity to process 650,000 barrels of crude oil per day. It is estimated that by 2023, Nigeria will import zero petroleum oil products – down from approximately $50 billion current oil product imports per year. The $19.5 billion Nigerian Greenfield crude oil refinery and petrochemical production plant owned by Dangote Industries Limited includes a 440-million-liter water treatment tank farm and a housing estate built for 50,000 staff and their families onsite. FALA 2021: Oyakhilome, God’s Gift To This Generation… USA Women Group Honours Stella Onuoha-Obilor As Industry Leader… Dangote said: “We appreciate the support of the Nigerian government, our lenders, and development finance institutions like the African Development Bank, without whom we would not have come this far. We have enjoyed a good working relationship with the Bank and this visit further encourages us.” “The successful completion of the refinery project is expected to have a significant impact on Nigeria’s foreign exchange through import substitution and substantial savings in earnings”. Adesina and Dangote discussed the potential of collaboration between the AfDB and Dangote Industries Limited to expand business to other African countries. Possible collaboration could include the establishment of an African industrial manufacturing corps made up of engineers and other technicians who constructed the refinery. Adesina said the AfDB was willing to assist the Dangote Group in such areas as agriculture – including rice and dairy products – as well as cement expansion into other countries. Accompanying Adesina on the visit were African Development Bank vice president for Private Sector, Infrastructure, and Industrialisation Solomon Adegbie-Quaynor, the Bank’s director general for its Nigeria country office, Lamin Barrow, and the special adviser to the president on industrialisation, Professor Banji Oyelaran-Oyeyinka. Adesina, however, said this would be invaluable for skills sharing across the continent. Devakumar Edwin, Group Executive Director, Strategy, Portfolio Development & Capital Projects, Dangote Industries Limited, said the refinery complex, which includes a refinery, petrochemical plant, a fertiliser plant and a subsea pipeline project, is the largest single-train refinery in the world. He stated that the 650,000 barrels-per-day refinery would stimulate economic development in Nigeria. According to Edwin, Dangote Petroleum Refinery can meet 100 per cent of the Nigerian requirement of all liquid products (Gasoline, Diesel, Kerosene and Aviation Jet), and also have surplus of each of these products for export. He stated that this would create a market for $11 billion per annum of Nigerian crude and foreign exchange savings/earnings $9.9 billion. He noted that, “we have impacted on job creation with 3,580 Nigerian personnel on site, excluding employment by the various contractors and subcontractors at the site.” He noted that the Dangote oil refinery and petrochemical complex, located in Lekki Free Trade Zone, covers a land area of approximately 2,635 hectares. In 2014, the African Development Bank’s board approved a $300 million loan to Dangote Industries Limited to support the construction and operation of the Greenfield crude oil refinery and the Greenfield fertilizer manufacturing plant. The two facilities are expected to create 38,000 jobs during construction The oil refinery and petrochemical plant projects are examples of the African Development Bank’s strategy for fostering industrialization through improved natural resource transformation and exports, as well as support to accelerate indigenous African entrepreneurship. As observed, Dangote’s integrated refinery has enormous economic potentials given its capacity to meet local demand and serve the needs of neighboring countries. This is happening at a time when the Federal Government is exploring possible options to alleviate the pressure on foreign exchange reserves, the project will enable the government to conserve the much needed foreign exchange expended on the importation of petroleum products. This is, as Nigeria’s daily demand for refined crude oil was estimated to be around 442,000bpd as of 2018, implying that Dangote Refinery alone with its 650,000bpd capacity can more than meet local demand, and earn FX for the country through exports.