LAGOS  – A second prosecution witness and accountant with Eunisell Ltd, Philip Enejo Odekina has restated before the court that a former employee of the compa­ny, Kenneth Ndubisi Amadi al­legedly defrauded the company by making customers pay for purchases made based on the company’s invoice through his personal account. The witness, Odekina made the disclosure while testifying before a Federal High Court presided by Justice Ambrose Lewis Allagoa in the trial of the defendant over alleged fraud. Kenneth Amadi and his company, IDID Nigeria Lim­ited, are being tried before the court on a five-count charge of conspiracy and fraud to the tune of N2.9 billion. 2023: I’ll Rather Return Home Than Join APC – Senator… NURTW Clashes: Bode George Blames Sanwo-Olu, Says Lagos Island… They are being tried by the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation. In continuation of the trial of the defendants last Thurs­day, Mrs Aderonke Imana announced the appearance for prosecution while Moham­med Ndarani (SAN,) led the defence team comprising Barr. O.J Akinwale and Dr Monday Onyekachi Ubani for the defen­dants. While being led in evidence by the prosecution, the wit­ness said that he has been an accountant with Eunisell Ltd for 10 years and is currently the finance manager, adding that as finance manager, he and his team raise waybills and invoic­es and not the defendant, Ken­neth Amadi. He said that as CEO, Ken­neth Amadi was only interfac­ing with the customers with the aim of raising revenue for the company. “Kenneth Amadi was re­sponsible for managing our key customers such as Total, Ammasco, MRS, AZ Petro­leum, SPDC to mention but a few,” he said. POLL He further said that as fi­nance manager, he discovered after an audit that their custom­ers paid money into the 2nd defendant’s account and from there, the money was remitted to us. “Kenneth, IDID and anoth­er paid money into Eunisell account whereas the company had no relationship with them. “We have a relationship with Ammasco, AZ Petroleum, and others. It was usual to pay mon­ey to us but not through the de­fendants. “They all pay money into Eunisell account but through their incorporated company,” the witness further stated. After their discovery, Odeki­na said that he made a state­ment at the Police fraud unit. He identified the statement which was tendered and ad­mitted as exhibit GP. Niger Govt Recovers 500 Cattle, Others NYSC Director-General Pledges To Better Service During cross examination by Dr Ubani, the witness ac­knowledged that they con­ducted an audit after Kenneth Amadi left the company.