The bull sentiment and momentum continued in the second trading week of the New Year, despite the mixed trend and performance recorded to the close the period higher on less than average traded volume and negative breadth to reflect profit taking by short term traders in the market. The profit booking in the highly capitalised stocks that just rallied recently, as investors positioned in dividend paying companies ahead of the expected unaudited Q4 and full year 2021 corporate actions to keep the momentum intact. As the announcement of Dangote Cement share buyback that triggered the buying interest again as earnings season draw closer, despite experiencing profit taking. Vitafoam 2021FY: Despite Juicier Dividend, Cost Cutting Needed… NGX Sustained Positive Sentiment On Dividend Stocks, BUA Foods… This transaction would further create liquidity in the market; boost investing public appetite and investors sentiment. Following the recent the listing of BUA Foods to sustain the positive investors’ vibes, and at the same time justifying our call on the January Effect rally as the NGX All Share Index has recorded 4.07% year to date gains ahead of December consumers’ price index and other macroeconomic data to reveal the state of the economy. Despite, the profit taking and selloffs that just resurfaced on the exchange at the end of the week trading, there is always a bull sector or market somewhere, even when stocks are witnessing selloffs everywhere else. There will be money to make somewhere. If the NGX is down, one sector might be up, but these things don’t just change every day. POLL They go in trends and sector management or rotation is the key to finding the best stocks and sectors that will go up, not just for a day or week, but for months and years. How does it work, because 80% of gains come from being in the right sector, while another 80% of the gains from a stock is made because of the sector it is in.? The more a sector gets into favor, the higher the PE ratio in that sector. That is why market correction, or pullbacks are always as much as 35 to 50% sometimes. It’s because PEs really reflect price. The PE of many stocks today are below 15, suggesting that these stocks have high upside potentials. As the state of the expected corporate numbers, actions and economic data would determine how far stock prices will go and payout. Outlook for the week We expect a positive sentiment on dividend paying stocks to continue in the midst of profit taking as investors and bargain hunters position ahead of January historical trends and earnings expectation. Despite The Mixed Sentiment And Performance, NGX Created Wealth… FBN Holdings 2021Q3: Time For Competitive Earnings, Profit, Pay… It is also noteworthy that funds and portfolio managers continue to take position on the strength of Q3 numbers ahead of 2021 financials. For now, many stocks remain within their buy ranges to attract funds into the equity space. Also, investors will continue tracking yields movement in the fixed income market. Last week low volume suggests that institutional investors are not selling. It is noteworthy that oil price has continued to oscillates in the international market to trade above $80; corporate actions, as well as the Q4 unaudited numbers are around the corner Understanding the Big Picture and changing your trading strategies for profit. The investing public at this stage, ought to understand and identify the stage the nation’s economy is in the economic cycles as the different impetus associated with various stages that would help in analyzing sectors, industries and companies. This would enable them also to know sectors that would do well in a particular cycle or period, and as such guide them on how to pick the best industry or company at the right time. These economic cycles are classified into five namely the early expansion, middle expansion, late expansion, early contraction and late contraction and they all offer different investment opportunities. To know what stage of an economic cycle we are in, you must first identify the current stage of the economy and which sectors have done well, looking at such economic indicators as interest rates, inflation and industrial production which are the national output. It is better investors understand these economic cycles now as the post-election economy is disintegrating, so as to know where to pitch their tent in the new dispensation. The early expansion stage of an economy is where the interest rate is relatively low, or inflation has decline to a low level while the national output is increasing on the strength of industrial production to drive the whole system. Nigeria’s economy is not at this stage now, but investments thrive in these sectors and industries: capital goods, technology, transportation, manufacturing, communication equipment, airlines and construction. Interest Rate At the mid expansion stage of any economy, the interest rate is on the gradual increase as inflation rate remains down for a time while the output of the nation has increased geometrically on the strength of low cost of funds for expansion of business and take off of new enterprises to boost development and growth. At this stage, manufacturing, machinery, construction and industrial goods do well, meaning that companies in these sectors or industry would thrive and investors must focus on companies in these sectors. The late expansion of an economy is at the point where interest rates have increased geometrically with inflation to keep national output at a constant level. Here the cost of borrowing is high and the prices of goods and services are high as well, due to the inflationary pressure on the system. The sectors that thrive under this condition are energy, consumer staples and basic materials, like power, oil & gas, chemicals, Alumium , Beverages, foods, distributors, health care, hospital management, household products and medical products. Inflation Rate The early contraction stage is where the economy starts dwindling because the interest rate has remained high and inflation continues to rise, thereby causing a serious decline in national output as industrial production decreases on the influence of high cost of production. The sectors or industries that thrive at this stage are the financial services, utilities and consumer staples. Examples are the energy companies, house-wares and electric companies. Industrial Production Finally, the late contraction stage occurs when interest rate begins a gradual decline with high inflation rate and national output degenerates due to the high cost of goods and services. At this stage, it is the financial and consumer sectors that do well while the industries and insurance, investment bank, banks, as well as savings and loans. Understanding the big picture in equity investment would go a long way to help traders and investors in any economic and market situation, since the stock market cannot be divorced from the economy, as a leading indicator that tells what is happening now and pointing to the future of each sector, industry and company. In stock trading, what influences share price is beyond company performance, as 80 percent of what moves equity prices comprises of the economy, the market, the sector and the industry. When the economy is recovering the share prices of listed companies are likely to be in the same direction of recovery or looking up, also the market itself has influence on prices when it experienced system or economy induced downturns or upturns. The sector and industry also have influence on share prices, when a sector or industry is doing well it goes down to impact companies operating in that space. As earlier mentioned, the economy has cycles of boom and bust which goes with the different stages of early expansion to late contraction. After identifying the stage our economy is now, which sectors should you invest in for profit after the market remained in the red for over three months? The bearish market created another opportunity to buy low and sell high when prices rebound. To identify value in a recovering economy when market is oscillating in upward direction due to happenings in the global and domestic environment, the sectorial performance YTD would reveal industries that have witnessed slowdown or suffered losses but with upside potentials. This is just as year-end seasonality and others are expected to playout before the year winds down.