GOMBE – A registered builder and Professor of Construction Management, Namala Keftin Amuga, recently appointed Special Adviser, Projects Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation to Governor Inuwa Yahaya has vowed to approach his new responsibilities with high professional conduct. He gave the assurance at the inauguration of an eight-man committee headed by himself to ensure that projects carried out by the State Government attain the highest standards for the better well being, growth and development of the State. Inaugurating the committee on behalf of Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, the State Deputy Governor, Manassah Daniel Jatau said the formation of the committee was necessitated by the sincerity of the administration and its belief in transparency, accountability, quality, commensurate effective service delivery and general good governance. Nasarawa Earmarks 2.23bn For Rural  Electrification Emir Of Borgu Inaugurates Committee On Gani Durbar Festival He said the Inuwa Yahaya administration is determined and has manifested uncommon political will to ensure that Gombe State attains not ordinary economic growth, but a development which is the desire of all states and nations of the world. He explained that the committee was so important to the effect that “any project that shall not be monitored should not be started, lest we end up wasting resources, time and man-hours.” According to him, the Committee has a very daunting challenge to ensure that many projects in the State that are ongoing and many others that are yet to commence are delivered to the satisfaction of the Government and residents of the State. Responding, Professor Namala Keftin Amuga, a highly professional and academic giant who many see his appointment as a step in the right direction, appreciated the Governor for finding him and his team worthy of delivering the task. He said, ” checking the professionals on this team, I understand how careful you were in choices, which projects content dexterity and comprehension of the desired objectives of assignment”. POLL He pledged the committee’s assurance to join the Government’s train of hardworking men and women in contributing their quota in the desired work schedule for the betterment of the people of the State. He said, “while the nature of the appointment is well understood, we will articulate and forward to your office, our procedural guidelines of operations which you can juxtapose with your wealth of experience to audit our activities and give us further directives. We are set to work with no time to waste”. Terms of reference of the committee are; to develop an effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism on all projects being implemented as well as furnish the government with regular progress reports on the level of completion of such projects and offer recommendations on contract reviews and termination among others. Members of the committee are, Arch. Aminu Mohammed Adamu, Alkali Abubakar, Alhaji Umaru Gurama, Abubakar D. Usman, Engineer Dan Naphtali, Engineer Mohammed Dauda Abubakar and Zaradeen Ubali Baba.