LAGOS – Ecobank has reiterated that it remains the partner of choice in Africa for export trade because of its unique positioning, wide network, pan African payment switch, settlement capabilities, award winning digital products and strategic focus. Kola Adeleke, Executive Director, Corporate Banking, Ecobank Nigeria who made this declaration while speaking to the media in Lagos, maintained that the pan African bank has structures in place to enable exporters exploit the opportunities in The African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). He said: “Our unique positioning in 33 African countries enables us leverage our extensive network to reduce the number of financial partners and relationships in executing trade. We own the switch connecting countries where we operate across Africa. Berger Paints Appoints Adetomiwa Acting Managing Director More Winners Receive Prizes In Glo Joy Unlimited Promo “This centralised switch enables easy integration. We possess knowledge of the local markets in which we operate resulting in un-parallel financial advisory. We offer real-time settlement across Africa and our customers enjoy instant transfers across 33 African countries. “Ecobank has a reputation for developing innovative products as the bank has won us several international, regional and local awards and we aspire to be the gateway to pan-African payments and trade”. Mr Adeleke also reaffirmed that Nigeria is poised to gain from the investment and trade opportunities that the AfCFTA will inevitably bring because of its market size, supply chain infrastructure and an abundant supply of professionals/skilled players in various industries. He emphasised that businesses must strategically position themselves, endeavour to understand the dynamics of the ratification to be able to maximise the benefit and opportunities. Chijioke Uzoukwu, Head of Trade, Ecobank Nigeria, while speaking, listed the Ecobank products and services on offer to support Export Trade as comprising letters of credit, bonds, guarantees as well as bills for collections avalisation. POLL He said: “the Bank also provides loans for business such as import loans, export loans and supply chain finance. In the trade service, we support customers from initiation to execution in the areas of documentation and compliance, working with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders.