Legal icon, Aare Afe Babalola has expressed concern over the negative impact of cash crunch in banks to the well being of the nation’s economy. Babalola warned that, if the dearth of cash in banks is not effectively tackled, it could lead to “serious hun­ger which can dovetail to high mortality rate, uncon­trolled crimes and increased insecurity”. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and found­er, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) in a re­lease entitled Cash Crunch By Banks: Damage May Be Worse Than COVID-19, called on the Federal Gov­ernment to critically look into the situation and attend to it promptly. Jonathan Pays Tribute To Late Olubadan It Will Be Inaccurate For Delta South To Aspire For 2023… He empathised with Nige­rians who had gone through untold hardship during the yuletide as result of the al­leged poor financial policy. According to him,”Cash is useful for payment and for other transactions. It is favoured by the elderly and marginalised, low-income people. Cash becomes es­pecially useful when natu­ral disasters cause power shortages and destroy com­puters. Cash is the safest of payment and financial in­struments for the public in under developed countries like Nigeria,” the statement reads in part “In recent times, the Cen­tral Bank and Commercial Banks have inflicted cash crunch on bank customers in the country. The cash crunch was felt virtually throughout the country. Many banks had turned cus­tomers back for lack of funds while those who had the mis­fortune of gaining entrance into the Banking Halls went home disappointed. Custom­ers could not withdraw cash from the ATM machines in my university. “The banks operating in the University also had no cash to pay to customers. The saving grace was that the students who rely on ATM machines were on hol­iday. The senior lawyer argued that “Nigeria used to be a developing country but in the past few years, what we experience is backward de­velopment. Time it was that our economy was basically trade by barter. Gradually, traders exchanged goods for cash. Now most Nigerians earn their living from daily sales. These include market women, transporters, hawk­ers, vulcanizers, plumbers, roadside mechanics, hair­dressers and so on. In the ab­sence of sales through cash, these large proportions of Nigerians suffer more than the few wealthy Nigerians by the cash crunch imposed by the Central Bank and the Commercial Banks. POLL “The popular African adage is that ‘when hunger is eliminated from one’s problems, the remaining problems become easier to solve’. A man without cash will certainly go without food. He becomes hungry. Of course, a hungry man becomes an angry man and an angry man becomes vio­lent. A violent man can kill, behave irrationally and even commit suicide.”