What is your full-year outlook for Fidson Healthcare Plc? I remember saying during our last Investdata MasterClass that when you see a company’s earnings growth and notice the sentiment for the sector where it operates going up also, just as you notice increased trading in its shares, know that there is an attraction to the stock. These are signs that you need to be in that stock. Now, to your question, Fidson Healthcare has become the leader of the healthcare sector of the Nigerian Exchange in terms of price at N7.50 each, while GSK is selling around N7.15 per share. Based on the earnings of Fidson Healthcare as of Q3, the market has priced it to where it is now. If you look at the company’s payout ratio, it’s not too attractive, but the market has seen that with the Q3 earnings, there is a likelihood that Fidson would grow its earnings and dividend per share, the same way we saw Vitafoam grow its own by over 100 percent, from 70 kobo to almost N1.50 each. Investors have put their faith in these companies, hence the need for their directors to reward such confidence. We know that there are some policies that will change something in the economy, but most of the companies that are prudent know how to manage their resources so as to overcome the challenges posed by the operating environment. So, I know that most of them will grow their payout this time, despite the challenges that confronted them. It is important not to forget also that there is still positive sentiment for the healthcare sector, especially as the COVID-19 pandemic is still very much with us. This time, we are confronted by another variant called the Omicron, which is why the sector continues to enjoy the attention, a situation that is also supporting Fidson. But, also, let also look at the chart of Fidson to get a technical view and an insight into where the stock is going. I see the stock still headed north and the price possibly reaches N8.00 each, and if it gets to that level as I expect, it will change the face of the stock. Investors will be happy to see that happen. From the chart, Fidson has been on an uptrend. It is a sign of strength… The year Fidson got to such price was around April 2008. Before now, its audited results come around that period. Now that we are seeing improved numbers, it should tell us what we are likely to see from the stock going forward. That is going to support the price movement… already it’s on a strong uptrend, which you have seen here. And, the good thing is that the MACD in Fidson is very positive… For me, therefore, if you are in Fidson, you don’t need to disturb yourself, just hold your position and watch. However, if you have achieved your target in terms of profit, there is no need to change the goal post. Sell 50 percent of your position and watch. Once the price touches your target, you may not sell everything, because you see momentum in Fidson, you can dispose of half and watch the momentum go. Don’t be greedy and say you are still making money and don’t want to sell at all. For me, there are still positive sentiments for Fidson. In this stock, observe the three or four things I always tell you about: Positive sentiments, earnings growth, good market fundamentals, and the price is charging up, all of which have confirmed our strategy in Investdata. Also, you must lookout for a stock that has good volume… the volume is going up relatively, especially if you remember that volume in the stock has not always been much. Let’s watch what happens next week, and even if you notice profit-taking in Fidson, don’t panic out, because it will still rebound, especially when the full-year result is released and the board declares a dividend. Remember that Fidson paid about 25 kobo dividends last year. I see the directors paying 35 kobo or even more this time around. But the earnings we have seen in Q3 is already indicating where the company is going. Fidson is a stock to hold, because, despite its performance so far, the healthcare sector globally is where attention is now. Long -Term Economic Pains Of Subsidy Removal Seven Ways Tech Can Help To Get You On Track With Your… With nine pending quarterly results, why is NGX not calling Oando to order as part of investor protection? PARTICIPANT I: Oando is an exceptional case, in the sense that it was sanctioned by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and this was implemented by the stock exchange. But you and I know the consequences of that sanction that’s what caused (Mounir) Gwarzo to lose his position as the SEC Director-General. So now, since it had reached that level and then there is a new DG, all he needs to do is to reconcile and it is as a result of the reconciliatory efforts that one of the major party that brought about the issue (Alhaji Dahiru Mangal) settled his difference with Oando, and has been allotted his shares. Afterward, Oando said it needs to hold an Annual General Meeting to appoint its auditors that would audit its account, which is what was held in August last year… My only concern is that the SEC did not come clearly to tell us what was the agreement with Oando, regarding in clear terms, details, and timeframe. I believe that if SEC had given the board and management of Oando a clear direction, guideline, or deadline to do ABDC within a given timeframe, Oando has no choice but to simply obey. However, because we are not a party to the arrangement, we are left guessing. Ordinarily, I expected that Oando should release its management accounts for 2019, 2020, and 2021, but that was not done, and the regulator has not said otherwise. So, the issue is: What was the arrangement with the regulator as regards Oando? We need to know. The regulator has not said anything, especially against the backdrop of the fact that both parties entered into an agreement. I’m watching. But then, let me inform you that since the results have not been released, the company has been unable to undertake certain agreements, such that all related parties were not allowed to buy in or buy out. (I am aware of a) transaction on Oando last year that had to pass through the Federal Ministry of Justice before it could be permitted to happen. This was because, by the rule of the Nigerian Exchange, if you have not released your information, related party transactions on your shares will not be allowed on the floor, because adequate information has not been made available. That is why, today, no related party transactions are allowed on Oando, it is only buying and selling by retail investors. What I am saying, therefore, is that I am not privy to the agreement between Oando and the exchange, as regards the holding of the AGM and the release of the other results. Already, we have come to the end of the 2021 financial year, but 2018 is not released, just like 2019 and 2020 is not released, as such 2021 makes it three years of audited results. From the foregoing, I believe the time has come that we’ll take the issue up with the apex regulator at our regular Capital Market Committee meeting (which involves the management of the SEC, NGX, FMDQ Group, registrars, company secretaries, capital market lawyers, and other stakeholders). Whenever this meeting is called, I will raise the Oando issue, so that we know the other details of the agreement and why the pending results are still being delayed and yet the regulators have remained mute. I know this is beyond the Exchange and has to be done by the SEC, being the apex regulator, and cannot claim ignorance of this rule. Whatever is the explanation, we would take up from there and until then, there is nothing one can do. Exchange should also have come out clean but chose to keep mute, so now we don’t know whom to fall back on. But we normally have meetings with the regulators. So, there, even if nobody does, I will take it up. What is the outlook for Custodian Investment? Just yesterday, I was looking at the Q3 numbers of Custodian Investment… the technical analysis is still strong, notwithstanding the pullback we saw yesterday (Friday, January 14, 2022), the last trading day for the week, which dragged the price to N7.15 each. The stock has enough momentum to surpass N8.50 again, meaning that if you are in, this pullback is an opportunity for you to increase your position, and if you look at the history of that company, it is consistent in dividend payment… What you will do for me now is when the release date is sent to everybody, check the date the earnings will hit the market, it would give you. As was mentioned earlier, those that are unwilling to release unaudited Q4 results must do everything to ensure that they publish their audited financials within the 90-day window provided by the NGX. When such results come, whether there is a hint of dividend or not, you will get an insight into what to expect, apart from telling you what is going on in the company and whether the directors are capable of declaring a dividend, increasing or cutting payout, when the result is finally audited. Before the end of March, there will be a dividend announcement… You need not panic concerning Custodian Investment, because in terms of performance and earnings, the company is not doing badly, in addition to the positive sentiment and technicals. You need not panic, the pullback was part of market dynamics… remember that profit-taking is part of equity investments. When you see profit-taking you need not panic, except when it becomes bad. When you notice profit-taking, just wait, it will rebound as more people enter to take advantage of the lower price. POLL What is the latest on the MTN Nigeria offer? I don’t think the allotment has been announced, but I haven’t received mine, but, I can guess that it will be oversubscribed. Apart from that, those who subscribed to the offer, at the current market price today, are already in profit. For me, if you are there… even though you missed the offer, you can buy from the floor… It is a stock to identify with because of the nature of its services and the new (Payment Service Bank) license, which would boost cash flow. Also, the government is planning to enhance the country’s digital economy, and it is these telecoms companies that would be the drivers, which is why a company like MTN Nigeria went ahead to bid for a 5G license and won. Now also, if the government goes ahead to remove subsidy on petrol as planned, it will drive transportation cost up and more people will opt to work from home, which will positively impact the revenue and profit of telcos. Already, the working from home culture has come to stay since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. That means business for the telecoms sector is sure and we already understand their mode of operations, which will support their bottom-line. If you know all these, it is a stock to be at this time. That is why I say you should utilize the opportunity offered by any pullback to position for the future if you still want to buy. If you bought during the offer, very good. But, once again. We need to also think: if after this last offer, there is another opportunity… This offer for sale is a sign that the original owners are beginning to gradually relinquish ownership to us as Nigerians, which is good. They also want to play safe, because they realize that if the company is 60 percent Nigerian-owned, the psychology of the regulators towards them will also change because they think that because it is more of a South African company hence the recurrent troubles with different Nigerian regulators. Also, when they finally make the company Nigerian-owned, the technical fees will become higher. As such, when buying, we should note that we would make money in the short run, but in the long run, they are not doing this for the love of Nigerians, or so that we would have more shares. Gradually, their plans will play out. But at this stage, MTNN is a stock to be, let’s take a position. I am talking of long-term positioning. For now, buy the shares, make money, but don’t be carried away. Remember, you must have what attracted you to any investment decision you are making. Let it guide you. Transcorp Plc has been on the upswing, what is happening? Transcorp Plc is a company with a future. But, looking at the operational pattern of the group, you would notice that the group is generating revenue, but has no access to cash to play around with, which is why the payout is always low, despite the fact that it is generating cash. For example, its power generating subsidiary generates electricity which is fed to the national grid and the company is paid later for it rather than immediately. Even the way it acquired the Afam plant is another process entirely. For me, the company is touching money and the result we expect will come. But for now, that stock may not sell beyond the N1.30-N1.50 range. But, if you entered at 90 kobo, at N1.20 per share, you have made more than 20 percent… you come out. You should not say because you are waiting for it to touch N1.50 you will stay there. But, if as we go into the year, there are information changes, the result is released with an offer of five kobo dividends per share, up from the previous one kobo… That will bring about another sentiment for the stock. If you are such a stock, you watch and take profit as and when due, while being on the lookout, because we see that the numbers coming from Transcorp, though positive are not reflecting on the price. The dividend of one kobo for two consecutive years is not attractive to investors but traders can continue to trade the up and down movement of the stock. When investors and traders are in stock, you see more activities in that stock, as you notice in Fidson, MTNN, Access Bank… These companies pay dividends and there is what we call trending up and down movement in them with opportunities to buy low and sell high. As such, if you entered Transcorp at 90 kobo, at N1.20 each, exit a little, watch to see the 2021 full-year result… I can assure you that the volume we are seeing suggests that things are happening there already, but let’s watch… The good thing we are seeing is that the volume is a ‘buy’ volume at the end of the week. PARTICIPANT 1: Transcorp is grossly undervalued because we pay more attention to dividends and that is why we go nowhere. But, I have not seen any company that is today moving at the level Transcorp is moving. In terms of power (electricity), today, they generate over 2,000 megawatts, out of the 5,000mw being produced nationwide, making it a significant stakeholder, such that if the power sector is deregulated, the sky will be the company’s limit. The company is bought oil blocs, and you can see where the price of oil is today. The only problem Transcorp has is gearing. Money was borrowed to acquire those assets and have to be repaid and the interest payable is tremendous, unlike if the company accessed capital from the market, thereby reducing its exposure. Maybe it is because of the low share price. Maybe the company will approach the market when its price appreciates to a level. I encourage traders to go for it, because when it grows from 90 kobo to N1.15, you have already made 25 percent, and this was achieved in less than two months. If tomorrow, Transcorp trades at N2 and more, I won’t be surprised, because even at that amount, it is still grossly undervalued. SMEs Workshop Will Bridge Participants’ Gaps On Production… FCMB’s FastCash Offers Up To N200,000 Support For School Fees,… What is your outlook for Unilever Nigeria? In Unilever Nigeria, I see opportunity, and what played out in PZ Cussons recently is likely to repeat in Unilever. When the share price of PZ was adjusted for the dividend declared by its board, it started rallying again to like N7.15 per share. It did not happen because of the activities of you and me, but the foreign investors who were unable to get forex to repatriate their dividend, and decided to reinvest it to increase their stakes in the company. It is not the dividend that has just been marked down, but the previous one. It is also a mark of confidence in the company and the fact that they see potential as to where the company is headed. It is going to happen also in Unilever… already, we have seen improvements in its earnings, because also there are also foreign institutional investors in Unilever. You have seen what they are doing in Guinness, Nestle, and Nigerian Breweries- increasing their stake. Very soon, they see the numbers are also becoming attractive, and they know what they are planning for the company, they’re going to buy back the shares, but not in the manner of Dangote Cement. The majority shareholder will buy from the market and further increase their stake, just like we are seeing in Nestle Nigeria, over the past several months. Back to your question, I see potential in Unilever and the numbers have improved as of Q3, even if it could be better. PARTICIPANT 1: Yes, these companies have declared dividend and their foreign investors could not get the forex to repatriate their money, and as such, they decide to buy more of their shares and while doing so, it is announced on the floor of the exchange. Had there been no scarcity, they might have not engaged in a buyback. However, when you look at these companies- PZ, Unilever… they are manufacturing locally, alternatives to foreign and imported goods. When the cost of forex goes up, the price of the imported competitive products becomes more expensive than their own. Therefore, they have more market share, increase turnover and make more money, because people are unable to source forex to import those competing products. That is one factor that is working in Unilever and PZ. Let’s not also forget that they have done a lot of backward integration ensuring that a lot of the foreign raw materials are now available locally. If you go to the market now, the cost of most food items is very high- maize, beans, soya beans… because the industries are purchasing and competing with ordinary folks. It is good for the local manufacturers because they buy the raw materials in Naira, and the market because the competing products are now more expensive. The same applies to cement. A bag is now selling for as much as N5,000, from N2,500-N2,600 in 2020. The raw materials to manufacture cement-like limestone and others are available within the country, and yet the price is rising, which is why their turnover and profit are rising. Why is the price of Vitafoam not reacting to its wonderful result? I will advise you just wait, but I need to also look at the markdown date. There are people just waiting for the markdown date, they come in to take the dividend and go. If you entered at N21.00, just wait to see if markets will just respond to that markdown date, but if there are other opportunities you see out there, you may go for them. However, February is the markdown date, which is in another fortnight. Another thing is that Vitafoam has factors that work in its favour. There will be a pullback, after the markdown, and thereafter it will move up, because the Q1 result is coming any moment from now in this January and then if it is positive, Vitafoam will maintain that uptrend momentum to change the face of the stock, which is why I advise that you exercise patience. PARTICIPANT 1: Vitafoam is entirely different from other stocks. It is a factor of the market dynamics, helped by factors like COVID-19 (healthcare facilities’ upgrade), and insecurity leading to displacements, leading to increased demand for matrasses and other products of the company. However, the year-end for Vitafoam is September 30, and the result is released between December and January. This is a stock that has more domestic investors than foreign. A lot of individuals have mopped up the shares, reducing the float in the market, following which there is hardly a stock that has recorded capital appreciation as much as Vitafoam, except United Capital. In 2020, it gained tremendously and last year, more than 100 percent. Why, is because people have seen changes in terms of turnover, profit, and dividend growth from 70 kobo to N1.50 per share, which is over 100 percent. That delighted investors, because no company has beat the record of Vitafoam before then or after. But, Vitafoam is not the only one of its kind. I see the scenario playing out in UCap, and Fidson Healthcare. Don’t forget that Vitafoam is a manufacturing company that has no regulator. It is unlike the banks… Fidelity has shown an increase in earnings and profit, but can its directors double the dividend payout? Of course, no, because they are regulated. Unlike, Unilever, PZ, Dangote Cement have no regulator to review their financials before permitting them to release. There is a lot of flexibility in what they do, which the market rewarded with a huge price leap. 