BAUCHI – As political gladiators are agitating for zoning of the presidency to certain parts of the country in preparation for the 2023 general elections, the National Chairman, Council of Ulama of Jama’atu Izalatul Bidia wa Iqamatus Sunnah (JIBWIS), Sheikh Muhammadu Sani Yahaya Jingir, has explained why zoning is undemocratic, saying that the presidential contest should be left open to every region of the country. Sheikh Jingir made the declaration yesterday in his message at the end of the international preaching session of JIBWIS in Bauchi, stressing that zoning violates democratic tenets. He noted that electorates have the right to decide whoever leads them despite the fact that political parties have the power to field candidates of their choices. Dangote Is Africa’s Richest Man, Not You, DJ Cuppy Slams Kanye… Shonekan Helped Shape Economic Policy In Nigeria, Osinbajo… “The fundamental rights of all political parties to field candidates of their choices and the right of voters to freely exercise choices over who leads them cannot be compromised. “Our people should be allowed to exercise their rights according to the laws of the country and the electoral laws, anything otherwise is undemocratic,” the scholar said. He called on Muslims of voting age to not only register but also ensure that get their voter’s cards to enable them to exercise their franchise of voting in the 2023 general election to elect the best leaders at all levels. “Concerning the current security challenges bedeviling the country, some enemies of Nigeria who are planning to destabilise the country and that is the reason why they created banditry and introduced drug abuse to encourage moral decadence among our youths which is a threat to peace and stability of a nation.” Sheikh Jingir admonished leaders at all levels to avoid policies capable of pushing Nigerians into deeper poverty and desperation just as he advised the government at all levels to consider a form of the structured welfare system to alleviate poverty among the people as things are difficult for Nigerians now. POLL The Islamic Cleric stressed the need for the Muslim ummah in the country to unite and consistently worship Allah as enshrined in the Qur’an and the tradition of Prophet Mohammed. He then commended the Bauchi State governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, for his efforts in building mosques and other places of worship, urging him to continue to be fair to all citizens.