Surveyor Kolade Kasim, the newly elected Chairman of the Nigeria Institution of Surveyors (NIS), Lagos State Branch, in this exclusive interview with DADA JACKSON, bares his mind on a number of topical issues, such as the National Building Code, Quackery, Incessant Building Collapse amongst others. Excerpts: Congratulations on your election as the Chairman of the Nigeria Institution of Surveyors (NIS), Lagos State Branch. What is your vision and mission for the institution during your tenure? Thank you for this all important question. My vision is to have an Institution where all members are united. Achieve Greater Control Of Your Assets With A Living Trust… Experts Proffer Solution To Mitigate Building Collapse In 2022 We have members who are private practitioners, some in the public service and academia, and we have some working in the regulatory arm – I would like all of us to come together with a strong belief in a unified NIS. A strong Branch would enhance our profession and we and the larger society would see and feel the impact. In a nutshell, that is my vision and mission during my tenure as the helmsman of the NIS, Lagos State Branch. How do you intend to tackle the menace of quackery in your profession? Let me first say without mincing words, that quackery is not exclusive to any profession, it exists in all profession. Having said that, we have to keep talking to ourselves and with close collaboration with our colleagues in the civil service and regulatory bodies, we should be able to fish out the quacks giving the profession a bad name. POLL I am glad majority of our members see the need for ethical practice and we can be proud of that, however, we would not relent till quackery is totally eliminated. We have a few enforcement processes we intend to implement and we are hopeful they would be successful. It is equally important to state here, that as a registered land surveyor, you have your personal number which is exclusive to you and nobody is permitted to use that number except you. It is assigned to you by the regulatory body and this confers on the bearer, authenticity to practice as a land surveyor. What in your opinion, do you think are the major factors responsible for the incessant building collapse being witnessed in the country and what is the role of the land surveyor in the built environment? Engaging a professional is the first basic step in the successful implementation of any infrastructural project. Expired Provisional Planning Permits: LASG Demands Applications… LAWMA Begins Clean Up Of Apapa, Tin Can Axis There is a true phrase about surveying being the bedrock of any development. To carry out any infrastructural project, you want to know what is where, and this is what we surveyors do. The way out is for stricter enforcement, and also importantly community engagement. Neighbours see what is going on around them and they keep quiet, but they should act as whistleblowers (Cuts in…) What about the National Building Code? We have to keep pushing and lobbying the National Assembly to ensure it is passed as soon as possible. The task of keeping everyone safe is a collective responsibility, not for government alone. The National Building Code gives the minimum standards for construction but from experience, professionals surpass these standards,hence, additional reason to patronise professionals. It is important to state here, that immediately after the unfortunate incident, that happened at Gerrard Road,Ikoyi where a 21 storey building under construction cane down, we held a press conference. We have, as part of the professionals in the built environment made submission to government, and our National President has also called for subsidence monitoring on buildings above three floors. In my opinion from what we’ve seen, unethical practices have been the major cause. Embarking on projects without duly qualified professionals is an unethical practice. Use of substandard materials is unethical, cutting corners. It should equally be emphasised here, that the National Building Code is very germane for the construction process if only we are determined to eradicate the worrisome and ugly incidence I’d building collapse in the country. But, I must make it clear without mincing words, that in order to reduce the menace of building collapse, all hands must be on deck to monitor the construction process. If would be clients do the right thing by patronising genuine professionals instead of trying to cut corners by engaging quacks,then,we would have solved the problems of building collapse considerably. What are the challenges facing your institution in Lagos State? I must admit in Lagos, we have our own issues and some of our colleagues have taken the Surveyor-General to court but all parties are talking and looking at an amicable solution. No, the issues are not the same. I think I should make the point that we are simply saying we cannot continue to be taken for granted; we are also after the development of the State and should be carried along in whatever programmes the State is implementing where is concerns us; it might even surprise government that we could even come up with solutions that could be better. Mutual respect, trust and sincere engagement are basic for a cordial relationship. We are looking at establishing these basics and in a short while we all hope to have a firm footing.