As the different variants of the COVID-19 continue to ravage the country medical experts and virologists who have consistently called for the observation of the international protocols to curb the spread say that Nigeria has failed to determine which variants are causing the fourth wave. They also condemned an unholy rivalry among laboratories leading to what they described as the country’s disgrace. In as much as the experts agree that the variants are coming from countries with little respect for non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPI), however, advise Nigerians to ensure safety rules, avoid New Year cross over to bigger wave. CHIOMA UMEHA writes The world is currently on edge due to the ravaging Coronavirus which has continued to produce dif­ferent variants, all deadly. Howev­er, as the curtain for the New Year, 2022 unveils; Nigerian scientists have warned that the country may face what they described as the COVID-19 conundrum follow­ing the escalation of cases amid emerging Omicron variants, low vaccination, vaccine hesitancy, shortages, and crisis. Speaking with Saturday IN­DEPENDENT during the week, Prof Oyewale Tomori, a virol­ogist, decried the situation. “I am unhappy and sad about our situation. We have what I call a ‘CQC, COVID quinconundrum,’ with less than three percent of our population fully vaccinated, less than five percent receiving just one dose, adding to that in­sufficient number of available vaccine doses. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… “This, in the midst of the de­struction of expired vaccines! What of vaccine hesitancy with all the fake stories about the vac­cines. And now we are roiling in the fourth wave, with over 4,000 cases in one day on December 22, the emotional-laden Tomori, who is the Chairman of Biovaccine Board, further bemoaned. “Now we have to administer boosters to protect those already vaccinated. We certainly have a COVID-19 co­nundrum in our hands.” Nigeria, on Wednesday, December 22, reported 4,035 COVID-19 cases, the highest-ever daily infection tally since the dis­ease was detected in the country nearly two years ago. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed this in its daily update about the pandemic in the country. A breakdown of the new infections showed that they were confirmed in 15 states in the country with Lagos State having 3,393 more cases. With the new figures, Nigeria’s COVID-19 infections now stood at 231,413 out of which 211,853 were successfully treated and discharged as of Wednesday. The flipside, how­ever, indicates that 2,991 people have died from COVID-19 complications. Again, last Tuesday, the country reported its highest daily infections in 11 months – 2,123, just a few days after authorities confirmed that Nigeria is in the fourth wave of the pandemic. As of the time of filing this report on Thursday, Nigeria recorded 1,355 new cases and an additional death from the COVID-19 pandemic. With the 1,355 new cases recorded, the infection toll from the virus in the country has increased to 240,374 while the death toll now stands at 3,028. Further, the frightening statistics followed reports from NCDC and Nigerian authorities over the new Omicron variant cases. The NCDC confirmed 49 as the total cases of the Omicron COVID variant as of De­cember 21, during a media briefing on Christmas Eve. Announcing this, Dr. Ifedayo Adetifa, Director-Gener­al, NCDC also warned Nigerians to take the pandemic precautions seri­ously, noting that, “The country is now in a fourth COVID-19 wave.” POLL Against this background, some health watchers are of the view that surveillance and testing should be improved as there are indications that Nigeria is under-reporting the number of Omicron variants in the country due to inadequate surveil­lance and testing, especially by state governments. But reacting, Prof. Tomori said, “The problem is not in the number of COVID-19 cases, we are hitting the numbers in thousands per day. The problem is our failure to deter­mine which variants are causing the waves. The national coordination of our genomic sequencing system is currently in the stone age of cru­dity. Not because we do not have high-quality labs with genomic se­quencing facilities and capacity, our problem is the inability to organise and coordinate the activities of these labs in Abuja, Lagos, Kano, Sokoto, Ede, and other locations. “There is an unholy rivalry among the labs that have led to the disgrace of our country. Remember we first knew that Nigeria had Omi­cron from other countries, such as Canada, and the UK. Because we fail to coordinate the activities of these labs, Nigeria is unable to tell the variant(s) responsible for the current wave.” On if the Delta Variant is respon­sible for the escalation, the former President of the Nigeria Academy of Science, said, “We currently do not know…when NCDC succeeds in coordinating the genomic sequenc­ing activities among our labs, then we can answer the question.” Ruminating on how helpful the re­striction order of congregants on the New Year eve crossover gatherings in churches, mosques etc, would be in curbing the spread, Tomori called for strict compliance. New Year: Support Buhari To End Banditry, Kidnappings, Oba Alabi… Let’s Be Driven By Love, Peace This New Year, Shina Peller… “It will help, provided the church­es and mosques strictly comply with the protocols. Otherwise, it will be a cross-over to a bigger COVID wave. However, more important and more effective is the compliance with the non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPI) by everybody in the office, at gatherings and other such places where exposure is easy and free. “Our focus must be on strict compliance with the NPI to pre­vent the spread of the COVID-19 and the emergence of variants. If the virus is not transmitted from person to person, we reduce the development and generation of variants. “Note, variants are coming from countries with lax compliance with the NPIs. How many variants have come out of China, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, etc? The variants are coming from areas of the world with little respect for NPIs,” he added. Considering the level of insuffi­ciency of vaccines and the expired batches, Tomori, who is also a for­mer World Health Organisation Rep­resentative to Nigeria and a board member of the Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunisation (GAVI), urged Nigeria to stop depending on donors for vaccines. “Our government must get more vaccines to vaccinate her people. Much more needs to be done. De­pending on donated vaccines that may eventually get thrown into the dust bin, is not the way to go. Buy your vaccines, donations are left­over crumbs,” he regretted. Dr. Usman Abdul Rahman of the Infectious Diseases Physi­cians agreed with Prof. Tomori, explaining that, “The strategies to mitigate or control the spread of the fourth wave still lies in the strict observance of non-pharma­cological interventions like hand hygiene, wearing of face masks, and physical distancing.” Rahman, who is also the Medical Director, Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited Medical Centre, told Sat­urday INDEPENDENT, that “The highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus has in­fected millions of people across the world, even in nations with high vaccination rates. However, early evidence showed that the variant causes milder symptoms, with vac­cinations and boosters helping to prevent serious illness and death,” he added. Corroborating Tomori’s view further, he said, “Nigeria has re­ported few cases of omicron vari­ant of the coronavirus probably due to lack of highly equipped lab­oratories spread across the coun­try to carry out sequencing testing. Hence, it is difficult to conclude whether the present escalation is still due to the delta variant or the newly detected omicron variant.” Like Tomori, Rahman called for the enforcement of vaccination and non-pharmacological mea­sures by the government on citi­zens, insisting, this “still remains the option to mitigate against the spread of any variant of the virus. Vaccination reduces the mobility and mortality associated with COVID-19,” he added. On his part, Professor Baba­tunde Lawal Salako, Director General/CEO, Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), Nige­ria is currently seeing some signifi­cant community infection that pre­vents serious fatalities, noting that there is a need to build immunity through increased vaccination. “For me, I believe that there is a significant community infection and immunity either through natural infection or vaccination which has prevented a lot of peo­ple who are now having the second infection from experiencing fatal outcomes,” Salako disclosed. Speaking with Saturday IN­DEPENDENT, he insisted that, “There is a need to build up this immunity through vaccination, hence intensive campaigns and measures are required to improve upon this. Those who are having a first-time infection and are not vaccinated are at high risk of hav­ing fatal outcomes, especially with Delta variant infection. “They should therefore go for the vaccination without delay. We need more genomic surveillance to determine the circulating vari­ants and this is a very expensive procedure that requires dedicated centres and funding support,” the seasoned physician and researcher advised. He further called for an esca­lation in the campaign to upscale vaccination, ensure enforcement of COVID-19 protocols, and man the borders, and screen human traffic coming in or going out of the country. Stern measures from the government to protect people in public places from those who are not complying with the protocols or not vaccinated yet.” The Professor of Nephrology ad­vised that the Nigerian government through NCDC should continue to ensure that isolation centres are ready with effective oxygen deliv­ery systems in case the tide chang­es. “Health care workers and teams should all be on red alert so that we can hit the ground running if cases are becoming fatal,” he added. Already, Salako said, NCDC is ac­tive with surveillance, and the gov­ernment has put measures in place for the public to follow. “All that is left is to get the public to respect those measures. Again, our response to the infection has been unexpected and whether we are doing enough tests or not we are not seeing the ravaging effects of the virus in our population as it happened elsewhere and I believe that will continue to be so,” he noted. “However, we must find a way to escalate vaccination and dispel rumours about the vaccines among the general population,” Salako em­phasised.