AKURE – Senator Nicholas Towowomo currently representing Ondo South Senatorial District in the Senate has declared that he would rather return home than defecting from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to All Progressives Congress (APC). He made the declaration on weekend while distributing 200 laptop computer sets to his constituents. Senator Tofowomo queried what was attractive in APC that would tempt him to defect to it, noting that the APC-led Federal Government had ruined the nation’s economy. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… APC Drifting, Exposing Damaged Profile – Lukman Warns… He said: “Rather than to go to APC, I will leave politics because APC is a dead party in Nigeria. They have wrecked the economy of this country. So, it is over my dead body, I can never decamp to APC. It’s PDP in the morning, afternoon and in the evening. “If I leave PDP now, I’m going back home. If you look at the APC, what have they done to the improve of our economy? When I was in the University, 70 kobo would give you one dollar. Now N580 is to $1. This showed that they have wrecked the economy. So, it is not a party to go to at all. It is an insult to me if I go to APC. “APC has failed us in Nigeria, in the area of economy, they have scored zero. Security, they have scored zero. Robbery, kidnapping are now on daily routine, banditry is now common in Nigeria. Nobody is safe, it has gone bad to that level. “APC has failed the nation because they don’t  have agenda. For instance, look at the Nigerian Police, APC has not done the right thing to renovate our police stations in order to have formidable police stations in Nigeria. Boko-Haram are still there. A bag of rice during PDP regime in Nigeria was N6000, now it is N35,000. That means the party is not sellable at all and that is why people are decamping from APC to PDP everyday because they have failed the nation.” The senator stated that the distribution of the computer became necessary as the world is going e-marketing and e-trading. POLL He said it’s important to make his constituents be abreast with global development, adding that the gesture would expose and expand their businesses for more profits. Tofowomo emphasised that the empowerment programme would reduce poverty among his people as they would be able to engage in new e-businesses. He said: “I believe that if we can encourage our people in Ondo South Senatorial District and all the media men to have a laptop, they will use it as a planner. If they have a programme at anytime, they will be able to write it down among others things and that is the essence of having laptop.”