AKURE – One of the presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Doyin Okupe, has declared that he would back down if the party reached a consensus to cede the presidential ticket to the South-East in 2023. He stated this during a live programme on a local radio station on Monday. The former spokesman to former President Olusegun Obasanjo noted that the national consensus reached by the party provided an opportunity for his former boss to be the party’s candidate in the 1998 presidential election. Olota To Hold First Annual Retreat For Awori Monarchs EKOEXCEL Marks 2022 Int’l Day Of Education He declared that he would support Dr Peter Obi if he offered to serve because he (Obi) has the wherewithal to lead and move the nation forward. Okupe, nevertheless, noted that if PDP decided to make the ticket open to all zones, he would pursue his interest to lead the nation in 2023. He revealed that he had the best credentials and qualities to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that “of all the people who have come out to declare their interest in the Presidency, I believe that I am the most qualified. “I have worked with two former presidents which gave me the opportunity to understudy them and learn from them and this has prepared me well.” The PDP chieftain assured that he would diversify the nation’s economy, which he said is monolithic, to improve the living standard of the people. POLL He identified liquefied gas as one of the resources that have not been maximally explored and exploited for the sustainability of the nation’s economy. Speaking on the controversy surrounding fuel subsidy removal, Okupe described as intolerable the amount claimed to be spent on fuel subsidy, saying that if given the opportunity to serve as President, he would provide better living conditions for the people to cushion the effect of the removal. He emphasised that even if his party decided to cede the presidential ticket to any zone, it must be made highly competitive. Okupe, however, advised that the Presidency should be made open to all members of the party irrespective of zones in 2023.