Chidozie David Okonkwo ,the Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer of Bento, a pan- African digital payroll and HR Management (HRM) platform that is ready to take the African continent by storm through its audacious expansion drive, in this interview with BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, shed light on the African expansion plan and the company’s readiness to redefine HR management and payroll across the continent. Excerpts: What is the major motivation behind the company’s expansion drive? I think in terms of the expansion, we see the market, for us it is driven because we see a huge opportunity here in the payroll and HR management space for Africa. Doyin Salami Appointment As CEA – Matters Arising Salvador Calls On CBN To Check Extortion By Commercial Banks We serve more than 900 active companies in Nigeria and we are so fortunate that many of the companies we serve in Nigeria have presence in other African countries and what we see is that they have given or told us the same thing. Literally, they say when are you coming to Ghana, when are you coming to Rwanda, when are you coming to Kenya, it is this same issue. They have to pay salaries, taxes, pension and all the statutory remittances, which are a headache for them in Nigeria are the same headache they have in other African countries. So, we have to dig and look at what is happening in other countries. We saw the same problems everywhere and so we say this is a huge opportunity and this is a continent that has over four hundred million people in the labour force. So, instead of waiting for us to wait and grab the Nigerian market completely, let us go ahead and grab as many African markets as we can. POLL We take that strategy and that is what has actually driven the approach. In the profile, you said that you are ready to comply with the behaviour of most of the countries you are expanding to. How prepared are you in this regard? I think we are already prepared and the reason I said that is because I think the first and most important thing any company can do when it seeks to expand into different territories is to try and understand the cultural differences of those places. It will be arrogant and foolhardy to go into Ghana and expect it to be like Nigeria. It is also the same to expect Kenya and even Rwanda to be the same like Nigeria for instance. Even Kenya and Rwanda that are close to each other, we cannot expect them to be the same. So our approach is to understand the dynamics of any place and we always hire local teams. Give Us Access To Diaspora Remittances, ABCON Tells CBN Equities Market Closes 2021 Positive At 6.07% A country lead in a particular country is always a local person to that country. So, he would understand the culture and get it into context. And our view and goal is to really be a pan African company so that when you are using Bento in Ghana, it will be a Ghanaian version and when you are using it in Kenya, it will be a Kenyan version of it; in South Africa, it will be a South African version. It supposed to be a Nigerian company but it is trying to force its way into these other countries. I think that is our approach. How well positioned are you in the expansion drive? I think we are very well positioned in the drive. One of the beauties of how we created our platform is that we have set it up in such a way that as we go into these new countries and regions, we are able to adapt the platform so that it can be hyper-localised. For example in Ghana, you have social security; you have a national health service. You have some things you don’t have in Nigeria. That is Ghanaian platform. Likewise in Kenya and others, they have other differences. So, we need to study and once we are able to get the specific requirements that are needed, we tailor our solution to come up with a localized version. So, when we use Bento Ghana, Bento Kenya, Bento Rwanda, they are slightly different versions. And that is very important because we need to communicate with the local banks, local pensions administrators and other regulatory bodies because what we don’t want is to go into countries and regions and make promises we cannot deliver on. For us, when we launch in a country, we check what we launch because we have all the licences, we are the accreditations; we communicate with the local banks and the stakeholders so when you use us, it is seamless. How well received is Bento in Nigeria? As it stands now in Nigeria, we are extremely received. The most innovative HR finance departments in Nigeria use us and we have over 900 active companies. So, we are very much on the ABC of cutting edge technology and innovation and I think that is extremely important to serve the companies in building the future. And so the reality is to think how far Africa and Nigeria in particular has evolved in e-payments and digital banking. We want to be building for the future and looking at our local client-base and how quickly we have grown to 900 plus active companies, you can see the product faith at the market. Why the need for expansion into other African countries given that Nigeria is a large market? I will agree with you that Nigeria is a huge market and there is this school of thought that says go deep. Focus is on Nigeria now and after Nigeria, we are going into other areas. There is another school of thought that says go broad and ultimately go deep at the same time. We decided to be broad and deep at the same time and the simple reason is this, we believe that convergence is inevitable. We believe that we have started seeing that African governments and regulators are starting to enact policies that will see that companies start to comply and stay up to date with their regulatory requirement; with their taxes, with their pensions and we are seeing this across the continent. We believe in entrenching ourselves while these policies are evolving. It is the right strategy for us. So you are right, Nigeria is a huge market and we couldn’t decide to stay in Nigeria for now; we have decided to go broad. I can state that we take advantage of the landscape and the winds are changing and we want to be well positioned when that finally does happen. Don’t you think this will be too big for you to handle? No, I don’t think so and my reason for thinking like this is that the beauty of what we are doing and what we are building is that it is truly about creating a platform that can be replicated. Like I said, our strategy of hiring local talents in each of these countries is the approach of building teams on the ground and giving those teams autonomy. It means that you end up with a team that is extremely strong. Because of how we are building our teams, strong countries and people with local markets and trying relationships, I am very confident we have a very strong team now and we are getting stronger as we hire more and more top talents across the continent. How broad and deep do you think you would have been by 2027? We are going to be the number one payroll HRM platform in Africa; we are going to build the rails which we are going to … from the continent in 50 years. That means we have strong aggressive plans and that also means by the end of five years, every city that has more than a million inhabitants in Africa will see our presence there. Like I said, that is extremely aggressive but I am incredibly confident that we can do that. With all that we are doing in the market, I am very confident that we can do that. You know when you look at the western and developed markets; the reason why they have such utility is because regulations mandate the companies to do certain things; they must do payroll electronics; they must remit tax electronically and so on but we don’t really have that on the continent. Now we are beginning to see African governments moving towards that and realise that is the way towards increasing IGR and that is the way to get tax compliance etc. That’s why we want to really grab this market. Are you looking at expanding into other financial services like money transfer? As a payroll company, we are actually in a very unique position because ultimately, we are the conduit through which money flows through, whether through the private sector or public sector. We are the bridge between employer and employee. I will say without doubt that opportunities are endless in terms of abilities for now, our abilities to facilitate insurance, savings and all sorts of flows of money. Basically anyway money flows, we are there. So what Bento can become is absolutely high because of our unique position that we hold. So for us, it is step one, serving over 90 per cent of the African continent, which is the ability to pay taxes, pensions and other remittances easily and at a click of a button. And step two, is leveraging that position to now unleash consumer credits and finance the level that has never been seen on the continental. Definitely, there is a lot to come from Bento.