WARRI – Over 100 shops built without the authority of the local planning authority in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State were, on Saturday pulled down with a stern warning on perpetrators of such acts to desist or face the wrath of the law. Executive Chairman of Udu Local Government Area, Chief Jite Brown, who personally supervised the exercise, confirmed that the shops built on the wall of the DSC permanent camp, was without the authority of the Delta state government or the local planning authority, stressing that directive has come for the structures, already close to lintel level to be brought down to serve as a deterrent to others, who may wish to dare government authority in the future. The exercise was part of the monthly environmental sanitation exercise in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State with passersby lamenting the loss of those who may have committed so much money to erect the illegal structures, built on DSC right of way. Alao-Akala To Be Buried On February 18 Otuokpoti: My Decision To Dethrone Paramount Ruler Is Final –… A source, who confided in SATURDAY INDEPENDENT on condition of anonymity, disclosed that the parcel of land, which was on the DSC fence and the Orhuwhorun road was sold to willing buyers by the Executive of Igbogidi Community for N600,000 per the size of a shop while the buyers were to contribute money to build the shops and operate for themselves. From the information gathered, the shop owners may have paid nothing less than N60 million plus the cost of erecting the structures which were all reduced to rubbles by government bulldozers on Saturday. Some of the women who came to witness the exercise however complained that if the said illegal structures by the DSC permanent camp were destroyed, the ones by the Police station, built allegedly by the Police Officers Wife Association, POWA, cannot be spared if the government must be fair to all. ‘’Government should extend this exercise to the front of the Police Station. The police also have no right to deface the environment with illegal structures,’’ one commentator had said. The exercise continued with visits to other sites like the Udu Market area and other areas of Udu where rubbish and filth were evacuated for healthy living in the Udu Local Government area.