ABAKALIKI – In order to reduce the misunderstanding and mistrust that often exist between the tax administrators and the tax payers, the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) has advocated for a constant interaction and enlightenment between the two parties to ensure mutual relationship. The Abakaliki District Chairman of CITN, Barr. George Ukpai, who made the advocacy in a chat with Journalists on Sunday shortly after a thanksgiving service at St. Patrick Parish, Kpirikpiri, Abakaliki, as part of events marking the 40th anniversary of the institute, maintained that persuasive approach in carrying out taxation was the magic wand. “To curtail this, a very simple thing should be done–enlightenment, and constant interaction between the stakeholders and the tax payers. Detention: QNET Urges Fair Investigation, Solidarizes With… FAAN Sets To Expand Infrastructure At Lagos Airport “The stakeholders should be constantly interacted on the provisions of the law and the requirement. There should be constant interaction between the two parties, to ensure that a mutual relationship exist between the tax collectors and tax payers. “There is need to use persuasive approach in carrying out taxation. People that are not enlightened do not know the important proceedure, because they always feel they are being unneceessarily taxed. “They should be enlightened and if come to appreciate them, you will see them voluntarily complying. So, enlightenment and interaction are the magic wand in taxation”, he noted. On multiple taxation and evasion of tax, Ukpai noted that the Nigeria’s tax law has made sufficient provisions on how to tackle it, adding that CITN ensures there is a meeting point between the tax payers and tax administrators. “The institute ensures that there’s a meeting point between the tax payers and tax administrators. What we mostly see, is that there are cases of tax payers evading tax, and also sometimes, pay less, Now, when they do that, the tax collectors will certainly do something to ensure that the tax payers are in line with the law. Also, the law, doesn’t support over taxation, but when such cases are established, the best thing to do is to raise an objection. POLL “Take for instance, in Ebonyi State here, if a tax payer feels aggrieved, he should bring his case to the Tax Commission, and that Commission is an independent body that will judiciously look into the matter. Anything above that, there is Tax Appeal Commission and in South East, it’s located in Enugu. So you can take your grievance to the commission,” Ukpai said.