In the New Testament of the Bible, we have the chapter that is called “The Acts of the Prophets’, this make me realize that what happened to the Apostle was what happened in the Old Testament to the Prophets of God through the Holy Spirit. If the Acts of the Apostles can be translated to the Acts of the Holy Spirit, it means that the Acts of the Prophets through the Spirit of God are worth to be studied. The book of Amos 3:7 says, “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the Prophets.” Who is a Prophet? The Unquestionable And Compassionate God That Needs To Be Served Before Noon, Ye Shall Have Help A prophet is the mouthpiece of God in whatever situation, whether between God and the church, between God and the world, or between God and individual. A Prophet is a person who tells about the future of a person, or a Prophet claims to be able to tell about what will happen to a person in the future. A Prophet is a soothsayer, a Prophet is a person who is being inspired by God Almighty, such as in the Old Testament. Ironically, a Prophet is a spokesman of God Almighty. What are their Acts? Their Acts is to manifest what Prophet Elijah did during his lifetime, Elisha’s works even doubled that of his master (Elisha). 2022 will be a year of plenty deaths. Like ex-presidents, ex Senate presidents, and other very important personalities, we don’t expect them dead. I asked God why, He wants to use it to humble many people. Nigerians should pray for our president, Muhammadu Buhari. God gave me message concerning another nation, like Indonesia, God said that they will be earthquake in the country. We should pray against another form of disease. I asked why after the range of Covid-19 pandemic, phases, omicron variants. God said, that the people have not humbled themselves. God wants to use 2022 to humble those people. God told me, He will use disasters to humble Nigeria and its leaders. That’s my prediction, a lot of things would happened in Nigeria. I predicted last year that, leader of Boko Harran will be captured and killed. And it came to past. I advised Nigeria Christians to move en masse to decide who our political leaders in next elections become. They shouldn’t see polities as a dirty game. It is dirty game for unbelievers and they are passing anti-people laws on Christians. If they refused to get involve and leave it in the hands of unbelievers, we will suffered for their wickedness. Last year, at our national revival held at the Ogun State Stadium, God heals two people who are Covid-19 positive. God has been using the church wall water to cure many diseases and sickness. Barren women have be coming for children dedications after using the wall water instructed by God. God has used the wall water in a mysterious way in the lives of the people. The present Nigeria leaders had failed us and they never honour any of their promises to the people. They promised to eliminate corruption, but today, corruption is dancing with us every day. Security, they told us they will dealt with within three months of their administration. But today, the level of insecurity, is at the highest level, bandits, herdsmen killing farmers, kidnappers, kidnapping our schools children every day. I can tell you that nobody in Nigeria is satisfy of what is going on in Nigeria. Accept if the government make u-take, and change their anti-people policies. POLL God uses His Almighty power to protect His people against all phases of Covid-19. Covid-19 is an artificial illness created by the Chinese. It is not from God. However, it is in the fulfillment of the word of God, for the last day. I pray our government should be sincere in governing Nigeria. In their sincerity in governance of Nigeria, would go a long way in development of our country. With this kind of leadership system, Nigerians should not expect anything good in 2022. On our youths, government at all levels should make efforts to empower them. Nigeria youths are hungry, there should be welfare provision for them. They are the future and leaders of tomorrow. Prayer Points 1. God of Elijah, favour me, in all my undertaking on earth, in Jesus name. 2. I tap and receive divine favor from above, in Jesus name. Deeper Life Bible Church:Emerging From Conservatism Remembering God’s Generals Who Answered The Last Call In 2021 3. I will become all that God want me to become in Jesus name. 4. I move forward in every area of my life, in Jesus name. 5. I thank you Jesus for answering my prayers.