Retired Air Vice Marshal Anthony Ebehijele Okpere was Director of Operations (NAF HQ), Lagos; Air Officer Commanding (Training Command) Nigerian Air Force, Kaduna; member, Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC); Managing Director, Nigeria Airways Limited, and Aviation Minister (1986-87). In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, he spoke on …. And other national issues. Excerpt: How did you get into the Air Force? In 1959, we were in form 3 at Ishan Grammar School, Uromi, when Awolowo’s Action Group (AG) campaign team arrived one hot afternoon. We heard a very loud noise above us and then saw a series of manoeuvres, the palm trees with AG sign, so we stood and marvelled what it was all about and our principal, then the person of Father Byrne of (Blessed Memory) – an Irish Reverend Father – told us that was called a helicopter, and that about 20 of them could land on our football field and even more. So, I started thinking that if I had my way, I would do something similar and land a helicopter at Uromi to prove that what those wizards upstairs could do I could do better. Many Parents Dreaded My Rascality As A Teenager –Jide Kosoko FG Should Use Opportunity Of COVID-19 Challenges To Strengthen… I left Uromi in March 1963 – where I was teaching in LA Model School – for Lagos. On getting to Lagos, my uncle, Mr. Ijewere, took me to the Central Bank, where I was given an exam and an interview which I passed. My uncle was the Director of Banking Operations then. To cut the story short, they calculated my allowances which was less than how much I was receiving at Uromi as a teacher and I declined the offer. In fact, I was just going to 21 years in age. With my A/L papers, I was taken to the Civil Service and was given Assistant Executive Officer position with a salary of 37ps.10s, which was much better than the offer at the Central Bank. So, I took the offer. I was in the Federal Ministry of Statistics for about eight weeks when I saw an advert that the Nigerian government had signed an MoU with the German Government to start an Air Force. I asked what they do and was told they fly. I applied, did the interview and was taken along with others to go to Germany for training. So, I left my new job and took up the new offer. After everything, it was noticed that the Southerners taken to go for the Air Force training in Germany were more than the Northerners, so to balance the equation of 50:50, they went to classrooms in the North to pick people at random without training, just to fill up the gap. Ribadu was the Minister for Defence. After the recruitment we were divided again into two 50:50. The first batch went to Germany on 27th of August, 1963, and we were asked to return to our base. In fact, the former head of state, Abdulsalam Abubakar, was my squad mate – we went to Germany together, finished together, and were recruited into the Army together. 31 of us left to Germany on the 27th of June, 1964, to be trained on how to fly. Out of the 31 of us only eight were qualified as pilots. I came back with 19 of my colleagues, and AVM Bello was the then Director of Operations. The war was already on and one day, he said to me, “Tony, you have always said you want to fly to Uromi,” and I said yes, and he said, “Take this opportunity to go for training on how to fly a helicopter and that was how I went back to England to learn how to fly a Helicopter. I got qualified and came back March 1968, and on the 29 of April 1968, I was sent to the war front. I never had any honeymoon at all. We flew the old helicopters everywhere then. From state to state, where we were sent to work for 2 hours journey, I never had the opportunity to fly to Uromi as I earlier dreamt and wished. Tell us about your experience as a fighter jet pilot? War is never a good thing to talk about. My participation in the Nigerian Civil War was to supply foods to the soldiers at the battle front and not to drop bombs because helicopters do not drop bombs. Nevertheless, me, I did not kill one single soul at the battle front. Nevertheless, after the war, the old helicopters were discarded and new ones bought. Fortunately, in 1981, when Prof. Ambrose Alli was governor of Bendel State, there was an event in Benin City where he was to be the guest of honour, I was privileged to go and bring him down to the venue. When I got to him in Ekpoma, he was asking for time to get ready so I gave him 30 minutes which enabled me to sneak out and landed in Uromi to fulfill my long time dream of landing my helicopter at Uromi, after which I went back to pick the governor to the venue of the event. When I got back to Benin, I reported myself to the Chief of Air Staff in the person of AVM Bello. He told me that since there was no accident on the journey, he had no problem with it because that had been my dream of flying a helicopter to Uromi, my hometown. I was indeed happy because it has been my dream to do exactly what those wizards did those days at the AG campaign ground at Uromi. POLL As a retired Air Vice Marshal and a prominent son from Edo Central Senatorial District, what is your take on the Esan agitation for the position of governor in 2024? If I had my way, I would install an Esan man there now but I have always advised that this is not something you can get by force, and I tell you why. If you look at the demographics of Edo State, you’ll know we stand on a tripod: Edo South is there, long, Edo North is like that and we are hanging at the centre. We must do something to cut it so that all can be standing on the same level and, to do that, you cannot do it by force but by diplomacy. When we were in school, we read a book, She Stoops to Conquer. Play the fool but know what you are doing. When you were decamping from your party, the APC, what arrangement was made on which Senatorial District to succeed Governor Goodwin Obaseki? I don’t know the type of negotiation that was entered into when we were moving from the APC to the PDP. I don’t know the dynamics of it because I gave up on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole a long time ago because of his behaviour. I didn’t want to see him again. I did not go to the Government House again, but when he came to Uromi he invited me to the field, I followed him. Going by the constitution then, I was a member of the APC caucus in Edo State. The last meeting we held lasted till 3am in the morning. That was the day Pastor Ize Iyamu spoke his mind, Chief Tom Ikimi said his own and left, and I said my own and left and it was His Excellency, John Oyegun, former governor, who dropped me in my hotel and I told him that, that was the last time they would see me in Government House. In the last six or seven years, I don’t think I have been to the Government House. Why I did that then was that I felt bad because I was not anxious to be president, senator or governor – anything at all. I am 78 years now, my duty now is to make sure I preach unity and bring people together to achieve the best and that was the reason why I accepted the invitation to be Chairman, Board of Trustees, Esan Solidarity Forum, among others. What I am saying is that all the various associations in Esan must come together because the way we are going about it now, it may not give us our heart’s desire. Various Esan groups have divergent views on how to produce a governor of Esan extraction. For instance, if Governor Obaseki says today, Esan, go and produce the governor, we will never agree on one candidate. It pains me. Therefore, we have to be serious, diplomatic, and be united towards it, irrespective of our political divide. In fact, we have what it takes to produce the next governor of Edo State after Obaseki’s tenure, but we must be united and speak with one voice. Drug Abuse, A Public Health Challenge Not Criminal Offence… Corruption, Greed Foremost Factors Responsible For Building… How would you rate the performance of Governor Godwin Obaseki? Governor Obaseki is doing well within the resources available to him. He is not the typical politician that always wants to play to the gallery. He knows what he wants for Edo State and goes for it, not minding what people say, which, to me, is a mark of good leadership. I strongly believe an Esan man that will take over from him will learn this disposition from him for good governance. In the area of insecurity, he is open to good suggestions on the best way to handle the situation. You recall the Board of Trustees of Esan Security Network, Atanakpa, visited him recently and he was receptive to our visit and even promised to support the security outfit in the area of training, logistics, manpower, among others. I believe he means well for Edo State.