LAGOS  – The Lagos State Commissioner for Housing Moruf Akinderu-Fatai has stated that the Lagos State Government under the leadership of Mr. Governor, Mr.Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu has embarked on the revolution of housing in the state in line with his THEMES agenda. Akinderu-Fatai dropped the hint in interview with select journalists in his office to showcase the ministry’s activities in 2021 and its projection for the New Year. According to him, Mr.Governor since his inauguration as the Governor of the state, has taken the issue of the provision of affordable housing for Lagosians ad one of his key developmental project’s hence, the construction and commissioning of several housing units in the five divisions of the state. Nigeria’s Inflation Rate May Be Among World’s Highest This Year… Osun To Partner NEXIM On Cocoa Revolution Initiative The Commissioner noted, that in the last two and half years, the state government has built and commissioned different housing units in Ibeshe,Sangotedo,Ajah,Ikorodu, to mention just a few. He pointed out, that the out gone year was full of activities for the ministry in terms of the number of houses built and commissioned by the Governor, adding that this year would see more housing units being delivered to Lagosians of different cadre. According to him, the houses being constructed would be of high quality irrespective of its relative costs. He was quick to add, that the state government wound not compromise on the quality of the houses no matter where they are situated. The Commissioner said that 2022 would be a year of vigorous activities in the area of housing in the state, noting that Mr.Governor was poised to deliver more affordable housing units for the people. POLL According to him, the award given to Sanwo-Olu as the best performing governor in the housing sub-sector if the economy was not a fluke, pointing out, that the award wound further spur him on go do more in the area of housing and home delivery. Akinderu-Fatai says that the five divisions of the state Ikeja,Badagry,Ikorodu,Lagos Island and Epe(IBILE) would definitely be accorded attention in the location of houses to be built before the end of this year, adding that Mr.Governor us determined to put smiles in the faces of Lagosians in his quest to deliver more and more affordable housing units for the people.