The Gombe State Police Commissioner, Mr. Ishola Babaitan has paraded two Nigerians and four Beninois over an attempt to commit fraud in Gombe. He gave the identity of the suspects as Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu, 26 years from Gombe State; Jasper Jacob, 33 years from Taraba State; while Dafton Wakon Elysée, Hopko Adolphe, Jamal Salami, and Emmanuel Haunukon are citizens of Benin Republic. He said, during the course of interrogation, the suspects claimed that they are into an online networking business called QNET. Expert Blames Poor Academic Performance On NTDs 2023 Election: Any Igbo man who supports Tinubu Should Be… According to him, it was established that the suspects are into a Ponzi scheme to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. He said the command had on 18th January 2022, at about 08:30 pm, received information that three Hummer buses brought some young men numbering about 109. “Immediately Police operatives in synergy with DSS were dispatched to the scene and the people were invited to the DSS facility where they were interrogated and later two Nigerians mentioned above were transferred to the Police for discrete investigation and possible prosecution while the four Beninois were handed over to the Nigeria Immigration Service, later on, the Nigeria Immigration Service transferred the four suspects to the Police”, the CP said. While advising the general public to be wary of those they transact business with to avoid being defrauded, he assured that all the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution. However, one of the suspects, Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu, said the business is not fraudulent because he registered the business in the Benin Republic and has been doing it over there. POLL He said he brought it to Nigeria for his people to benefit from the networking business adding that he is ready to go to Court to defend himself. According to him, company products such as pieces of jewelry, wristwatches among other genuine products are bought from the company and given to marketers to sell and get their commission.