A former Attorney General of the Federation, Kanu Agabi SAN, has written a petition to the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami SAN, and the Secretary to Government of the Federation calling for non interference with pending proceedings in the appeal filed by a former acting Director General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador M. Dauda. Agabi also presented the letter to the Department of State Service. Dauda is challenging his removal and dismissal. Tax Justice Network Flays Invasion Of CISLAC By DSS Judge Declared Seizure Of Sowore’s Phones By DSS Illegal In the letter dated January 11, copied to the Inspector General of Police and Director General NIA, Agabi stated that Dauda had following his removal from office as the acting Director General and subsequent dismissal from service challenged same action at the National Industrial Court, Abuja. He added that the National Industrial Court on October 15, 2020, adjudged the plaintiff dismissal from office as unlawful and ordered his immediate reinstatement into the service . More so, Agabi said the NIA and its present DG, were not satisfied with the judgement, and thereafter appealed to the Court of Appeal, Abuja division in Appeal No. CA/A/1009/2020. The letter reads in part, ” In prosecution of this appeal, the Appellants filed their brief of argument in response to which our client filed a respondent’s brief. Issues have now been joined in the appeal and same ripe for hearing.“Prior to the determination of the substantive suit at the Industrial Court, the Appellants had earlier appealed against the interlocutory decision of the court refusing to dismiss the case of out client in appeal number CA/A/1037M/2018 and briefs have also been filed and exchanged in respect thereto. “In the circumstance , there are two appeals initiated against out client by the Agency both of which are still pending. As the Honourable Attorney General is well aware that appeal does not stay execution and so the judgement of the Industrial Court is valid and subsisting and all authorities are required by law to give effect to the judgement. There is no application for stay of execution but even if such an application were pending, it would not operate to put our client in a position worse than he was before the delivery of the judgement in his favour. POLL “Despite the two appeals at the instance of the NIA, the Nigerian media space is consistently awash with news reports suggestive of attempts by NIA to compromise the personal liberty of our client on account of this appeals and or matters connected thereto. “Arising from the above, we hereby appeal that the AGF sees to it that the sanctity of the pending judicial process are not compromised by the NIA, acting either by itself or through any of its sister agencies by arresting, attempting to arrest or by whatsoever means compromising the personal liberty of our client on account of these appeals and or matters connected thereto”.