In a matter of days, key labour unions in the country will embark on protests to forestall the withdrawal of subsidy by the Federal Government regardless that these unionists have stated more than once that they are not particularly interested in subsidy. They are, like other Nigerians, willing to let go the translucent regime of subsidy that has enriched legions of parasitic importers of refined products. But the union leaders said they are only willing to accept the exit of subsidy when it becomes sensible to do so. According to them, some conditions such as local refining ability must exist so that Nigerians would not continue to depend on the irrational tradition of importing refined oil despite having four indigenous refineries. It is obvious to all that allowing a new regime of post-subsidy importation of oil will take out half the population of Nigerians, a large part of whom is only a mass of walking corpses at present. In that case, the reasoning of the union leaders is in accord with that of millions of suffering Nigerians who have been wondering why local refineries are still not functioning even though the Federal Government has wasted about $9.5billion on the turnaround maintenance of these companies in the last ten years. Fueling The Anger In The Land! 2023: The Lies And Truth About The “Quarrel” Between Ibori And… If the protests are eventually carried out, it would probably be a gesture to make the government sit up and take another look at the local oil refining companies. I doubt if the government can do anything about the refineries before the end of June, which is the effective take-off time of zero-subsidy. Yet this seems the only way over-priced refined products would not throw the country into deeper hopelessness. One has only to consider the already worrisome state of inflation and the loss of purchasing power necessitated by the consistently flagging Naira to be able to see the disaster waiting to happen. Evidently, the Federal Government has been dreading the very likely outcome of subsidy removal for a long time, which is why it has postponed it time and time again, sometimes claiming it had already effected the removal when it had not. When finally the subsidy is withdrawn, the price of petrol may range between N320 and N340 per litre, going by predictions from government circles. This is alarming and one would like to ask why the Federal Government is embarking on such a precipitous journey with a most indefinable outcome at this time? The price of petroleum products impact on almost everything. We have been told that Nigeria is one of the largest consumers of refined products in Africa (5th as at 2014, behind Egypt, South Africa, Algeria, and Morocco) and accounts for over 7% of Africa’s refined products consumption. In 2015, the refined products consumption was estimated to be about 24 billion litres and products consumed include: Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK) and Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK). The prognosis are dreadful. POLL At this point, one recalls that the Port Harcourt Refinery, one of the four government-owned refining companies, was in the news last year when the Federal Government announced its decision to secure a $1billion loan for its rehabilitation. After the furore that greeted the announcement, the contract to rehabilitate the company was signed on April 6 and technically kicked off on May 6, 2021. Apart from the $1billion loan, the rehabilitation would be partly funded through appropriations and savings from the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), and the entire project is expected to take 44 months from the date of contract award. This means the refinery would be ready in 2023, about a year from now. Shouldn’t the Federal Government extend the subsidy regime to that period when at least this refurbished structure will be up and functional? This suggestion is informed by the fact that there are no evidence that the other refineries would be revived to reduce importation of refined products, yet we do need such local refining before venturing into a zero-subsidy phase. There was an alternative to importation up till February 2016, and that was the crude oil swap deals which entailed exchanging crude oil with refined petroleum products from foreign suppliers. The NNPC gave out part of its 445,000 barrels per day share crude allocation to the trading companies involved in the deal. But this option was thrown out in favour of the Direct-Sale–Direct-Purchase (DSDP) arrangement which took off in March 2016 and was projected to save $1billion for the Federal Government by eliminating all the cost elements of middlemen and give the NNPC the latitude to take control of the sale and purchase of crude oil with its partners. The then Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, who was also the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) explained that the DSDP arrangement was being adopted to ensure transparency in the process. According to him, in the other arrangement, crude oil was exchanged for petroleum products through third party traders at a pre-determined yield pattern which was not in favour of the country. Has Super Eagles’ ‘Fear Factor’ Returned? A Nation And Her Heroes Past We have since gone through full circle. We went into importation of refined products and continued to subsidise the costs in order to keep them affordable and prevent disaster. Now, rather than save $1billion for the country, the Ministry of Finance has assessed the monthly fuel subsidy bill at N150billion, which shows an unsustainable yearly sum of N1.8trillion. Given the porosity in our accounting system, it is obvious that the several interests which dominate the petroleum sector will undermine whatever options are chosen and we will keep moving around the solutions but never getting it, and the masses of the people would be the worse for it. Too many doubtful figures are being rolled out every day and are often contradicted as soon as they are churned out. Perhaps, this was part of what Senate President Ahmad Lawan was trying to express this week when he spoke with State House Correspondents after a meeting with Muhammadu Buhari concerning the impending removal of subsidy. He said: “I know, and I agree that the subsidy is hefty. But I think we must never transfer the burden to the citizens. We need to look at the quoted figure of maybe 100 million litres that people claim we’re consuming. Is it real? I mean, is it either under recoveries or subsidy? Is it 100 million litres per day? How on earth are we consuming that? “We need to look at this critically and see how we can find the truth. This is because I am not convinced that, within the boundaries of Nigeria, we are consuming 100 million litres. Probably neighbouring countries may benefit from this. Can’t we do something about it?” At the end of the day, we are stuck with the option of refining our petroleum for our own good. This eliminates middlemen and shady deals manifest in crude oil swap deals and also minimizes the corrupt practices noted in the importation of refined products. While there are no local refining companies that could be quickly fixed to deliver adequate refined products under these harsh economic conditions, rather than scrounge for reasons to end subsidy, government officials should be thinking of how they can manage the crisis that they would foist on the nation as a result of their insensitive anti-subsidy campaign. Things are hard as they are at present and every reasonable government official should be thinking of how to ameliorate the situation. The National Executive Council (NEC), after its meeting on Thursday, noted that, going by the Petroleum Industry Act, the NNPC has now become a limited liability company, so it has to run differently. This flies in the face of reality. First, the NEC must not discountenance Nigeria’s faulty economic system that enriches 10% of its population at the expense of the 90% owing to the existence of privileges as ridiculous as the adoption of different foreign exchange rates for different groups and individuals. The infinite distortions in economic organization should be balanced by appreciable level of interventions to cushion the impact of capitalism on the masses of the people. The economy was made for man; not man for the economy. So, once again, my suggestion is to let sleeping dogs lie. In other words, the Federal Government should let the present (subsidized) process run on until local production is fully or partially realized. Hopefully, the Port Harcourt Refining Company, currently under rehabilitation, will supply 11 million litres of petrol to the domestic market – about 3.96 billion litres annually. In addition, the 650,000 b/d Dangote Refinery, expected to be Africa’s largest, would most likely also be operational this year. And efforts should be made to retouch other similar facilities in the country for the purpose of improving local production, with all its advantages. The government’s one-sided view that has conditioned them to pass almost every burden to the suffering masses is despicable. It demonstrates lack of creativity or outright insensitivity. Too many burdens have fallen on the masses of the people and there appears to be no end to it – simply because the Nigerian people are eternally striving to make ends meet and running away from trouble. There should be a limit to the wicked stretching of Nigerians by government. It is more annoying when it is realized that government officials don’t ever think of cutting down on their own excess lifestyle because there is a sacrificial goat down there to absorb the burden. They enjoy all the privileges. The people make all the sacrifices. Enough! If the Federal Government is not careful this time, it may have more than it is bargaining for on its hands. If they have no idea how to continue to fund the so-called subsidy, they should strip the Presidency, the entire Executive Council, and the National Assembly of all the luxuries that combine to bloat government spending annually, beginning with the disposal of Muhammadu Buhari’s presidential air fleet for which, in the 2021 budget, the government proposed to spend N12.5 billion. As of October 2016, when the Presidency last made a public inventory of the PAF, it included 10 aircraft, namely one Boeing Business Jet (or Air Force One) 737, one Gulfstream G550, one Gulfstream G500, one Hawker 4000, two Falcon 7X, two AgustaWestland AW139 helicopters, and two AgustaWestland AW101 helicopters. Talk of splendour in a wasteland!