Perhaps, being a pragmatist who having weighed all the odds against the concept of direct primaries for the nomination of candidates for political offices by parties, such as the humongous cost of executing the task, and the risk posed to the lives of potential voters owing to the alarming level of insecurity of lives in the polity, as well as the undemocratic element in the bill that smacks of imposition, amongst other reasons, president Muhammadu Buhari had to demur from appending his signature to the electoral Act amendment bill 2021. It is a document that he has five (5) times sent back to the sender hence l have named it Ogbanje/Abiku. I will elucidate on that aspect later because it is the easy part. The hard part that president Buhari is confronted with is the challenge of convincing majority of Nigerians that his action is altruistic and not hypocritical. But how can what was transmitted from Aso Rock Villa via a memo to the Senate on monday the 21st day of December, 2021 not be hypocrisy and bad news for democracy in the optics of the long suffering Nigerian electorate that have been dying for the day that their votes would start counting? Delta 2023: Between Calculated Risks And Political Suicide Soot And Our Collective Conscience (2) Of course, president Muhammadu Buhari does not share their sentiments hence he withheld his assent of the Electoral Act Amendment bill, 2021 as passed by NASS. That is, perhaps, owed to the fact that in his position as the president and commander- in-chief of the armed forces of Nigeria, he knows what we all do not know, so he has his reasons which he has tried to put across to us. And the justifications are that Direct Primaries is an undemocratic practice as it would be tantamount to an imposition on political parties; it is too expensive-lNEC already has a budget proposal of not less than N305b excluding the cost of direct primaries; and the high level of insecurity, (driven by terrorism) particularly in the entire northern region of our country at this point in time, would disenfranchise folks who may be unable to go out to queue up in the open for direct primaries since it would expose them to potential terrorists attacks etc. As cogent as president Buhari’s reasons appear on the face value, to most Nigerians, the failure to assent to the bill that would allow direct primaries which could have enabled the masses have more say in who governs them, as opposed to the current process of vesting such powers on delegates that are susceptible to manipulation by the governors who appoint them, is simply terrible news that was broken to them on the 21st day of December, of the 21st year in the 21st century. To me, it is certainly a Lost Opportunity for president Buhari to write his name in gold by being the one who moved the process of electioneering in Nigeria a few notches higher than where he met it in 2015 when he assumed power as president. POLL The singular act of signing that bill into law had the capacity to erase all the negative actions and inactions attributed to president Buhari from the first time he served in a political role as governor of northeastern state (1975-76)federal commissioner (minister) of petroleum resources, (1976-78)military head of state(1983-85) , chairman of Petroleum Trust Fund, PTF(1994-99) and his current position as president of the federal republic of Nigeria since 2015. The assertion above is validated by the fact that it is the critical efforts made by his predecessors particularly on the reform of the electoral process, that elevated them to the high esteem in which Nigerians currently hold them. Specifically, worthy of mention is the late president, Umaru Yar’adua (2007-2010) who laid the foundation by setting up the justice Lawal Uwais committee on electoral reforms after he admitted that the process that ushered him into power in 2007 might have been flawed. Credit also goes to his deputy, Goodluck Jonathan who took over from him as president, and implemented some of the Uwais committee’s reformative recommendations which culminated into the electoral law of 2010, that is currently in the process of amendment. Given the narrative above, it behoves of president Buhari to take the electoral process to The Next Level which is the mantra of the ruling party at the center, APC, when it was campaigning for the re-election of president Buhari in 2019. Before dwelling further on the political nitty gritty, let us examine some issues in leadership from the optics of the private sector to see if we can make some extrapolations for the political arena. Ige: 20 Years Without Justice What Qualifies Peseiro To Be Super Eagles Coach? And l would like to commence by posing the question: what are the authentic and altruistic reasons that drive people into aspiring to occupy office (public or private) if not to take the entity higher to the levels beyond the point at which they took over the mantle? As a Chief Executive Officer, CEO, of a bank, oil/gas exploration firm, consumer goods manufacturing company or telecoms outfit, one’s goal is to leave the organisation with a better and bigger balance sheet/profit; production of more barrels of oil/gas at less cost, churning out more fast moving consumer goods to cover larger market size and spread of services to much wider audience leveraging robust network infrastructure to expand into wider markets by onboarding more subscribers to grow the base, even as they push back headwinds propelled by economic, social and political factors. Now, in the world of politicians, what would be the equivalent deliverables? I would assume that it is the provision of the proverbial dividends of democracy. And this entails provision of infrastructure such as, good roads for ease of transportation, abundant and affordable houses to enable more people have roofs over their heads, adequate supply of portable water for sustenance of health and avoidance of water borne diseases, well equipped hospitals for improved public health care and longer life expectancy and finally, high quality educational institutions at all levels for the acquisition and spread of better knowledge in the society, amongst others. And all the outlined dividends of democracy can only be made possible within the frame work of a thriving liberal democracy which can only be obtainable if the democratic space is made more open and transparent. And one of the ways of making the political atmosphere more friendly and less fractious, is through increased citizens participation in the process of choosing their leaders. Which is what direct primaries by political parties for choosing their candidates would engender. Given the dwindling turn out of voters in elections, which using as a barometer, the Anambra state gubernatorial election in November 6, (held barely a month ago) where only about 10% of registered voters turned out to vote, (a clear indicator of the waning interests of the electorate in engaging in the civic responsibility of voting) it would become clearer that public interest in the political process of electioneering needs to be shored up. The experience in Edo state about a year prior to the Anambra state governorship contest that is also not significantly different, simply because it demonstrates that there is a pattern of low voter turnout reflecting apathy by potential, but reluctant voters in Nigeria who are skeptical of the process of elections. And the adoption of direct primaries in the manner that candidates would emerge from within the parties could have given Nigerians the desired shot in the arm that could have spurred more interest in politics. It is a no brainer to identify the culprit for the dwindling number of Nigerians going to the polls as partly the lack of transparency in the electoral process that is mired in violence and therefore off putting to majority of the electorate. It is also the reason that high caliber personalities that abound in our country and would have loved to be candidates in political contests, since they are competent, have been giving politics a wide berth. Now, allow me return to why l have dubbed that piece of legislation causing a ruckus in the polity, Ogbanje/Abiku. The fact that the electoral Act amendment bill is a piece of legislation that has five (5) times been sent back and forth between the legislative and executive arms of government, makes it an Abiku to Yoruba people or Ogbanje in lgbo land. For the benefit of those not familiar with the African mythology, it is about a child born but with a predestination to die each time she is birthed. So tagging the electoral Act amendment bill Ogbanje or Abiku is owed to the fact that NASS has conceived and given birth to the bill and sent it five times to president Buhari who has equally killed it by sending it back to the sender five times. How else can one characterise a process that could have unshackled the political system that is presently defined by opacity, particularly with respect to elections and internal democracy within the political parties, that should have been given a lease of life; instead it has been shot down by the same president for a record five times. So, while the electoral system remains obfuscated, through continued prevarications by the political class under the watch of the current leadership in Aso Rock Villa, less Nigerians would engage in the chore of voting as long as they believe that their votes would not count. That simply implies that democracy would either stand still or recede. That is not a place where our democracy should be especially after 21 years of continuous practice. Hence, l wondered aloud in a previous article published by the cable on January 4, 2016 and subsequently on other mass media platforms with the title: “Are Elections Giving Democracy A Bad Name ln Nigeria?” Permit me to reproduce an excerpt: “Given the unprecedented spate of violence in the 2015 general elections that ushered change of rulership to an opposition political party in Nigeria and the brigandage that eclipsed recent elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states leading to inconclusive governorship elections, all arms of government in Nigeria need to rethink the role of violence viz-a-viz integrity of elections in our fragile democracy. “According to Kofi Annan, former UN scribe, one of the most striking developments of the last quarter of a century is the spread of elections. In his view, “Commonwealth was both a witness and an agent of this remarkable phenomenon. When it adopted the Harare Declaration in 1991, nine of its members were under military or one party rule. By 1999, all had become multiparty democracies”.