I earlier mentioned in my previous articles that if the Super Eagles of Nigeria are able to surpass Egypt in that opening match of January 11, 2022, in Garoua, then, Nigeria was good as having won the Unity Cup in the ongoing AFCON championship games in Cameroon. The Pharaohs are tough, no doubt, but they found the supremacy of football tactics in Coach Eguavoen, who was too hot to handle as the Pharaohs from the land of Egypt succumbed to Nigeria 0-1 in that fight of the Titans. The match that was, indeed, a litmus test for Eguavoen as interim coach for Nigeria was under every doubt if at all, he (“Serezo”) could do the unexpected for victory under the very short period of time he was ap­pointed prior to the fiesta. However, beyond everyone’s expectation and to the amazement of all and sundry, Eguavoen was able to do what Napo­leon couldn’t do with a snap of the finger! Nigeria 1, Egypt 0, at the final blast of the whistle. That singular victory against Egypt was a pointer to the fact that the Eagles have land­ed in Cameroon for real business as their representation so far has been very outstanding. Last week Saturday, the Eagles made good their consolidation in their group by beating the Sudanese team, whether they are called the “Nile Croc­odiles” or “Falcons”, the truth is that the Eagles made mincemeat of them beating the Sudanese 3-1. Sometimes in years gone by in this AFCON, the Sudanese had always been a thorn in the flesh of Nigeria both in quali­fying series and in the tournament proper. No one ever gave Coach Eguavoen a chance of beating the Pharaohs, however, Sudan could have been predicted right or wrong but yours truly knew the Sudanese can pull surprises. The Eagles won against Sudan by three goals but it’s also on record that Sudanese were able to put a goal into the Eagles net, which the Egyptians couldn’t do in their first game! Some elements of surprise there for me, I don’t know about you as the match ended 3-1. Has Super Eagles’ ‘Fear Factor’ Returned? A Nation And Her Heroes Past The Eagles are already taking ev­ery match as it comes; which is the best form of approach in any given competition, if you must go haywire and send fears into any upcoming opponent. Eguavoen and his Eagles have held tight to this superlative formational play pattern. And I urge them to continue, even as they meet Guinea Bissau in their last group game, having romped into the round of sixteen of the Championship as Guinea Bissau games come up in Ga­roua Wednesday with time-shifted to 1900hrs Nigerian time. Guinea Bissau can be touted as the real minnows of this group which had Nigeria, Egypt and Sudan in “D”. No doubt, these Guineans can’t be measured with their compatriots from Malabo, Equatorial Guinea; in terms of football playing, record and achievement. Although, the former has Portuguese beginning while the latter is of Spanish origin; however, both countries have one language in common which is French, aside from their native dialects but in football, we have witnessed more of better repre­sentation and superlative artistry of the game from Guinea Conakry (third Guinea ) with the likes of Skipper Titi Camara, short in height but deadly on the pitch, who spots jersey number 10 in his heydays amongst a host of them from Conakry, which is also a franco­phone nation of West Africa. The Eagles will have an easy ride over this tiny Western African coun­try that has binding borders with Sen­egal, whose football is still in limbo. I have never so underrated any team in this tourney but if the Eagles fail to measure up unlike their first game against Egypt which was a hard nut to crack but eventually came out un­scathed; then, these youthful but en­ergetic Eagles under Eguavoen should also prove a “giant point” by punishing these minnows the way they are, not playing them like an unbeatable team, as I don’t want to reference the previ­ous game between Nigeria and Libe­ria prior to this tournament; which they struggled to draw 2-2 in Morocco under Gernot Rohr. Since much was indeed at stake for Eagles then against Egypt in that opening match and they successfully crushed that hurdle; it’s, therefore, expected also that with the same spirit, Nigeria should size up the men from Bissau, Wednesday for a clinical finish in that last game of the group! If the Eagles are able to come out with a clear-cut victory just like they had Sudan as toads for supper, the journey towards grasping a major medal from the Championship is sure as tomorrow will come. But if they throw away that last chance of cementing their authority over Bis­sau, behold, they will lose all including their respect and potency, which they had gained in all the matches execut­ed so far because Guinea Bissau will be the new yardstick with which the Eagles would be judged in subsequent knock out matches. Beating the Pha­raohs of Egypt was a boost in the open­er, demolishing Sudan was an elixir, so thrashing Bissau will be their latent fighting potential and spirit of a vic­tor; therefore, the Eagles must not fret down that fighting spirit to conquer! This 33rd edition of the AFCON has exposed the unwillingness of most African nations to hire quality coach­es for their various teams. In fact, the qualities of matches exhibited so far in this competition by foreign coaches against their black African counter­parts have really given us exposure to the types of coaches various African football federations go for just to have a white manager in their teams. There has been nothing fantastic about the ones I have seen so far in the games, perhaps they’re yet to unleash their potential, waiting for when the jun­gle gets very critical to handle; my thoughts anyway! POLL In the previous days when African football federations went for foreign coaches, it was usually an excitement to watch out for every team associated with a foreign manager in the AFCON because the native coaches were so relegated for their foreign partners. Countries like Guinea, Nigeria, Ken­ya, Cameroon, Egypt, Mali, Zambia, Senegal, Ghana, etal, with acclaimed foreign coaches like Bruno Metsu (late), Claude Le Roy, ( White Wizard ) Clemens Westerhof, Bonfrere Jo, Phil­ip Troussier, the (White witch doctor ); Winfred Schafer; Harve Renard, these coaches were fantastic and had indeli­ble stories of success with the AFCON for African countries and many more I can’t readily recount in their days as I write this column. No doubt, these coaches did add glamour, flavour and candour to the African tourney and it was a beauty to behold with good football artistry. I will also not fail to mention our own dear Coach Stephen Okechukwu Keshi, though, late but was able to coach Togo and in the AFCON and also qualified that francophone country for its ever first world cup. Indeed, Skipper Keshi was a foreign coach par excellence in Togo. And of course, Coach Christian ‘Chairman’ Chukwu was also in that category when he coached the Haram­bee Stars of Kenya; however, his leg­acy in Nairobi will be left for history to recount. Today, African nations are taking the bulls by their horns, using their local coaches for their national teams. But whether they have confidence in these indigenous coaches or probably for the lack of funds to hire quality foreign coaches is another ball game. However, the reality has come into focus with this AFCON as the events continue to unfold with the potential of both the foreign and local coaches on the pitch. Nigeria, for one, has be­come a major focus as Coach Augus­tine Eguavoen has taken everyone in awe in this Championship; giving Africa and indeed the world of football with the surprising impression that a “black coach”, if given all the neces­sary enablement can do better like his foreign counterparts from Europe and America. The veracity in all of this is that can the indigenous coaches sustain the consistency of their winning streak in whichever form after a particular tournament? It’s only a few coaches in Africa that have attained that height some decades back. This is because they tend to fizzle away and be carried above board with the euphoria of such particular victory or achievement. This is the bane of the typical Af­rican coach; the reason they don’t go far in their coaching career. However, they lacked the spirit of a continuous induction of the game as expected of what contemporary football entails. I am waiting for Eguavoen to prove me right or wrong as this piece was writ­ten before Wednesday’s match. The Real Reason Buhari Vetoed Electoral Act Amendment Bill (3) COVID-19: Pushing For Economic Growth, National Development… Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria!