One of the foremost Abia philanthropist and the founder of Ncheta Omerekpe Foundation, Chief Ncheta Elvis Omerekpe has formally declared his intention to run for Abia gubernatorial race in 2023 general elections under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He made the declaration at the January 8, 2022 at his country home, Umuakwu Nsulu, Isiala Ngwa North LGA during a stakeholders meeting of Isiala Ngwa North PDP called on his behalf. Reacting, various Speakers which include;- Rt. Hon. Christopher Enweremadu, Hon. Ginger Onwusibe, Hon. Sam Esindu, lBig Nwosu, Hon. Friday Onukwue, Hon. Fidelis Nwachukwu, Hon. James Omengboji described Chief Ncheta Omerekpe’s aspiration as timely, stressing that he is eminently qualified to throw his hat into the ring and urged him to carry along the PDP Isiala Ngwa North stakeholders and party members in his quest. Delta 2023 Governorship: We Will Not Oppose The Choice Of DC-23… City’s Sanitation: Aliyu Mobilizes Service Providers Back… Dignitaries that attended the declaration are amongst others :- Rt. Hon. Chris Enweremadu, Hon. Ginger Onwusibe, Hon. Uzoma Ihuka, Hon. Chinwe Ochulor, Chief Okey Ahaiwe, Hon. Chimezie Okoronkwo , Hon. Chamberlain Onyelowe, Chief Augustine Ezegbulam, Hon. Chinedu Ugoala, Barr. Guy Okite, Dr. John Chimezie, Hon. Chimezie Okoronkwo, Chief ( Mrs) Charity Ngumoha, Chief Uzoma Onwuka, Chief Mrs. Elizabeth Emeh, Hon. G. O. Iwuoha, Barr. Omenihu Nwogwugwu, Chief Gaius Anyanwu, Hon. Chimaobi Alozu, Hon. Sam Nwachukwu, Chief Nwokonko, Chief Ugo Nwangwa, Mrs.Uchechi Ikonne, etc Recall that the Ngwa born billionaire and international business mogul has the following conglomerate; Omench Konsot Limited, Ncheta Global Resources Limited, Ncheta Farms Limited, The Omench American Hospital Limited all Fully registered and operational in Nigeria as Limited Liability companies. Omerekpe holds a Bachelor of Arts (History/International Relations), Bachelor of Science (Project Management), London School of Economics Certificate Holder, Certified Council Member of Chartered Institute of Project Managers, Consultant to the Nigerian Senate Committee on Budget and a multiple award winner for his various contributions to youth development. NCHETA has successfully chaired the Boards of all the companies that make up the Ncheta Group and seen them grow into multi-billion concerns that has employed and empowered a lot of people, thereby contributing to the reduction of unemployment in Nigeria. He has severally mentored and developed young Nigerians interested in becoming entrepreneurs and has made tremendous impact in the nation’s budgeting through his involvement with the Senate Committee on Budget. POLL Ncheta Omerekpe represents fresh air in Abia politics as he has not held any elected political position in Abia before now. However, never in this history of Abia state has one young man done so much for his people and quiet and calm about his lofty achievements. For 16 – years, Ncheta has done a lot to humanity until three years ago, when he was encouraged to set up a Foundation to become a rallying point for his humanitarian activities, which includes:-