MAKURDI – The Benue state government has reprimanded the OchetohaK’Idoma, the Idoma socio-cultural organisation for sowing seeds of discord among the Idoma people. The Commissioner Covering Ministry for Information, Culture and Tourism, Chief Ekpe Ogbu who stated this at a press conference in Makurdi on Tuesday noted that instead of promoting unity among the Idomas, OchetohaK’Idoma was causing disharmony among the Idoma people. He stated that it was surprising that a body like OchetohaK’Idoma, which prides itself with being the champion of development of the Idoma kingdom would deliberately fan embers of discord among its people. Ugwuanyi Mourns Anthony Obi FCT State Minister Orders Clean Up Of Abuja Satellite Towns According to him, “As the leader of the committee that conducted the election, I hereby reaffirm the credibility, transparency, fairness and strict adherence to due process and the provisions of the Benue State Chieftaincy Law 2016 throughout the process of the election that produced the Och’Idoma Elect. “At the end of the counting of votes, Dr. John Elaigwu Odogbo scored 19 votes to emerge the Och’Idoma elect while his closest rival, Arch. Sunny Echono scored 8 votes, with Chief Andrew Idakpo taking the rear with a distant 1 vote. “I have received congratulatory messages from well-meaning people of Idoma kingdom for conducting a peaceful and transparent election that has brought forth the paramount ruler elect. “Given this background, you can therefore appreciate the disbelief and shock with which I read the press statement by the Ochetoha K’Idoma raising wide allegations and describing the election in very uncomplimentary terms. “It is rather unfortunate that a seemingly respectable organisation like Ochetoha K’Idoma would come out with a statement disparaging a process adjudged to be fair and transparent, yet failed to point at specific instances of misnomer. POLL “As an Idoma son myself, I would have thought that every indigene of Idoma kingdom would now be thinking of what to do to build on the successful and peaceful emergence of our new Agabaidu to further advance the cause of the kingdom. “The question we need to ask is: why is Ochetoha K’Idoma throwing up these baseless allegations capable of generating bad blood and enmity among the same people they claim to be representing? Whose interest is the organisation actually out to protect and project? Is Ochetoha K’Idoma actually acting as an umbrella for every Idoma person? “It is therefore surprising that a body which prides itself with being the champion of development of the area would choose to deliberately sow the seed of discord and disharmony among the people.” Ogbu also pointed out that “Leadership at all levels must be sincere and fair at all times. We encourage the leadership of Ochetoha K’Idoma to equally show that it is truly committed to the stated objectives of the association and stand for all Idoma children irrespective of their place of birth or status in society. “They should support the state government in promoting peace, brotherliness, fairness, equity and justice; they should desist from hiding under the umbrella of the socio-cultural group to fight for personal interests at the expense of the larger population they claim to represent. Buhari Mourns Rear Admiral Ishaya Ibrahim, Brig-Gen Sabo Too Shina Peller Lights Up Constituency “They should be impartial and protective of all the candidates in the race. Is it not surprising that none of the candidates who went into the selection has raised any objection, yet Ochetoha K’Idoma which was not a candidate is raising unjustifiable dust? “Could the allegation in some quarters, that Ochetoha K’Idoma actually had a preferred candidate and that their anger over the defeat of their candidate is what is pushing them on this undignified path they have chosen, be true? Could the allegation that if their preferred candidate had won, they would have clapped their hands and applauded the exercise, be true?”, he asked rhetorically.