Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), said it intercepted two separate parcels of cannabis indica otherwise known as Colorado, imported into Nigeria through Lagos seaports. The Agency disclosed this in a statement signed by its Director, Media and Advocacy, Mr Femi Babafemi, and made available to Daily Independent. It said that moves by illicit drug merchants to bring into Nigeria 94 parcels of cannabis indica (Colorado), weighing 43.4kg, through the Tin Can seaport in Lagos, were crushed on January 13th. COVID-19: Maritime Union Threatens Industrial Action Over… ISO: LADOL Maintains Lead In Compliance, Retains Certification “When operatives intercepted the drug inside a 40ft container from Canada; the exhibit was concealed inside a Toyota Camry car. “This came on the heels of a similar seizure on Jan. 11th of 59 parcels of Colorado (17.3kg) concealed in a Mercedes Benz vehicle imported from Canada, ” he said. Also it added that, NDLEA operatives said it frustrated an attempt by drug traffickers to export 73 parcels of cannabis (34.05kg) concealed in foodstuff plastic containers to the United Kingdom. This was through the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO), export shed at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, (MMIA), Ikeja Lagos on Jan. 8th Babafemi said that the operatives also intercepted another 50 parcels of cannabis consignment (27.25kg) meant for the United States, at the export shed of the airport on Tuesday Jan. 11th. POLL He said that at least three suspects have so far been arrested in connection with airport seizure. Recalled that recently, the Apapa Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), disclosed that in line with the provision of extant circulars; trade guidelines and enforcement of government fiscal policy measures, the command further strengthened its anti-smuggling operations against economic saboteurs, adding that through credible intelligence- driven operations and continuous partnering with other relevant agencies for effective port management, the command made a total of 103 seizures with Duty Paid Value(DPV), of N31,227,431,225.00. Among the seized goods was a large quantity of cocaine in a vessels laden with sugar. “Worthy of mention here is the seizure of 46.55 kg of cocaine concealed on vessels MV Karteria and MV Chayanee Naree laden with raw sugar.” Recalled that in July 2019, the Apapa Area Command of NCS intercepted an ambulance loaded with pilfered ten cartons of 225mg tramadol drugs being taken out of Apapa port complex. Shippers’ Council Wants Economic Regulatory Functions Backed By… Merchant Navy Union Laments Harassment, Extortion Of Seafarers… The ambulance driver and a dockworker were arrested alongside the vehicle and content, while trying to smuggle the drugs out of the port complex. Former Customs Area Controller of the Command, Mohammed Abba-Kura, said the tramadol tablets valued at N2.8 million and were concealed inside an ambulance belonging to Medbury Medical Services. In the same vein, the NCS, Area ll Command Onne, Port in Rivers State, in May 2021, uncovered 1387 cartons of prohibited Tramadol tablets with Duty Paid Value (DPV)of N3,719,983,463 concealed with 1000 cartons of ceramic tiles. According to Ifeoma Onuigbo, Customs Public Relations Officer, the command also seized the tiles with DPV of N10,743,325 used in concealing the illicit drug Auwal Mohammed , Customs Area Controller (CAC) of the Command, who showed the seizure to newsmen in Onne said it was found in 1x40ft container no: MRKU0764717 that was picked as a result of intelligent gathering from international security network; and transferred to the Government Warehouse for 100% physical examination. “We are always ready to conduct 100 percent examination. We will not be pushed to do anything in a hurry as the clearance procedure is well explained. “Hundred percent examinations is one of the key aspects of the clearance procedure in Nigeria. Therefore, all importers should know that making unclear or false electronic declaration does not mean they will have an easy way out with their consignment. “Every container that arrive Onne Port must be subjected to 100 percent examination after relevant duties and charges have been paid and necessary procedures followed. But no compromise to examination and all cargoes must be examined. And this is one of the results you are seeing here. “Ordinarily, you can see that the same carton used to package the ceramic tiles is what was used to package the tramadol 120mg capsules. “So if you are just doing ordinary surface examination, you will assume that the whole container is laden with ceramic tiles.”