There is no doubt that majority of Nigerians really wanted an elec­toral law that would promote and facilitate free and fair election, banish the demons of election manipu­lations and the prevalent primitive rig­ging mentality from out electoral process thereby leading the country unto the path of credible elections within a substantive framework of electoral justice. A function­al electoral process does not only produce the requisite legitimacy in our elections, but it also reinforces the entire democrat­ic system because a broken electoral sys­tem cannot sustain a democracy or enable a peaceful, stable and prosperous society. The checkered odyssey of the proposed amendment to the Electoral Act which has seen it travelling back and forth between the Presidency and the National Assem­bly several times repeatedly is only an indication that Nigerian politicians are well aware of the fact that these changes, one way or the other, will go a long way in changing the direction of our democracy either for good or for bad. As expected, being anti-democratic hustlers, they chose the path that only leads to electoral injus­tice and political schisms, hence the she­nanigans that have played out abundantly with the Electoral Act. At the end of the day, what would even­tually receive the President’s accent will be an Electoral Act that has been infest­ed with certain textual provisions what would ultimately be deployed to nullify all the gains expected by those who had sought for positive electoral reforms thereby making the whole legislative amendment efforts exercises in futility that are devoid of any democratic values as far as our electoral jurisprudence is concerned. Novak Djokovic’s Unforced Error Results Don’t Lie! With Mr. President meekly conceding to the objection to the recommended mandatory direct primaries as most Ni­gerians had hoped for, we now have the dubious options of direct primaries or indirect primaries which could, in prac­tical terms, be any procedural preference calculated to undermine the essence of electoral democracy where the people ought to be deciding who rules them in­stead of godfathers, state-capturers and a variety of conspiratorial consensus of convenience that are fashioned purposely to undermine basic electoral democratic ethos which mandates one man, one vote. Nigerians have hoped that President Muhammadu Buhari, following his oft-repeated vows not to interfere with the nation’s electoral process in ways that undermines election integrity will not fall for the shenanigans of his fellow anti-democratic politicians whose stock-in-trade is the inordinate desire to grab power without legitimate electoral sup­port at the polls. Alas! That was not to be as he denied the Bill his accent by citing the very reason people wanted him to sign the document as the reason for his refusal. What a variance of perception between a President and his nation? So, it is a sad day for democracy when those who are currently enjoying the dem­ocratic prerogatives to make decisions on behalf of the polity chose to go the way of the obnoxious indirect primaries and the more crooked option of “consensus” which is actually another way of describ­ing a suffocating oligarchic process which is the very opposite of what democracy stands for: majority rule. The expected amended Electoral Act will not deliver true democracy to Nigeria but fester an environment in which godfathers, mon­eybags and state-capturing syndicates would criminally secure a stranglehold on our democracy which itself is a recipe for disasters as far as self-determination is concerned. Those who make it impos­sible for democracy to thrive make it easy for dictatorship and other aberrational tendencies like coups, civil unrests and general insecurity to thrive. Ordinarily, “elections under a democra­cy are conducted with a view to electing leaders that would best carryout whatever the electorate requires for reasons of good governance. The expectation is always that through such a selection process, it is possible to bring forth the most suitable candidates with the requisite leadership qualities. Unfortunately, the process has in practice been routinely contaminated by fraud and injustice and, in the words of Dennis F. Thompson, in his book, Just Elections (2002), “electoral justice is a spe­cies of procedural justice” and, vice versa, as you cannot have true representative government without electoral fairness”. “The outcome of an election is most likely to be regarded as legitimate if the procedures adopted in selecting the can­didate presented for elections by the party reflects the actual choice of the voters that they seek to represent. If the procedures are “fair” and “just,” then, we can say there is electoral justice but whenever it is corrupted, then there is a problem. POLL “The principles of electoral justice rest on the fundamental idea that the demo­cratic process should regard citizens as free and equal persons. This idea express­es a conception of persons as political agents who have the capacity to exercise control over their lives and also have the need to cooperate with others to accom­plish their individual and collective goals. As independent agents capable of reason, they must find a basis for cooperation – including a method of choosing leaders – that can be justified to each voter as free and equal persons, namely, legitimate. “Since the return of democracy in 1999, there have been debates about the best way to conduct party primaries. In some absurd instances, the right to pick candidates by party electors were undem­ocratically ceded to powerful individuals, the type that we explained in our last week’s essay on “State Capture” as po­litical predators and election entrepre­neurs with undemocratic motives. Under this arrangement, the primaries become shams and farcical processes because the choice of candidates have already been arbitrarily made by anti-democratic par­ty chieftains”. As we are once more stuck in the miry clay of partisan politics typified by and intra-party shenanigans, with every offi­cial and private action being indiscrim­inately subjected to the murky taint of party politics, it is a suitable time to ask ourselves the simple question: how pre­pared are we for truly credible elections that are conducted with decent demo­cratic attitude?” The first thing to do is to have a law in place that encourages transparency, simplicity and credibility in the system. To discredit direct primaries option as anti-democratic, what Nigerian politi­cians have just done is simply laying the foundation of future unbridled cheating as well as brazen election manipulations at scales that would render the most con­scientious umpire practically impotent even when there are fouls in plain view because the new electoral law permits them. So, for those hoping for electoral improvements, it is not yet uhuru. By way of analogy, direct primaries could be the Video Assistant Referees (VAR) of party primaries as it has the capacity to effectively eliminate the problems of imposition of unpopular candidates over genuinely popular ones through institu­tional manipulations and God-fatherism.” For the contestants, it would provide ev­eryone with a level and transparent play­ing field. It is sad that after all that has been said about improving the nation’s elec­toral process what we are getting from the so-called amendment is the issuance of statutorily license for election rigging even before the first ballot is cast. Impos­ing the wrong candidates on the voters is the bane of democracy in Nigeria be­cause it practically presents them with a catch-22 option, a double-pronged dis­ability: first they would have to vote for someone who they do not know as their “candidate” then they would have to ac­cept such an imposed person as their rep­resentatives, two serious calamities with­in a single stroke of electoral injustice. If that is one of Buhari’s touted legacies, it definitely ends up being a minus and a serious disservice to democracy. Nigeria deserves something better than what is being dumped on her as the electoral law of the land because it will only promote lawlessness. Pay attention.