LAGOS – Christians in urban areas have been charged not to be carried away by cosy worship environments, but strive to serve God in truth. Leke Alder, Founder and Principal of Alder Consulting, who gave the charge in a post on his social media handle, said cosy worship environments are not bad, but Christians should press on to be deeply rooted in and dedicated to Christ. He cited the condition of churches in rural areas, especially where the worshippers do not have access to air-conditioned halls, musical instruments, but are exposed to harsh weather conditions and religious intolerance, yet show commitment in their worship. Soul Winning Is A Great Task (II) PFN President, Odesola, For INL Thanksgiving Alder said unlike the rural dwellers, some city Christians were not ready to bear any form of inconvenience while in church or for the sake of the gospel, as they complained about the air-conditioning even when it was only one degree hotter. He emphasised that Christians should bear in mind that God would reward everyone according to his or her works. His post reads: “You might be forgiven for believing that big city churches epitomise Christianity. What with the 100-man choirs, the calibrated cacophony of musical instruments, the operational flair of the car park attendants, the dexterity of the ushering department, the energetic fervour of congregants, and of course, the exegesis of the preacher as he articulates oracularity. “Let the reader, worrying that all this seems like entertainment, be reminded that in the presence of the Lord, there’s fullness of joy. As David taught us, church service is not a dirge. “But, the more inland you go, the more tempered churches become. I served in the youth corps in Bauchi State. Those who know Bauchi can attest to the intemperate hostility and bellicosity of her weather. In a desperate bid at radical air-conditioning youth corps members poured buckets of cold water on their mattresses at midnight. POLL “I went inland to visit my cousin, a fellow youth corps member in a town called Biliri, or was it Tangalewaja? There on a Sunday, a pastor was labouring away at the word of God. No microphone, no loud speaker, no jazz set, no chairs, just park benches, and certainly no 100-man choir. The church barely numbered 20. You must be deeply committed to God to volunteer for service in such extreme conditions. And there was the issue of tolerance of the Christian faith.” He continued: “As a young lawyer youth corps member, I had to defend a preacher in court. He was charged with disturbing the peace for preaching the gospel in a public square on a Friday. The assailants who beat the living daylights out of him, were never charged. How do you begin to compare the dedication of such men to that of those of us in air-conditioned auditoriums? Now, that is not to say city churches should be condemned. There are different cultural tribes and city churches reach metrosexuals, the culturati and metropolitans. “We shall all receive our reward for the work we have done. God will pay each man according to his work. But, can we please stop complaining about the air-conditioning? Especially when it’s only one degree hotter. Paul would be wandering in heaven.”