JOS – The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Plateau State, Hon. Rufus Bature has charged the 17 elected executive Chairmen of Local Government Councils on the need to work closely with party Chairmen in the local government areas in order to enable the party to realise its objectives. The Chairman gave the charge while addressing a joint meeting of the Local Government Chairmen and party Chairmen with members of the State Working Committee of the party at the Ewarewah party Secretariat in Jos on Wednesday. According to Bature, as custodians of the party at the grassroots, there is a serious need for them to work closely to enable the party to provide democracy dividends to the people and to enable it to emerge victorious in subsequent elections, especially the 2023 general elections. Faparusi Picks Nomination Form In Abuja, Vows To Win Ekiti For… APC Records Landmark Reconciliation As Inuwa, Goje Settle Feud The Plateau APC state Chairman said the party must work hard at all levels to install an APC government in 2023, thus breaking the jinx of the outgoing government not installing its successor. Bature observed that the forthcoming bye-elections in the Jos North/ Bassa federal constituency and Pankshin South state constituency are going to be a test case for the party and an indicator of how it is going to fare in subsequent elections. He assured that the party is not going to impose any candidate on the people but would allow the best candidate to emerge through a transparent process. He revealed that the party which beliefs in dialogue and peaceful resolution of disputes would soon embark on a tour of the 17 Local Government Areas to address all grey areas, especially to assuage the grievances arising from the last local government primaries and party congresses. He urged the local government Chairmen to embark on projects which have bearing on the people and not to embark on new projects as a means of providing party patronages. POLL Responding on behalf of the Chairmen, the Acting ALGON Chairman and Executive Chairman of Wase Local Government Council, Dr Buba Ardo commended the Chairman for convening the meeting which he said is coming barely thirteen months to the 2023 general elections which he said is a must-win for the APC at all levels in the state. He assured the party on behalf of his colleagues of their maximum support and cooperation. He also emphasised the need for local government chairmen and party chairmen to work as a team in order to move the party forward. Dr Buba Ardo stressed the importance of the grassroots approach as a means of strengthening the party machinery. He said to achieve this, all elected and government appointees need to go to the grassroots to mobilise support for the party to ensure victory in the forthcoming elections. Insecurity: Buhari Comfortable With Killings In The Land, Ayu… 2023 Presidential Race: No Preferred Candidate, Says Buhari The Acting ALGON Chairman congratulated the state party exco on their well-deserved election to various posts and assured them of the readiness of the Local Government Chairmen to work with the party at all times. Other speakers at the meeting which was held behind closed doors, harped on the need for collaboration, unity and reconciliation of all aggrieved members of the party as a means of clearing the course for future electoral victory.