***Pledge Their Support Jos – Ahead of the 2023 governorship election, Bigwigs of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Plateau State have called on Sunday Garba Biggs, Permanent Secretary Government House Jos to come out and contest the 2023 Governorship Race in Plateau state. The Plateau APC big wiggs said they have decided to throw their weight behind him should in case, he decides to run. Gov Emmanuel Wants Former Aspirants To Support Ekiti PDP… 2023: Fayemi’s Wife Denies Senatorial Ambition Speaking on behalf of the APC chieftains in Jos the Plateau State capital on Friday, Saleh Mandung Zazzaga, told newsmen that they have met at different levels and have deliberated on whom to endorse, and eventually arrived at Sunday Biggs because of his clear-cut qualification, personality, ability and understanding of the state inside-out. Zazzagaa said even though Biggs has not indicated interest to contest, they as APC Bigwigs have seen the quality he posses and that is why they are calling on him to run. He added that they will provide the necessary enabling environment for him to succeed in this direction. “Sunday Biggs is just the man for the 2023 governorship seat because he possess the right quality and know-how. He is quiet and calculative, a team player and the man of the people. His loyalty and love for Plateau is evident at all times. “Besides, he has charisma and he understand the dynamics of Plateau like no one else. This is not only due to his vast knowledge of the state but because he has served under three governors from the three senatorial zones of the state in different capacity. POLL “Biggs was the Senior Protocol Officer during Governor Joshua Dariye’s regime and then the Director of Protocol to Governor Jonah Jang. And currently he is a permanent Secretary in Pateau State Government House. Undoubtedly therefore, he understand the administration of the state like the back of his hand,” he said. The APC chieftain said Biggs’s academic background also stand him in good position to run the affairs of the state, saying that as someone with Masters degree in Sociology, he understands the philosophy of governance, the psychology of the people and the nitty-gritty of good administration. He called on the party leaders to throw their weight behind Biggs as they push for his acceptance of their call for him to run for the governorship seat. According to Zazzagaa, he has also interacted with members of other political parties and people in different quarters and they have equally said good things about Biggs, adding that anyone who is in doubt of Bigg’s personality can make their individual/independent findings. With someone like Biggs, he added, the good works of the past administrations, including the developmental strides of the current administration of Governor Simon Lalong who be followed.