LAGOS – To advance the commitment to the growth and development of youths, MAC Bickersteth, Leadway Assurance, KPMG, and Andersen have awarded 10 students with a full tertiary education grant. The University scholarship programme was awarded under the Seyi Bickersteth Scholarship Programme (SPSP) 2021. The Seyi Bickersteth Scholarship Programme is in honour of Late Seyi Bickersteth, who was the past National Senior Partner, KPMG and Chairman, KPMG Africa; Board Member, Leadway Assurance; and Chairman, Andersen Africa. GCI’  89 Set Plans Seasonal Theatre Performances School Resumption: Dowen College To Remain Shut Lagos State The scholarship programme is targeted at indigent individuals studying Economics, Accounting, Finance, Actuarial Science, Insurance or Business Administration. Each beneficiary will receive the sum of Four hundred thousand Naira (N400,000.00) annually for four (4) years of their tertiary education. The inaugural award presentation ceremony took place at KPMG Tower in Lagos recently with the executives and representatives of the organisations presenting the scholarship grant to the beneficiaries. In addition to the annual scholarship grant, the beneficiaries will also receive summer internship opportunities and be part of a mentorship programme. The Awardees would also be eligible to work at any of the three firms (KPMG, Leadway Assurance or Andersen) should they graduate with First-Class or Second-Class Upper honours. Speaking at the ceremony, the wife of the Late Seyi Bickersteth and Trustee of the SBSP, Mrs. Catherine Bickersteth, said the scholarship programme aligns with the family’s tradition of offering scholarships to deserving individuals.She emphasised the profound value of giving back, which Late Seyi Bickersteth had benefitted from and hence validates this commitment to advancing holistic education for indigent youths. POLL “The Seyi Bickersteth Scholarship Programme identifies intellect, passion and leadership traits in students with financial challenges, just like Seyi had these challenges several years ago before the Federal government stepped in.”Chairman, Leadway Holdings, Mr. Oye Hassan-Odukale, congratulated the awardees and encouraged them “to embody, reflect and replicate the same high-performance spirit, talent and values, Seyi had and even more. National Senior Partner KPMG, Nigeria and Chairman, KPMG Africa, Mr. Kunle Elebute, said, “The Seyi Bickersteth Scholarship Programme is an extension of a vision and a gift that keeps on giving, which is Seyi. With this scholarship programme, we believe the excellence and commitment Seyi had towards personal growth and development will continually find tangible expressions”. Co-Regional Managing Partner, Andersen Africa, Mr Leye Adebiyi, appreciated the partners and congratulated the awardees for being exceptional by raising the standard of excellence at the inaugural scholarship programme, as well as celebrated the parents and guardians for supporting these young stars. The 10 beneficiaries of this year’s scholarship programme were selected from public secondary schools, having gained admission into leading universities in the country such as the University of Lagos, University of Uyo, and University of Ibadan and University of Port Harcourt. Late Seyi Bickersteth served as a Senior Partner of KPMG in Nigeria from 2002 to 2016 and Chairman, KPMG Africa, from 2014 to 2016. Upon retirement, he served on the boards of blue-chip companies, including Leadway Assurance and was also the Regional Managing Partner and Chairman of Andersen Africa.