Former Commissioner and State Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP), Mrs Funmilayo Ogun has lost her father, Late Akinola Ajayi was born on the 5th May 1939 to the family of PA Owel Ajayi and Madam Maria Oni of Inisan family of Ilere quarters orin Ekiti. In Ido/Osi Local Government area of Ekiti State. A statement  from a member of the deceased family  Paul Tope Ajayi said Akinola Ajayi died on December 26,2021. Says Ortom Had No Hand In Selection Of Ochi’Idoma -CPS 2023: APC Working On One Lie That Will Return PDP To Power… The deceased was a devout Catholic and member of several societies in the church and until his death  was the Balogun Ijo of St John’s Catholic Orin Ekiti. The statement  said  late Ajayi was one of the pioneer owners of Private Clinic and Maternity homes in Ekiti State. So many lives were touched and revived by his benevolence and kind hearted nature. He  was also the Chairman Governing Council of Ajayi Polytechnic Ikere Ekiti and initiated into the ancient and Noble Order of Knight of St John International, in 1985. Late Ajayyi was the 1st Vice President of Lagos Grand Commandary and  was the 1st Vice President Supreme Subordinate from the southwest. With gratitude to God for a life  well spent, we announce the passing unto Glory of our Father, Husband , Grandfather ,  brother and  friend. Sir(Brigadier General) Chief Michael Akinola Ajayi(Ibukun Olu) who was called unto glory on 26th December 2021. POLL The deceased was  blessed with 6 children namely.amongst who are Paul Tope Ajayi(Microbiologist and presently a Director with Ekiti State Government), Mrs Funmi Ogun ( Geologist and a former Ekiti State commissioner for works and transportation and presently Ekiti State PDP Secretary. Others are : Dr Busayo Ajayi (UK trained PhD in Entrepreneurship, a Visionery and founder of Ajayi Polytechnic Ado Ekiti). He is based in the UK.and Dupe Ojedeji ( English/French graduate and UK trained Nurse). She is based in the UK, Mayowa Aremu (Business Administration graduate and a Banker).and Bukola Falana (Social Studies Education graduate, Proprietor of a Private Nursery and Primary School and executive member of  NAPPS Ekiti State.