The Federal Government has since the completion and handover of the Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Kontagora-Makera Roads, on 25, November, 2021, appears to commence a new policy direction in the area of road construction projects. Babatunde Fashola, Minister, federal Ministry of Works and Housing during the defence of his ministry’s budget at the House in October last year signaled the new policy direction, when he stated that the country needs to place an embargo on new projects; rather, efforts should be placed on completing the existing projects. Stating, “The focus of the 2022 budget was on completion of some priority road projects, especially those on route A1-A9, which leads to the ports and major agricultural hubs attracting vehicles carrying heavy goods in the zones.” Govt, Crisis Of Articulated Vehicles In Nigeria FG Seeks More Participation In Tax Credit Scheme For Road… Responding to questions from the lawmakers, Babatunde Fashola assured that the Lagos/Ibadan expressway and the Second Niger Bridge will be completed in 2022. He said: “The Lagos/Ibadan express road is scheduled for completion in 2022. At the moment, we have done cumulatively about 90 kilometers in sections one and two. “For the second Niger Bridge, the plan is to complete it in 2022 and it is on schedule. The contractors tell us that the bridges will be fully connected by the end of quarter one in 2022. The Minister also explained why 21 key roads across the six geopolitical zones were selected for completion by the NNPC in the current year under the Credit Tax scheme, stressing that funds already budgeted for such roads in the budget will be retained in the various zones and used to complete other roads, but solicited for improved funding for road development from annual budgetary provisions in order to aid the completion of other critical on-going projects. He explained further that the government would however require about N7.430 trillion to fund about other 854 ongoing highway contracts spread across the six geopolitical zones expected to be financed through the Presidential Infrastructure Fund, Road Infrastructure Development and Refurbishment Investment Tax Credit Scheme, the Sovereign Sukuk Fund, Multilateral Loans among others. POLL Earlier in September last year the Federal Government gave the 2022 deadline for the completion of the Lagos- Abeokuta Expressway in order to ameliorate sufferings on the highway. The declaration was made Wale Adebote, Lagos State Project Coordinator, on behalf of Engineer Kayode Popoola, Federal Controller, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Lagos, while inspecting the level of work on the expressway. In line with Fashola’s recommendation at the House, the Federal Government has since the commissioning and handover of the Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Kontagora-Makera Roads in Sokoto And Kebbi States, held on 25, November, 2021, gone ahead to fulfill its ‘season of completion’ campaign with the completion and handing over of other road projects enumerated below across the six geo-political regions. Fahola at the commissioning of the Sokoto-Makera road, said: “My principal message to you all is that this is the first of many more project completion and handovers our country will experience in the next few weeks and months as we enter what l call a season of completion and impact.” He stressed further that in this phase of completion Mr. President has approved that Ministers from the various States where projects have been completed should represent him to perform the handover formalities. Traffic Chaos Resumes As Ota Tollgate Is Partially Opened To… DSAN Advocates Increase In Road Safety Training In Schools Expressing that these projects represent major investment in road Transport infrastructure, which is a commitment of the Buhari administration as a driver for economic growth and prosperity. They are visible and incontrovertible Assets in proof of what Nigeria’s resources are invested in, from a combination of our earned resources, and borrowings. Abubakar Malami, SAN, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari, also corroborated the assertion of the Minister of Works and Housing by stating, “I can confidently say that as we enter the final lap of the tenure of the Buhari administration we are also entering a season of completion and delivery of projects. “As you can all see, we are handing over today the 155 Kilometres Road, which are Phases I&II (Sokoto-Tambuwal – Jega) of the Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Kontagora – Makera Road”. He added that the road is also a story of the capacity of Nigerians who were employed directly to build the road, the scores of suppliers who indirectly were responsible for providing the machines utilised in the construction are not only nation builders, but they are the heart of the Nigerian economy, the micro, small and medium enterprises that drive our economic growth, adding that the road is also a statement of economic efficiency and ease of doing business. The Vandeikya-Obudu Cattle Ranch Road (Phases I and II) in Benue State, by Senator George Akume, Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, who represented President Buhari at the occasion of the official flag-off, said: “The roads being turned out by his administration represented the story of the capacity of Nigerians, employed both directly and indirectly, as not only nation builders but also the heart of the economy, as represented by the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, which he described as ‘drivers of our economy’, who were responsible for the supply of the various materials and equipment for the construction of the roads. December 2, 2021` was the was the commissioning of the Nnewe – Oduma – Uburu road covering 26.27 kilometres with 14 kilometres spur to Ishiagu connecting Enugu and Ebonyi states, by Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu the Minister of Science, Innovation and Technology, of Jubilation, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari, made a passionate appeal to road users to desist from acts such as overloading of vehicles and trucks, spilling of petroleum products on the roads and conversion of road shoulders to Permanent parking places which could damage the road. “We must all do our best to avoid these practices, report them when they occur and act in a lawful manner to stop them”, he said. On the 6 of December, the newly completed 40.37 kilometres (km) Nnewi – Oduma road linking Enugu and Ebonyi States, was commissioned at Ezinike-Oduma village, by Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, who represented the president. He said: “The Nnewi-Oduma road and others being commissioned are a testament to this administration’s commitment to improving road transport infrastructure, ease of doing business and job creation thereby lifting people out of poverty. December 10, President Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by Maryam Katagum, the Minister of State, Trade and Investment, also commissioned the 104-kilometre (km) Kano-Maiduguri dual highway, including the 4km single carriage way on section 3 of the Azare-Potiskum road, which links Bauchi and Yobe States, stating that the piece of infrastructure was a manifestation of the commitment of his administration to improving road transport, ease of doing business and job creation. December 14, was the turn of the 142.2-kilometre Kano-Maiduguri Road, Section II (Shuwarin-Azare) connecting Jigawa and Bauchi states, which was commissioned by Suleiman Adamu, Minister, Water Resources on behalf of President Buhari, who asked benefitting communities to take ownership of the roads, which, according to him, “have been built to the highest quality of design and workmanship”. The President described the project as “part of our many roads to prosperity”, adding: “Now that we have these new and well-built roads, we have duties to ourselves and to other road users.” Listing what he called road abuses, the President said: “We must all do our best to avoid these practices, report them when they occur and act in a lawful manner to stop them. Since the introduction of the Sukuk funding option, the Debt Management Office, DMO in September 2017 as a strategic initiative to support the development of infrastructure, especially road construction, promote financial inclusion and deepen the domestic securities market. It has released a total of N362.577 billion between September 2017 and June 2021, leading to the completion of over 80 road projects across the six geo-political regions. Fashola recently stated that the Sukuk funding option which the Federal Government adopted was currently aiding the progress of work on 44 roads across the country. Engineer Folarunsho Esan, The Director, Highways Construction and Rehabilitation, stated that while the five listed federal highways above had been completed and inaugurated, some others were awaiting inauguration. He further stated that 10 federal highways would be completed before the end of the second quarter of next year. “By the end of the second quarter of next year, so many of them will be completed, at least 10 more will be completed,” Esan stated. On whether the roads were funded through budgetary allocations, Sukuk funds or loans, he said: “All resources were pulled together. Sukuk is among, and then the budget is there. “As for loans, I don’t think we completed any through loans. It is either through the budget or Sukuk”, he added.