The President Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) Sir. Muftau Olakunle Oyegunle, will be conferred with an honorary doctorate degree by Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Ikeji Arakeji, Osun State on January 21, 2022. Since he became President of the insurance industry education arm, Sir. Oyegunle has distinguished himself through introduction of notable initiatives that have helped moved the industry to lofty heights. Of which, prominent amongst the initiatives was the induction of President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, as the Patron and Honourary Fellow of Institute. Oyegunle was born in Makurdi, Benue State to Alhaji Taiwo Oyegunle and Madam Adesola Oyegunle on the 23rd of June 1960. PTAD Uses Repatriated N19.610bn To Fund Pension Liability Great Nigeria Insurance Re-Enacts Commitment To Excellence In… He began his educational sojourn at St. Peter’s Anglican Primary School, Ile –Ife, Osun State and proceeded to Origbo Anglican Grammar School and Adeola Odutola College, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State for his Secondary and Higher School Certificate education respectively. In 1979, Sir. Oyegunle gained admission into the prestigious University of Ibadan to study Sociology and obtained a B.sc Hons (Sociology) in 1982. He equally completed the requirements for a M.B.A in Human resource Management in 2002. Upon completion of his National Service, Sir. Oyegunle briefly taught at the Government Day Secondary School, Jaji, Kaduna State. Defying the odds presented by a background in social sciences, a resolute Sir. Oyegunle began his foray into the insurance industry in 1985 when he was employed as Insurance Superintendent by Leadway Assurance Company Limited. A dedicated and assiduous grafter, Sir. Oyegunle’s application of intellect and skill to achieve results merited a progressive rise through the ranks to the position of General Manager, Commercial in 2009. During this period, Sir. Oyegunle in pursuit of professional excellence acquired the required certifications needed to reach the pinnacle of the insurance profession. POLL He qualified as an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute of London in 1990 and became a Chartered Insurer in 1995. He became a Fellow of Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria in 2003. Sir. Oyegunle retired from Leadway Assurance Company Limited in 2013 to industry acknowledgment and acclaim after 28 years of meritorious service, to manage his private Company – Lakeg Nigeria Limited which engages in Insurance Consultancy. However, he still participates actively as Non – Executive, Director on the Board of the following companies; Prestige Assurance Plc; Leadway Hotels Limited, Maryland –Ikeja, Lagos; Leadway Capital & Trusts Limited and Alternate Non – Executive Director, Leadway – Pensure PFA Limited. Sir. Oyegunle’s path to Presidency of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria is borne out of 26 years of service to the Institute in various capacities. He was Chairman, Kaduna branch of Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria from 1994 to 1996 and was voted into Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria Council in 2009 in which he has remained a member to date. Prior to his investiture as President, he has served as the Deputy President of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria and Chairman, College of Insurance and Financial Studies. In his 26 years as a member of the Institute and Governing Council, he has served as the Treasurer, member/ chairman of Education, Examination, Finance and General Purpose Committees of the Institute. Insurance Industry Assets Hit N2.09trn 38,518 RSA Holders Have Switched PFAs In Less Than One Year A beacon of professionalism, academic excellence and standards, Sir. Oyegunle has delivered several Academic and Professional papers worldwide. A widely travelled professional; he has had the privilege of attending several conferences and courses abroad especially at Swiss Insurance Training Centre, Zurich, Switzerland, National Insurance Academy of India among others. He was part of the Rotary International Group Study Exchange team to Brazil in 1995. His penchant for promoting inclusion and inspiring growth is not only restricted to the insurance industry as he has left a defining mark in other endeavours. He joined Wesley Cathedral in 1985 through the influence of his mentor, Late Sir. Hassan Olusola Odukale and has served the Methodist communion with passion to the glory of God. He also ensured that during his presidency with the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, insurance penetration and awareness hit a record high, with the commencement of holding insurance quizzes for secondary schools all over the Federation.