Wants them treated as contractors, consultants The Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, Dr Hephzibah Oladebeye, has urged the Federal Government to accord more recognition to indigenous engineers. Delivering the 23rd edition of the Professor E K Obiakor inaugural lecture series titled ‘Engineering innovations towards sustainable national development in the pre and pro-COVID-19 pandemic era’ Dr Oladebeye said one of the ways to encourage indigenous Engineers was to  patronise them NSCDC Averts Clash Between Hausa, Yoruba in Kwara Uzodimma Has Refused To Name Sponsors Of Insecurity –… The Prof. E K Obiakor lecture series of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, is an inaugural lecture series of the Polytechnic named after the pioneer Rector of the institution, Prof. Edward Kanu Obiakor, the Rector of the institution from January 1977 to December 1985. The Rector said, “They should be patronised as consultants and contractors for high-level projects instead of engaging foreign contractors who have little knowledge of the working environment”. Oladebeye, therefore, appealed to the federal government to allocate more resources for improved engineering innovations in order to boost the economy of the country. He also advised Buhari to use engineering innovations as a focus in the diversification policy, saying sole reliance on agriculture to drive the policy, may impede the success of the programme. “Governments of developing economies like Nigeria should look beyond agriculture in their diversification programme and focus more on engineering innovations through increased educational research and development”.the Rector said. POLL The Poly boss disclosed that the sector can strengthen the economy and bolster the economic diversification programme. He, however, advocated for synergy between the town and the gown in order to produce scientifically and technologically-inclined citizens needed for economic development, while calling for the exchange of information and documentation between industries and educational institutions. The  Rector stated that necessary recognition should be accorded to indigenous Engineers and other personnel in the profession, saying this remains the best way to develop the human capital and managerial skills of experts. He, however, stated that diversification of the economy should be geared towards engineering innovations, which could only be derived through investment in mathematics, science and technology. Oladebeye, a fellow, Nigerian Society of Engineers, (FNSE) further called for the application of knowledge in all engineering disciplines for the development of the country’s social-economic sectors. 9 Persons Killed, 5 Injured In Bandits attack In Kaduna IPOB Confirms Banning National Anthem “Sectors such as transportation, telecommunications, water supply, agriculture, energy, industry, environment, health and biotechnology must be developed to help the diversification programme. “The sectors are pivotal to the economy because they help in providing information for wealth creation, boost citizens’ skills and make them self independent, rather than to be job seekers”.