. As Ayu Warns Members Not To Lose Track, Avoid Distraction …..Says Real Fight Is Ahead The national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday waded into the crisis rocking the Ekiti state chapter of the party. PDP Nullifies Ekiti Ward Congresses 2023: CSOs Protest At PDP, APC Secretariats, Demands Zoning Of… This is even as the PDP National Chairman, Senator Iyorcha Ayu warned members to be focused as the real fight, is for the party to win the Ekiti state governorship election. Speaking during the meeting of PDP leaders with Ekiti stakeholders, amidst persisting protests at the party’s national secretariat against perceived attempts to manipulate the state primary election, Ayu said, “the real fight is ahead of us and at the end of the election in June, we want to congratulate the PDP for having won Ekiti. “We should be able to say we now have a PDP government in Ekiti, that is one singular desire that we have. We don’t have any other desire. “So, I appeal to all of you from Ekiti not to lose track of that key goal, any other thing is a distraction. You must keep in focus the goal we have; first to win Ekiti, and if possible to win every possible state and then ultimately to win the presidential election.” While the meeting of the PDP national leadership with Ekiti stakeholders was ongoing, several placards carrying protesters stormed the party, condemning what they alleged as manipulation of the ward and local government congresses of the party in the State. POLL Present at Monday’s meeting were the Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, and some members of the PDP National Working Committee including Ayu. During the meeting before going into closed-door, Ayu further charged the Ekiti members of the party not to lose track of the goal of winning the state, urging them to avoid anything that will make winning the state difficult. He said: “So I appeal to all of you from a Ekiti not to lose track of that key goal. Any other thing is a distraction. You must keep in focus the goal we have; first to win Ekiti, and if possible to win every possible state and then ultimately to win the presidential election.” Pointing out that agitation in Ekiti PDP is for the good of the party, Ayu said, “there is excitement and a little agitation here and there in Ekiti. It’s not a negative thing, it is a positive and it is a sign that our party is strong. “It is a sign that our party members are passionate. Therefore, all of you who have expressed passion, none of us is holding anything against that expression of your desire to win. If you went outside the normal constitutional provisions of our Constitution like if you went violent, we’ll worry about that but so far, whatever process have been peaceful. We’re very happy with all our members from Ekiti. We only hope that at the end of this exercise we will work together as one happy united family. Ekiti Election: PDP Leaders Meet With Fayose, Other Aggrieved… Partisan Politics Can’t Leave You, PDP Tells Obasanjo “It doesn’t matter whether one group or the other won. Even if you emerged as a candidate and we don’t win the election, it doesn’t have any meaning for the party. But if you emerged as a candidate, and we win election, all of us have won, because there will be something for everybody and for every community and for all our members. “Everybody will know that PDP means business and we have taken the first step to the villa.” The governors, PDP leaders and the stakeholders, however, failed to address journalists after the meeting that lasted for several hours. A total of 17 aspirants, including former Governor Segun Oni; former deputy governor, Biodun Olujimi; former deputy governor, Kolapo Eleka and Bisi Kolawole are jostling for the PDP governorship ticket in Ekiti state.