Derby County manager Wayne Rooney has refused to rule out leaving for the Everton job if his boyhood club comes knocking in the near future. And his comments fall on the same day Duncan Ferguson seemingly took himself out of the race by suggesting he’s not currently being considered as a permanent contender. Last week, Everton sacked Rafa Benitez after a dismal 2-1 defeat at Norwich City left them 16th in the Premier League. The Toffees’ shortlist to replace him is reportedly down to three names – Rooney, Frank Lampard and Fabio Cannavaro. Arsenal Set To Offer Arteta New Contract Before End Of Season Police Recruitment: PSC Expresses Concern Over Low Enrollment Of… Ferguson has been appointed interim boss for a second time, but on Friday, he revealed his dream to take permanent charge was one that is “down the line”. He told reporters: “I think maybe down the line, maybe one day. I’ll always dream about becoming Everton manager, but of course, I’ve not quite got that experience.  “My job at the moment is to take the upcoming games, steady the ship, and the club will go through a process identifying the new manager. I’m sure they’ll do that, and they’ll bring the new manager in. “You never know in football, do you? But at the moment, my job is to focus on the next game. That’s it. POLL “I focus on the next game, and what happens down the line will be up to the club. We’re always looking for the best managers in the world, and I’m sure we’ll find that.” And ahead of taking Derby to rivals Nottingham Forest on Saturday, Rooney admitted he was “flattered” at links to the job and said “everyone loves a fairytale”. “I’m the same as everyone else. I see the speculation on social media and in the newspapers and, of course, Everton is a club I grew up supporting,” Rooney explained. “I’m flattered to get brought up in those conversations, but I know Everton will know that for them to have any communication with me, they have to go through the administrators. “Everyone loves a fairytale, but from my point of view, my focus is on the game tomorrow. It’s a massive game, it’s a local derby, and I have to make sure I treat it with the utmost respect it deserves, and this club deserves. Gerrard Makes Luis Suarez Claim Amid Transfer Links With Aston… Police Arrest Officers Caught Assaulting Lady In Viral Video “They haven’t come calling to the administrators, so I’m not letting anything distract me from the job I’m doing here. “I understand the questions have to be asked, but there has been no communication [from Everton] with the administrators, so I can’t say much more on the matter.” The England and Manchester United all-time goalscorer has earned mass plaudits for his work in the Championship so far this season. He has faced transfer bans and a 21-point deduction amid Derby’s increasing troubles off the pitch.