IBADAN – The demise of Oba Saliu Adetunji the Olubadan of Ibadaland is indeed a great lost to Nigeria as a country and it’s on this regards the Oyo State Commissioner of Police, CP. Ngozi Onadeko has joined well meaning Nigerians to register her heartfelt condolences. CP. Onadeko in a signed condolence message issued and signed by the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Adewale Osifeso described the sudden exit of the great monarch as a very painful one. However, CP. Onadeko has used the medium to also reassured the residents of the ancient city of proactive and adequate security. Customs Comptroller General Warns Ibarapa Residents Over… Ngelshengele Farming Community Get Succor From Buni A copy of the statement made available to the INDEPENDENT read as thus; The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Ngozi Onadeko, fdc on behalf of Oyo State Police Command commiserates with the entire Olubadan dynasty and indeed Oyo State over the painful loss of “His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, the Aje Ogunguniso 1” who passed on at the age of 93, today Sunday, 2nd January, 2022. The revered First Class Monarch would particularly be missed for his active participation and support in ridding Ibadan and indeed the state at large off undesirable criminal elements, a major contributory factor which underscores the present enviable status of sustained relative tranquility. Sequel to this, the Commissioner of Police Oyo State Command, CP Ngozi Onadeko, fdc wishes to emphatically assure the general public that proactive and adequate security measures have been emplaced to guide the transition process of the late monarch has he joins his ancestors. The measures include; adequate deployments round the nook and crannies of the state characterised by visibility policing, convoy patrols in concert with relevant sister agencies, surveillance and intelligence-led stop and search duties. POLL While assuring all and sundry to be law abiding and to go about their normal businesses without fear of molestation or harassment from anyone, Parents and persons wielding various degrees of influence in religious, socio-political or in any other capacity are advised to warn their wards and proteges against acts that can lead to breach of the peace as such violators would be severely sanctioned. In cases of emergency, the Command can always be reached through these emergency control room numbers: 615 (toll free) (OYO STATE SECURITY TRUST FUND), and Oyo State Police Command emergency lines 07055495413 and 08081768614. The NPF rescue me app is also available for free download on both Android and Apple IOS, for Android and I phone users respectively.