…Promises Free Compulsory Education From Primary to Secondary ABUJA – Former Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha has officially declared interest for the presidency in 2023, with a pledge to surpass the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in terms of uniting the entire country across religious and ethnic divides. He also vowed that if allowed to become President, he would create an enabling environment for productive ventures to thrive, insisting that Nigeria was never in lack of resources but effective leaders that can manage the available resources. CSOs Give NASS, Presidency Jan 21 Deadline To Sign Electoral Act… I Endorsed Tinubu For Presidency In 2019, I Have Rejected Him… The Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District in the 9th Senate, however, decried the high-handedness within the ruling All Progressives Congress, claiming the party lacked justice and fairness. He said despite these shortcomings in the party, he would not back out because he and three other prominent politicians birthed what is today known as the APC. According to the Presidential aspirant, under his stewardship in 2023, Nigeria will no longer be tagged as the poverty capital of the world, insisting that having studied the peculiarities of Nigeria, he has the capacity to galvanise human and material resources to uplift the country. At the formal declaration held at the International Conference Centre Abuja, Okorocha challenged other politicians vying for the number one seat to give their scorecard in terms of areas they have contributed to the progress of Nigeria. He described himself as a detribalised man who made his wealth through genuine means and have sworn to help the downtrodden in society, irrespective of their backgrounds. POLL Okorocha equally criticised the anti-graft agency, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC, saying more often than not it engages in character assassination once an allegation is raised against any personality. “I am a proud Nigerian, my six children are Nigerians, I am a Nigerian because the blood that flows through my vein is a Naija blood. “I want the entire nation to know where I am coming from and where am headed to. I speak to you from the point of view of a hearty spirit. It is called general spirit because it takes into consideration the noble and poor in society, one side of me is joyous and another side is bitter with the situation of things in our country. “20 years ago I ran for Presidency but did not succeed, I have that consistently and again in 2014, I again ran for the office of President which ushered in President Goodluck Jonathan, one of my friends had cause to ask me why I consistently contest, that I am a wealthy man who should not dabble into the murky waters of politics because its dirty, I made him understand that I am not in politics for what I can get, rather am in politics for what I can give. “What my friend does not understand is because I am not satisfied, my heart bleeds because that little child in Borno who cannot go to school, as long as insecurity or poverty is the order of the day I can’t be happy. Okorocha Loses Bid To Retain Mbadiwe Varsity, As NUC Issues… Presidency Denies Buhari’s Involvement In AEDC Management… “People say unemployment, insecurity is too high in Nigeria but I disagree with such statistics. We are a blessed nation with abundant resources and a time will come when we will do honour to this nation when I become President. “The help that Nigerians need has come, we are not what the World Bank says we are, those who designed our coat of arms, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Tafawa Balewa, Awolowo I appreciate them for their selfless struggles. What you call APC today was formed by four of us, Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the Action Congress of Nigeria ACN, Muhammadu Buhari of the Congress for Progressive Change CPC, Ogbonnaya Onu of the All Nigeria Peoples Congress ANPP and myself Rochas Okorocha of the All Progressive Grand Alliance APGA. So speaking of zoning or rotation, I am not a product of zoning or any rotation whatsoever. “Education is life, it is not a privilege but a right. In a country where 14.5million children are out of school, we shall make education free from primary to secondary school levels, I will reenact the same vision for Rochas Foundation all over the country for that vision to materialise,” Okorocha stated. Rochas a chieftain of the All Progressive Congress APC will be making his fourth attempt at the presidency. He has been having a running battle with the current governor of Imo state, Hope Uzodinma. He founded the Rochas Foundation in 1998, through which he has been reaching out to indigent men, women and children in Nigeria and across Africa. Among the politicians who have declared interest to run for the presidency in 2023 from the southeast, Okorocha is believed to have a close affinity with people from all geo-political zones of the country through his philanthropic gestures. With his official declaration January 31st, he has joined the likes of Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, former Senate President and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim, former Governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, and businessman, Sam Ohuabunwa as leaders from the South East that are so far gunning for the presidency in 2023.