Plight of Jimoh Agboola Abdulraheem, the only People’s Democratic Party, PDP, member in the current Kwara State House of Assembly, KWHA, was on Monday brought into public awareness after a local government party chairman poured recriminations on the state lawmakers on the manner in which the Speaker, KWHA, Hon. Engnr. Saliu Yakubu Danladi and the All Progressives Congress, APC majority in the house have treated Abdulraheem. According to Adamu Olanrewaju Oloyin, PDP Chairman, Ilorin South LGA, the Danladi-Salihu and his party men demonstrate their inexperience as lawmakers in the rascally manner they have treated the PDP member in the house. Abdulraheem has been suspended by the House for granting an interview in a radio program where he called the state governor over the plight of his constituency. 2023: Unity Of Our Party, My Paramount Interest, Not Election… Don’t Turn Osun To Battle Ground, IPAC Cautions Parties Ironically, Hon Saheed Popoola, an APC lawmaker in KWHA but a trenchant critic of the governor, maintains a regular radio show in Ilorin where he pours vitrol on Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak, governor of the state and APC leader in the state without suffering similar fate from the House. “In respect of this, one can clearly see that the ongoing illegal suspension of Hon. Jimoh Agboola Abdulraheem of Ilorin South local government state constituency is a set back for our democracy. “The rule of law no longer holds in the face of injustices,” he said. The House was reluctant to swear the lawmaker in until the Supreme Court ruled otherwise. The lawmaker has also suffered serial suspension despite ruling by the Supreme Court negating powers of a legislative house to suspend a duely elected lawmaker. POLL “The show of shame and highest legislative rascality coupled with in experiences has continued to persist with these set of Representatives especially when they illegally suspended their colleague for granting a radio program where he expressed opinion on the poor state of his constituency and the need for government’s attention and interventions,” the PDP local government chair said in a release, recently.