ABEOKUTA – Pandemonium broke Oke in Aregba area of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital in the early hours of Saturday, when some teenage boys were caught burning the head of a girl, said to be in a relationship with one of them, for money ritual. One Mr Segun Adewu­si, the community se­curity guard, had ob­served that four boys were burning something suspected to be human head in a local pot on the road. It was gathered that the security guard imme­diately alerted the police at Adatan Police Head­quarters from where of­ficers went to the scene to get three of the boys arrested as one had fled before police arrival. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… 2023: Bauchi People Don’t Want Me To Go For Presidential… He was later arrested following a marching or­der given to the DPO. A source, who con­firmed the incident to our correspondent, said the slain girl, identified as Rofiat, was a resident of Idi-Ape and said to be a girlfriend to one Soliu, now in police net. Soliu was said to have lured the girl to his room, where he held her down and asked one of his friends to slaughter her with a knife. “The arrested sus­pects were identified as 17-year-old Wariz Oladeinde from Kugba, 19-year-old Abdulgafar Lukman from Kugba and Mustakeem Balogun from Bode Olude, all in Abeokuta. Soliu was the boyfriend of the girl, he ran away, but was later arrested. “They killed Rofiat, cut her head, packed the headless body in a sack and started burning the head in a pot. They told the police in the presence of a mammoth crowd that they wanted to use it for money ritual. POLL “The police have taken the body away to a mor­tuary,” a source told our correspondent on Satur­day. In a video made avail­able to our correspon­dent, Mustakeem Balo­gun, said, “We wanted to use just her head alone for money ritual. Soliu strangled her and he told me to assist him and we cut off her head.” The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, con­firmed the development in a statement made available to Sunday In­dependent.