Two persons have been reportedly killed and several houses razed by suspected armed herds­men in Igama commu­nity in Ojugo Council Ward of Okpokwu Lo­cal Government Area of Benue state. It was gathered that the armed herders had severally invaded the community in the last few days chasing the local inhabitants from their homes after which they set their houses ablaze. “It all started about a week ago and nobody knows why they are targeting community. They have been storm­ing the community in a commando fashion and whenever they come they shoot sporadically and set people’s houses ablaze. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference “In the course of these attacks two corps­es were recovered from the community. Secu­rity personnel have al­ready been drafted to the area,” the source said. Confirming the de­velopment, the chair­man of the Local Gov­ernment Council, Mrs. Amina Audu, said the attack started few days ago. According to her, “Fu­lani herders for no rea­son whatsoever started attacking Igama com­munity. As they come they raze houses after which they retreat. “The incident started since last Tuesday. They have attacked the com­munity for three days. They normally come in the afternoon. “We reported the matter to the police who moved into the commu­nity, including the Live­stock Guards, but the marauders always ran away before the securi­ty personnel arrive the scene of the attack. POLL “They (security per­sonnel) have now been stationed there and it is because the securi­ty people have been on ground that we did not record much casual­ties.” The chairman said the decomposing body of a girl and that of a man were recovered from the besieged com­munity. “The girl was buried immediately her body was found because she was already decompos­ing by the time she was found. We reported to the police and they granted permission for her to be buried.” When contacted, the Police Public Rela­tions Officer, Superin­tendent, SP, Catherine Anene, said she was yet to receive details of the incident.