According to MARCA, Marcos Alonso has once again emerged as a target for Atletico Madrid. The reigning La Liga champions are in the market for a new left-back, with the Chelsea defender being identified as a top target for Diego Simeone. Although a January move has been ruled out, Atleti are expected to make a move for the player next summer. Alonso’s current deal at Stamford Bridge expires at the end of next season. The player is currently happy with his life at Chelsea, having recently become the club’s first-choice left wing-back after Ben Chilwell was ruled out for the remainder of the season due to a knee injury. APC: Court Strikes Out Suit Challenging Legality Of Buni-led… Osinbajo Pays Condolence Visit To Olubadan Family, Describes… The Spaniard has featured in 17 league matches so far for Chelsea, scoring a goal and bagging two assists. He has not been faultless with his performances, though, and Thomas Tuchel’s recent reversal to a back four could hinder his identity in the team. Not to mention, Chelsea are desperate to sign a new left-back before the January transfer window slams shut. The Blues have recently brought in Dylan Williams from Derby County, but Tuchel ideally wants to sign VfB Stuttgart’s rising talent Borna Sosa while Filip Kostic is another option for the German tactician. The addition of a new left-back, either in January or in the summer, poses questions over Alonso’s long-term future at the club, especially after Chilwell returns from injury. As such, a move away from Stamford Bridge could be a logical option, with Atletico Madrid keeping a close on eye his situation at Chelsea, along with Serie A outfit Napoli. Boasting the services of Renan Lodi and Yannick Ferreira Carrasco, Atletico Madrid have no shortage of options at left wing-back. But Lodi has not been able to establish himself as a first-team regular for the La Liga champions, while Carrasco has been far more influential in a fully-fledged attacking role. It has compelled Simeone to target a left-back. Alonso fits the bill well, given his familiarity with a wing-back system. The Spaniard offers excellent attacking support on the flanks and could thrive in Simeone’s pendulating 3-5-2 setup that can effortlessly turn into a 4-3-3. And with his contract expiring in 2023, the Chelsea defender could be available for a cut-price deal next summer.