. Says All Peace Agreements Have Broken Down  Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Abiodun Olujimi has decried the untidy manner in which the Ward Congress was conducted in Ekiti State last Saturday lamenting that all peace processes and agreements have broken down in the party. Impostor Conducted PDP Ward Congress In Ekiti – Group… Armed Forces Remembrance Day: Occasion For Sober Reflection,… Speaking on behalf of all other aggrieved Governorship Aspirant of the party, Olujimi who called for outright cancellation of the exercise warned that failure to do would create bad blood amongst stakeholders. The senator described the ugly development as unfortunate and fraudulent, regretting that it had placed a strong moral burden on the democratic credentials of the party, which many believe as the bastion of democracy. The PDP gladiators who massed at the popular Dallimore Junction alleged that the exercise was manipulated to favour former governor  Ayo Fayose ‘s political group. The aspirants included the former Ekiti State governor, Engr. Segun Oni, Senator Biodun Olujimi, Alhaji Lateef Ajijola and Mr. Yinka Akerele. Olujimi who was flanked by Ajijola, Akerele and Oni noted that the ward congress didn’t take place in any part of the state, adding the purported result being bandied around was allegedly concocted by Fayose. POLL Olujimi said “It’s not about me. It’s about our party and future. What is important is fairness and justice. Any place where there’s no fairness and justice, peace will be eluded. So, all the peace agreement has been broken. When you broke the peace agreement, what do you expect us to do. To fold our arms? No, we won’t”, She accused the five-man panel sent by the PDP national secretariat to supervise the congress, lamenting that the exercise was shrouded in secrecy to subvert the people’s will, transparency, inclusive participation of all the aspirants. “There was no adhoc ward congress and we want an absolute cancellation. What really happened was that one person hijack all the materials and went to write all the list. if you hijacked the materials and you are writing the names of the delegates, then, you will surely face the consequences. “It’s not about me. It’s about our party and future. What is important is fairness and justice. Any place where there’s no fairness and justice, peace will be eluded. So, all the peace agreement has been broken. When you broke the peace agreement, what do you expect us to do. To fold our arms? No, we won’t”, she said. “There is a need to listen to the people of Ekiti. The party must do the needful. They must call a meeting. And the meeting must be a meeting of truth. Without that, the poll here would be very tough for our party”, she added.