UGHELLI  – Indigenes of troubled com­munities, especially Or­hohworun town in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, have raised the alarm over threats to their lives, following upsurge in cases of rival cult clashes in the area, urging the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Usman Alkali Baba, to immediately come to their rescue. Raising the alarm under the auspices of Concerned Citizens of Udu Communi­ties (CCUC), the terrified in­digenes, said the distressed call to the police boss had become necessary, as they cannot continue to fold their arms watching the senseless killings of innocent people all in the name of cult war. The body in a statement signed by Hon. Godspower Oghenewegba and Comrade John Efeurhobo, Chairman and Secretary respectively, noted that their people can no longer cope with the fears, in­timidations and harassment they had been subjected in the last four years when cult clashes started. Tanker Explosion: Delta Will Take Steps To Avert Reoccurrence… How Hoodlums Invaded Ogun Community, Kill 44-Year-Old Man, Shoot… While applauding the ef­forts of the state Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa and Udu Council Chairman, Chief Jite Brown, in tack­ling the issue since the esca­lation of rival cult wars in the area, the body called for a more stringent measures in bringing the situation under control, in order to guaranty the safety of lives and prop­erty in the area. They said, “There are var­ious confraternities of differ­ent dimensions. Each one of the cult groups wants to lord it over the other in a gun battle, fighting, maiming, killing, burning of houses and property and looting has been the order of the day. “In recent time, the com­munity where I came from, Orhohworun, is nothing but a theatre of war between ri­val cult groups fighting for supremacy, the worst of it is a situation where people could no longer sleep in peace and walk in peace; the Orhu­whorun community in Udu Local Government Area has become a ghost town; schools in the locality no longer func­tion as it used to be, taking of human lives has become the order of the day in a once upon peaceful community.” “So we the concern cit­izen of Udu communities are calling on the Inspector General of Police to dive into the matter with utmost urgency to see that justice is not denied. We so believe in the office of the IGP to use his good office to wade into this ugly situation were justice will finally have its way,” the body appealed.