ABUJA – Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru has advised aggrieved aspirants in the just concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Primary in Ekiti to team up with the party to build and support the candidate that has emerged. He said that it serves the seven aggrieved aspirants no good castigating the primary election Committee as power comes from God. Fielding reporters’ questions after submitting results of the poll that produce Abiodun Oyebanji as the candidate of APC in the June 2022 end of term Governorship Election, Gov Badaru said the poll was conducted with utmost fear of God. Ukrainian President Downplays Talk Of Russian Invasion 10 Injured In Pittsburgh Bridge Collapse He asked the aggrieved aspirants to be patient and work with the party and its candidate in Ekiti, adding that the expectation is for all the aspirants to join hands with the party ahead of the governorship election. “What we expect from them is to join hands with us to build the party and to support the candidate that emerges. At the opening of my engagement with the Aspirants, and stakeholders from Ekiti, I told them that power comes from God only God determines who will win and if we take this to heart and remain patient, certain God will reward us. “We should take heart we should be responsible and respectful, and stop casting allegations, unnecessarily allegations against people because destroying somebody does not mean victory for you, it means you’re also destroying yourself. Be fair to all, be open to all and God will continue to help you. “But if you chose to castigate people, humiliate people, cast aspersions and insults on people God is watching. You will certainly harvest what you have done because the truth will always come out. And we did this in this primary with utmost fear of God and those that know me to know that will not write the result for anybody in this country”. According to him, results garnered in 166 wards of the state was a true reflection of the voting record at the various wards. He said 11 wards where violence, occurred was cancelled by the committee. POLL Asked if the number of votes cast for the winner will not mimic what happened in Anambra State where the APC returned over 300 thousand votes during the primary only to lag behind the election, Gov. Badaru said the poll in Ekiti was realistic. “You can see the numbers. The winner got 101 thousand votes out of 180 thousand registered embers. So it is a very realistic fact. It is only 60-65% membership that comes out to vote which is very realistic. And for those of you that have been there on the field, you have gone round ward by ward by yourselves that it is actually people. “Before the election, I promised the aspirants that I will never receive a result written where people have not participated in the process. And that was why the eleven wards cannot be returned to me because I knew there were violence and the election didn’t take place. That is why I cancel them.”