Niger state government has organized free cervical cancer screening and treatment of initial 5,000 women drawn from across the 25 Local Government Areas, of reproductive age for Human Papilloma Virus (HPV). The state Governor, Alhaji Abubarkar Sani Bello made this known yesterday (Monday) at the formal flag-off of the HPV Cervical Cancer prevention services which took place at the Neo-Natal wing of the Minna, General Hospital. Governor Bello who encouraged the headd of families and religious leaders to encourage their women and daughters of reproductive age to take advantage of the offer and go out en-mass and benefit from the exercise said the gesture is part of efforts to ensure that Niger state achieves less than four new cases of cervical cancer per 100, 000 women in the state. “As a state, we are set to provide organized cervical cancer screening of initial 5,000 women of reproductive age for the HPV across the state and as well treat those with cervical precancerous lesions”. According to Governor Bello, “As a government we will continue to strive to ensure that Niger state becomes one of the leading states in Nigeria to achieve less than 4 new cases of cervical cancer per 100, 000 women and ladies of reproductive age”. The Governor’s wife, Dr. Amina Sani Bello had earlier assured that the state in collaboration with WHO/CHAI/RAiSE Foundation will align with the World Health Organisation (WHO) global strategy of 90: 70: 90 of Cervical Cancer elimination. Dr. Amina Sani Bello was however quick to add that the second phase of the exercise will be determined by the level of corporation and speed achieved in the first phase and therefore wants the targeted audience to embrace the gesture in order to remain healthy. Also speaking, a Cancer Survivor and Executive Director, International Centre For Sexual Reproductive Rights, Mrs. Cesnabmihilo Dorothy Aken’Ova described the programme as very timely as it will go a long way in meeting the health needs of especially rural women of productive age. POLL She said, “For a very long time now, we have desired that Nigeria should meet up with the global health standards such that women get support in terms of early detection of cancer and I am very happy today that it is now a reality”. Niger state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Makusidi Muhammad had in an openning remarks said that Niger state is rolling out the screening of initial 5, 000 women for the HPV and more will still benefit subsequently. According to him, “As a state, we are rolling out the screening of initial 5,000 women for HPV and treatment of Cervical Pre-Cancerous lessons in 9 Local Government Areas, including Chanchaga, Suleja, Kontagora, Lapai, Mokwa, Borgu, Paikoro, Gbako and Bosso”