ASABA – Chief Sen. James Ebiowou Manager has said that he is detribalised and most accessible to govern Delta while promising good governance and political Inclusiveness to Deltans, appealed to the People’s Democratic Party to give him the needed support to Emerge as the party’s flag-bearer to win and govern Delta State. Senator James Manager, Senator Representing Delta South in the upper chamber of the National Assembly made this remark while fielding questions from some group of Journalists at the Cenotaph today being Saturday, 22nd January 2022 in Asaba, Delta State capital soon after the grand Mega Rally organized by the Leadership of People’s Democratic Party, PDP in Delta State. The event was attended by Political gladiators, Delta State PDP Party leaders, party faithful, Members, Political stakeholders; including Youths, Women, all the Governorship aspirants in Delta State for the 2023 Gubernatorial election, all PDP aspirants vying for different Political Positions; Senate, House of Reps, Delta State House of Assembly and others. Delta 2023: Gbagi Kicks Against Candidature From Delta South BREAKING: Mulade Withdraws From Delta Governorship Race The Delta PDP Guber Aspirant who had served as the first Chairman of People’s Democratic Party, PDP in 1999 and still at the moment the longest-serving Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria from Delta State, while appealing to the party leadership, Deltans to give him the support to be the flag-bearer of PDP in the state, noted that for the sake of equity, justice and fairness, that the Ijaws had been a great pillar of support to all Former Governors from different ethnic nationalities of the state. Senator James Manager when asked to unfold some of his vision, plans for Deltans if given the opportunity to fly the flag of People’s Democratic Party this year 2022 to win in 2023 to govern Delta stated that he had over twenty-four (24) core mandate. He noted that his major Economic blueprints, which included amongst others: “Massive creation of Jobs and employment opportunities for the unemployed Youths and Women, all Deltans in the state, generous and open door administration to all Deltans, stoppage of illegal extortion of traders by authorised persons, regular payment of bursary to Delta State students in various higher institutions”. In the words of the seasoned federal lawmaker: “My regime will wipe away hunger, ensure that, the establishment of Delta State Agricultural farms, which will be replicated in the 25 LGAs of the state to cushion the effect of a high rate of farm produce. We will establish factories and Agricultural programs to boost employment opportunities in highly populated areas in the three Senatorial Districts of the state”. “We will ensure the Inclusion of Women in politics through massive appointment into various political offices. We will ensure the promotion of infrastructural development in all the rural communities in the state. We will create establish skill acquisition centres in all the rural and urban communities in the state”. POLL “We will establish schools in all abandoned rural communities, including the riverine communities. We will empower women through various programs in order to put food on their tables. We will revive DSC Ovwian/Aladja. We will ensure the payment of all staff whose payments were abandoned. We will pay the salaries of all pensioners”. “We will give free medical care to all pregnant women, and children between the ages of 0-5, and establish children special care service. We will support all religious groups financially”.