Here is the concluding part of the conversation with award-winning writer, broadcaster, professional translator and Development Communication researcher. Role of inspiration in the creative process First, inspiration is a motivational state that compels the production of ideas from individuals for a process. Therefore, it’s an important tool to awaken writers to new ideas and possibilities in the creative process. This transforms the way writers perceive their capabilities for new ideas. The new ideas practically form parts of creative works; this tends to separate a writer’s credibility from others. For instance, a creative writer who lacks new ideas, maybe through experiences, social observation, critical thinking or researches, gives little merit to his or her work. Inspirations in the sense of diction themes, plots, setting, oral applications and others give a creative work an edge. What APC Brings To Mind: Shame, Hypocrisy, Vain Glory, Disaster “Why Do I Write?” – Indian Writer, Tanwi Halder Inspiration for his literary engagements Writers never have a single way or source of inspiration. They rather derive it from many sources. As far as I am concerned, my first inspiration comes from critical observation of society. I look at the attitudes of people towards a concept, and monitor their strange response to it. That is the reason my themes are always based on behavioural change, be it women’s rights, sustenance of cultural values, child’s right, health improvement among others. Other sources of my inspiration are researches and through discussions. Meanwhile, my language ingeniousness comes from music especially the classic songs such as those of Ayinla Omowura. I respect his aesthetic manner of composing Yoruba songs and language which is always relevant to the contemporary society. Reaction to the assertion that Nigeria is not a nation of readers There is a popular saying, “if you wanted to hide information for Africans, just hide inside a book, you are safe!” In this view, Nigerians predominantly develop apathy for reading culture in the present time. Though, there is an argument that the youth have been exploring online instead of physical books for reading. But the question is that how many of them sincerely exploit the platform judiciously for knowledge? Many of them use the online platform for chatting alone, and others use it for immoral activities. The effect gradually tells on commercial value of books, and result in low patronage. The factor, therefore, affects ther morale of writers, that a number of them are pulling out of the field in the country. The publishers are not exempted from the effect, as they are drastically reducing in number. Chances Of writers writing in indigenous languages living off their writing POLL This may not be possible for now until the bottle neck discussed is proffered solution. Many of such writers in the contemporary time see it as a hobby. Except sometimes, when your book is approved by a Ministry of Education or an examination board, that is when you talk of gratification. Then, you come to challenges of publishing the books because many publishers don’t really show interest in African language literature due to low patronage they experience. Several times, the cost of financing the publishing is high and rests solely upon us. Therefore, I don’t envisage such creative writing as sole source of income for now. What can be done to save our native languages that appear to be in danger of vanishing This is a true statement that our indigenous languages are moving into extinction. A situation that classifies them into the different levels of language endangerment. That is, some of them are potentially endangered; some endangered; some, seriously endangered; some, terminally endangered; some others, dead or extinct. Therefore, proactive actions are needed in resurrecting them from these endangerments. First, African languages should not be underestimated and relegated to an irrelevant status, even at the favour of foreign language. Parents, even the elites, should see their mother language as first and foreign languages as secondary. They must be sensitized to ensure that children should first understand their conventional language, that is, African language. Let me use my own experience as an example, I grew up with my grandparents who were stack illiterate in Osogbo. I could recall my mother’s joke, “Emi o le fidi igo ko o!” Which means as simple as the bottom of a bottle could be used to form a circle, she couldn’t do it, and we lived in a typical Yoruba setting, that you rarely met anybody speaking English. But fortunately today with formal education I can stand with my mates to speak the language. Make the parents understand that no matter how it could be their wards would still be able to understand English language and speak it even fluently. An education psychology in a study reveals that within 10 years of age, children have the capacity of understanding 8 languages. So, there should be nothing to be worried about. Moreover, African literary artists should be sensitized to see the foreign languages as secondary languages. Their works should appear first in African languages and afterwards in the foreign languages; not the other way round. They are seen as role models in the society, therefore, our languages should be adored and given premium over the foreign language in the presence of the new generation. As Yoruba would say, ‘Bo ’nigba ba se pe igba re ni won se n gbe, bo o ba pe e ni ekufo won ba e fi kole’ (People use your calabash in the manner you present it to them, if you presented it as trash, they use it for parking waste). For example, a popular musician, Nice, popularized an adage in Yoruba. Before a twinkle of the eye, the youth continue to promote the track, and many of them are approaching the elders to understand the context of the track. If they continue that way, African literature, we believe, would have had a better definition. Who Will Win 2021 AFCON? Oil Wealth And Nigeria Pseudo Unity (1) Second, undeveloped African languages should be developed and underdeveloped ones should be fully developed to encourage writers to employ them in creative writing. Moreover, literacy in the developed languages should be pursued with vigour. The outcome of this will enhance the commercial value of literary works written in them: a situation that will make more writers to delve into the area. Therefore, scholars should wake to researches for positive effect. Third, policies that would encourage writing African literature in African languages should be formulated and implemented by government of African countries. In fact, there is no harm in making any developed African language an official language in its domain of dominance in any African country, making sure that people who speak the language do not get government employment or admission to institutions of higher learning and other occasions if they are not literate in their language. Another one is instituting awards for literary works in African languages. Million dollar prize awards should be instituted for literary works in African languages. Let the individual, corporate bodies and government encourage them. Indeed, if similar awards initiated for African English literature, are instituted for African literary works in African languages, people will be encouraged to write in the languages. The political will and interest with sincerity is paramount in this struggle. Regions have to institute practical institutes similar to French village, Confucius Institute, German language institute, and like professional bodies such as ICAN, NIPR, to train and empower interested authors and graduates in African languages. In 2012, I started writing a proposal to create an institute to give adequate training to the graduates of Yoruba language and literature, but in the process, I was so discouraged in gathering outputs. People are not interested in their mother languages! And if there is success in this, it would not only promote the language and improve the literature, but enhance the social economy development. Publishing of literary works in African languages should be subsidized by public and private organizations. This will increase the number of the works in the languages produced yearly. It will also improve their standards. Particularly, writers would stop producing novelettes as novels with the reason that the cost of financing the publishing is high and rests solely upon them. What he considers the essential role of the writer in society As I rightly stated, literature is an important means of understanding and interpreting human beings and aspects of society such as politics, religion, economics, social conflicts, class struggle and human condition. Therefore, a writer should be able to reflect and interpret his society in his work of arts. He/she should be able to provide inspiration, guidance and challenges for the development of the society. Like in Africa, writers have roles of acquitting readers to the consciousness of their society with a variety of themes, including worldview, mysticism, values, religion, nature, negritude, personal relationships, anti-colonialism, pan-Africanism, neo-colonialism, urbanism, migration, exile, the African diaspora, patriarchy and other contemporary issues. Perspective on literary awards There is no crime in instituting awards for literary works to encourage the writers. This motivates writers to remain focused and committed in the field, as the elders would have it, ‘Inu didun nii mori ya’ (Appreciation breeds encouragement). I am of the view that million dollar prize awards should be instituted for literary works, but for both in foreign and African languages. Let the individual, corporate bodies and government encourage them. I was highly elevated when Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II gave endorsement to one of my works, ‘Oba Adesoji Aderemi: Akikanju Ooni Ile-Ife’. That is the joy of a writer! However, writers should not see this as a parameter to write credibly. They should know that writing is their fundamental duty to enlighten society. The role must, therefore come from their sincerity, without necessarily waiting for gratification or rewards before performing the expected roles to society. Plight of translators in the country Professionally, a translator converts the written words or context from one language to another. Translation requires the professional to accurately convey the meaning of written words from one language to another. Therefore, the ability to understand at least two languages makes a professional translator. I have been engaging in professional translation since 15 years back, even as news and programme translator from English to Yoruba in the Yoruba Service of Voice of Nigeria. I have converted words in different fields from English to Yoruba, be it health, business, Agriculture, law documents among others. I have worked for some international organizations to translate materials. It takes extra efforts and knowledge to convey materials communicated in one language such as English into another, and able to adapt it accurately. The translation profession is very lucrative in a modern society, because it requires extra ordinary efforts to carry out the task, but the reverse is the case in Nigeria, especially in media houses. Broadcasting organizations in Nigeria don’t attach any importance to translation, especially in case of translating in indigenous languages. There should be a mandatory translation allowance included in any translator’s wages, and it should be a substantive amount, but no broadcasting station or news house pays this. However, I still hold the belief that the translation profession is lucrative. I can vividly recall, during the preparation for my wedding, I did translation of a tax law related document for a big tax firm in Lagos. Can you believe that the money realized in the work made a substantive amount in my budget for the marriage plan!