ISEGHE AJAYI Now that the year 2022 is still very fresh, there is need to take a cursory look at previous budget which includes financial set goals to see how far you have performed especially in the area of managing your finances. There is no doubt that reaching financial goals in the previous year would certainly be an arduous task owing to the unfavourable state of the economy coupled with the high inflationary trend which made survival so tough particularly for the common folks. What Next, Now That The Celebrations Are Over? The Need To Adhere To Your Christmas Budget But then, we can learn from previous financial mistakes to forge ahead and experience financial freedom. That is why it is really crucial to remain focused and try as much as possible to think of how to enhance your earnings to meet your financial set goals. Besides, it would help you greatly to have a grasp of your money by taking into consideration your savings, debts and investments. Do you know that financial goals if properly set and stuck to will assist you in handling your budget by avoiding pointless expenses? Obtaining financial independence is a laudable goal but only very few people know where and how to start. The under listed tips can aid you to set attainable financial goals for the Year 2022: POLL Prepare A monthly Spending Plan This may seem like a modest goal, but writing a spending plan each month is the first step you need in getting control of your finances. If you can write out your budget on a monthly basis, and put every money you earn in a specific place, you will gain financially. More so, this will help you to understand how you spend your money or the amount dedicated for expenses monthly. Hold On To Your Budget Time To Review Your 2021 Budget How To Beat Financial Pressure This Christmas One of the best things you can do for your finances is to create a budget and ensure it is achievable for your financial benefit. Also, make sure that your housing, food, and utility costs are not higher than what you usually spend or pay. In sticking to your budget, you should try to spend less than your earnings to enable you to put money into your savings account. Measure Your Current Financial Status Setting financial goals is critical, but before it is done, you need to know where you currently stand particularly in the area of finance and one way to do that is to look through your savings, debts and investments. However, measuring your financial position may be stressful, but knowing your financial disposition enables you to set realistic goals for the year. Pay Off Your Debt Debt is a significant burden and can prevent you from attaining your financial dreams. To avoid such, and for your own benefit, start paying off your debts now as Interest rate will keep stealing your money from you for as long as you are in debt. For example, if you are making 10% in the stock market and paying 12% on interest, you are losing money. It is important you try as much as possible to pay off all outstanding debts to enable you keep the money that you will invest in the future. UP Your Savings It is expedient to live a debt-free life to accommodate savings and one way to do that is to shun impulse buying and live within your income. Set up a New Year resolution to up your savings by a certain amount of money monthly to achieve your set financial goals. Be determined to increase your savings in this New Year and it can be done gradually. Ensure you bank any extra that comes your way, be it a rebate, bonus or salary raise. Prepare for Retirement Retirement is a must and should be prepared for, if you truly want to walk tall or with your head high. More so, you need to ascertain exactly how much you need to retire for proper planning as this will enable you to have a good idea of the amount to save. Also, Planning for retirement is always a brilliant financial goal, and the New Year is the best time to focus on it. Stay Organised And Focused Setting budgets and goals are significant but these efforts are pointless if you do not have a plan to stay on track. Staying organised and focused is a critical step to meeting your financial goals this year. There are numerous tools and budgeting apps out there that can help you stay on track and when it comes to your personal budget, the more organised you are financially, the better. Establish an Emergency Fund Without suitable planning, your budget could fall apart if an emergency arises because everyone is vulnerable to unexpected crunches. To avoid tampering with your budget, it is crucial to establish an emergency fund as this will guard you of any kind of unexpected financial crisis without soliciting for assistance. However, this fund may take a while to establish, but the personal financial freedom you will benefit from having it is worth the wait. Review Your Investment Accounts You are on the right track if you are already saving but if not, you can commence this year as it will help you to be disciplined financially. However, there is need to also evaluate your investment accounts especially if you have a financial advisor and you are perhaps not making the expected returns. Experiencing such signifies that you need to be aware of where your money is going, so that you do not lose it due to lack of knowledge. Besides, there is nothing bad to acquire little education in investment as it will aid you to start making the necessary changes. Advance Your Career This year you need to do something to move ahead career-wise especially if you find your job exciting. You can still discover something you can do, to improve your career stability and to prepare yourself for the next step which certainly will improve your financial status upon completion. Happy New Year!