‘Seyi Makinde, Oyo State Governor, on Sunday, acknowledged that prayers and support of clerics and men of God have kept his administration going so far. The governor, who was speaking at the Thanksgiving Service of the Living Spring Chapel International, Dominion City, Aduloju, Ibadan, said that his government remains grateful to the Chapel headed by Pastor Femi Emmanuel and many other men of God across the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as declaring that the prayers of the clerics have kept and sustained his administration since inception. Kanu: IPOB, Urges Ndigbo To Storm Umuahia High Court On… Dangote, Emefiele Commend Ogun As Investment-Friendly Makinde, while addressing the congregation, noted that it is when men of God participate in politics that the desired changes can occur in the country. He maintained that only the participation of men and women of faith can give Nigeria a perfect and complete nation. Makinde further charged the people to collect their voter cards to be able to vote for the candidates of their choice. He added that his administration has been linking zones of the state together to decongest Ibadan and to spread development across the state. He said, “I want to wish everyone a Happy New Year. We have a lot of things to thank God for and that is why I have come to give thanks to God today. If we can cross from 2021 to 2022, we should be grateful to God. POLL “We thank you for the physical support you give us but it is nothing compared to the spiritual support. Your consistent prayers for us have kept and sustained us. “And don’t stop. Continue to remember this administration in your prayers. “During the sermon, the Pastor said one year is enough to do certain things. Well, this year 2022 is also a year that will define what will happen in Nigeria in the next four years. “So, I want to encourage the children of God to participate in the political process. It is a pivotal year and we need to take that opportunity. “Gone are the days some people will say our votes won’t count. If your votes had not counted in 2019, I would not have become the governor. So, let us encourage everyone to take the game beyond the reach of evil people. SON Laments N200bn Annual Loss To Cyber Criminals, Moves To… 2022: Prophetess Calls For Special Prayers For Nigeria “Personally, this is the 32nd month we have been in government. We were sworn-in in May 2019 and we still have roughly 16 months to go. I have seen that some clerics who love me and Oyo State have been praying that we run for the second term. “But I am standing on the altar of God, if I don’t have any good thing to offer Oyo State further, I won’t like to return. “But if God says we have more work to do, your prayers concerning the second term will be answered. “When we came in 32 months ago, we looked at where we met the state and saw that there were a few things that were either not standing on any foundation at all or standing on a very shaky foundation. “So, we decided to lay another foundation. Before we got into government, there was nothing like OYSADA. We know that agri-business, agro-processing is where we have a comparative and competitive advantage.