UYO – Akwa Ibom State government has, with immediate effect, banned the activities of scrap scavengers in the State. The decision, according to a statement signed by the Secretary to State Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem and made available to newsmen in Uyo on Tuesday follows several incidents of grave infractions. The scavengers, the statement said are also noted to have been involved in acts of criminality and threat to the peaceful inter-ethnic relationships in the state by operators of this enterprise. NSCDC Averts Clash Between Hausa, Yoruba in Kwara Uzodimma Has Refused To Name Sponsors Of Insecurity –… “The action of Government is also in consonance with public sentiments amidst popular complaints against the activities of these scavengers who wantonly violate peoples properties, stealing and assaulting law-abiding citizens in the process. “Recall that sometime in 2021, multiple explosions, causing fatalities, were recorded in Oruk Anam Local Government Area in the course of scavengers sorting out what turned out to be military brand explosives. About four lives were lost in this incident,” the statement read. The government in the statement recalled that on 2nd Jan 2022, scavengers violated the premises of a citizen in Afaha Oku, Uyo Local Government Area in an attempt to cart away properties. “While attempting to prevent the scavengers, the citizen was callously murdered in cold blood while mob action was visited on the scavenger assailants causing the death of the two scavengers. “Sundays appear to be the busiest day for these scavengers who take advantage of mass Church attendance to invade homes and cart away valuables leaving hapless citizens with tales of woe upon their return from Church. POLL “As a responsible Government, we can no longer tolerate the activities of this industry which evidently is in no way adding value to the socio-economic well being of the state but rather escalating tensions and threatening the overall peace and security of the State. “Accordingly, the operations of scrap scavengers in the State is banned forthwith. Violators of this ban will be apprehended and dealt with according to the law,” it read. In a related development, the Akwa Ibom State government has reiterated the ban on Motor Cycle operations within Uyo metropolis and environs, with a warning that the flagrant defiance on the ban will henceforth attract a penalty. “This ban order is hereby reiterated with a warning that defaulters stand to lose not only their motorcycles if apprehended, but also risk being prosecuted and possibly sentenced,” the statement cautioned. The government has therefore alerted Security Agencies to activate an enforcement structure to effect the directives.