***To Initiate Improved Welfare Deal For Journalists, Youths, Farmers A frontline governorship aspirant under the platform of the ruling  All Progressives Congress(APC), Otunba Demola Popoola has submitted his nomination  and expression forms at the party headquarters  in Abuja. Otunba Popoola who was the first  aspirant to obtain the forms declared that God has anointed him to be next governor of Ekiti. Kwara APC: Can Adamu-led Committee Reconcile Lai Mohammed,… 2023: North-Central’s Allegations Of Marginalisation Untrue –… Fielding questions from reporters, the APC governorship who acknowledged  the media roles in nation building and development also promised to  champion journalists cause when he emerged as governor. Specifically, ODEP who arrived the APC APC Secretariat with pomp and celebrations by his admirers said he was confident of winning the ticket of the party. The leading aspirant  explained that he had commenced the implementations of some of his lofty policies and programme  for Ekiti people before he assumes power. According to him, the gesture was to demonstrate his genuine commitment to the full implementation  of his electoral promises. “We have been training and empowering the youths and women in Ekiti .We have also move a step further by give  them working tools and startup packs. I am a successful business and I want to develop many young minds to be like me.” POLL “I want to start by thanking the media for the  great and delicate roles you are playing to project inform the people and  keep the country together. You are making huge sacrifice in the discharge of your duties .I know you are being  poorly remunerated but I can assure you that I will champion your cause when become the governor. You deserve better treatment from your various employers and government”, Popoola promised. On his policy, ODEP promised to invest heavily in the agriculture sector inorder to ensure food sufficiency and engaged many young graduates in  modern agribusiness enterprises.