OSOGBA – A religious group, The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has passionately appealed to the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and his successor in office, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola to resolve their political differences for the sake of Allah within the next seven days. The group in a statement issued by its’ director and founder, Professor Ishaq Akintola copy of which was made available to newsmen on Monday, 3rd January 2022 noted that the admonition became necessary because the feud between the two political gladiators has affected lost of individuals, families and groups. The group said the rift has become deeper that it must be settled within seven days if indeed they are true Muslims who can settle any score for the sake of Allah. 2023: APC Working On One Lie That Will Return PDP To Power… Delta 2023: Gbagi Kicks Against Candidature From Delta South According to him, “The rift between the Minister of Internal Affairs, Rauf Aregbesola and the Governor of Osun State, Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola has been in the public arena for more than two years now. All efforts made by stakeholders, including Muslim leaders, to settle the feud have proved abortive. “We have decided to wade into the squabble because Muslims in the South West will be the worst hit if the rift is allowed to continue ad infinitum. Already, it has become a major embarrassment to Muslim leaders in the sub-region. Muslim youths are also entertaining fears over the ugly development. Apart from this, MURIC’s office has been inundated with calls for our intervention. MURIC’s staunch belief in dialogue and its commitment to it over the years is also another cassu belli of our intervention. “To cap the edifice, the Muslim Rights Concern is deeply concerned because Allah gave specific instruction to Muslims regarding this type of development. This instruction is in the Glorious Qur’an 49:10. The verse describes Muslims as ‘brothers’ (innama al-mu’minuun ikhwatun) and commands members of the Ummah to intervene in disputes for the purpose of reconciling two feuding Muslim brothers (faslihuu bayna akhwaykunm).