ABAKALIKI – Governor David Umahi has denied having any Property belonging to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in his possession. The Governor urged the PDP to leave him alone and make efforts to look for their Secretariat if any exist. On the detention of the PDP spokesman in Ebonyi, Umahi said Mr. Nwoba is on the web of the police and the court for defaulting a valid law and had nothing to do with him. Employment Irregularities: Umahi Suspends Provost, Bursar Of… Umahi Condemns Deadly Community Clash In Ebonyi He was reacting to a statement credited to the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, asking him to unseal the Secretariat of PDP and release detained spokesman of the Party in the State. Recall that High Chief Raymond Dokpesi on behalf of Atiku met with Ebonyi State PDP stakeholders on Thursday at Salt lake hotel Abakaliki, to seek their support for the Atiku’s presidential ambition, wherein he made the statement which was credited to Mr. Atiku in some section of the media. Umahi who spoke in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Francis Nwaze, which was made available to Journalists on Saturday, said he left the PDP without a pin belonging to the party. The Governor who noted that he was aware that PDP was still missing his exit, urged them to accept their fate as he had since moved on in his Progressive march to eldorado. Full text of the statement reads, “Our attention has been drawn to a publication in some sections of the media credited to the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar in which he urged Governor David Umahi, FNSE, FNATE, to unseal the PDP Secretariat and release detained Spokesman of the Party in the State. POLL “From the foregoing, we have chosen to make the following clarifications: That the Ebonyi State Government is aware that the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Ebonyi State has a shelter in one Green Lake hotel in Abakaliki from where it operates. “That the People’s Democratic Party in Ebonyi State should make efforts to first find the location of its Secretariat without involving the focused administration of Governor David Umahi, that is, if it has a Secretariat as we are not aware of where they have permanent Secretariat in their name. “That when Governor David Umahi left the party in November 2020, he did not leave with even a pin belonging to the Party. “That so long as we understand the continued reference to Governor Umahi by the PDP long after his exit, is a sign that the Party misses his astute leadership acumen, we appeal to the Party to please find a soft landing as Governor Umahi has since moved on in his Progressive march to eldorado. “That the said Nwoba Chika to the best of our knowledge is in the web of the Police and Court for defaulting a valid law. State Police Good, But It Has To Be Regulated —Umahi Ohanaeze Applauds Umahi For Launching Ebubeagu In Ebonyi “That we are constrained to make further comments on the case of Nwoba Chika hence; his case is now pending in a court of competent jurisdiction. “That the embattled Nwoba and his political party have the leeway to prove themselves innocent through the Court process instead of tempting the State Government to meddle in contempt of the Court. “That the general public should discountenance the jaundiced publication which is a ploy to ventilate external sympathy to the remnants of the House of Saul in Ebonyi State.”