Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have raided a relax­ation centre, popularly called Garden in Abuja and arrested six persons for selling drug cookies and noodles. A statement by Femi Babafemi, Director, Media & Advocacy, NDLEA Headquar­ters, Abuja, said following credi­ble intelligence, operatives raid­ed the Garden at Wuse Zone 5 behind Shoprite, where a lady Rachael Famiyesun, 29, who deals in drug cookies was ar­rested along with her salesgirl, Stella Sunday, 20. It said beside the cookies, they were also caught selling bottles of black currant drink popularly called Zobo prepared with cannabis. “Another business opera­tor in the Garden, Moses Obi, 30, was also arrested with his salesgirl, Aisha Abdulrahman, 19, for selling Indomie noodles prepared with cannabis. A bar­man, Ahonye Jonah, 31, who works with the owner of the Garden, was equally arrested while one of their customers, 38-year-old Ngozi Justina Emel­ogu, was also picked during the raid on Wednesday, January 19. Two days earlier, officers of the FCT command of the agency equally raided the Zuba Yam Market, where a drug dealer, Haruna Hassan, was arrested with 19.3kg cannabis”, the state­ment noted. Stop Inflicting Hardship On Nigerians, NDYCN Cautions FG Foreign Group To Renovate Olumirin Water Fall To Boost Osun… Meanwhile, attempts by drug traffickers to export 1.53 kilogrammes of cocaine hidden inside hair cream to London, and another 880 grammes of cocaine concealed inside syn­thetic hair to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, as well as 3 grammes of cocaine and 5grammes of can­nabis to Cyprus packed inside locally made shoes through two major courier companies in La­gos have been foiled by narcotic officers attached to the firms. “In Edo State, operatives on Tuesday, January 18 intercept­ed a Toyota Camry car with Reg. No. FKJ 897 DG (LAGOS) loaded with 360.4kg cannabis sativa heading to Abuja and arrested the driver, Nurudeen Subaru, 42, in Auchi, Etsako West area of the state. The fol­lowing day, the Edo command officers also evacuated 111kg cannabis stored in a bush at Iruekpen, Esan West LGA while 276 compressed blocks of the same substance weigh­ing 248.4kg were recovered from one Austin Okongwu (a.k.a Igwe), 45, at Agenebode, Etsako East while moving the drug in a Lexus saloon car with reg. no. ABC 583 MJ (ABUJA)”, Babafemi said. Also on Wednesday, January 19, the agency said a raid on a drug joint in the Edo State cap­ital, Benin, led to the arrest of three drug dealers: Kelly Ogbe­bor, 38; Daniel Oviawe, 35, and Kelly Kenmakonam, 29 with different quantities of cocaine and heroin seized from them. In Plateau State, attempt by 29-year-old Ifeoma Godwin Sade, wife of a drug dealer, If­eanyi Onyeasi, 34, to swallow 12 grammes of cocaine found in their house at Agingi, Rukuba road, Jos, during an arrest oper­ation was scuttled by operatives who retrieved the drug from her throat on Sunday, January 16. Also recovered from them was a monetary exhibit of N234, 650. “Different quantities of cannabis, methamphetamine and tramadol were seized from two suspects, Aliyu Abdullahi and Ishaya Emmanuel, when a commercial bus with reg. number GME711YX bringing them from Lagos to Yola, Ad­amawa State was intercepted along Abuja road by officers of the Plateau State command on Wednesday, January 19.”