SYLVESTER ENOGHASE If there is any effort that has singled out the management of BUA Group from that of other Conglomerates in the country, it is unarguably that of its push towards the rejuvenation of the manufacturing sector, and its quest to ensure that Nigeria’s industrialisation and competitiveness come into global reckoning. Unarguably to place the Group on a platform that would enable it to effortlessly achieve its purpose it is established to serve, which is invariably industrialisation, BUA Foods PLC, which is one of the subsidiaries was recently listed on the Main Board of The Nigerian Exchange (“NGX”). Infrastructural Deficiency Resulted To Nigeria’s Low Level Of… Golden Penny Celebrates 12 Days Of Christmas Campaign With… As gathered, “BUA Foods has satisfied the listing requirements of The Exchange and obtained relevant regulatory approvals, and as a result, BUA Foods is now listed in the consumer goods sector of the Exchange, with the ticker “BUAFoods”. A total of 18,000,000,000,000 (18 billion) shares were admitted to trading, representing the total issued share capital of the Company. The listing by introduction means that the shares of existing BUA Foods’ shareholders have been listed without an additional public sale of shares. Henceforth, all BUA Foods shareholders will be free to trade their shares on the Exchange. Abdul Samad Rabiu, CON, Chairman of BUA Group, while commenting on the listing, said: “I am delighted that yet another member of BUA Group has been listed on the NGX. “This shows our commitment to national economic growth and support for the food security drive of the nation in alignment with global sustainability goals.” “We appreciate the continued support of our stakeholders – financial advisers, stock brokers, suppliers, customers, consumers and members of staff. POLL “In particular, we cherish our host communities with whom we continue to entrench very strong and mutually beneficial relationships.” Engr. Ayodele Abioye, Acting Managing Director, BUA Foods, also said: “the listing today marks a new beginning for a Company playing a critical role in the FMCG industry, one that’s highly committed to nourishing lives with all our product offerings. “The listing resonates with our commitment to sustainable growth as we nourish and enrich the lives of consumers by delivering high quality products at competitive prices. This listing creates an avenue for everyone to be a part of the success story of BUA Foods and benefit from the growth opportunities ahead.” “It is expedient to note in this context that for over three decades that the company has maintained an unbroken streak of year-on-year growth, establishing ultra-modern production facility across multiple locations. Not only that, BUA Foods remains a consistent leading player in the Food and FMCG industry with strong reputation for exceeding customers and consumers expectations with high-quality products. Thus, BUA Foods has continued to invest in modern technology for efficient food production, innovating and expanding with strategic partners across the value chain even as it is also well positioned to leverage significant export potentials across West Africa and the larger African continent. FG Launches $73m Intervention Fund To Support Sugar Plantation… Why AfDB Approved $210m Loan For Agro- Industrial Processing… Abioye, while giving an overview of the foods industry and where BUA Foods currently stands said, “We play crucial roles in the foods sector and we are one of the big players. “We have footprints in five key businesses, talking about sugar, flour, pasta, rice, and edible oil. We have investments in these businesses in various parts of the country. “BUA Group has been in existence for over three decades now, with business interests in various sectors, one of which is agribusiness and food processing. “We have business interests in mining, oil and gas and other areas. Today, we are talking about bringing all the five food business divisions together under one umbrella to be called BUA Foods PLC. This is because of the opportunities we have seen ahead of us having built the brand to the extent to which we see it now. We want participation by more investors, local and across the continent, and the world”. One obvious strategy of BUA Group’s pathways to ensuring a quick reset of the Nigerian economy for accelerated recovery and growth was its recent agreement with Wartsila OY of Finland for the construction of a 70megawatts dual-fuel power plant for the BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 in Sokoto state, North-West Nigeria. Being a Group that acknowledges the importance of power in industrialisation, its leadership recently revealed that it was looking to boost its production capacity in Nigeria over the next three years with new plants in the works, and added that this will be the second plant to be constructed by Wartsila for BUA Cement with the first being the BUA Cement sokoto power plant that was commissioned alongside the plant in November 2021. Samad Rabiu, Chairman of BUA Cement Plc, who signed on behalf of the cement producer, said:” BUA Cement will continue to invest strategically in the West African Cement industry to enable it to bridge the huge infrastructure and housing deficit”. According to Rabiu, “BUA Cement is happy and pleased with the progress that Wartsila made with the construction of the power plant we initially purchased for our BUA Cement Sokoto Line 3 which we expect will begin commissioning by November alongside the power plant. “We believe Wartsila will bring the same level of efficiency, technical expertise and professionalism to bear in ensuring that this new power plant for the 3million Mtpa BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 will be completed on schedule by the end of next year as we look towards bringing BUA’s total capacity in its sokoto plant to 8 million metric tonnes by early 2023 and 17million metric tonnes across all its plants by the same time.” On his part, Energy Business Director at Wartsila West Africa, Mark Thiriet said Wartsila was proud to partner with BUA Group on this BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 project. He said that Wartsila will bring its technical expertise and globally recognized technology to bear in bringing the project to completion. It would be recalled that BUA Cement Plc is Nigeria’s second largest cement company and the largest producer in its North- West, South-South, and South- East regions. Given its role towards industrialisation in Nigeria, it is not surprising that it was honored and announced by Marketing Edge as “Outstanding Indigenous Conglomerate of the Decade” by prestigious West African Marketing publication at its annual Marketing Awards ceremony in Lagos in the last quarter of last year, 2021. BUA in a statement thanked the organisers for recognising BUA’s hard work, growth and contributions to the development of Nigeria’s economy in the last 10 years through innovative and high-quality products, exceptional service delivery and social impact. It also noted that BUA, in the last decade had improved Nigeria’s economic capacity by investing billions of dollars in building cement factories, as well as through various investments in the sugar, real estate, oil and gas, flour and pasta sectors that have contributed greatly to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It would be recalled that BUA in the last decades carried out numerous Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) interventions in the areas of health, education, infrastructure, sports and social development and has remained committed to the development of its host communities. According to the statement, “We want to thank Marketing Edge for this award. This award is an acknowledgement of the hard work, and commitment of our employees in unlocking opportunities for the development of Nigeria and Africa. This award will spur us to do more in the coming years.