Hon Sam Onuigbo, member of the House of Representatives representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/ Umuahia South Federal Constituency, in this interview with TONY EZIMAKOR, bares his mind on a number of issues including accusation by Nigerians that 9th National Assembly is a rubber stamp assembly, Electoral Act Bill, restructuring and other salient issues. Excerpts. Many Nigerians have dubbed the 9th Assembly as “rubber stamp assembly “and this is on account of the disposition of both chambers to indulge the executive. How do you respond to this perception? It is early, very early in the day to conclude. This assembly still has up to 17 months. It has to be recognized that the life of this assembly will expire in June 2023. We have 17 months to go , so it is early for you to draw that conclusion about the 9th assembly. Because if you see a different situation tomorrow, will you still see the assembly as a rubber stamp? It is early to reach that conclusion. So for me, it amounts to jumping the gun by concluding that this assembly is a rubber stamp when the life of the assembly has not ended. SMEs: Ugwuanyi Empowers Enugu Youths Through Cyber Security… Oyetola Approves Grading Of 345 Rural Roads In Osun But the challenge to many Nigerians is the rate at which approvals and granted for loan requests by the President. This has not happened in history of the past assemblies. What is your take on that? It is rare, no doubt, but let’s situate this problem, I’m a member of the legislature, a member of the 8th assembly and 9th assembly. We have to situate this problem so that we don’t unwittingly create the impression that one is trying to be defensive. I want us to be realistic, because part of the problem the 9th assembly has is a wrong perception of the activities and functions of National Assembly from outside. The perception is very wrong and I can tell you that because I am involved practically,as a community Leader, a grassroots politician, as one who is in touch with the people. I am not a helicopter politician, I am really down there in the village because I’m a village person. Forget about that one has had the opportunity to work with international organization,the USAid, been to Havard and other places. By and large I’m a village person who likes to go to the farm, drink palmwine and deal with community issues. So the perception out there about the National Assembly is a totally wrong one. I agree with the Senate President in his recent presentation that the perception of the National Assembly from the outside is bad. And I am putting it out today to say that it is only when there is need for the national assembly to pass laws that addresses a need of the people or when there is an emergency, like when the issue of doctrine of necessity came up, that is when the people remember that the national assembly is important, that’s when they tell you go the national assembly but once that is done, they recede to that permanent perception of the national assembly not being important. I do not blame people very much,the reason being that we are yet to climb out, we are yet to crawl out of the military mentality that so occupied the Political terrain for a very long time, where issues were treated with military dispatch, decrees were promulgated at the middle of the night even decisions of the court were upturned by decrees promulgated the following morning. That’s what we have lived with for decades before we got here. POLL We are also not so lucky, that when we started with the practice of democracy in 1999, we also had a President with a military background who even set the stage for some of the challenges the national assembly currently had, in terms of creating perception, coming on television and accusing them of corruption and things like that. The thing stuck, the media didn’t help the situation either. The media largely bought into that narrative, heightened it, sustained it over the period. like I said go and cross-check,it is when an emergency requiring the national assembly to Intervene with the laws that they are constitutionally empowered to make for the good governance of the country, that is when people realize that we have an arm of government that make people describe us as a democracy. Without the national assembly, you have always had the executive that was making the law in a military regime ,promulgating decrees, implementing them and having the judiciary attempting to interpret the decrees. So it is only now we have the national assembly and we have been able now for 21 years going to nearly a quarter of a century. It is only now the public is trying to extricate itself from the overdose of the military hangover. I’m afraid that the narrative you are giving, kind of blend with the suggestion that the national assembly is also struggling under the same military hangover, especially that we have a military man in charge ,and hence whatever he asks in terms of loan,the NASS approves. Is that the case? No .that is not the case. Let me now explain this. The circumstances are not the same. This government have had two recessions in quick succession. This government now has also embarked on major infrastructural development. We have to juxtapose some of the accomplishments of this Government against these things in terms of the loans Now why would I want a situation where future generations would be enslaved. I would not want that. But I do know that if you want to move in and turn things around, you have to develop your Infrastructure. I come from a community where it is very difficult for people to access the farm, we have the largest farmland in my Local Government Area. But we don’t have road and I have been struggling to get that road done. For instance the road from Umuahia- Ikwuano- Ikot Ekpene has been in a sorry state and that is a critical infrastructure. And that is the road we use to convey palm produce, convey oil prospecting and oil servicing equipment to certain section of the Niger Delta. Because when you pass through that road you get to Ikot Abasi, you go Eleme in Rivers State. That’s the road that goes to Cross River State, then when you get to Cross River, you are talking about carrying goods from Calabar Port, from the export processing zone carrying goods from major cement producers in that zone. In fact, that road goes up to the Cameroons. N10b Fraud: Afegbua Denies Withdrawing Petition Against Secondus ICT In Nigeria: Reps Member Pays Tributes To Etiebet Any time that road becomes impassible, all the economic activities that are done within that zone suffer. So if you borrow money to fix that road,may be you may have heard that we are going to benefit from the road tax credit Scheme of the federal government which has been granted to NNPC . It might interest you to know that I worked hard with the then Minister of Power,Works and Housing, now Minister of Works and Housing for that road to be awarded in 2019 . But the road could not be executed because of paucity of funds . I have to go back to the ministry, write several letters. And I now want to use the opportunity to thank the Minister and the President for transferring the road to the NNPC road tax credit Scheme. And there is the 2nd Niger Bridge that has been on the drawing board for decades, that has cost over N300 billion. That project by God’s grace would be commissioned in April next year. In terms of what has potential to help you build your Economy so that you can build the Economy in different areas and leapfrog to the next stage, you may go ahead and borrow in order to overcome a situation. But get it clear, that I said, yes I am a Nigerian and would not want to see a situation where future generations enslaved. However, for you to tackle a number of challenges, recession now and then, you need to have this kind of access. Does that justify NASS approval of every loan request from the executive to the extent that 90% of the country’s revenue is now used to service the huge debt? I think the other duty we have as legislature is to critically examine the applications for loan and then improve on monitoring them. Whether we need the loans, sure we do. But then approvals is one thing, judicious use of the loan facility is another. I’m seeing signs that the loans are judiciously applied, I have not done any audit though. It appears the 9th assembly is burdened with giving approvals and appropriations while quite little is heard about the oversight functions of the assembly as was the case in the past. How would you rate the oversight activities of say the House this term? In my view I would say we need more time . Also I would say government should reassess the envelope system. We need more time to look at what MDAs are pushing for approval. I’m sure you saw that a number of MDAs, and that’s what I was telling you about perception. The perception is that we are not doing anything. Even when NASS uncover monumental fraud by MDAs, they don’t get the credit. With more time, we look closer at the request by MDAs, because from my experience here as ranking member of the House, the more you look closely, you see a lot of things. Some of them when they bring their proposals, when you raise posers ,they struggle, they are not able to explain what they put there. I have seen situations like that . What do you do at that point when you notice deliberate discrepancies? What normally happens is that you either turn it down or you ask that the proposal be straightened. We are not here to ambush anybody or MDAs. We want the Agencies to do the right thing, use their resources judiciously and appropriately for the good of those who have used the power of their thumbs to elevate us to these high positions. But you know as well as I do that some the MDAs tend not to cooperate with NASS. recall the days of the 8th assembly, that the leadership of the national assembly had to go to the President to complain that some MDAs were not coming forward to submit there budget.That led the president to embargo all travels unless concerned MDAs have presented their budget. I don’t think that directive would have come if it had not been established that some MDAs were uncooperative. Again the idea of reshuffling things in the envelope system, repeating some budget items is something that has to be overhauled as we build on this democracy. Would it require some kind of law to sanction MDAs that deliberately seek to mislead or fraudulently repeat budget items? You have been using the word deliberate, but they can tell you, ‘oh no ,it is not deliberate”. The truth is that we have caught a number of them and the media talk about them. You see uncovered monumental, questionable entries by these MDAs. And of course when the Auditor General’s Report comes out, you see many of them struggle to explain what they have done with some of their resources. There’s a limitation to what NASS can do, yes NASS is the first arm of government. that perhaps is not clear to many people because the executive spends all the money and does the budget estimate. Even when things are uncovered, do you have national assembly police to arrest and prosecute them? That’s what I was asking, can’t the heads of such MDAs be arrested and prosecuted ? If it is established. Have you asked yourself why some heads of MDAs are making explanations to ICPC and EFCC? It is on account of some of these discoveries .What is your outlook, the prognosis for the year vis-a-vis 2021? We will continue to build on those areas we have identified to have potential to help us plan better, make the economy more sustainable and achieve the growth we want to see in our GDP. I have told you here that this Government has unfortunately had two recessions. Our prayers now is that since this is a fossil fuel dependent economy, may we not experience the kind of turbulence and instability that characterized global activities in the last two years. Covid-19 came and ravaged the global economy, before that we were struggling with poor petroleum price. So we subject to economic variables from the global market, whether they are coming from oil or a pandemic such we are grappling with at the moment, you cannot tell clearly what the future holds. However, the outlook of this from my point of view shows that this nation is determined to make life better for its citizens. Does that positive outlook touch on the security situation because whatever one does without plugging the security situation amounts to pouring water into a basket, don’t you think? Yes security is a challenge. And anybody who pretends about it is not being sincere. But I think that if the Government continues to do positive things that affect the lives of the citizens, engage people. Who wants to be a bandit? It’s a risky business for those who go into it. What I’m saying is that if we have those who went into Boko Haram and now are surrendering and want to be rehabilitated , it means perhaps the rough life associated with banditry is not as profitable and comfortable as where you have an orderly way of life. So if the approach by government goes well, if what those political thinkers wrote and put it in practice, you see that you have a government for government to protect you while you pay tax and be of good behavior. Otherwise it will be every man to himself, a life that is short and brutish. So if you running a government, there’s no way you can relax when things are not working. I can tell you that Mr President is concerned, he sees the challenge. Everyone too is concerned, I’m concerned because in my community now, if the young people begin to carry gun and run riot, there’s no way I will be happy because I am a village man. The primary purpose of government is security of lives and property. So It is important, we have abiding duty to prevent any action that will turn us in the wrong direction. We are not a failed state but we have to do our best to stop the slide. What’s your take on restructuring and power devolution I support devolution of powers, I also support Restructuring. Why? I have been able to take a close look at rate of development of the country from when we had no oil to when we have oil , to the changes that occurred to the 1963 constitution, how we moved violence from a federal system to a semi unitary system, where the exclusive legislative list has many more items than we had prior to the 1963 republican constitution. That has again violently altered the rate of development and the focus of development. Therefore there’s need for restructuring in such a way to allow the full potential of different communities and regions to come to bear. Cast mind back to 1955 when the then Eastern Region House of Assembly passed a law for the establishment of a university on 18th of 1963, which eventually became university of Nigeria , Nsukka. That 1955 there was no oil, Oloibiri was struck in 1956 but then it was not producing oil at commercial level to seriously alter the income of the region . Everything was dependent on agriculture, palmoil, palm kernel, cashewnut , cocoa , rubber, those were the things the Eastern Region produced. The marketing board oversaw that , that law further specified that the marketing board should be setting aside 500 thousand pounds to ensure smooth take off of the university, it was not based on oil. Next let’s talk about the western region, they joined to build the university of Ice, now Obafemi Awolowo university, the same thing for northern Region, they had their university as well. So this way they were able to develop, provide scholarship, an orderly growth and there was some kind of healthy competition among the regions but that was altered, violently as I said when the constitution was changed. Yes , in the days of Aguiyi Ironsi, he was the one who brought decree 34. But then people protested the centralization, that they wanted regional structure.