…..As Ayu To Lead Ekiti PDP Reconciliation ABUJA – Barely 48 hours after the Ekiti Primary Election held on Wednesday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday dismissed any post-primary crisis. This is coming barely two days, after the former governor of the state and an aspirant, Segun Oni rejected the outcome of the PDP Ekiti state primary election. Gov Emmanuel Wants Former Aspirants To Support Ekiti PDP… Bamidele, Adeyeye, 5 Others Call For Cancellation Of APC… Addressing journalists shortly after the meeting of the Iyorcha Ayu-led Ekiti Primary Election Appeal Committee held at the party’s headquarters on Friday, the spokesman of the party, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, said that the party has a way of coming round after such a contest. He said: “PDP is an organic party. The party has a way of coming round after such a contest. The winner has started reaching out to others but the party will start the process of reconciliation. The unity will be there.” Ologunagba disclosed that the National Chairman of the party, Ayu will lead other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) to resolve all issues that might arise from Wednesday’s governorship primary election in the state. He explained that the NWC will be much more involved in the campaign for PDP candidate, Olabisi Kolawole, ahead of the June 16 governorship election. He disclosed that the winner of the election has kick-started the reconciliation process by meeting with other aspirants. POLL The PDP spokesman disclosed that only Senator Biodun Olujimi sent a communication notifying the party of her withdrawal from the contest hours before the primary election. According to him, Olujimi hinged her withdrawal on the complaint that she was disenfranchised by the mode of election adopted by the party which left her with a few delegates. He further disclosed that few other communication came in after the panel had concluded its meeting. He said: “At the meeting, the Appeal Panel reviewed the primary election and commended the Election Committee headed by Governor Udom Emmanuel for a thorough job, conducting free, fair and credible election. “The panel congratulated the winner, Hon. Olabisi Kolawole. Ekiti Guber: Bamidele Weeps, Concludes Campaigns In Hometown PDP Primaries: Olujimi Pulls Out Of Ekiti Governorship Race “The panel acknowledged a notification by Senator Olujimi about her withdrawal before the election. “The Appeal Panel appeal to all in Ekiti to come together so that the rescue mission to take over Nigeria starts from Ekiti in June.” Asked why the party hurriedly conducted the appeal, Ologunagba explained that according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), there is time frame given by the commission to conduct everything pertaining to the election.