ISAAC ASABOR The need for new partnership to encourage youth who are demanding more equitable, just and progressive opportunities and solutions have made most business leaders to collaborate in operating in an environment of rapid change. This sustainable growing influence of strategic partnerships between the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) and Jobbermann to boost job creation, therefore, have scaled-up some innovative solutions capable of addressing multifaceted unemployment challenges faced by youths in Nigeria. NACCIMA Tasks Women On Business Development APEDETT 2022 Investments Conference: We Will Adopt Malaysian,… This is why NECA, in partnership with Jobbermann and others at the recent 2022 ‘Job, Career and Employability Fair’, admitted that the private sector plays a vital role in the Nigerian economy in terms of revenue generation, strategic partnerships, job creation, investment facilitation, and trade promotion, among others. This year’s programme, with the theme ‘Promoting Employability, Skills Development and Decent Work’, took place on Wednesday in Lagos in partnership with over 20 companies that were willing to absorb over 2,000 youths that attended the fair if they met the standards expected of them. Mr. Taiwo Adeniyi, President of NECA, in his opening speech, said the fair was aimed at reducing the spiraling unemployment rate, promoting employability and job creation, promotion of skills development and decent work, and facilitation of access to a large pool of talent to employers in one location thus reducing recruitment costs. On the benefits that were inherent in the fair for participants who were majorly youths, Adeniyi said they would have direct access to a large pool of employers and global brands, free soft skills course and certification. “Aimed at solving Nigeria’s rising youth unemployment rate and skills mismatch, it is, therefore, imperative to ensure an enabling operating environment for private investors in the economy to boost job creation,” he said. POLL Adeniyi explained: “As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goal 8 we are dedicated to ensure the provision of Decent Jobs to eliminate poverty in line with SDG goal No.1.” He added that participants would be exposed to On-the-Spot Assessment and Career Guidance Sessions as well as have exposure to international job opportunities through the Nigeria-German Job Centre, and the match project sponsored by the European Union (EU) and the National Electronic Labour Exchange (NELEX) of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment. The NECA President, who tasked Federal Government and other stakeholders on urgent need to find lasting solution to the worsening unemployment in the country, said that the challenge of unemployment, job creation and skills for jobs to become a reality for more people is accentuated as population increases and more youths leave schools. He said the aim of our partnership with Jobbermann and others at the 2022 Job Fair was to ensure that as youth employment remained one of the defining challenges of our time, addressing youth employment means finding possible solutions to young people who are seeking a decent and productive job or are discouraged by the current labour market prospects. “Such solutions should address both labour supply (through education, skills development and training) and labour demand through job creation and an enabling environment for entrepreneurship in job fair of this nature.” Alerzo On The Lead Of Emerging B2B Ecommerce Trend Interswitch Supports NITDA’s National Privacy Week, Promotes… Adeniyi, who recalled that Nigeria is the seventh most populated country in the world with an estimated population of 211.4 million people, advised Nigerian youth to be equipped with technical and vocational skills, which are in demand in the national and international labour market. He added that Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa with a youthful population of age 0-35years at 43per cent. He lamented that unemployment issue in the country has further been worsened by the fact that some graduates churned out by Nigerian universities are not employable. He said: “The case on our hand is not that we do not have graduates, but they are not employable. For example in my place, we have a space that we have been looking for a replacement for the past two and a half years. “NECA is concerned about the number of youths being churned our every year without jobs and due to no fault of the youth. “He stated that the case was more complex when a graduate has to resort to menial jobs like selling snacks or biscuits in a little kiosk, wondering what the future holds for such graduates. He said: “We have to show concern and that is why in the past we started a project with Industrial Training Fund (ITF) for graduates to help themselves. We also have another entrepreneurship programme through the Internet. “The sad aspect of our educational system is when a graduate is not employable. The project is to help in that way and provide youths with the opportunity to interface with companies.” He explained that youths at the fair would have the opportunity of career consulting on how to develop their CV and be in the database of the companies. He emphasised that if Nigeria must at the shortest possible time fast-track its development trajectory, concerted efforts must be given to technical skills development, which lays the foundation for national development, economic diversification and growth. “The transformation going on in emerging economies and developed countries of the world could be traced to deliberate policies and support for youth empowerment, technical and vocational skills,” he said. But an observer at the programme, who craves anonymity, is of the view that youth could be a positive force for development when provided with the knowledge and opportunities they need to thrive. He argued that from statistics, there are 1.2 billion young people aged 15 to 24 years, accounting for 16 per cent of the global population. “By 2030—the target date for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that make up the 2030 Agenda—the number of youth is projected to grow by seven per cent, to nearly 1.3 billion. “Findings show that the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has made the job market more challenging for youths,” he argued. It would be recalled that NECA has consistently been contributing its quota to the promotion of employability and decent work in Nigeria. Its first Employability and Job Fair was held in January 2020, and has been reputed to be an event that hosted 30 Employers and 4,000 youths/graduates, even as it also served as a unique opportunity for employers to meet, interact with and interview talents. As gathered, NECA was unarguably compelled to embark on the annual event on the grounds of the deplorable rate of unemployment in the country. It recalled: “In 2020, there were unprecedented global employment losses of 114 million jobs, relative to 2019. In the views of both the United Nations Development Programme, (UNDP), and ILO, unemployment breeds disease, youth restiveness, poverty, gangsterism and other forms of criminality, with dire socioeconomic consequences for Nations.” Worrisome enough to the association is the prevalent and deepening mismatch between academic curriculum and industrial needs which have unarguably broaden the challenges. Eminent personalities that graced the event were Mr. Nnamdi Enuah, who represented the Hon. Minister, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Engr. Chris Nwabueze Ngige, as well as Shakiru Lawal, Country Human Resources Manager, Nestle, Chuma Nwankwo, Chairman, Committee of Human Resources and Learning Experts, NECA and Celine Oni, Director, Learning and Development, NECA.