The Akwa Ibom Automobile vehicle assembly plant is 99 percent completed, and has been scheduled for inauguration in May this year. Akan Okon, the Commissioner for Economic Development and Ibom Deep Sea Port, who stated this while briefing journalists in Uyo, said contrary to misinformation, the plant is ready and would be commissioned on schedule. The plant which is located in Itu Local Government Area of the state is a joint venture involving an Israeli firm, some investors and the Akwa Ibom government. IFC Set To Invest $3m In Nigerian Tech Startups FG’s N10/Litre Excise Duty On Carbonated Drinks Will Be Counter… He said all the components needed for the plant to take off were ready. He expressed regret that the majority of the people confuse a vehicle assembly plant with a vehicle manufacturing plant adding that both plants are not the same. “Everything to enable the automobile assembly plant to carry out assembling of vehicles is ready. There is a big difference between a vehicle assembling plant and a vehicle manufacturing plant. ‘They are not the same. The assembling plant will receive Completely Knockdown Components (CKD) and couple them and for the Semi Knocked Down components, you don’t need any other equipment than all the cranes that are on the ground. When these components arrive from Israel, all the plant will do is fix them. All that we are waiting for is for the CKDs and SKDs to come from Israel,’’ he said. According to him, many people mistake it for a car manufacturing plant and are expecting to see a lot of robots in motion, noting that such components only apply to a vehicle manufacturing plant and not for an assembling plant. POLL He said almost half of the job has been done in Israel as what is coming to Itu in Akwa Ibom are just components that are to be assembled so that it comes as a vehicle. He assured that plans by the state government to send the first batch of trainees to Israel to understudy and acquire skills on how to assemble vehicles so as to train other artisans are still on course blaming the delay in the departure of the would be trainees on the lockdown that happened in Israel due to the surge in COVID-19 cases. He, however, reiterated the determination of Governor Udom Emmanuel to complete and commission