Research has shown that men play an important role to promote contraceptive use, prevent unintended pregnancies, and improve family planning policies and service delivery programmes. Lately, many African women played critical roles in family planning programmes as they bear the brunt of child birth. But increasingly discussions are beginning to shift to the need for men to be actively involved in spousal contraception usage. Indeed, it is believed that this method would enhance greater gender equity and sexual reproductive health objectives. The thinking by a school of thought is that men can be the cornerstone of a couple’s contraceptive use and gender transformation. In Nigeria, according to a survey, men who support contraception are five times more likely to have spouses who desire to use contraception. Involving men in family planning programmes can enhance spousal communication and improve gender equitable attitudes. Also, a statistic by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division, 2015 -A Global Contraceptive Prevalence based on the response of married women from ages 15 to 49 confirmed low use of contraception by men. It showed that only 21 percent of men went for the direct male method – vasectomy, male Condom, withdrawal method, while other traditional methods were put at one percent. Menace Of Toxic Dust On Orlu-Owerri Road Of Ambition And National Interest Furthermore, the same data on the methods used by women revealed that 75 percent of women used female methods- female sterilisation, pill, injectable, implant, IUD). In addition, the data shows the Global Prevalence of each option and the percentage needed. For withdrawal method, 3 percent, male condoms eight percent, Standard Days Method 0.6 percent and male sterilisation 2.4 percent. This further revealed that, men’s knowledge of contraceptive methods has increased in a number of countries and that male ages 35 to 45 have the most knowledge of contraceptive methods. Similarly, in another report by Kerry Macquarie et al, 2015, Men with primary education reported knowing 9 contraceptive methods, while men with higher education reported knowing about 11 more contraceptive methods than men with no education. To this end, reproductive health experts have said in different forums that there is a need to close the knowledge gap of men in family planning education in order to increase contraception uptake in Nigeria. A 2015 National Demographic Health Survey (NDHS) report revealed that men who are better educated, have more wealth, are monogamous, or live in the urban areas prefer smaller families. Another review of NDHS surveys conducted between 1996 to 2006 found that a significant proportion of men in Saharan Africa approve of using contraception to a pregnancy. In line with a growing need for smaller families, contraception is now becoming more increasingly recognised as a shared responsibility between men and women. However, men’s use of contraception remains low due to multiple barriers and challenges that keep them away from accessing and receiving the reproductive health information and care they need. Experts believe that inequitable gender norms perpetuate stereotypes which exclude men’s role in sexual and reproductive health. Since the signing into law, the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo made an explicit call for programmes and policies to educate and enable men to play a more active role in reproductive decisions, including, contraceptive method choice and use (Boender et al. 2004; Gribble 2003). ICPD noted that only a few governments commit to engaging men and addressing gender norms. As at 2014, only 22 percent of governments prioritised gender norms and made engagement. Neither does Nigeria’s national policies effectively engage men in supporting their partners to use contraceptives nor does it promote men’s use of male methods. On the other hand, some countries have successfully integrated policies regarding men’s involvement in sexual and reproductive health. For example, in 2003, Cambodia integrated guidelines on reaching men as family planning users and supportive partners into its 2006 to 2010 national strategic framework for sexual and reproductive health. POLL Therefore, it is noteworthy for African countries, particularly Nigeria to take cognizance of their bulging youth population made of adolescent boys who cannot be ignored. A data by United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Reference Bureau, 2017 shows that as of 2015 the youth population from ages 10 to 19 worldwide is 1.2 billion, while adolescent boys from ages 10 to 19 years are 623 million. The data further stated that nine in 10 of the global youth population lives in less developed regions, even as 107 births per 1,000 women from ages 15 to 19 years also occur in least developed countries. Consequently, it is important to understand the challenges of male partners in supporting family planning and contraceptive uptake and use, which ultimately increases unintended pregnancies. By identifying the barriers that male partners present, appropriate strategies can be implemented. Equally important is identifying how male partners facilitate and promote adherence and use, and how these positive strategies can be incorporated into policy to improve the uptake and use of contraceptives. Family planning experts therefore say that the time is ripe for Nigeria to set the stage for her boys to become future contraceptive users and responsible partners.