OSOGBO – Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has said that his administration’s social intervention programmes were geared towards poverty alleviation among the residents of the state. Oyetola stated this during an engagement programme organised by the state’s Civic Engagement Centre on Sunday in Akola village, Oriade Local Government Area of the state. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the governor said his administration, in collaboration with the Federal Government, had executed several social interventions programmes targeted towards enhancing the general wellbeing of the people in the state. Stop Inflicting Hardship On Nigerians, NDYCN Cautions FG Foreign Group To Renovate Olumirin Water Fall To Boost Osun… Oyetola noted that social intervention and safety net programmes were about improving the well-being of every individual in society. The governor explained that his administration was committed to engendering social development by investing in people and helping them to the path of dignity and self-sufficiency. He said, “The state government working with the Federal Government has executed and facilitated nothing less than N5 billion intervention funds disbursed to thousands of people who engage in micro, small and medium enterprises, among other industrial activities. “This is in a bid to boost their businesses and by extension, commercial and economic activities in the state. “The vulnerable cluster, including the aged and the physically challenged are being catered to with monthly allowances and food. POLL “While a special platform is being provided for the physically challenged to acquire adequate skill acquisition training under our administration’s special needs framework. “As a matter of fact, several youths are benefiting and achieving their potentials through different social intervention schemes like Youth Empowerment Scheme (OYES), Youths Employment and Social Support Operation (YESSO), rejuvenation of sporting activities, as well as O’meal catering for our school pupils. “All these efforts among others form part of our well thought out resolve to augment the pace of social development with a view to engendering a sustainable wellbeing of our people. “The food scheme initiated by this administration has also helped to stimulate the state economy, as local productions of goods have been tremendously boosted to enhance the socioeconomic activities in the state. “It has also impacted greatly on the lives of 30,000 beneficiaries monthly, particularly the vulnerable citizens with the multiplier effect on the status of the state economy”.