LAGOS – The DHL Group subsidiary for air, ocean and road freight, DHL Global Forwarding, Freight was certified as the Top Employer of 2022 for the third consecutive time by The Top Employers Institute, the global authority recognising excellence in human resources practices. The certification recognises DHL’s efforts to create a positive, safe and encouraging workplace for its employees in 40 countries. DHL was named the Top Employer Global 2022, Top Employer Asia Pacific 2022, Top Employer North America 2022, Top Employer Africa 2022, Top Employer Europe 2022, and Top Employer Middle East 2022. United Nigeria Airlines Proposes Construction Of MRO In Enugu,… Domino’s Pizza Rewards Customer With All-Expense Paid Trip To… “Our guiding principle, connecting people, improving lives, is not limited to our clients but applies equally to our employees. The certification confirms our best-in-class efforts to attract and retain talent through lifelong learning offerings, a flexible work environment and our diverse and inclusive company culture,” DHL Global Forwarding, Freight Global Head of HR, Harm Otten said, highlighting that “we achieved outstanding scores in the topics of business strategy, ethics, integrity and values as well as leadership which reinforces the organisation’s message of being a team of motivated and respected freight forwarding experts.” The institute rates companies based on a standard HR Best Practices Survey covering six areas that represent key HR competencies including Steer, Shape, Attract, Develop, Engage and Unite. The company ticked all the required boxes across the survey, with employee initiatives designed to promote an encouraging and positive work environment, in addition to a wide array of training opportunities to enhance its workforce skills across the logistics, management and process improvement verticals. “We are a people’s business, and every success that we have comes from our employees, we are very proud to be named the Top Employer once again. It acknowledges the many ways we create a positive work environment for our employees and provide them with the support they need,” Country Manager, Dubai and the Northern Emirates at DHL Global Forwarding, Samer Kaissi said, adding that “the roll-out of our Smart Connect App, the further promotion of our leadership attributes, new modules under certified, as well as diversity and Inclusion initiatives complemented our focus on well-being and offered our employees a safe place to work where everyone is welcomed.”