AWKA – Over 630 adhoc workers who did not return election materials and devices after the November 6, 2021 Anambra Governorship election have had their allowances withheld. Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it has withheld allowances of 630 adhoc workers who participated in November 6, 2021 Anambra governorship election for failure to return its devices and other materials. This was disclosed by the Anambra State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr Nkwachukwu Orji, Resident  in a press briefing in Awka on Tuesdays. 2023 Presidency: Over 600 Women Groups Back Yahaya Bello Aregbesola, Others To Interface On Alma Mata’s Renovation… Orji said that the Commission was not happy that some adhoc staff who were engaged for the November 6 2021 governorship election have failed to return some of the devices and other materials giving to them during the election. He said: “The Commission has taken the unfortunate decision to withhold the allowances of staff involved in the act, pending their return of the materials to the Commission”. According to him, some of the materials included: Bio-modal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines, battery chargers, cables and other accessories. Orji said though some of the people holding the materials have started returning them, the Commission resolved to place an order that people who worked from such affected areas will have their payment withheld. He also announced that INEC in the state had lifted the ban on Continuous Voters Registration (CVR). POLL “INEC suspended CVR in Anambra on September 15, 2021 because of November 6 governorship election in the state, but with the election successfully completed, the Commission has from today Tuesday January 25 lifted the ban”, he said. According to him, the exercise would be taking place in the 21 Local Government Areas and the Commission’s headquarters Awka. Orji urged those eligible to register to endeavour to take advantage of the period to enable them get the Permanent Voters Card, adding that those who had already registered before September 15 should come for their cards#