In a bid to enhancing insurance penetration in Sub Saharan Africa (SSA), the continental insurers have moved to deploy digitalisation for better distribution of products and increased coverage for small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs). The industry, which has largely depended on corporate clients and institutions abini tio, says it must at this time service the African population, small businesses with micro products that deal with the protection of life, health, and assets, including their farmlands. According to Tope Smart, president, African Insurance Organisation (AIO), the major focus this year 2022 is to seek ways that will help the industry deepen penetration. Remittances: Where Is No Premium No Cover Policy Insurance Now Prerequisite For Farmers’ Loans– BoA Smart, in his New Year message to the African insurance fraternity, says the penetration rate in Africa remains low when compared with the global average. Smart, who is also the group managing director of NEM Insurance plc, noted, “We need to bridge this gap by addressing all the challenges confronting us as a sector in Africa. With determination and commitment, we can do this. “We have the population but we have not been able to serve them well, so digitalisation is critical in reaching out to this large number of people in our continent.” He states that the insurance industry is growing bigger, stronger, and more resilient, adding that as we work together on several projects, which we believe will bring us closer and make us stronger, we shall become great. Sir Muftau Oyegunle, President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) said: I expect that the industry will grow. CIIN as an institute will continue to intensify the needs for professionals in the industry, and I am happy that all other arms of the industry are now working together…because the world economy has gotten to a level of knowledge economy; you need to go with knowledge and IT skills. That’s all it takes now. The business has gone beyond what we were doing 30 years ago. POLL “So, it is our own responsibility to keep on providing that knowledge, to make sure that even the people that are certified, the professionals are continuously being updated to keep them in tune with the world of today. Insurance industry will continue to grow; we need to provide the professionals that will man it to make sure we go to the next level. And as you know insurance is just starting in this country, we are not there yet. The penetration is just 0.3per cent. “Until we get to 10, 15per cent we are talking about four, five times of what we are witnessing now. So, we have a bright future ahead for us. Another industry player who craves anonymity his company is focusing on the SMEss to provide them with protection for their businesses and assets. According to him, the experience of SMEs in 2020 after the EndSARS protest in Nigeria is a reminder that every business should have insurance, and as operators, we are deepening our marketing of these products to make sure many of our people in Africa benefit. Experts Task FG On Insurance Obligations, Adequate Capital For… PTAD Uses Repatriated N19.610bn To Fund Pension Liability According to reports, ‘Africa’s Insurance Market is set for take-off ’ if only insurance penetration is enhanced adding that penetration is key in growing the continent’s market,. The report further notes that with huge potentials in terms of population, demography favouring the middle class, rich natural resources, every eye is on the continent to develop its insurance potential for robust economic growth. Most of the growth recorded in the insurance industry in the continent has come from the economic expansion of these countries and regions, not because of increased penetration, pointing to an opportunity for the players. Africa’s insurance industry is valued at about $68 billion in terms of gross written premium (GWP) and is the eighth largest in the world, although this is not equally distributed across the continent. Markets are inconsistent in terms of size, mix, growth, and degree of consolidation, with 91 percent of premiums concentrated in just 10 countries. South Africa, the largest and most established insurance market, accounts for 70 percent of total premiums. Outside of South Africa, we see six primary insurance regions in Africa. In the Southern Africa region, 54 percent of premiums are for life insurance. Non-life insurance, however, plays a larger role in Anglophone West Africa, North Africa, East Africa, and even more so in Francophone Africa. The level of maturity in these six regions is low, relative to global reference countries, as measured by insurance density (premium per capita).