***Promises To Cater For Families Of Late Security Personnel MINNA – Niger state government as part of efforts to secure lives and properties of citizens has intercepted a herd of 500 cattle at Kuchi and Galadima-kogo at Alawa and Erena communities in Shiroro and Munya Local Government Areas of the state even as it promised to take care of families of security personnel who paid the supreme prize with their lives. Commissioner of Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Mr. Umar Emmanuel disclosure while speaking to journalists on the current security situation and what the Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello led administration is doing to end the siege by Armed bandits, Boko-Haram and ISWAP members hibernating in some parts of the state. Bauchi CJ Swears In 31 Commissioners Of Oath For Sharia Court Of… Dogara Did Not Sympathize With Emirs Of Bauchi, Dass For Fear Of… Inception of the 300 Cows and 100 Sheep by the Joint Taskforce set up by the state government, according to the commissioner is sequel to an onslaught that resulted to the neutralizing of many armed bandits terrorizing rural communities. Though not without supreme prize, Umar said some security operatives he did not give their exact number lost their lives in Shiroro and Munya but that the state government would take care of their dependants for sacrifices made towards protecting territorial integrity of Nigeria. The state government have concluded plans to establish a committee to fashion out modalities to identify the real owners of the animals and as well if otherwise auction them and remit the proceeds to the state treasury. He however did not mention the exact number of arrests so far made by the taskforce, but said the onslaught on armed bandits will be continuous exercise until the state is completely free from cattle rustlers, kidnappers and other criminal elements. Provisions were made to secure the the animals until their owners come forward to claim them, the commissioner further explained as he called on the general public to support the government as it strive to end security siege on Niger state.