LAGOS – The Nigerian Human Rights Community (NHRC) has said that the Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) primary has proved that direct primary remains the best option for party internal democracy in Nigeria. The coalition of several civil society groups which was established nearly two decades ago which monitored the APC primary held on Thursday, January 27 said the APC Ekiti Primary Election was not without challenges but that the poll proved that direct participation of members of political parties in choosing the party’s aspirants remains the best option for Nigeria. In a statement signed by its officials, Fred Ojinika and Odebunmi Ajayi, NHRC said the primary was not without minor hitches but that it represented the wish and aspirations of the majority of members of APC in Ekiti State. Gani Adams To Nigerians In Diaspora: Shun Negative News, Develop… Jim Iyke Opens Up On Why He Doesn’t Follow Anyone On… The coalition said it had earlier written to the major stakeholders of the party indicating its intention to monitor the primary election adding that the NHRC is in possession of audio and visual evidence in several polling units, wards and communities in order to produce authenticated and verifiable account of the primary. The coalition said the outcome of the primary was seen celebrated across the State in rural and urban communities by the young, the old, men and women alike indicating an expression of a popular choice. “We saw people’s enthusiasm, confidence and trust in democracy. Even in the face of prevailing challenges, people feel honoured and excited that they were involved in choosing who would represent their political party at the poll. The group said it deployed 350 monitors spread across the 177 wards and thousands of polling units stated that its observations and recommendations will be forwarded to the National Assembly and all the registered political parties in the country. The group in its preliminary reports said Direct Primary has many advantages over other methods that have been proposed adding that this has been proved again by the results of the Ekiti Primary. POLL “There is no perfect system anywhere. The Ekiti Primary demonstrated inclusion and expresses the potential and powers possessed by the electorates and their ability to make tremendous input into the process that produced the aspirant of the party they belong. On security, the group said generally the election was peaceful and well-coordinated without any loss of lives, inflicting of injury on any voter or the employment of any armed group by all the stakeholders. It commended all the aspirants for a show of concern for peaceful public participation in the process of choosing the representative of the party at the June gubernatorial election. NHRC said it regretted that it could not monitor the primary of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) due to the indirect nature of the primary which was conducted in a close circuit. The coalition said the emergence of Oyebanji of APC and Kolawole Olabisi of the PDP was an indication that Ekiti people are not divided along primordial lines since the two candidates until 1996 are from the same local government and are from neighbouring towns. Unknown Man Behind Big Brother’s Voice Is Lucifer, ‘Mummy… Omowunmi Abisogun Family Rejects Gbolahan As Oniru Iruland It also added that in some polling booths, the lineup was too long indicating that Ekiti State needs more polling units, a situation that should be addressed by INEC. The NHRC said it will produce a comprehensive report to be distributed to political parties and the Independent Electoral Commission, (INEC) with the hope that the recommendations will be useful in Nigeria’s search for sustainable development.