Mr. Chibunna John Okoli-Akirika is a legal practitioner, former Commissioner for Lands in Anambra State, and currently, Secretary of the State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He spoke with CHARLES ONYEKANMUO recently, over the outcome of the just-concluded Anambra State gubernatorial poll, the PDP, as well as the challenges before the state governor-elect, Prof. Charles Soludo among others. Excerpts: It was observed that many of your party state executives were excluded at the time of the PDP primary and throughout the campaign period. Why? That is not true. It is in the public domain that a few days before the election, there were various court orders to obstruct the process. And the party decided to play safely in order not to jeopardise the interest of the party, and especially the interest of the person that would emerge as the flag bearer. That was why certain delegates whose status was affected by the court order did not participate in the primary. These include people like the five-man delegates, the state executives of the party, and others whose status was affected by the court order. Then those whose status was not affected participated. There are people like members of the National Assembly, Board of Trustee (BoT) members, officers of the party at the national level, officers of the party at the zonal level, former officers of the party and other categories of stakeholders whose status were not questioned by the pending court cases. That gave rise to an erroneous belief that PDP used Super Delegates. As a matter of fact, PDP as a party never used the word super delegates. That was a political coinage by those affected. What I am saying in essence is that it was litigations that made the party play safe by using only delegates not affected by the court orders to conduct its party primary. Nigeria’ll Reciprocate BASA Arrangements To The Letter – DG NCAA States That Diversified Their Economies Have Doubled Their… Then for campaign proper, everyone was factored in. All the strata of the party participated in the campaign. Officers of the party from the national through the zone to the state, then three zonal offices and local government areas (LGAs) down to the ward levels were factored in. It was even agreed that every Local Government Chairman of the party and ward should become an automatic secretary at their respective LGA or ward. What could be the reasons behind the poor performance of the party at the November 6 poll? Some were self-inflicted, self-imposed and avoidable. First, you know that PDP is a very big party. Some felt dissatisfied over the outcome of the party primary and left. We can’t pretend that their defections did not affect the party’s performance because they did. It weakened the party internally and critically. A senator defected, about three Representatives members defected, about two of State House of Assembly members and other stakeholders defected too. So, it affected our performance. Then to the electoral umpire, what happened on the day of the election is a disgrace to the electoral system. Some were influenced by the Bimodal Accreditation System (B-Vas). A situation where the B-Vas could not function across the state. And the timeliness too. Let me use my ward as a case study. In my ward, Amichi ward II with five voting centres, it was only in two units, unit 0010, and 009 that the machine worked fairly. Because we have about 50 to 70 voters. But in the other three, we didn’t have up to 50 voters. Again, if you take a local government like Awka north comprising 14 wards with so many big communities, the total numbers of votes cast for PDP and APGA, if summed up, are barely over 2000 votes. You can see that what played out on the day of the election was more or less a democracy by the minority. Because many Anambrarians were disenfranchised from exercising their franchise. Even when the INEC directed for extension of the time for voting, it was a mere one-hour additional time. That was from 3 to 4pm. At many voting centres, people started voting around 2 pm. Therefore, apart from the internal wrangling within the PDP, the B-Vas malfunction affected PDP performance adversely. POLL But there were allegations that the leader of the party in Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi contributed to it having appropriated the party for himself as he went into campaigns saying that he did this or that? That is laughable. That is ridiculous. Peter Obi as leader of the party participated in the campaign just like any other person. The allegation does not hold water. As a leader of the party, Mr. Peter Obi contributed positively to the PDP to win the election. Saying that he did this or that did not in any way affect what the candidate set out to do. The candidate made promises to the Anambra people. As a matter of fact, the PDP candidate was the candidate to beat the election. But so many things played out. The involvement of the church in the election. Denominational partisanship politics as displayed by some clergies, prelates and laity of a particular Christian denomination. This ordinarily shouldn’t have been because the bible told them to pray for leaders in power not to show support to one particular candidate against the other. Otherwise, their impartiality will be affected. Considering what happened in the party during the 2021 Governorship poll as you rightly pointed out, do you think PDP should embark on another reconciliation campaign? What PDP experienced during the election is what I may call a seasonal electoral malaise, a seasonal electoral fever. Any time a gubernatorial election is by the corner, the power that is, and the bigwigs in the party will start fomenting avoidable problems. Thereafter, they will come back to contest for the House of Assembly, House of Reps and Senate. That was after they had compromised the effort of the party for their own personal ambition. I want the stakeholders of the party to undergo a personal reorientation, a personal evaluation to stop putting their interest above the party interest. I want PDP to continue undergoing what I called genetic metamorphosis. Once that culture of communal interest is imbibed, what played out during the election would be circumvented. AISOP Policy Is Regimentation, Should Be RevisitedFor Country’s… Mitigating Constant Power Supply Through Investable Tariff… What PDP should do as a party is to make sure they put in internal democratic processes. So, that whoever emerges as the party flag bearer in the future through internal democracy wouldn’t experience what played out after June 26 2021 Anambra PDP guber primary. PDP in Anambra State seemed to have identifiable members and stakeholders known to be taken to court or defect at every guber election only to stage a return back later. Don’t you think they should be sanctioned or expelled from the party? I totally agree with you. That is why insist that the entire stakeholders of the party and the party structure should undergo self-reexamination. If you like call it, personal introspection. We cannot continue to suffer this thing and expect positive result. The party should come in to enforce discipline among the members. If at the end specific persons refuse to change from their old ways, they should be discipline or shown the way out of the party. That is why I advised the party now election has come and gone to look inward. They should setup what I called a postmortem committee from the wards to LGAs, zone and up to the state levels to find out what actually played out, what contributed to abysmal performance of the party so that such events could be avoided in subsequent elections. Time for filling petitions at the Anambra State 2021 Governorship election petition Tribunal has elapsed. And the PDP did not file any. Does it mean the PDP had no interest in challenging the outcome of the election of Prof. Charles Soludo of APGA on the just concluded poll? I want Ndi Anambra (people of Anambra) State to appreciate one thing. PDP does not believe in the psycho of elections. We believe in the political socialization and education of the Anambra populace. That was why it was widely and individually accepted that the PDP gubernatorial candidate, Mr. Valentine Ozigbo was the most acceptable. Ozigbo was the most comprehensively campaigned candidate in the election with a verifiable manifesto. So, the fact that we didn’t win the election did not mean we should go about hitting up the polity. What we will do is to put our house in order instead of going to the tribunal. We can now form what I may call the kitchen cabinet to constructively confront the government of the day. And offer constructive criticism so that at the end of the day, Anambra will be better off. What is in the best interest of Anambra is to socialise the citizenry so that next time when the opportunity is offered like in the 2023 general elections, Anambra people will vote wisely. That is our concern in PDP. INEC said that it was only about 10% of registered voters in Anambra State that voted on the November 6 poll. Do you think that IPOB threats and other factors also contributed to the voter apathy experienced? What you must appreciate is that democracy is a game of numbers. That is why before a winner will be declared in every election, it must be a candidate who scored the highest numbers of lawful votes count. The requirement of a majority participation in any election is the root or real essence of democracy. If the INEC said that only 10% of registered voters participated, it means that 90% did not participate. So, there is no way in good conscience, you will call the governor-elect the product of majority decision. It is rather a democracy by a minority. What INEC should do in the future is to ensure that the B-Vas are handled in such a manner to prevent general disfranchisement. For threats by IPOB, if they know the IPOB threat could cause voters apathy, why didn’t they postpone it to a week or more? What do you think would be the challenges to confront the governor-elect, Prof. Soludo, and how he should overcome them? Personally, I have no doubt about the capacity of Prof. Soludo as a person. I always said that the Anambra guber election was between Soludo as a person and Mr. Valentine Ozigbo as a person. Ozigbo and Soludo are the two key candidates. Then, others follow. Either of them has the requisite capacity to take the Anambra state to the next level. Haven said that I will say that Soludo is in a dilemma of change and continuity. I want him to discard all those bad policies of APGA under the incumbent governor Willie Obiano administration. He should change the policies of unaccountable numbers of Personal assistants, Executive Assistants, Special Assistants, and Senior Special Assistants introduced by Obiano. He should also change the policy of lack of priorities in governance and execution of government projects. The policy of financial indiscipline should also be discarded. Allowing people to be collecting revenues without accountability is not also good. From all the policies of the outgoing administration, he should jettison those not beneficial to Ndi Anambra, and adopt those policies that will benefit the Anambra populace by imbibing the culture of financial prudence. He should respect the bilateral agreement so that the donor agencies will return to the Anambra state. Mr. Peter Obi’s administration as governor anchored his on ANIDS, and he was able to attract development partners to execute the millennium development goals (MDG). Let Soludo pattern his administration in a way to implement Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Soludo should think more towards change than towards continuity.