As legislative windows for the year 2021 drew to a close on Friday, AHMED MUSA takes a look at some major events that shaped the Femi Gbajabiamila-led House of Representatives, ranging from some important resolutions to the highly controversial issues which are likely to ultimately define the legacy of the 9th Assembly. Critical Resolutions: While the 9th House of Representatives made some far-reaching resolutions in the course of the year, leading to interventions is critical sectors of the nation’s economy and governance, particularly in the areas of security, infrastructure, healthcare, foreign affairs and industrial harmony, the House also played politics with many other critical resolutions — dashing public expectations with regard to how it handled issues of compliance as envisaged by the principles of separation of powers. APC Chairmanship: Group Canvasses Support For Al-Makura 2023 Guber: PDP Aspirant, Dapal Promises To Forge Unity Among… President’s Summon: One of the issues headlining the activities of the House was its resolution asking President Muhammadu Buhari to cause appearance with a view to briefing the Parliament on the state of insecurity in the country following the gruesome killing of 43 rice farmers in Borno state by Boko Haram terrorists in December 2020. While the public debate around the summon raged, the House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila embarked on a political pilgrimage to the presidential Villa where he met with the President for possible explanations on what the House resolution really entailed, as well as the positive implications of the president honouring the invitation. Armed with the President’s assurance that he would honour the invitation, the Speaker told journalists that Buhari had agreed to appear before a joint session of the National Assembly to brief Parliament on security issues and the urgent possible steps to be taken to address them. Nigerians waited with bated breath to see the President keep his word, but as predicted by nay-sayers, the President reneged citing security inconveniences. Observers said his last minute retreat was advised by his controversial justice minister, Abubakar Malami, who had prior to Buhari’s retreat argued that the National Assembly lacked that powers to summon the President. POLL While the issue began in 2020, it spilled over into 2021 with Nigerians waiting to see what action the House would take upon resumption from its Christmas and new year break. It was expected that the House would refer to its December 2020 resolution upon resumption from break, but the matter despite series of mention in both mainstream and social media was swept under the carpet. Call For Pantami’s Sack: In April 2021, the House Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Godwin Elumelu raised a point of order on privilege wherein he prayed the House to resolve that the minister for communication and digital economy, Shiekh Ali Isa Pantami be asked to resign or b sacked, given his sympathetic views on Boko Haram and Al-Qaeda terrorist organizations just before his emergence as minister. Elumelu who raised a matter of privilege expressed grave concern over the public outcry on the minister’s support for terrorist groups before his appointment into President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet. Worried by the development, the lawmaker specifically demanded the minister’s resignation or sack. Faparusi Picks Nomination Form In Abuja, Vows To Win Ekiti For… Plateau APC Chairman Charges LG Party Chairmen On Unity The minority leader had cited Order 6(1) saying: “My order of privilege borders on one of the serving ministers called Sheikh Ali Pantami.” “He’s the honourable minister for Communication and Digital Economy for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But the speaker in his ruling, observed that he could not see nor understand how the matter breached Elumelu’s privilege as a member of the House, noting that praying the House to pass a resolution on it was a procedural error on his part. He stated that if the Minority Leader was looking for a debate and resolution, he should have come via a motion either on notice or urgent public importance for debate to hold. “Thank you Hon Elumelu. I think he came under the wrong order. Your point of order is well noted. But you know we don’t debate such issues if it comes under order of privilege, thank you,” the Speaker ruled. Subsequent criticism trailing the Speaker’s ruling as reported in the media also forced a tersely worded reaction from the House Spokesman, Hon. Benjamin Kalu, who said the matter brought by the Minority leader was on the basis of his personal privilege as a member and not a formal motion. But in an equally strongly worded reaction issued by Hon. Francis Ottah Agbo, on Friday April 23, 2021 on behalf of the Minority caucus the opposition stated that its leader, Elumelu, brought a proper motion before the House, and that the House Spokesman, Kalu, should apologise for issuing a “reckless statement“. “Attention of the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has been drawn to a statement by the Chairman of House Committee on Media and Public Affairs/ Spokesman of the House, Hon. Benjamin Kalu, which clearly exposed a sinister intention to misrepresent the rules of the House, mislead the undiscerning public and frustrate genuine effort in the fight against terrorism in our country! “We find it shocking that instead of standing with Nigerians at this critical moment, Hon. Kalu chose to engage in a personal attack on the Minority Leader, Hon Ndudi Elumelu, for pointing to the dangers of retaining in office, the minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, after reports of the minister’s support for terrorists came to the fore. “This is especially after the minister himself admitted to the facts of his sympathy for violent, extremist and terrorist groups, including, the al-Qaida and Taliban. “Indeed, Hon. Kalu’s claim that our Minority Leader did not properly present his motion, under an appropriate rule is completely dumb, frivolous and exposes his poor knowledge of the legislative procedures. This counter punch was never responded to by the House spokesman nor members of the leadership in the majority party. Malami, Southern Governors And Open Grazing: In May, the Attorney-General and Minister for justice once again took on the Southern Governors for resolving to ban open grazing in their respective states, saying that they lacked the constitutional powers to make such declaration. Buttressing his argument, Malami said: “It is about constitutionality. Within the context of the freedoms enshrined in our constitution, can you deny a right of a Nigerian? It is as good as saying may be the Northern governors coming together to say that they prohibit spare parts trading in the North. Does it hold water? Does it hold water for a Northern governor to come and state expressly that he now prohibits spare parts trading in the North?” In an attempt to get the House to call the minister to order, the member representing Abua/Odual and Ahoada East Federal Constituency of Rivers State, Solomon Bob, raised a point of order of privilege to bring the attention of the House to the comment which he said was capable of fueling crisis in the country. Bob had in his presentation described Malami’s comment on the ban as “disingenuous, irresponsible and loaded with incendiary trope and ethnic slur”, demanding the parliament to call Malami to order. He however failed to learn from the Elumelu/ Pantami’s episode of not debating a point of order on privilege nor ask for a resolution on same. Expectedly, the House deputy speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase who presided over the plenary stopped him midway on the ground that he was going outside of the order which he relied upon. “The order which you are bringing this matter is wrong. It’s either you bring it as a full motion to be debated, but coming under matters of privilege is wrong so take your seat,” Wase ruled. Electoral Act Amendment Bill/PIB Controversies: The House went into another rowdy session over reports on the Electoral Act amendment bill 2021, particularly the clause 52 which sought to amend the mode of transmitting election results. The House had suspended plenary and consideration of the Bill following disagreement among members on the mode of transmitting election results on Thursday. The lawmakers as a result resolved to invite the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) to educate members on the implications and possibility of electronic transmission of results. While the independent electoral body did not send a representative to appear before the House, NCC officials on July 16, 2021 gave their testimony, which suggested that electronic transmission of result would only be possible in about 50 per cent of polling units in the country. Shortly after officials of the NCC left the chamber, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila announced resumption of consideration of the report after digesting the comments of the NCC officials beginning from Clause 52. However, Deputy Speaker Idris Wase, who presided over consideration of reports, skipped clause 52, forcing Deputy Minority Leader, Hon Toby Okechukwu to call for a point of order. He drew the attention of the House to the fact that the issue in contention before consideration was suspended was the amendment to clause 52 and not the entire Bill He said recommendation of the Committee on Electoral Matters on the Bill, which left the mode of transmission at the discretion of INEC was not voted on neither was a decision taken on the motion by Hon Kingsley Chinda. But when Wase said there was no motion to that effect, the House became rowdy and some members were seen charging at one another, spoiling for a fight. Members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and other members of the minority political parties staged a walkout while the majority remained in the chamber and passed the Bill. After endorsing the report on the electoral bill, the House also adopted the conference Committee report on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), voting 3 per cent for host communities in the oil-producing areas. The percentage had caused rancour among the lawmakers as members of the opposition, especially those from the oil producing states insisted on the 5 per cent recommended by the House special committee on PIB as against the 3 per cent recommendation by the Senate. The House had stepped down consideration the previous day following disagreement leading to a rowdy session. However as soon as members of the Minority caucus walked out of the Chamber, there were shouts of PIB, PIB, PIB by members of the ruling party causing the report to be submitted by Chief Whip, Hon Tahir Mongunu for passage. The politics surrounding the passage of 3% host communities fund in the now Petroleum Industry Act(PIA) is yet to be understood, given the vehemence with which the resolved to suspend further deliberation until the Senate reverted back to agreed 5% provision. Deputy Majority Whip, Hon Nkiruka made frantic efforts to make the House suspend consideration of the report to no avail. Explaining the intrigues surrounding the passage, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said laying of the conference report on the PIB followed rules of the House. According to him: “I need to explain the rationale behind the laying of this report. Yesterday, I stepped down the laying of this report so that we get to the Senate and see how to resolve the issue. “But unfortunately, by the time we got to the Senate, they had already resolved and taken a decision. So, there was nothing that we can do. “It is left for us to deliberate on the report, accept it or reject it. This PIB will not go the same way of others. It is unfortunate that our colleagues are not here. If there is any amendment to be done, that will be done in the future,” he said. While the PIB has been signed and assented to by the President Muhammadu Buhari, the president withheld assent to the Electoral Act amendment bill, sitting discrepancies on the clause seeking to institutionalize direct primary as the only mode of choosing candidates by political parties in the country. While many Nigerians have expressed outrage at the reasons adduced by the President and urged the National Assembly to override his veto, others have also expressed cynicism in the courage of the present leadership to stand up the President. The Senate President has said the President has valid reasons to withhold assent, just as the Speaker whom some have quoted as allegedly insisting on overriding the President’s veto has also said members would decide on the way forward when the House resumes on January 18, 2022.