ABUJA – Since he declared to contest for the office of the presi­dent in 2023, ex-president of the senate and former Secretary to the Govern­ment of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim, has transversed the country, seeking support across geo­political zones, more than any other South-Easterner amid agitations for zoning of the presidency to the South-East. He has been meeting with stakeholders, polit­ical, traditional leaders and groups to sell his as­piration. While some po­litical analysts have dis­missed him, others have concluded that he may turn out to be the dark horse in the race. Another school of thought noted that he’s the only politician that has indicated interest from the South-East and South-South to run for the position. I Was Once A Pornography, Promiscuity Addict — Banky W Delta Guber 2023: My Vision Is To Consolidate On Okowa’s… However, his aspiration was – few days ago – en­dorsed by leaders of the PDP in the South-East, who said the people of the zone had earned the right to occupy the Office of President of the Feder­al Republic of Nigeria in 2023 on account of their eminent qualifications and overwhelming con­tributions to the develop­ment of all parts of the federation through the years. The PDP leaders, in­cluding zonal and state executives of the party as well as select political leaders and elders from Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo states, who met in Enugu, ap­pealed to the PDP to zone their presidential ticket to South-East in the in­terest of equity, justice and harmonious national cohesion. Explaining how pre­pared he was, Anyim said: “I am convinced, with due modesty, that I am willing and available, ready and equipped, by experience and exposure, tempera­ment and humility, ca­pacity and competence to serve Nigeria at this point in time as her president.” Reacting to Anyim’s aspiration, the Director, Public Affairs of Igbo Leadership Development Foundation (ILDF), Dr. Law Mefor, said that Anyim was eminently qualified and experienced enough to lead Nigeria, having been at the apex of the leadership of two arms of government. He noted that the for­mer President of the Sen­ate has also taken a bold step, which is declaration of intent and expression of interest in contesting for the office of President of Nigeria. POLL “Power is said to be taken, but in Nigeria the office of the President is given and not taken. “Even Buhari could not get it until these shadow forces endorsed him after dropping Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. “If this is the case, it means that the vigour and qualification of Anyim are not enough. “His quest must be endorsed by these power givers and brokers, other­wise it will not fly eventu­ally,” he said. Disclosing what Any­im should do for him to achieve his aspiration, Dr. Mefor said: “The question then will be: who are Ni­geria’s power givers? My answer will be retired generals and former mil­itary rulers of Nigeria. 2023: Ex Police Affairs Minister Tips Fayemi For Presidency BREAKING: Diesel Tanker Tumbles, Spills Content “They, acting in concert with the US under Obama and UK under Cameron, removed Dr. Goodluck Jonathan from power de­spite his power of incum­bency. “Those who want to be President of Nigeria must not only understand the nation’s past but also the forces that forge the pres­ent-day. “What the retired generals are doing with power is what is called Scorched Earth policy. “In military opera­tions, what the military cannot destroy they take as booty. “The Nigerian military won the nation’s civil war and took the nation as a whole as a booty and will not let go until they are phased out by attrition and effluence of time and age.” Speaking on the factors that may influence Any­im’s aspiration for good or bad, Mefor said: “For a fact: one cannot rate Anyim objectively unless we know his standing with those primary forc­es, which have continued to play a decisive role in Nigeria’s so-called democ­racy. “They brought Obasanjo out of prison and made him president despite the towering cre­dentials and national acceptance of Dr. Alex Ekwueme. “The other factor to ponder is the Northern hegemons and oligarchs who are the next in line of those deciding who holds the office of the President of Nigeria. “Note also that they work closely with the retired military estab­lishment. These are the first-class emirs and some business moguls of Northern extraction. “They are a major force because, unlike their Southern counterparts, they work together, using Islam as a rallying force. “This welds the North into a behemoth political force and bulldozer. But unfortunately there is no political South or South­ern Nigeria inherent that can provide a counter­weight to the North. “This is a major factor against Anyim’s noble quest and deserving ambi­tion. Ultimately, Anyim’s ability to penetrate these two great layers will de­termine how far his pres­idential ambition will go. “For now, it is too early to rate his chances. He is qualified, no doubt, but qualification is only one of the six key factors that will unlock Aso Rock for any aspirant or candidate for that matter.” Other sources who spoke to Sunday Inde­pendent expressed sat­isfaction with Anyim’s early moves but insisted it was too early to assess his chances.