The Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Professor Kolawole Salako, has called for an upgrade of soil database in Nigeria to improve agricultural production. He stated this while speaking during a lecture on soil at the university, stating that the focus should be on how to manage the soil in Nigeria. He said that technology is now available to ensure that the problems associated with soil are overcome. How To Invest In Large Scale Cashew Nut For Export ‘Ignoring Reliable Climate Information Would Lead To Severe Food… Professor Salako, a Fellow of Soil Science Society of Nigeria (FSSSN) stated that “the issue of soil salinisation is a major problem in substantial part of the world , it is a condition where you have salt affected soil and where you cannot really have productivity of the soil”. He therefore, stressed the need for the nation to position soil in such a way that will be beneficial to mankind, adding that they should ensure that they apply the right management to conserve and preserve the soil. He noted that Nigeria needs more land for agriculture because there is a lot of competition on the land, especially from the construction industry. “The issue of productivity comes in now because the land available for cultivation is shrinking. Agriculture will usually lose out when it comes to land development; everybody wants to build sky scrapers, they think that the money that will come out is far more advantageous than having food. “ so the option that we have is to also ensure that the little land we have we make it productive, the little land that we have in agriculture, we manage it so well to avoid soil degradation, that’s the essence of focusing on soil,” he added. POLL The Vice Chancellor thereby charged Nigerians to always see soil as a life support and do everything within their means to conserve the soil and prevent soil degradation. Meanwhile, Professor Christopher Adejuyigbe, a Professor of soil fertility, of the Department of Soil Science and Land Management, College of Plant Science and Crop Production (COPLANT) in the university stated that the use of sustainable soil to prevent soil salinization will ensure sustainable food production through improved soil productivity. According to him, adoption of best management practices in the management of salt affected areas was essential without compromising soil and water quality. He emphasised that soil is a major component of land and basis for agricultural production. He said human population with the accompanying need for food, fiber and fuel are on steady increase all over the world and Nigeria in particular. He stressed the need for measures to improve soil productivity and mitigate any process that would further degrade or decrease the soil available for crop production.