ABUJA  – Data protection, a hitherto unknown business is now N4 billion worth industry and was recorded to have created no less than 7, 680 jobs in 2021. This much, Mr.Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, Director General/ Chief Executive Officer of National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has said. According to him, Data Protection Compliance Organizations (DPCOs) in Nigeria have created about 7,680 jobs for Nigerians in 2021. Monthly Rent Will Create Real Value For Abuja Properties Fire, Cause Of Major Losses In Abuja Markets – FEMA Abdullahi who stated this early this week in Abuja at the National Privacy Week 2022 Media Conference, explained that the Agency has licensed about 103 DPCOs, with the mandate to “carry out Data Protection Regulations Compliance and Breach Services for Data Controllers and Data Administrators; Training and Awareness Services and Privacy Breach Remediation Planning and Support, among others.” He revealed that the Agency in the last one year has put necessary measures in place for data privacy protection of Nigerians. He said: “NITDA is taking a continuum of measures towards strengthening Data Privacy. “We share the belief that: the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. “Thus, our first measure was to licence Data Protection Compliance Organizations (DPCOs). POLL “DPCOs are mandated to, inter alia, carry out: Data Protection Regulations Compliance and Breach Services for Data Controllers and Data Administrators; Training and Awareness Services; Privacy Breach Remediation Planning and Support, among others. “It is encouraging to note that we now have 103 DPCOs and we have created approximately 7,680 jobs for Nigerians in this regard. “At the same time, the sum of N4,080,000,000 has been reported as the estimated value of Data Protection Industry. “Part of our vigilance measures is to monitor DPCOs and data controllers closely. “We have developed an auditing template and will be issuing codes of conduct from time to time. How New Scheme Will Provide 2,000 Houses In Abuja – FG Rice Prices May Plummet After Launch Of Rice Pyramids In Abuja “This is to ensure that the services being rendered by DPCOs are in tune with the letters and the spirit of the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR).” As part of measures to strengthen data privacy in the country, Abdullahi disclosed that NITDA had embarked on capacity building, awareness creation and a series of educational programmes across the country. As a result of this initiative, he said, a total of 5,746 Nigerians have been trained, as the Agency has carried out training programmes on NDPR in 52 secondary schools across Nigeria. “Acknowledging that capacity building and awareness are pivotal measures to strengthen data privacy, NITDA embarked upon a series of educational programmes. “In 2021 alone, NITDA executed and played a leading role in 135 capacity building programmes. “Worthy of note is our pilot programmes in creating awareness among vulnerable citizens, particularly teenagers and young adults. “In 2021, we carried out training programmes on NDPR in 52 secondary schools across Nigeria,” he said. He added that before the advent of NDPR, organisations had no functional accountability system for data privacy, noting that NDPR created a functional accountability system for data privacy. He said: “From zero data privacy audit compliance in 2018 to 635 in 2020 and over 1,230 audit compliance in 2021. “The top-performing sectors are Finance 41%, Consultancy 9.2%, ICT and Digital Media 8.8% and Manufacturing 7.9%.” The theme for 2022 National Data Privacy Week, is “Data Economics In Digital Economy: Charting Nigeria’s Data Strategy.”