Pharm. Sesan Kareem, Co-founder and CEO of HubCare Health and board member of HAVEK Leadership Academy, Safe Medicines Foundation, Mareek Image Concepts and EMQ Trials in this interview with CHIOMA UMEHA speaks on how HubCare is leveraging cutting-edge technology to provide health solutions to the underserved Africans. Excerpts: HubCare Vision The newly founded digital platform aims to serve the underserved patients population in Africa, through the provision of quality and affordable healthcare services. This comes with huge benefits both for patients and clinicians, as it saves time on physical consultation, reduces cost and expands access to experts on different diseases. It bridges the gap in accessing healthcare in Africa. Invest In Quality Health Services, Nutrition To Meet SDGs,… Kidney Stones Birth Of HubCare Health Services I lost my best friend Wale and his wife because of lack of access to health information and affordable quality healthcare services. Wale had a persistent cough for weeks. So, he started treating cough with different cough syrups. After three months of persistent coughing, he decided to see a doctor at the primary health centre. The doctor prescribed antibiotics for him to use, which he did, but all to no avail. Wale noticed that the wife also started coughing and he was losing weight. He called me and explained his symptoms. And I advised him to go for investigations. His clinical examination revealed that he had active tuberculosis and was infected with his wife. Both started to pay for the treatment themselves and had a hard time continuing the treatment with other household expenses. They both suffered from severe infections and had to resort to out-of-pocket payment, even though they always felt weak from tuberculosis and treatment plans. In March 2015, Wale lost his wife to TB and in November 2015, my cousin called to inform me that Wale had died in Abeokuta at his mother’s place. It was a difficult time for me because Wale wasn’t just a friend. He was like a brother to me. He was one of the few friends who attended during my medical profession referral in 2013. And I was one of his few friends that stood by him during his wedding in 2012. POLL I know if Wale had got a platform that can give him better information on what are the possible health conditions he might have apart from cough, get quick access to board qualified doctors and started his treatment right on time, he wouldn’t have infected his wife, the TB might not become severe and I might still have both of them with me as my extended family members. I also know that there are millions of people in Africa who die prematurely because they didn’t have access to timely, quality healthcare services and information. Thus, I decided to do something in a systematic way on this big problem in Africa. And this is why we started HubCare to care for all Africans. Luckily, I met two others who share the same passion in improving the healthcare system in Africa, Wayne, a Singaporean and Tope, a Nigerian and today we have HubCare. Both now have become co-founders of the organisation. Smart Technology HubCare Health’s cutting-edge technology solution helps your care team focus more on diagnosing and treating you – and spend less time on triage, scheduling, and in-take paperwork. Our AI-powered symptom checker solution asks you questions about your symptoms and, in seconds, compares them to the anonymous medical records of others with similar cases. When you start a chat with a HubCare Health-affiliated clinician, they immediately see your prior responses to help diagnose you in minutes and guide you on the next best steps. Experts Seek Improved Early Infant Diagnosis Services To Curb… FG Says 3,598 Cholera Deaths In 2021 Unacceptable Other Benefits Of New Digital Platform HubCare allows patients to connect with medical professionals who meet their health needs. This saves patient travel time and personal booking costs. This platform allows healthcare practitioners and facilities to serve in their space and generate additional income. HubCare is on a mission to democratise healthcare for Africans. Therefore, we have created efficient ways to bring the cost of healthcare way down and make quality care accessible to all Africans. This includes standardising pricing so you don’t need to stress yourself over unknown insurance costs, and using technology and AI to speed and smarten up the process of seeing a doctor. We also use a free symptom checker that compares your symptoms to millions like you to give you an idea of what’s wrong. We have different affordable prices for different plans including conditions like erectile dysfunction, anxiety and depression. Controlled Pricing Our rates are cheaper than other telemedicine and personal providers. This is because you will be charged a simple fee, regardless of your condition or treatment, with or without insurance. This lowers the amount of people involved, in turn lowering the costs associated with billing, calculating, and negotiating prices. You also avoid the costs most insurance plans charge for primary care visits, such as copays, hidden fees, and high deductibles. Providing Remote Visits HubCare Health offers virtual care, and is used remotely, either on your computer or smartphone, which helps save on costs typically associated with going to the doctor’s office. This includes gas, parking, childcare, and time off work. Waiting times are also reduced, because there are hundreds of doctors available to see you, whenever you need, 24/7. Services Available On HubCare Health We provide end-to-end healthcare services facilitated by our online platform. This includes, virtual consultation with board certified clinicians, ordering of prescription medicines and OTC products through our partner pharmacies, laboratory tests through partner labs, as well as health education and information. We also have a full range of health and wellness services to look after every aspect of your healthcare needs. This includes urgent care, chronic care, specialist care, mental health and preventive care. We are so proud today that we have over 50 healthcare professionals on our database, dozens of users and tens of healthcare facilities who have registered on our platform during our initial pilot stage. We will be rolling out our product to all Africans in January 2022 starting from Nigeria with our monthly membership plan. This will be expanded to the rest of Africa in the next two to five years. By the way, the first month is free for all. If our new users are satisfied with the level of care they receive, they can renew their monthly membership How To Access HubCare Services Our services are membership-based and can be purchased by individuals for themselves or their parents. We also offer services for corporate organisation for our business plan. This includes health screening, monthly membership plan for employees, mental health support and health talks and workshops. Furthermore, individuals and healthcare organisations can partner with us as a healthcare professional as we change the healthcare landscape in Africa one person at a time. As an individual or corporate entity, you can work with us in making healthcare accessible and affordable for all Africans. Plans For Expansion HubCare digital platform is not just for convenience and access but a tool for medical excellence and a catalyst for a valuable clinical experience for both patients and clinicians. We will continue to improve our products and offerings to achieve better clinical outcomes for the patients and practitioners. With over 600 million Africans lacking access to the healthcare they need in this digital age. HubCare’s team will continue to work assiduously to increase our market share, serve more people, hire new talents and create an omni-channel healthcare experience for our users. Our goal for the next 10 years is to help 10 percent of the 600 million Africans who lack access to the care they need through our platform and collaboration. This is our ambitious goal going forward, delivering quality primary healthcare to 60 million Africans in a decade. Challenges Of Providing Health Care I think the biggest challenge for the founding team was to find a product-market fit, a quality healthcare digital solution that is not just the regular telemedicine platform. My co-founders and I were also worried about how to reduce the cost of healthcare for Africans without compromising quality when it comes to primary healthcare. After months of research, we were finally able to find a way we can reduce the cost significantly while improving quality for our users.