*Wike, A Pillar Of Support, A Shining Star – Ortom MAKURDI – Governor Nyesome Wike of Rivers state has declared that he would continue to stand by his Benue state counterpart, Samuel Ortom due to what he said was the injustice meted out against the state. He also noted that apart from the injustice meted on the state by the Federal Government (FG), he would continue to stand by Ortom who is being vilified for his principled position in defence of the Benue people. Delta Monarch Commends Okowa, Offers Scholarship To 48 Students 2023 Governorship Race: Enugu East Insists On Ticket Wike who was in Makurdi, the state capital last weekend to felicitate with Governor Ortom on the occasion of the new year also lamented that Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) occasioned by the farmers/herders clashes have been abandoned in the camps by the FG. He said his visit to Benue was to identify and celebrate the new year with Governor Ortom, whom he described as a true friend and strong voice against maladministration in the country. In a statement signed by Jimin Geoffrey, a media aide to the governor, Wike alsocondemned the sustained killings in Benue by terrorist herdsmen. He opined that even if the FG does not like Governor Ortom, they should support him because the people of the state voted for President Muhammadu Buhari. The Rivers state governor was particularly piqued that while the FG had abandoned IDPs in Benue to their fate, it has continued to cater for IDPs in the North-East and other states affected by insecurity. POLL According to the statement, Governor Wike who was pressed to comment on his presidential ambition declined comment. He however noted that what was important at the moment was to build a formidable PDP before thinking of any ambition for an elective position. Wike recalled when Governor Ortom had counselled him on how to handle the PDP crisis in Rivers state so as not to destroy the party in Rivers, adding that based on the advise he achieved success. He therefore pledged the continued support of his administration to the government and people of Benue state. Also speaking at the occasion, Governor Ortom described Wike as “a pillar of support to the PDP and a shining star in the political history of Nigeria who is helping to rebuild the party in a bid to rescue Nigeria from a spineless leadership.” Allowing Terrorists Mount Roadblocks Amount To Having Two… Sports Minister Mourns Olubadan’s Passing He revealed that his Rivers state counterpart was instrumental to his return to the PDP in 2019 and that the Rivers state Governor has remained supportive both in good and trying times. Ortom also reciprocated by extending the best wishes of the government and people of Benue state to the government and people of Rivers state as they celebrated the new year.