An Ibadan-based political pressure group, Pan Oyo Movement (POM), has reiterated its resolve not back down from the task of mobilising support for Senator Abdulfatai Omotayo Buhari, the lawmaker representing Oyo North Senatorial District in the National Assembly to become the next overnor of Oyo State on May 29, 2023  citing his “enviable record of service, competence and passion for development”. Buhari, a second-term member of the Red Chamber, is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transportation. Makinde Has Kept Faith With Electoral Promises – CPS 2023: PDP Youths To South-South: Declare Interest Or We Back… He was a member of the House of Representatives in 2003 when he represented Ogbomoso North/Ogbomoso South/Oriire Federal Constituency after which he emerged a Special Adviser and later Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs under the administration of late Governor Abiola Ajimobi. In a statement issued on Friday and made available to journalists in Ibadan by its Acting Chairman, Mr. Adewale Abdulsalam, and Secretary, Pastor Michael Abidoye, POM said the positive response which greeted its earlier call on Sen. Buhari to throw his hat into the ring for the 2023 gubernatorial contest was an eloquent testimony to the fact that God was ready to grant the prayers of the good people of the state who desire good governance, responsive leadership and prosperity for the Pacesetter state. “The man, Sen. Buhari, has emerged the best thing to have happened to democracy in this current dispensation as far as our dear state is concerned. How he manages to combine the role of providing critical infrastructure, empowering people among others with the statutory functions of lawmaking at the apex level remain a mystery to many people even as he is never tired of putting smiles on the faces of his constituents every time. “An attestation to the sterling performance of Sen. Buhari came recently when a reputable independent organisation ranked him among the best three members of the 9th Senate on the basis of Individual Performance Index set for all the 109 serving Senators. Oyo North is the second largest Senatorial district in Nigeria but Sen. Buhari’s impact and presence is felt in all the nooks and crannies of the whole 13 local government areas. Omoluabi, as Sen. Buhari is fondly called, is always there for his constituents to the consternation of others elsewhere who are not so lucky. “We have it on good authority that the performing Senator has since begun consultations with stakeholders within his party (APC) with favourable responses as most party faithful rate him the best man for the job. They see him as the pride of Progressives among the federal lawmakers who can replicate and surpass the feat of the like of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Chief Bola Ige, Alh. Lam Adesina and Sen. Abiola Ajimobi if given the chance to govern Oyo state. POLL “It is on this note that we are calling on leaders, chieftains and members of Oyo APC to key into the Sen. Buhari Project of making Oyo state reclaim her rightful pride of place among the comity of states in the country. We, at POM, are more than ready to champion the cause of mobilising the electorate since we cannot afford to miss the opportunity of having a competent, experienced and passionate man at the helm of affairs from May 2023 for our dear state to develop holistically”, the Group concluded.