ABUJA  – Following the Federal Capital Territory Administration’s plans to revive the Tractor Hiring Scheme in the nation’s capital , Mallam Abubakar Ibrahim, Secretary for Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS), has stated that the Secretariat intends to take adequate security measures to track the movement of tractors to ensure that they are not taken outside the FCT. This information was revealed by the Secretary during a meeting with Agric Field Engineers at the ARDS Central Workshop in Gwagwalada. He did, however, express reservations about the Administration’s decision to put the idea on the table, noting that it had failed in the past. FCT, Agric Ministry Drag Turf Over Old Parade Ground Stadium FCT-IRS To Begin Enforcement Of Submission Of Annual Tax Returns The FCT Administration, according to him is aware of the critical role the provision of the tractors TOYIN ADEBAYO ABUJA Following the Federal Capital Territory Administration’s plans to revive the Tractor Hiring Scheme in the nation’s capital , Mallam Abubakar Ibrahim, Secretary for Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS), has stated that the Secretariat intends to take adequate security measures to track the movement of tractors to ensure that they are not taken outside the FCT. This information was revealed by the Secretary during a meeting with Agric Field Engineers at the ARDS Central Workshop in Gwagwalada. POLL He did, however, express reservations about the Administration’s decision to put the idea on the table, noting that it had failed in the past. The FCT Administration, according to him is aware of the critical role the provision of the tractors can play in boosting food production which is why it has made provisions in the 2022 budget to procure a total of 12 tractors, which will be fitted with tracking devices to monitor the use and locations of the tractors ensuring that FCT farmers benefit from the programme. Abubakar however, assured that the Secretariat will be looking into the provision of other Agricultural machineries to farmers as a strategy to improve food production and guarantee food security. According to him; “The Administration is not only looking into the provision of the tractors but also other Agricultural machineries that will enhance productivity. “We are equally aware of the need for maintenance which is why we will be investing in training our engineers to ensure that all our inputs and machineries are efficiently managed”. 2022 Economic Outlook: High Taxation, Inflation, Others Killing… FG Markets Its Mining Sector Abroad Ahead 2022 On his part, the Executive Chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Mustapha Adamu Danze described the visit to the central workshop as an eye opener for the Council, which he assured will be keying into the initiative by the Secretariat. can play in boosting food production which is why it has made provisions in the 2022 budget to procure a total of 12 tractors, which will be fitted with tracking devices to monitor the use and locations of the tractors ensuring that FCT farmers benefit from the programme. Abubakar however, assured that the Secretariat will be looking into the provision of other Agricultural machineries to farmers as a strategy to improve food production and guarantee food security. According to him; “The Administration is not only looking into the provision of the tractors but also other Agricultural machineries that will enhance productivity. “We are equally aware of the need for maintenance which is why we will be investing in training our engineers to ensure that all our inputs and machineries are efficiently managed”. On his part, the Executive Chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Mustapha Adamu Danze described the visit to the central workshop as an eye opener for the Council, which he assured will be keying into the initiative by the Secretariat.