The National Agency for Food and Drug Administra­tion and Control (NAFDAC) has refuted claims that 40 per­cent of registered brands (not active ingredients) of pesti­cide products used in Nigeria are banned or restricted for use in the European Union (EU), putting humans, ani­mals, and the environment at danger. The agency’s Director-General, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, stated this during the organisation’s two-day top management committee meeting in Lagos. Prof. Adeyeye said in a statement released by Sayo Akintola, Resident Media Consultant, on Sunday that NAFDAC is an ISO: 900: 2015 Quality Management System (QMS) certified organization that has established proce­dures to allow the Agency to make regulatory decisions about whether an active in­gredient should be banned or restricted. Performance Enhancing Drugs Can Lead To Organ Damage, Sudden… Afe Babalola Excited As NAFDAC Licences ABUAD To Produce Herbal… The statement read, “The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control dispelled the insinuation that 40 per cent of the registered brands of pesticide products used in Nigeria are either banned or restricted for use by EU, thereby endangering the lives of people, animals, and the environment in Nigeria.” The NAFDAC boss added that the agency had put in place procedures to enable it to make regulatory decisions and determine whether an active ingredient should be banned or restricted. She said, “NAFDAC is a signatory to the international convention that banned chemicals and pesticides such as the Rotterdam Convention, an international treaty designed to facilitate informed decision-making by countries with regard to trade in hazardous chemicals and pesticides. “Chemicals banned by international convention have been phased out and never entertained for registration or given import permits as raw materials for production.” She said NAFDAC was responsible for ensuring that chemical products produced in Nigeria and those being imported into the country meet the prerequisite in-country approval as well as international standards. POLL Adeyeye added that the agency has a stringent requirement of ensuring that any pesticide imported into Nigeria is on the market in the exporting country and that the current free sale certificate is authenticated by the Nigerian embassy in the exporting country. The NAFDAC boss said to ensure that only active ingredients approved by NAFDAC are allowed into the country, the agency appointed testing agents and laboratories to conduct tests and forward results to the agency before any pesticide is shipped from countries that are major exporters of agrochemicals into Nigeria. While saying that adequate quality control tests are carried out by the agency before granting certifications for all products that are either imported or manufactured within the country, she said the field trial evaluation is conducted in collaboration with research institutes in Nigeria to determine the safety, quality and efficacy of new molecules as well as inspection of manufacturing facilities to establish good manufacturing practice. MTO/Punch