As leaders of different communities celebrate the Yuletide with their people, Pastor Engineer Jonathan Ajirioghene Ukodhiko, Delta State Energy Commissioner, has left a lasting impression on his people as he did not only celebrate with them but also went further to empower them. The Commissioner who commended his people for the tremendous support they have given to the governor, Senator Authur Ifeanyi Okowa, said the governor recognises the support of the Isoko nation hence, the large number of appointments given to people from Isoko Land by the governor. Engineer Ukodhiko revealed that as a mark of appreciation to the people of Isoko nation, governor Okowa has most of his trusted friends in Isoko land. Covid-19: England To Suspend PCR Confirmation Of Positive Test… Russian-US Security Talks To Be Held On Jan. 10 In Geneva He stated that the governor’s giant stride in Delta State as a result of the support of the people. Women dressed in their traditional attires thronged the venue of the event from all the communities that constitute Otibio ward 13. The Honorable Commissioner, who was accompanied by his wife, Mrs Ivie Ukodiko, gave Bags of rice, Bags of salt and Cash gift to the women as part of the new year celebration. The women who were excited, showed their gratitude with songs, as they danced to the admiration of the Honorable and his wife. Supplications were later offered to God, for the Honorable commissioner and his wife, by the women. POLL Over 3000 widows were given food items, fabrics and cash gifts in Isoko land to celebrate the new year by the Commissioner. In addition, 240 wheelchairs were given to People Living With Disability across the 24 wards of the Federal constituency to aid their movement. He appealed to the people to continue to support the Peoples Democratic Party so as to continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy. It was disclosed that the distribution of the items is an annual tradition that is done by the Commissioner, Engr Jonathan Ukodhiko.