First Bank of Nigeria Limited webinar which was organised on Thursday last week to address Nigeria Economic Outlook for 2022, however, provided insights into what should be expected and the outcome of the government’s utilisation of macroeconomic tools. The webinar themed, “Rearview look at 2021, lessons learnt – Outlook 2022”, had over 2000 participants across the globe, and was strategically positioned at a time when investors, local and foreign, are making investment decisions and forecasts for the year. The bank introduced the initiative to set the tone for the year through the provision of an opportunity for participants to learn directly from economic experts to stay informed and knowledgeably empowered to make the right decisions in their socio-economic activities in 2022 which will be impacted by the micro and macro-economic activities of the country. Explore Lessons From Twitter Suspension To Create Realistic… BUA Foods Aggressive Investments Has Driven Heightened Product… Bismarck Rewane, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited and the event’s keynote speaker lead deliberations at the event with germane postulations on how recoveries in the oil sector and maximisation of the e-Naira could help keep the parallel market in check. He stated that the first half of the year, H1 2022, will focus on Economics while the second half, H2 2022, will be Politics centred. He said: “GDP should be expected to be 3.9% higher than the projected rate and we could see inflation on an upward ride before reducing. Also stating that external reserves will reduce during the year and we will see the Naira strengthening as exchange rate differential drops and converges”. Mr. Opeyemi Agbaje, the founder of RTC Advisory Services Limited believed that inflation will potentially remain a concern to Nigerian consumers. He specifically said: “Inflation will probably continue to be a concern for the consumer, shrinking his wallet and decreasing the cost of consumption for the consumer.” POLL Speaking on the 2021 review and 2022 outlook, he stated that, “GDP growth is gradually inching up, by Bismarck’s projections, we may finally be above the rate of population growth in terms of growth….Trade is beginning to pick up, real estate is beginning to reach positive territory, communications and information has been strong, agriculture remains problematic and I think there is finally evidence that insecurity and disruptions of the agricultural value chain are affecting food production and prices”.