West Ham have extended the contract of Michail Antonio until the summer of 2025, 90min understands. The Jamaican international has been in scintillating form during 2021/22, continuing the momentum he built last season to again help the Hammers challenge for an unlikely top-four finish. Antonio has registered eight goals and five assists in the Premier League, and also played his part in helping West Ham reach the knockout stages of the Europa League; he scored the opening goal to help dispatch Dinamo Zagreb 2-0 on matchday one, a victory that ultimately helped the club top their group. Cenk Tosun Makes Besiktas Transfer Admission, Outlines Everton… Noble Sets Out FA Cup Dream In West Ham Goodbye The 31-year-old’s continued good form and positional versatility has impressed many, so it’s no surprise that West Ham have moved to tie down Antonio’s long-term future. 90min understands that to do so, a two-year optional extension clause has been triggered in his existing contract, which had been due to expire in June 2023. Antonio will also receive a healthy pay rise to reflect his importance to West Ham, where he is currently the only recognised striker on the books. To alleviate the burden and workload currently placed on Antonio, West Ham are hoping to bring in a new striker in January, although manager David Moyes has long insisted that the club will only pursue targets if he feels they will integrate well and suit their style of play. Flamengo’s Gabigol is one prominent name to have been linked with a move to the club, with 90min learning in November that West Ham were, and remain, interested in doing a deal for a player keen to test himself in the Premier League. However, the Brazilian club are only interested in selling their prolific goalscorer for a significant sum of money, rather than agreeing to a long-term loan deal – something the Hammers were instead keen to agree. POLL That may open the door for Newcastle to swoop in, who Gabigol would also be interested in joining despite their ongoing battle against relegation.