ABUJA – The National Agricultural Land Development Authority(NALDA) is set to commission its Integrated Farm Estates located in Ariam Elu Elu in Ikwuano Local Government Area of Abia State and Acharaugo Emekuku in Owerri North, Local Government Area of Imo State. Prince Paul Ikonne, Executive Secretary of NALDA, who stated this while on an inspection tour to the farm estates, said one of the objectives of the projects, was to empower youths and create a new lease of life for the rural dwellers as well as reduce rural-urban migration. Ikonne said the establishment of the projects is in line with President Muhammadu  Buhari’s mandate to NALDA to create jobs through agriculture and encourage Nigerians “to produce what we eat and eat what we produce.” FIRS Exceeds Target, Announces Over 100% Performance As 2021… ICPC, CoDA Sign Pact On Recovery Of Stolen Assets He explained that the project in Abia State would benefit about 400 women and youth of the community, as they have been already trained and prepared to manage the farm for their economic benefits. He further added that the project has the capacity to generate huge revenue for them per annum. It would be recalled that the Ariam Elu Elu Farm Estate sits on 100 hectares of land donated by the community. The farm estate which boasts of 50 fish ponds with a capacity of 150,000 fingerlings and 3,000 fish has been completed. It also has three solar-powered industrial boreholes to cater for the water needs of the farm as well as a two-kilometre road with drainages, solar-powered street lights, office blocks and residential buildings. POLL For the cropping areas of the farm, a high yielding, pest resistant 40,000 dwarf cavendish, Valerie and big ladyfinger species of banana trees have been planted on 25 hectares of the land. Ariam community is strategically located with a ready market as it borders Akwa Ibom and Abia States. On Acharaubo Farm Estate in Imo State, the reactivated 35-hectare land was abandoned for over 30 years, as NALDA has resuscitated some of the existing facilities on the farm and also added some new facilities to boost productivity on the farm. The farm currently has six poultry houses with 18 pens that contain about 10,000 birds, three goat houses with 196 goats, three piggeries containing 108 pigs, three solar-powered boreholes, access roads and drainage and solar-powered street lights on the farm. During the visit to the farm by the Executive Secretary of NALDA, beneficiaries were seen taking care of all the sections of the farm based on their areas of specialisation and training. South-South PDP Youth Leaders’ Summit: Committee Chairman… FG Trains 40 Farmers On Orange, Fleshed Sweet Potato Cultivation… It would be recalled that NALDA had earlier signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Imo State Government to take over the abandoned integrated farm estate, reactivate it and engage the people of the community.