The Kaduna State Government has frowned at the renewed violent conflict has erupted in a Kaduna community when a herder was attacked and killed after an argument with some farmers over encroachment of animals. The assailants beheaded the slain herder and took his head with them as the other herders grazing in the area managed to escape with their animals. The state government condemned the renewed killings in the boundary areas of Kauru and Zangon Kataf LGAs as reported by security agencies in those locations. NIWA Harps On Accident-Free Water Transportation In Nigeria Insecurity: Oyo CP Calls For Synergy Between Residents And… The Government appealed to residents who lost their relations and loved ones to allow security forces and government manage the situation, as investigations are in progress, following incidents which created a tense atmosphere in the local government areas. Security agencies reported that unidentified persons attacked and killed a herder in Zaman Chawai general area of Kauru LGA. According to the report, the herder, Yusuf Mahmuda, a resident of the community, was grazing with other herders in the bushes adjoining some farms, when he was attacked and killed after an argument with some farmers over encroachment of animals. The assailants beheaded the slain herder and took his head with them as the other herders grazing in the area managed to escape with their animals. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, in a statement, explained that POLL subsequently, an inter-ethnic communal clash erupted during peak market hours in Bakin Kogi Market of Kauru LGA located near its boundaries with Zangon Kataf LGA. One Ahmad Aliyu was killed in the violent attack, while two residents, Esther Thomas and Tanko Dakar, were injured and a vehicle was burnt. The situation was brought under control by troops of Operation Safe Haven who then escorted buyers and sellers to safety. Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed his sadness at the reports and sorely lamented the eruption of violent attacks and clashes in the general area. He expressed deep concern that despite the efforts and hard work of the government, security forces and other critical stakeholders to ensure the gradual return of peace, the killings had caused a setback which must not be allowed to gain ground. He condoled the families of those killed, and prayed for the repose of their souls, while wishing the injured a quick recovery. Bauchi CJ Swears In 31 Commissioners Of Oath For Sharia Court Of… Scores Escape Death As Fire Razes Building In Abraka The Governor tasked security agencies to conduct thorough investigations into the attacks leading to loss of lives in both locations. While he further charged all residents to maintain calm and desist from all actions capable of triggering further violence, as security agencies carried out their tasks. Security agencies are investigating the incidents and sustaining patrols to restore stability to the general area.