AKURE – The lawmaker representing Idanre Constituency at Ondo State House of Assembly, Festus Akingbaso, on Wednesday emphasised that empowerment programmes ameliorated the rate of poverty among the people. He noted that it’s important to for public officeholders to organise capacity-building programmes for the people of their constituency in order to make them self-reliant. The lawmaker, who’s aspiring to represent Idanre/Ifedore federal constituency in 2023, made the assertion on Wednesday while distributing working tools and other items to some selected women, men and youths from the Idanre Local Government Area of the state. FCT SDS Promises To Support Less Privileged With Empowerment… Community Engagement: Oyo  Mulls Empowerment For Small Scale… Akingbaso explained that though lawmakers were primarily elected to make laws, it’s not out of place to assist their constituents to cushion the effects of the current harsh economy in the country. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain said he decided to procure and distribute the items as dividends of democracy. Among the items distributed are Deep freezer(20), refrigerator(5), hairdryer(10), power generating set(20) and grinding machine(20). Others are sewing(20), gas cooker(10) and motorbikes (25) worth N28million. Dismissing the allegation that lawmakers were not giving back to their constituents, Akingbaso disclosed that they were not being paid regularly, adding that he sourced money from his other business to procure what he gave to his people. POLL He said their September 2021 allowance was paid in January 2022, saying that such staggered payment of allowance could not allow members of the state House of Assembly to embark on any impactful project. According to him, “What we are earning from the state is not coming regularly as it is supposed to be. For example, we took some salaries and running grants a week ago which is not for this January, December, November or September. “We are talking of September as at January, how do you want them to go back home and empower their people? This will be a little bit difficult, so, we can’t blame them much.” Speaking on his plan for 2023, Akingbaso said: “To me, I don’t plan to stay in Ondo State for any reason at all because there is nothing much to enjoy, particularly this dispensation in Ondo State. If God says yes, I have been trying possible best to give the dividend of democracy back to my local government and people, most especially the people of Idanre. “This is why I have the confidence to say I am planning to go higher to represent my Federal Constituency in the forthcoming 2023 election. The chance of PDP, if we have a free and fair election, is very bright. People are ready for PDP because it is not selfish.” Inner Wheel District 912 Trains, Empowers Nigerians In ICT,… A.D.U Attributes Lack Of Youth Empowerment To Rising Insecurity,… Former state Chairman of PDP, Dr. Tayo Dairo, who was present at the event, explained that the lawmaker’s gesture was meant to get the people gainfully employed in the private sector and to reduce unemployment. He said: “What Akingbaso is trying to do is to ensure he reduces the level of poverty in the area by giving items to enhance the development of those that are trying to make a living.” Dairo, who disclosed that the PDP was ready to dislodge the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023, lamented that APC, judging by indices of development at the state and Federal levels, had failed to give quality leadership. He said: “A bag of rice was N8,000 before they came to power, now N28,000; a bag of cement then N2,000, now N4,500; petrol wa N86.00 now they are selling N162 and they are still planning to push it higher. “By the time you look at this, APC has a poor comprehension of economic development for this nation. It is good that Nigerians have tried them and they have seen their level of performance. We are not out to disgrace them out of office, but let them go.”