Following a calamitous 3-0 defeat at the hands of Norwich City, Claudio Ranieri is out of time at Vicarage Road. Watford are notorious for their vicious managerial-sacking cycle, but the uptick in form they were hoping for after sacking promotion-winner Xisco Munoz did not occur. Their points-per-game decreased considerably, losing ten of 13 league matches. Even if Ranieri was not the problem, he certainly did not provide the solutions either. Thus, Watford are in the market for yet another head coach, with the hierarchy known to be considering, and admiring, Diego Martinez. According to Simon Collings of the Evening Standard, Martinez is highly regarded by Watford owner Gino Pozzo. Martinez is currently without a job but is open to listening to offers. Having found tremendous success with Granada, earning them promotion in 2018/19 before leading them to a seventh-place La Liga finish in their top-flight return, the 41-year-old has become a potential suitor for many clubs around Europe. With a Watford vacancy set to open and such admiration coming from the Hornets, Martinez could see himself receive a Premier League offer. Claudio Ranieri ‘Sacked’ By Watford Man Utd Face Villa, Leicester Host Watford In FA Cup Third Round If Martinez is willing to go to the relegation-battlers, appointing him in charge would be a no-brainer. However, as Watford sit in 19th-place, two points from safety, and Newcastle United heavily reinvesting in this transfer window, prospects of staying in the Premier League for next season look bleak to even the best of head coaches. If Watford want to stand any chance of landing Martinez, they will need to assure him that if they are relegated, they would not sack him. If they hand Martinez a rebuilding process and change their sacking philosophy, then they stand a chance at getting the talented tactician. Unfortunately, many pieces need to move before the Hornets can even consider signing one of the best young coaches in world football. Nonetheless, it is a development to look out for.