One of the prominent financial institutions Parallex Bank has become the latest entrant into the commercial banking industry in Nigeria. The Bank, having been launched at the bank’s headquarters in Victoria Island, Lagos, has set out with a mission to redefine the banking landscape in Nigeria, and Africa, by extension. Several key dignitaries including the Deputy Governor of Delta State, Mr. Kingsley Otuaro, former Executive Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Mr. Ernest Ndukwe; Non-Executive Directors, Parallex Bank, Messrs Thomas Ehis Amenkhienan and Vale Odu-Thomas, Founder, Retro Group of Companies, Otunba Lekan Osifeso, investment banker and Chief Executive Officer, Chapel Hill Denham, Mr Bolaji Balogun, among others, were in attendance to witness this historic event. Stanbic IBTC Ranks Overall Best Bank In Retail, SME Segments–… Delta Loses $3.4bn In Pre-Tax Full Year 2021, Expresses Hope In… Dr. Adeola Phillips, while introducing the bank to the gathering, the bank’s chairman, said that Parallex Bank is delving into the commercial banking space, to drive consumer-centric innovation that will propel the banking industry to greater heights. He emphasised that the company’s goal is to drive convenient and efficient commerce through the bank digital platforms, she explained that the Parallex mobile app has been designed to provide enhanced flexibility to reduce the strain carried out by consumers while carrying out transactions. “We see our coming to the market as an opportunity to empower the banking public and to drive convenient and efficient commerce through our digital platforms. This will undoubtedly position us further to meet the needs of modern banking customers. “Parallex Bank Limited will disrupt the market and delight customers with very attractive offers. Most transactions on Parallex mobile app are free but beyond that, customers will have the freedom to do much more with the app. Our platform will eliminate inconveniences and hardship often faced by customers while paying for goods and services.”