ISAAC ASABOR Nigerians have expressed concerns over Lagos State Government’s plan, with effect from February 1, 2022, to commence collection of daily levy of N800 from operators of danfo, taxi, and other commercial vehicles in the state. While some Nigerians, particularly Lagosians, support the move, others were quick to condemn it, alleging that the State government was looking for another opportunity to further impoverish ordinary Nigerians, particularly as the plan, when implemented, will negatively impact on transportation fares across the state. Appraising Irukera’s Attentiveness To Consumers’ Complaints Excitement Trails Government’s Plan To Reduce Cooking Gas Prices It would be recalled that the disclosure of the plan by the State government to commence the collection of the levies from commercial vehicle drivers was made known in a statement titled, “LASG unveils levy for informal transport sector to harmonise dues from commercial motorists …New consolidated levy collection starts February 1, 2022”. The agreement between the state, local government, and various unions in the transport sector, as well as some government agencies in Lagos State, was signed during a ceremony held at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre, Alausa, Ikeja, according to the statement. Dr. Rabiu Olowo, Lagos State Commissioner for Finance, was quoted as explaining that the levy pegged at a flat rate of N800 covers money for not just the local government levy alone, but also that of clearing waste from motor parks paid to the Ministry of Transportation, Lagos State Waste Management Authority and Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency. He said the benefits of the levy include harmonising the collection process by putting a structure in place, reducing multiple taxes, dues, and levies to all agents of state and local governments, providing reliable data, eradicating harassment of bus drivers, and bringing collaborative engagements within stakeholders, among others. The commissioner said the Consolidated Informal Transport Sector Levy approach was an alignment with stakeholders and total restructuring of the transport system that would further boost revenue coming into government coffers. POLL Olowo, who disclosed that personal income taxes of the drivers will also be deducted from the N800 levy, said the Consolidated Informal Transport Sector Levy which will take effect on February 1, 2022, would be paid to moderate the fees that motorists in the sector pay daily, adding that tax cards would also be issued to them. “The N800 is a single structured collection of the monies payable to all government agencies and parties who are directly or indirectly associated with the transport sector. What the government has done is to organise the collection and reduce the multiplicity of levies and all sorts of taxes, dues, and monies due to the government from the transport unions. Bus drivers will get tax cards, and the issue of arbitrary payments will be eradicated once they pay from the point of their loading each day,” he said. Mr. Toyin Fayinka, the Special Adviser to Governor Sanwo-Olu on Transportation, also speaking at the event, described the development as the first approach towards a total restructuring of the transport sector. Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya,the Chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), popularly known as ‘MC Oluomo’ explained that the Union, in collaboration with the Road Transport Workers Union, had approached the government to consolidate the fees to make it easier for the government. He said they were in agreement with policies that would ensure the development of Lagos State. Respite As NBS Sees Fast Recovery Post COVID-19 In Nigerian… Extolling Irukera’s Ingenuity At FCCPC As New Year Beckons The NURTW boss however, clarified that the N800 Consolidated Informal Transport Sector Levy does not deprive the Union of collecting its normal statutory levy but gave the commitment that the union dues will now be collected at only one point in a structured manner going forward. “The harmonised levy will not affect the national union ticket. What it is aimed at consolidating are all the levies collected by the government and it was the unions that approached the government to help us harmonise the payment of all the levies it has been collecting to prevent duplication of levies,” he said. A driver, Amos Ndimele said: “While it is a good development, I am waiting for it to be fully implemented, and government should ensure motor part touts are completely chased out from the parks” because after paying the N800 daily to the government; which amounts to N24,000 monthly, we should not be expected to pay money again to them. Otherwise, the charges would be passed to passengers. Do not forget that petrol price will also be increased soon as we have being told”. Another driver, Simon Arokola, said: “I spend more than N800 for different bodies on the road on daily basis”. Godwin Essien, also a driver said: “Inasmuch as I commend the government in its efforts to harmonise levies charged transporters in the State, efforts must be made to eliminate “Agberos” (streets urchins) from the roads before implementing any collection.” A driver, Stephen Oni, who plies the Yaba-Ketu-Ojota route, said the levi harmonisation exercise would further increase the sufferings of passengers”. He noted that if the government would be unable to chase away “Agberos” who always extort levies from commercial vehicle operators in a violent manner, that the transport fare which passengers would be paying would be huge, and will be unaffordable to many, particularly salary earners whose salaries are fixed. He said, “I don’t know who is advising this government. The policies will certainty increase the sufferings of the people. “The cost of maintaining vehicles now is on the high side. So, if the government add their own levy to the cost, “Agbero” add their own, Police and other traffic personnel add their own to what we are paying on the road now, together with the increase in petrol pump price which everyone is waiting for, then the passengers should get ready to bear the brunt because the add-on will fall back on them. A journey of N200 will definitely jerked up to say N500”. Corroborating Oni’s position, another driver that plies Obalende to Berger, who simply gave his name as Dare, said the policy to him is retrogressive, as long as certain palliative measures would not be put in place for both commercial bus operators and the passengers. He said the negative effect of the new levy is encompassing as it would affect both commercial vehicle operators and passengers. Christopher Ubaka, a trader, said, “Let’s stop deceiving ourselves, and I stand to be corrected; it is another means of settlement for some people. We pay multiple taxes without any value for the money being paid. Transporters will not bear the cost; rather it will fall back on the passengers. They will pay for it indirectly, as it will be an add-on to the fares.” Sunday Ayoola on his part said, “But if it’s going to be the usual ‘collect and pocket’, then they should have a rethink because it is also going to affect the common man, as the transport fares will increase. “Don’t forget that the drivers are already overburdened with the numerous toll collections in the state, which I am sure the government would not be able to harmonise. So, for the passengers, it’s going to be what I call now your suffering continues”. Mr. Gabriel Iyoha, an insurance marketing executive, said: “There is no way the introduction of the levy will not affect commuters. This is as we are equally expecting an increase in pump price of petrol. You know these transporters. They will shift the whole costs to their passengers.