LAGOS – As the world marks the 4th International Day of Education, Teach for Nigeria, a non-profit organization focused on expanding educational and life opportunities for low-income children has concluded a week-long stakeholder’s engagement to sensitise stakeholders on their role in transforming the foundational education system. These meetings held in Ogun State also provided the opportunity to deepen relationships with critical stakeholders and secure partnerships towards achieving educational equity. At the end of the engagement attended by school leaders from public schools, government officials, parents, religious leaders, the CEO, Teach For Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, in a keynote address reiterated the organization’s commitment to attaining an excellent education for all children in Nigeria. AAU ASUU Kick Against Transfer Of Suit To Benin LASU: Tunji-Bello Canvasses Expanded Admission Quota For… She said that transforming education in service to all children regardless of their economic status requires an urgent need to work more collaboratively with stakeholders to achieve a transformed and equitable education for all children. Omikunle noted that while progress had been made, opportunities abound to improve the situation for millions of children who had limited or no access to quality education. Also speaking at the event, the Honourable Commissioner for Education Science and Technology in Ogun State, Professor Abayomi Arigbabu, represented by the Special Adviser to the governor on primary and secondary education, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, said “The fellowship programme of Teach for Nigeria has attracted numerous achievements in the state’s education that cannot be undervalued. She praised the organization for the continuous training and retraining capacity of Fellows’ development since 2017 and encouraged the Fellows to keep up with the spirit of leading and impacting. Mr. Olu-Ola Aikulola, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, also commented on how Teach For Nigeria is raising a crop of young leaders who are gifts to under-served communities in Ogun State. POLL While recounting the numerous achievements some of the Fellows are making through their schools and community, he urged the zonal education officers, SUBEB field officials and teachers to continue to work in a deeper partnership with the Fellows and Alumni of Teach For Nigeria.