The Managing Director of Ore Industrial Park in Ondo State, Dr. Femi Akinkuebi, has called on Msme/SMEs in the State to explore the inexhaustible benefits attached to the industrial facility, in a bid to repress unemployment, restiveness and other societal maladies. Describing the park as the largest in the South West, the MD said the derived benefits for artisans would also identify bottlenecks and bring about economic resurgence of the Country, adding that Government will give grants to Medium and Small Scale enterprise in the state. Akinkuebi made this known while playing host to the Ondo State Chairman of Nigeria Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), Mr. GreatSeyi Akintunde, who visited the industrial site on Tuesday. FG Spent N152bn On Digitalisation In 2021 – Pantami Decentralise Police Recruitment, Benue Traditional Rulers Advise… According to him, “SMEs are known to have significant relevance to all world’s economies. In most parts of the world they constitute about 90 percent of all business enterprises while in Nigeria, SMEs contribute 48% of national GDP, and it also account for 96% of businesses and 84% of employment” The industrialist explained that the Ondo State Government, as part of its huge commitment to ensuring the growth of MSMES for economic development, has dedicated over 50 hectares forSmall and mid-size enterprises (SMEs) “There’s a need for us to collectively change the narrative from a civil servant state to an emerging industrial giant, this we can achieve by using our numerous resources to transform the State to a manufacturing hub”, Akinkuebi said. Impressed with the industry’s architectural masterpiece coupled with its aesthetic output, Akintunde commended the Akeredolu led administration in the State and the management of the facility. POLL Akintunde said “The opportunity here is massive compared to Akure Mini industrial park or any other industrial park in the South-West, every serious investor should be here” He also assured them of the State Government readiness in partnership with the Federal Government to provide grants opportunities for Msme/SMEs in Ondo State. The Chairman who was conducted round the Industry, expressed euphoria with the SMEs hub, with over 500,000sqm dedicated to SMEs/MSMEs. Some of the Plants who have stated business activities on the park includes the Allescharis, LPG and Denki Cables. The Ore Industrial Park is a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) between the Ondo State Government and Hessmac Industry Limited, which is established on a massive 1000 hectares of eco-friendly and industrially zoned land. The Park also had its own installed 30MW trio-fuel independent power plant which is dedicated to providing power in the park.