Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, said on Sunday that he was happy he fulfilled the singular wish of the late Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade III, to ensure the sole ownership of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) before the monarch joined his ancestors. Makinde, who stated this at a thanksgiving service held at the First Baptist Church, Oke’lerin, Ogbomoso, in honour of the late monarch, noted that Oba Oyewumi, in his lifetime, stood and worked hard for the development of Ogbomoso and Oyo State at large. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as saying that the Late Soun asked him for only one thing when he visited the palace ahead of the 2019 election. Stop Inflicting Hardship On Nigerians, NDYCN Cautions FG Foreign Group To Renovate Olumirin Water Fall To Boost Osun… According to Makinde, Oba Oyewumi told him that his only wish was to have LAUTECH solely owned by Oyo State. He said that he was happy that the monarch’s wish became a reality before he joined his ancestors. He said: “This is a thanksgiving service in honour of our father, Late Soun of Ogbomosoland, Oba Oladunni Oyewunmi Ajagungbade 111. I deliberately waited to be part of the service because we need to thank God for the kind of life our father lived and all that he left behind. “At over 95 years of age, what else does anyone expect? Also, for all the developments we have witnessed through Baba’s efforts in Oyo State and Ogbomosoland as well as this country at large, are we not supposed to thank God for all that? “So, on behalf of the government and the people of Oyo State and on behalf of Ogbomosoland in particular, we welcome our Vice-President. We also welcome him specially for being a part of this celebration to honour our departed Kabiyesi. POLL “I have spoken about Baba at different fora but I will still say this about Kabiyesi. When I was campaigning, I came to Ogbomoso and went to the palace. “Baba looked at me and said, ‘Seyi, you look calm and gentle now because you are looking for votes to become the governor, by the time your aspiration is fulfilled, you would start doing something different from what you have promised.’ But I replied saying I would do exactly what the people want but that he should support me to get to the office first. “When we went inside, Baba asked me for just one thing and he never requested any other thing for himself. He prophesied that God will make me get to that position and that when I get there, I should do just one thing for him and for Ogbomosoland – secure the sole ownership of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH).”