DAMATURU – Ya Zara Orphan Care Foundation, Potiskum in Yobe State has today graduated 16 Orphans and secured them admission to continue their education at El-Kanemi College of Islamic Theology, Maiduguri. In his address during the graduation ceremony, Engr Abubakar D. Aliyu, Minister of Power and Chairman of the Board of Trustees Ya Zara Orphan Care Foundation welcomed the guests to withness the official departure of another batch of 16 Orphans under the care of the foundation, to El Kanemi College of Islamic Theology Maiduguri to continue their Basic and Secondary education. According to him, “today’s occasion is also organised to welcome the second set of Orphans, comprising 15 boys and 10 girls, to the Orphanage”. FedPoly Ukana Dedicates Main campus to God Absence Of Governing Council Hindering Progress At AAU –… “May I take this opportunity to welcome Honourable Members of the State House of Assembly, Members of the State Executive Council, Permanent Secretaries, Chief Executives of Parastatals, Chairmen of Local Government, Your Royal Highnesses, Party executives, Ulamas and all distinguished invited guests for finding time despite crowded schedules to grace this occasion. This is an indication of your interest and commitment to matters affecting Orphans. May the Almighty Allah reward you abundantly”. “Distinguished Invited Guests, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, the Ya Zara Orphan Care Foundation started the process of establishing this Orphanage with the aim of providing a loving and supportive home environment for orphans. The first set of 25 Orphans to be admitted was drawn from Fika, Fune, Nangere and Potiskum Local governments. In realisation of our objective of providing free education and free care home for Orphans, we explored and identified individuals, institutions and philanthropic organizations for collaborative efforts. Today’s milestone event is one of the results of such efforts.” “I should at this point express our profound appreciation to Dr Muhammad Sani Idriss the Honourable Commissioner for Education and Executive Director of El Kanemi College of Islamic Theology for agreeing to serve on the Board of Trustees of this Foundation, allowing us to use the Colleges’ curriculum and for sending staff of the College to come on periodic visit to the Orphanage to assess implementation of academic programmes and advise as appropriate. This has no doubt strengthened our resolve to seek for affiliation of our programmes to the College.” He explained that “with the signing of this Memorandum of Agreement today, the remaining 16 Orphans from the pioneer set will join 6 other Orphans already in JSS 2, thus bringing the total number of orphans pursuing their Basic education programme at El Kanemi College to 22. The Ya Zara Foundation under which. auspices this sponsorship is being undertaken will pay almost N50 million up to the end of their Senior Secondary education. Furthermore, another female Orphan, Fatima Mohammed Abubakar is being sponsored to continue her education at Mori Memorial School in Potiskum. Regretably, we lost one of the female orphans, Aisha Adamu Bawa while another male Orphan could not continue as a boarding student and withdrew to continue staying with his guardians”. “I am glad to report that the process for the admission of the second set of 25 orphans has been completed and we welcome them into the Orphanage Home to continue their life. This foundation will continue to explore ways to sustain this free care home and the services being rendered to the inmates. In this regard, plans are underway to construct shops and donate them as endowment to generate revenue for the Orphanage Home. Like I indicated during the opening of the home five years ago, this service in the way of Allah is open to the entire community so that collectively we can provide the enabling environment to these orphans to realise their full potentials and grow up to give back to society”. POLL “Distinguished Invited Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, the Foundation also deemed it appropriate to provide a mosque where the orphans and people in the surrounding areas can offer prayers in congregation and serve as a centre for learning. It is heartwarming that around two hundred people are benefitting from the Islamic educational activities being carried out in the Ya Zara Mosque. On 25th December,2021,the management of the mosque with financial assistance from the foundation and learners, organised and successfully conducted the third edition of Quranic recitation competition among those taking lessons in the mosque. Furthermore, the foundation also sponsors a Zonal Quranic recitation competition with participants drawn from the four local governments in the zone namely, Fika, Fune, Nangere and Potiskum. The next edition of this competition will take place very soon in Sha Allah”. “With these remarks, I would like to once again reiterate my appeal to all and sundry to join the foundation in contributing your widow’s mite to assist in funding these projects and other charitable activities. We are grateful to those who consistently assisted the Orphanage in numerous ways. May the Almighty Allah reward you with Jannatul Firdausi. Ameen. We also pray for journey mercies to our respective destinations and abodes. 8. Thank you and May Allah bless us all”. Highlights of the occasion was Quranic recitation by one of the orphans, Fatima Mohammed Alfaki, welcome address in arabic and jolly gesture by Ishaq Abubakar and Ibrahim Dauda Damazai. On his part, the Secretary of the foundation commended the community members for the support and cooperation always which enabled the project. Ogun Undertaking Form: Ministry Monitors Compliance Level As… BREAKING: Kano Varsity Suspends Exams Over Tricycle… Earlier speaking, the Deputy Speaker Yobe State House of Assembly, Auwal Isa Bello urged well meaning individuals to always assist the Orphans. One of the Orphans, Ahmad Adamu Daye thanked the Minister of Power and Chairman of the Board of Trustees Ya Zara Orphan Care Foundation for the initiatives which according to him has helped greatly in alleviating the sufferings of the Orphans in the area.