This is not the best time for power distribution companies in Nigeria as they are highly enmeshed in debt which has prompted a takeover of some of its units by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). Stakeholders have accused the sector of weak corporate governance, poor tariff regime, lack of respect for extant regulations, among others. This red flag shows the rot which has not eluded the sector since its privatisation and the government’s occasional intervention to stabilise them. MOHAMMED SHOSANYA writes. A recent World Bank report that says Nigeria’s econ­omy was losing between N7 trillion and N10 tril­lion annually to epileptic power supply shows the country has con­tinued to wallow in regrets and lamentations almost nine years after the privatisation of the suc­cessor companies of the defunct Power Holding Companies of Ni­geria. The development is already taking its toll on the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Nige­ria’s battered economy. The report said businesses and wealthy homes depend mostly on generating sets on unreliable and insufficient electricity sup­ply. According to the report, over 22 million gasoline generators in Nigeria power about 26 per cent of all households and 30 per cent of Micro, Small, and Medium En­terprises (MSMEs) while their net capacity is eight times more than the national grid. Akpabio Urges Electorate To Re-elect Performing Officeholders Ebubeagu Not For Political Witch-hunting – APC Though the report and other stakeholders blame the failure of the sector on collapsed infrastruc­ture and organic issues, the electric­ity distribution companies seem to carry the heavy burden of the sec­tor’s underperformance. The reason for this ill-fate is not far-fetched as the distribution companies are the weakest link in the nation’s electric­ity value chain, and maintain an interface between the customer or end-user and the power value chain. Besides, there are concerns that most of the new investors of the dis­tribution companies got the licenses on account of their affiliation with the government, which explains why they couldn’t perform optimally since they took over the asset. Some also wondered why the government had continually spoon-fed the DisCos with the intervention fund amidst their failure to give customers im­proved service delivery, including adequate and affordable metering in the country. The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) agreement the government signed with the DisCos was never complied with causing consumers to provide basic infrastructure like wires, transformers and electricity poles that should have been the re­sponsibility of the investors. Penultimate week, the DisCos justified the rationale why consum­ers should provide the tools on their own. Also, the metering gap has per­sisted with high aggregate technical and commercial loss while none of the DisCos, except Eko, has been able to meet their revenue remit­tance threshold. The DisCos had also lamented their failure to conduct due diligence on the assets purchased as well as wrong pricing of electricity. Perhaps, the shaky foundation and chronic ills of the DisCos in the electricity value chain came to the fore a few months ago following the takeover of two of the eleven privatised companies by the Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) on account of loan default and the change of ownership of an­other on account of the anachronis­tic business environment. POLL Saturday INDEPENDENT also reports that two other distribution companies would soon join the league of those insolvent ones in need of AMCON’s intervention. Loan Palaver The federal government had last month announced that the lending bank (UBA), had exercised its rights over the shares of the KANN consortium, part owners of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company. In a joint release, NERC and Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), stated that there had been a dispute amongst competing factions of AEDC’s majority shareholder/ core investor, stressing that the dis­agreement eventually translated to a dispute with the lender that provided the acquisition loan to KANN. According to NERC and BPE, the matter later deteriorated over KANN‘s inability to service its debt to the bank. The statement said that the AEDC not only struggled to meet its obliga­tions to the market under the terms and conditions of its license but was also unable to meet its obligations to key stakeholders in the organisa­tion, including staff. The agencies explained that this culminated in the industrial action by members of the Nigerian Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE). “The general public should note that arising from KANN’s inability to service its acquisition loan and the ensuing dispute over the servicing of the loan from UBA Plc., the lender exercised its rights by appointing a receiver/manager over KANN,” it noted. BREAKING: Barty Beats Collins To Win First Australian Open Title Lottery Contract Scam: Nigeria Loses N3trn Annually – Ogba According to the statement, it then became apparent that deci­sive steps were required to address the matter wherein the BPE agreed with the lender’s request to exercise its powers as receiver/manager. It explained that this development in­cluded exercising its powers over the 60 per cent equity in AEDC as a means to recovering the acquisi­tion loan is granted. AEDC oversees Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger and the Fed­eral Capital Territory (FCT). Last week, AMCON had also announced that it had taken over the assets of the core investor in the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC). AMCON in a public notice stated that it had ap­pointed Mr. Osayaba Giwa-Osagie (SAN) to take over the entire un­dertakings, assets of the company, including shares and interests in related companies and entities, and also monies kept in the 25 banks in Nigeria. The agency executed the take­over of IEDM, the core investor, fol­lowing a default in a Loan Servicing Agreement (LSA) executed with Polaris Bank. ”AMCON has pursu­ant to Section 48 and 61 of AMCON Act 2010 been appointed Receiver/ Manager over all the Assets of In­tegrated Energy Distribution and Marketing Limited as stipulated in the instruments executed in favour of AMCON. “This is by virtue of the Loan Purchase and Limited Servicing Agreement executed with Polaris Bank Limited dated 30th November 2018 and a notice of appointment of the receiver/manager dated August 6th, 2021, which was duly stamped by the commissioner for stamp du­ties” the statement read. NERC had earlier sanctioned the power firm N50 million for its failure to secure a refund of an in­terest-free loan the board of IBEDC granted to its core investor group. Mr. Tunde Ayeni, who owns the company, had taken back the control of the IBEDC from AMCON. Chief Operating Officer of IBEDC, Mr. John Ayodele, an en­gineer confirmed that after the negotiations, the status quo was maintained. “Further to the com­munication earlier sent on 20th January 2022, in respect of the above, kindly note that the inves­tors have resolved on way forward with AMCON and status quo ante maintained,” he stated. Besides, Quest Electricity Nige­ria Limited had acquired Yola Elec­tricity Distribution Company with a bid price of N19 billion. The develop­ment was a sequel to the company’s inability to break even on account of the anachronistic business envi­ronment. Specifically, the company said it couldn’t operate on six occa­sions between the end of 2013 and mid-2015 on account of insecurity in its franchise areas. The federal government later took back Yola DisCo following the declaration of force majeure by In­tegrated Energy Distribution and Marketing Company, the core inves­tor in the firm. More Headache, Imminent Job Losses Stakeholders fear that job losses may be imminent in the sector, par­ticularly among distribution com­panies, on account of debt, weak corporate governance structure, poor tariff system, weak regulato­ry enforcement and lack of respect for extant regulations in the pay­ment of electricity bills, especially by states and Federal Government Ministries, Departments and Agen­cies (MDAs). This may be aggravat­ed by commercial banks and other lenders’ possible freeze of loans to these companies. Besides, Federal Government, the states and other agencies’ failure to pay electricity bills promptly have increased the debt profile in the sec­tor to nothing less than N202 billion. Buhari’s Concern President Muhammadu Buhari had recently deplored the perfor­mance of the power sector, which has thrown the country in dark­ness. He pointed at his predecessors of bastardising the sector by selling off the country’s power assets to their cronies who neither had the financial muscles nor the technical know-how to revamp the sector. Nigerians, he said, are facing ep­ileptic power supply because those who bought the various electricity distribution companies got them based on political favouritism and geopolitical consideration rather than on merit. According to him, those who bought the Discos were not electrical engineers nor did they have the financial muscle and thus, could not understand the intricacies of the power system in the country. Stakeholders Speak Wale Okunrinboye, Head Invest­ment Research at Sigma Pensions and regular guest on Nairametrics’ ‘On the Money’ show on Clubhouse, said that during the power privati­sation, most of the companies were thinly capitalised entities that used leverage to fund these purchases. According to him, issues related to naira devaluation and the slow im­plementation of tariffs have heavily affected the financial operations of the DisCos. He also said that in many cases the entities were no more than fi­nancial SPVs put together to win the bid in the hope of selling on to strategic players in the medium term. He added that the financing arrangements modeled fairly stable exchange rates on the USD debt, cost-reflective electricity tariffs, and relatively conservative collection losses (in hindsight). He said subsequent events exposed the folly of these assumptions as Naira de­valuation, greater than expected collection losses and delays in adjusting tariffs resulted in many of these players being saddled with large losses, adding that many of these play­ers failed to meet metering targets and collections were large. “Interestingly despite the prospect of bankrupt­cy from missed bank loan payments, many chose to hold on rather than selling equity to stronger players. These larger and more cap­italised entities could have assumed these obligations staving bankruptcies,” he said. He spoke on the govern­ment policy side, saying that the delay in ensuring cost-reflective tariffs and limited pressure on Dis­Cos to take steps to reduce collection losses such as mandating prepaid meter­ing, ensuring government agencies cleared their elec­tricity bills and improv­ing alternative revenues streams, contributed to the issues. He said that even the BPE, which was a minority investor in all the DisCos, could have used this posi­tion to drive greater im­provements in the DisCos. According to the Execu­tive Director, Power Up Ni­geria, Adetayo Adegbemle, it was unfortunate for most of the DisCos to have bor­rowed with an expectation that things would go well. He maintained that the escrowing of the accounts also exposed the weak­ness of most of the power distribution companies in Nigeria. A power expert, who pleaded anonymity, ex­pressed fears that the collapse of distribution companies is imminent on account of the current sit­uation in the business en­vironment. “All along, the DisCos were enjoying a sub­sidy from the government. This subsidy has been re­moved while the custom­ers are not paying because electricity is still seen as a social service. Apart from a loan taken to acquire the assets, there are other associated loans that are now being deducted from the source; this will make many DisCos fall victim to what happened in Abuja and Ibadan DisCos.”