There has been a lot of friction between Barcelona and Chelsea these last few months, especially in terms of transfers. The Blaugranas seem to have their eyes set on the Blues’ defensive trident of Andreas Christensen, Antonio Rudiger, and Cesar Azpilicueta. On the other hand, names of Frenkie de Jong, Ronald Araujo, and Sergino Dest have been whispered around London. El Nacional provides an update on these rumours, saying Chelsea are interested in signing three Barça players in the form of Frenkie de Jong, Gavi, and Sergino Dest. They are ready to shell out an eye-watering €130 million for the three of them combined. Chelsea Remain Determined To Sign Sevilla’s Jules Kounde Thiago Silva Renew Contract With Chelsea De Jong, unsurprisingly, has been on the transfer list of several clubs across the continent. He’s failed to make a mark at Camp Nou this season, with Gavi and Nico Gonzalez coming up clutch over him. The Dutchman, according to rumours, carries a price tag of around €60 million – an amount Chelsea will be willing to table to sign him. Currently, they have N’Golo Kante, Jorginho, and Kovacic in their ranks to cover two midfield spots, but the three of them have barely been fit at the same time. As for Gavi, his contract ends in the summer of 2023, and while his priority is to pen down a renewal, his current release clause sits at a measly €50 million. Thomas Tuchel’s side are ready to increase his salary multi-fold, and the final decision would ultimately be in the 17-year-old’s hands if they were to trigger his RC. Dest seems to be the player most closely linked with a switch to Stamford Bridge over the last few weeks. He does not have Xavi’s trust and might have to look for game-time elsewhere. Coincidentally, Chelsea are going through quite an injury crisis, with first-choice left-back Ben Chilwell out for the season. Reece James has been sidelined multiple times, too. Dest could be an excellent solution for both these positions and would be a steal for €20 million.