ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command in Abuja on Tuesday paraded 19 arrested kidnappers, murderers, armed robbers, cults and other criminal elements who have been terrorizing the residents of the city and its environs. The Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday, who paraded the suspects said they were nabbed for different crimes ranging from kidnapping, murder, cult, armed robbery, unlawful possession of arms and homicide. He said the exhibit recovered from the suspects includes five locally-made pistols, 29 unexpended ammunition, three cartridges, one car, one ITEL phone, one machete and others. NSCDC Commandant Advocates Security Training For Pupils In Ondo Bayelsa Assembly Wants Probe Of Moribund State-Owned Motel He said three suspects were arrested in connection with the gruesome murder of one Dr Obisike Donald Ibe, a 37-year-old medical doctor working at Zenith Lab and his friend and, Ezekiel Edoja, aged 31, both of D2, 24 streets, Games Village Estate, Abuja. Sunday said the 3 suspects namely; Abdulsalam Ibrahim aged 26, Fidelis Ezekiel aged 27 and Phillimon Hussaini aged 22 upon interrogation confessed to having plotted and committed the offence. He added that the suspects would be charged to court upon the conclusion of the investigation. He said: “On 14th January, 2022, at about 1400hrs, a report was received at Karu Divisional Police Headquarters about the murder of one Mohammed Usman a farmer while working on his farmland by an unknown person. The identity of the murders at the time of the report was a mystery. Upon the receipt of this information, intelligence and tactical assets of the Command, attached to Karu Divisional Police Headquarters were immediately drafted to the scene and investigation commenced earnestly. POLL “Thorough investigation led to the arrest of one Muhammed Abubakar ‘M’ aged 22 years, who Voluntarily confessed in a written statement to have stabbed the deceased and took flight for the feared of apprehension, after a fight had ensued between him and the deceased resulting, in the murder. “The cutlass used in causing bodily injuries to the leg of the deceased before stabbing him on the rib was subsequently recovered on a cliff where the suspect had hidden it. The suspect will be charged to court upon the completion of investigation ” . He explained that the anti-kidnapping unit of the Command’s State Criminal Investigation Department in a covert operation arrested of the duo of Shuaib Usman, and Sani Auwal a 25 years old male. Babaji noted that one of the suspects (Sani Auwal), who had since been on the radar of the Police for his involvement in a series of kidnappings, recruitment of members but was eventually arrested while trying to regroup and recruit new members for his criminal syndicate for an operation. Wizkid, Tiwa Savage , Omah Lay Nominated For NAACP Award 2022 2023: Your Children’s WAEC Fees Will Be Paid If I’m… “On 9th January, 2022, the management of RCC Construction Company reported the case of a stolen Black Toyota Camry Car with Reg. No. BDG 356 BH. The Vehicle which was removed from where parked in the highly fortified compound during a security system upgrade, where the CCTV was temporarily put off kept the whole company in dismay. “Upon receipt of this information, tactical and intelligence asset at the Command’s disposal attached to the Utako Divisional Police Headquarters were set in motion.Following a highly digitalized discrete investigation, one Chimezirim Kingsley ‘M’ 38 Years Old of Dutse Makaranta area Abuja, security staff of the company was arrested in connection to the act, the stolen vehicle was also recovered in the possession of the arrested suspect. The investigation is still in progress all suspects will be charged to court as soon as the investigation is concluded”. The Commissioner stated. He said that the suspects would be charged to court upon completion of the investigation.