The Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Ltd has se­cured a $5 billion cor­porate finance loan from the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) to fund major investments in Nigeria’s up­stream sector. The funding commitment is an outcome of a meeting be­tween Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of Afreximbank, Benedict Ora­mah, and the NNPC Ltd team led by Group Managing Direc­tor/Chief Executive Officer, Mele Kyari, in Cairo, Egypt, on Wednesday. Mele Kyari, NNPC GMD, said the financing would sup­port the company’s upstream business and “facilitate ener­gy supply and transition”. The agreement paves the way for further collaboration. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… Tanker Explosion: Delta Will Take Steps To Avert Reoccurrence… Kyari was accompanied on the trip by the Chief Fi­nancial Officer of the NNPC, Umar Ajiya; Group Exec­utive Director in charge of upstream segment, Adokiye Tombomieye; Group Gener­al Manager of NAPIMS, Bala Wunti, and Managing Direc­tor of NNPC Trading, Lawal Sade, and others. The move is a major mile­stone in the quest of the cor­poration to scale investments in the oil and gas industry fol­lowing the commencement of the implementation of the Pe­troleum Industry Act (PIA). The PIA was signed into law by President Muhamma­du Buhari on August 16, 2021. Following the assent of the president, the NNPC LTD was incorporated by the Cor­porate Affairs Commission (CAC) on September 22, 2021, after it received application for its registration from the Federal Government. The new legislation has provided business opportuni­ties that will enable the NNPC to earn more revenue for the country. POLL The PIA has also raised stakeholders’ expectations on the company, even as it has given it a wide room to stimulate investments in the oil and gas industry. The NNPC’s $5 billion cor­porate finance commitment from Afreximbank is seen by oil industry stakeholders as a dividend of the PIA and the incorporation of the NNPC as a limited liability company. Under the NNPC Ltd funding strategy for selected upstream investments, the company would be raising between $2.5 billion and $3 billion as corporate finance to fund major upstream in­vestments. To achieve this objective, the NNPC plans to take over ownership from non-invest­ing partner through acquisi­tion of pre-emption rights in the sample joint venture. The NNPC’s strategy would also see the company invest in assets to address integrity, bottlenecking and growth issues, including rig-less activities and drilling campaigns in the oil industry. 2023: Tinubu Is Most Salable Candidate For President — Sanwo-Olu Buni Gets Buhari, APC Govs’ Nod To Preside Over Convention The company’s preference is to source lenders that can provide this funding in a ratio based on the capacity of each of the lenders. The funding would also be used to finance part of the NNPC’s investment, includ­ing acquisition of interest in quality upstream oil and gas producing assets. The acquisition is an inte­gral part of the NNPC’s cor­porate strategy to rebalance its portfolio by divesting from some toxic assets to acquire choice strategic assets that will help support its long term strategic objectives. The repayment of the funding is expected to be done through a forward sale arrangement, whereby the funds provided will constitute the payment purchase of 30- 60kpd of crude to be delivered to the lender over a period. The repayment of the fund is being projected to be made within a four- to eight-year pe­riod with an objective to en­sure major fiscal obligations and operating expenses are discharged appropriately. The meeting between the NNPC and Afreximbank team agreed to intensify ef­forts at deepening investment in Nigeria’s oil sector. Also, the NNPC and the Afreximbank agreed to, among other things, deepen the business collaboration between the two institutions. The bank agreed to enter into a finance advisory and fundraising role to raise $5 bil­lion to “acquire, invest and op­erate energy producing assets in Nigeria as part of NNPC’s growth strategy following its incorporation as a limited li­ability company.” As part of the landmark transaction, Afreximbank will also underwrite $1 billion as part of forward sales base trade finance transaction. It would be further noted that the NNPC and Afrexim­bank also explored the inno­vative idea of establishing a pan-African energy transi­tion bank and agreed to col­laborate towards achieving the objective.