LAGOS – The Lagos State Government is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring seamless operations of Sawmillers in their new location, Timberville, Owu-Ikosi, Agbowa as they prepare to move from the waterfront of Okobaba in Ebute Metta. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako, accompanied by the Special Adviser on Urban Development, Hon. Ganiyu Adele Ayuba,the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Engr. Abiola Kosegbe and Director, Engineering, Public Works Corporation, Engr. Olayinka Abdul, was midweek on assessment visit of the new site While at the site, he disclosed that the needed facilities were being provided to facilitate hitch-free wood processing and sales. ARCON: Architects Council Wins Draughtsmen Over Right To Design… Ogun Housing Scheme: Obasanjo Hails Abioduns’ Strides Salako noted that the facilities which include link roads and internal roads, drainage, electricity, housing and display sheds were being provided for the comfort of Sawmillers and their customers. He explained that Government had resolved the issue of connectivity by providing an alternative link road as supplement to the main road, thereby making it possible to approach the Timberville from Ikorodu-Itoikin road. At the time of the visit the alternative road of 1.265km is almost completed to support unhindered movement from Okobaba to Timberville. “ Whilst the main road requires strenous engineering works, such as the construction of a deck-on-pile among others, the alternative road to the Timberville has attracted urgent and immediate attention of the State and would soon be completed in a few week’s time to supplement the major link road, currently under construction “, he said. He noted that work on the major link road, covering a distance of 2.65km had progressed to the stage where the structure work for the bridge was nearing completion, having sunk about 316 piles. POLL Details of other facilities, according to Commissioner Salako, include installation of 8 power transformers with the total capacity of 500KVA as well as the provision of 260 units of 2-bedroom bungalows, 100 units of which were released from Odo-Onosa housing scheme by the Lagos State Government to augument housing requirements of the sawmillers in Timberville. Other social amenities at Timberville are canteen, meeting hall and trailer park.