LAGOS – Archbishop Adewale Martins, Catholic Archbishop of La­gos and Baba Aladu­ra Israel Akinadewo, Prophet and Supreme Head, Motailatu Church Cherubim and Sera­phim Worldwide (MCCSW) have urged Nigerians to be op­timistic and channel their ener­gy rightly in order to record to remarkable results. Rather than dwell on the challenges of 2021 and give attention to predictions that could lead to depression and further mental anguish, Mar­tins encouraged Nigerians to be full of prayers for the New Year and shun fear or anxiety. In his New Year message signed by the Director of So­cial Communications, Rev. Fr. Anthony Godonu, the prelate admitted that there were in­deed numerous challenges that characterised the outgo­ing year for the country as a whole and for the majority of Nigerians. Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… ASATU Projects Prosperous New Year For Ndi-Anambra He, however, called on the President Muhammadu Bu­hari-led government to “ex­plore new and better ways of dealing with this issue in such a way that Nigerians would be assured of better security in the New Year.” Likewise, he said it was important the Federal Gov­ernment take further steps “to reappraise its economic policies and inject fresh ideas to cushion the effects of the harsh economy on the masses and mitigate the suffering that would arise from the projected economic challenges of the New Year.” Meanwhile, Martins com­mended the Federal Govern­ment for its efforts in curtail­ing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and its new Omicron strain. He, implored Nigerians to embrace COVID-19 vaccina­tion in order to reduce the rate of infection. On his part, Akinadewo, called on Nigerians to be one another’s keeper. The first Vice President, Organisation of African Insti­tuted Churches (OAIC), stated: “We must focus on ourselves and not on others. If we must criticise others at all, let us first criticise ourselves. It is argued that if we exercise same energy that we use on others’ activities on ourselves, to a greater ex­tent, poverty would have been driven away among brethren.” POLL On the persecution of the church, he said: “In the recent time, just as it happened during the Apostolic Age, The Church is facing vociferous attacks from the enemies. To get out of this, we will all always agree that it is through prayers.