ABUJA – Justice Iyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja on Friday, gave final warning to the Nigerian Immigration Service and it’s lawyer, Jimoh Adamu, insisting they must appear in court on February 7. The court said Jimoh Adamu must come and defend accusation of “unprofessional conduct” made against him in respect of the refusal of the Nigerian Immigration to release the seized international passport of former Rivers State governor, Dr Peter Odili. The Judge directed that the NIS counsel should appear in court to show cause on why disciplinary action should not be taken against him for refusing to appear in court for 2 times. Peter Odili Sues Over Third Term Agenda Book Odili’s lawyer, Ifedayo Adedipe SAN, recalled that on December 21, 2021, the court had issued a directive for must appear in court today. Adedipe lamented that for the second time, Adamu was not in court and has refused to explain why the passport has not been. Adedipe told the court that Adamu has failed to obey the October 18 subsisting order that the passport be deposited with the Registrar of the court pending the hearing of his motion for stay of execution. More so, the applicant’s lawyer accused Adamu of consistently avoiding proceeding despite being served with hearing notice in relation to his pending motion. Consequently, Adedipe has urged the court to penalize Adamu for disrespecting the court and treating it with contempt. POLL Meanwhile, one Babagana Abba, a counsel who claimed to be a colleague of Adamu apologized to the court for the absence of lawyer adding that he was sick and may find his way to the court later. However, unimpressed with the apology, Justice Ekwo said in the interest of fair hearing, he would give the lawyer another opportunity. “This honourable court knows what to do and how to do it but in the interest of fair hearing, I am giving him another chance. “Let him deny himself fair hearing, then, court will take necessary steps.” Adamu has been representing the NIS and its Director General in a fundamental rights enforcement suit filed by Odili, wherein he challenged the seizure of his international passport by the NIS. However, while proceeding was going on, Adamu was sighted in the premises of the Federal High Court Abuja by reporters.