ABUJA – Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Reconciliation Committee on Monday submitted the Committee’s interim report to Governor Mai Mala Buni- led Caretaker Committee. Receiving the Report on behalf of the committee, former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, a member of the CECPC noted that the reconciliation committee is critical to the party’s collective desire to recover, reposition and rejuvenate APC to a strong, stable and united party. “The submission of this report is coming at a crucial period as we approach the National convention and the 2023 general elections. Therefore, the findings of the committee would contribute in no small measure to a successful convention and the general election”. Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC Bye-election: APC, PDP Adopt Indirect Primary Election In Ondo He expressed appreciation to the committee for handling the assignment expeditiously and with a “high sense of commitment and responsibility”. “You have painstakingly visited states where we have challenges and addressed them squarely. Great achievements the party has recorded in reconciling the differences among our stakeholders in Gombe, Ogun, Kwara, and many other states have justified the confidence the party has in your individual and collective capacities. You have truly done us proud” he said. | wish to assure you that the Caretaker Committee will carefully study the report and implement the same to improve the unity and strength of the party. Senator Nnamani said the fact that APC conducted successfully in the wards and LGAs with over 41 million registered members participating is a testament that APC is a party to beat in all national electionss. “With this numerical strength, APC remains the party that can confidently win elections with a landslide victory in all the national elections. POLL “However, in spite of all the achievements recorded by the party under my stewardship, and the high profile defections into the party, it is very pertinent for the party to promote the philosophy of unity of purpose, to pursue national interests against personal interests and a functional system of internal democracy to have a United, stable and prosperous political party. Also speaking, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Chairman of the committee disclosed that the committee perused over 47 petitions submitted by APC Stakeholders, adding that more reports are being anticipated before the completion of the assignment.