Nineteen years after the Lagos State government proposed the construction of the 4th Mainland Bridge, it is still a tall order, OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. The present Third Mainland Bridge, which was commissioned by former President Ibrahim Babangida (rtd), was the longest bridge in Africa at unveiling in January 1992, and it remained so until 1996 when the 6th October Bridge located in Cairo, Egypt, was completed. The bridge, which starts from Oworonshoki area of Lagos, links to the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway and Lagos-Ibadan expressway, and ends at the Adeniji Adele Interchange on Lagos Island. However, because of the continuous increase of human and vehicular traffics in Lagos and the plan to decongest most highways in the state, the State Government for almost two decades had planned to construct another major bridge, ‘christened 4th Mainland Bridge’, which would ease congestion on the 3rd Mainland Bridge, but this has failed to take off despite promises. Monetary, Fiscal Authorities Stimulus Programmes Boosted… Why FG Expands Tax Net, Introduce 6% Tax On e-Commerce Outlets The idea for a 4th Mainland Bridge was first mooted in 2003 during the administration of former governor of Lagos State, Sen. Bola Tinubu. The State Government then said that the bridge was intended to provide the required transportation to complement the rapidly growing industrial activities on the Eti-Osa – Lekki – Epe corridor of the state. The government also added that the bridge would drastically reduce traffic volume on Eko, Carter and Third Mainland Bridges, adding that the conceptual design for the 4th Mainland Bridge was done by indigenous architecture studio NLÉ Works. Besides, by 2008, during the government of Mr. Babatunde Fashola in the state, the conceptual design for the bridge was approved by the Lagos State Government, five years after the idea was first proposed. The bridge was designed to be a 38km bridge and expressway with a design speed of 140km. According to the State Government, the bridge is designed to be a two-level bridge. The upper level will function as a means for vehicular traffic. Its lower level will stimulate and accommodate pedestrian, social, commercial and cultural interactions. POLL The government added that the bridge would be made up of eight interchanges to facilitate effective interconnectivity between different parts of the state. The proposed alignment passes through Lekki, Langbasa and Baiyeiku towns along the shoreline of the Lagos Lagoon estuaries, further running through Igbogbo River Basin and crossing the Lagos Lagoon estuaries to Itamaga Area in Ikorodu. It then crosses the Itoikin road and the Ikorodu – Sagamu Road to connect Isawo inward Lagos Ibadan Expressway at Ojodu Berger axis. Besides, the bridge, according to the government, would be a four-lane dual carriageway with each comprising three lanes and two metres hard shoulder on each side. The government further said that the bridge would be constructed to have a generous median to allow for both future carriageway expansion and light rail facility. However, the State Government pointed out that no fewer than 800 structures and shanties have been identified to be destroyed to allow for the construction of the proposed bridge and promised that the inhabitants of affected structures would be compensated and or relocated. Besides, the 4th Mainland Bridge would be the first construction project, long-span bridge and expressway, of this magnitude that would be embarked upon without Federal funding. The government then, said the project would be funded solely (concession) by the private sector. More Than Half Of Low-Income Countries Are In Debt Distress… New Tax On Carbonated Drinks Will Result To Sudden Decline In… Moreover, on May 25, 2016, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the then Governor of the state, signed another Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a consortium of firms and finance houses for the financing and construction of the same bridge, which indicated that the former agreement had been discarded with. The consortium of firms that were engaged to finance and construct the bridge included Visible Asset Limited, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) and Access Bank, Hi-tech Construction Limited, Eldorado Nigeria Limited, Nigerian Westminster Dredging and Marine and J.P. Morgan, while the Visible Assets Limited would be the coordinating firm. The State Government also put the contract cost for the construction of the bridge at N844bn, adding that when completed, the bridge would be the longest in Africa, beating the 6 October Bridge in Cairo, Egypt, which is presently 20.5 km. Regrettably, on May22, 2017, the State Government said it had cancelled the contract it signed with a consortium of firms for the construction of the bridge and attributed the delay in commencement by the concessionaire for its action. The government said a new concessionaire will be announced in June 2018, but, no new concessionaire was announced as a replacement by the government before it left on May 29, 2019. However, on January 2019, during an election campaign, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the then candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), now the State Governor, said the construction of 4th Mainland Bridge was not his priority if elected. But, by July this year, barely 30 months later, Sanwo-Olu said that the construction of the proposed 4th Mainland Bridge would cost the State Government about $2.5 billion (about N1 trillion) and indicated interest to eventually carry out the project. But, five months after his declaration, nothing new was heard about the project again, which made some analysts to described the proposal as another conduit pipe by the State Government. According to analysts, the government was yet to show any serious plan to birth the 4th Mainland Bridge project, despite regular assurances. Mr. Chris Edong, a transport analyst said that the current government and governor have the opportunity to get it right with the eventual construction of the bridge, but he doubted the sincerity of the government to deliver the project even in the next decades. According to Edong, building of a bridge of this scale is a once-in-a-generation opportunity, stressing that it would be great if policymakers in the state could deliver a great service for Lagosians, now and in the future. He emphasised that it was not only up to the governor and his team to get it right, but charged the people to also demand that the governor and his team get it right with the commencement of work on the project. The transport analyst said that the government needed to consider all of the potential angles of negotiation regarding its building, which he said included environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessments (ESHIA), any potential displacement of people following the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards, as well as operation, maintenance, material integrity. He added: “We have to look into the financial modelling and the potential tools for financing the bridge. One potential is a public-private partnership, which sounds good, but has not always served the government or its people. “In addition, operation and maintenance clauses need to be watertight. A road can have lapsed maintenance — more potholes. However, to ignore a bridge’s maintenance could lead to significant fatalities, liability and traffic in the future. In addition, although for the next generation, this issue cannot kick into the long grass. It must be addressed up front and in the contract. Besides, Mr. Kayode Akinrogun, a transport enthusiast, said that the Lagos State Government had turned the 4th Mainland Bridge to regular political campaign without any iota of seriousness displayed by the government. According to him, 4th Mainland Bridge had been a conduit pipe for the government with MoUs signed with different companies without commencement of construction work, wondering what it takes the government to get the project started. He said: “I’ve not seen any form of seriousness from the government in the state on this project. Nothing tangible is on the ground yet for a project the government said would start this December. It’s unfortunate that for almost two decades, we have been going in circle. The government doesn’t have the financial muscle to carry out this project. In fact, I see it as a conduit pipe for the government.”