LAGOS  – Dr. Adams Adebayo, the Lagos State chairman of the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), has said that 2021 was a challenging for business, especially for small businesses. Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent, he said that and the Covid-19 pandemic continued to devastate business through out the year.. He stated that the high inflation rate in country also impacted business negatively, adding that this limited the ability of entrepreneurs to access raw materials. Digital Marketing Veritable Tool For Business Growth – Ojo Last Year Was Difficult For Entrepreneurs – Iche He posited that most of the funding provided by the Federal Government to ameliorate the impact of the pandemic on entrepreneurs and businesses did not get to business people; stating that politicians and party loyalists hijacked it. He called on the government to release the list of the people that accessed the funding. Adebayo disclosed that the few entrepreneurs that got the funding could not use it because a huge part of it was used to offset debt. He said that the Federal Government promised to pay the salary of “our workers and but the bureaucracy was too much and it did not do so. Many of the entrepreneurs who applied for the fund in Lagos State did not access the fund,” he added. He stated that entrepreneurs have been facing the challenges of funding, bad infrastructure, manpower shortage, adding that the inflationary trend in the economy prevented entrepreneurs from selling their products because it reduced the purchasing power of Nigerians. “Nigerians are now going for cheap and low quality foreign products. People no longer think care about the quality of the product; they just go for cheap products and Nigerian entrepreneurs are the worst for it. This has led the market to shrink and a reduction in business growth,” The Lagos State chairman of NASME posited that the open border policy of the government has led to flooding of the Nigerian market by foreign products and Nigerian entrepreneurs are suffering because of the policy. POLL He argued that many of the countries on the continent do not have the population and they are sending their products to Nigeria, and “they do not have the challenges that we face here and their production cost is lower and their prices are lower. The competition is skewed in their favour. They will flood the Nigerian market and outcompete Nigerian entrepreneurs,” he argued.