LAGOS – The Boys’ Brigade Nigeria (Lagos State Council) on Saturday 29th of January 2022, held its strategic executive officers’ workshop at Faith Plaza, Bariga Lagos. The Executive Workshop themed leadership: Share The Vision was aimed at equipping officials of the Battalion Councils with the requisite knowledge, skills and right attitude towards keying into the vision of the State Council for the Boys with a view to providing optimal effectiveness which is germane to the goals of the Boys’ Brigade. Bauchi Stakeholders To Develop Model Action Plan For VAPP Law Population Pressure, Others Disrupt Ecological System –… Mrs. Stella Edem, a consultant, who was also the guest speaker at the event, had an interactive session with the attendees and spoke elaborately on leadership.According to her, a leader is someone who knows the way and then shows the way,. “You cannot give what you do not have.“So, if you are to lead, you have to be “thorough. You need to have integrity, you have to mean what you say and say what you mean.“And you need to lead your followers through the leadership style and the exemplary lifestyle that you are using in leading them”; Edem tutored. Shortly after the guest speaker, the president, Lagos State Council of the Boys Brigade, Architect Olusegun Paul Adetokunbo, Ladega spoke on the Digital Age and how information travels at the speed of light. He charged the officers to adopt effective methods of communicating their vision to their followers. During an exclusive chat with the Independentonline, Adetokunbo spoke about the impact of the workshop on the Boys, especially the youths in society. POLL He posited that although times had changed the objective of the Boys’ Brigade remained the same. “Therefore, the methods being used have to change to the relevance of time. “Our expectation is that rising from here, our officers will be better equipped to be able to lead the Boys of today towards the objective of the Boys’ Brigade. “Lead them in the way of Christ, in the way of discipline, in the way of self-respect and in the way of all that leads them to be a true and genuine Christian gentleman.“And hopefully the nation then benefits by the generation of well brought up young men who will take over the helm of affairs of the nation”. Arc. Adetokunbo enthused. He then went further to explain the qualities of leaders society needs; saying: “a leader of any organisation, I will say, should be what I call the Chief Knowing Officer just like the Chief Executive Officer.“He is the Chief Knowing Officer because, first and foremost, he must know where we are going, then be able to communicate that knowledge to the followers so that they can understand and be ready to follow”. Very Reverend Henry Osindeinde, Vice-President, Training and Extension, during his presentation, unveiled the Vision, Mission Statement of the Lagos State Council of the Boys’ Brigade even as he urged the officers to always remember the core values of the Boys’ Brigade. Revd. Henry while speaking with Independent Newspapers on the impact of the workshop on society said “it is in Nigeria that I heard that there is an association of yahoo mothers and they are celebrating criminality. “So, after this programme, we will launch into the deep to run a campaign programme against social vices committed by the boy-child like rape, yahoo business, robbery and so on.“And we trust that God will go ahead of us to touch their hearts and they will turn a new leaf”; the cleric concluded.