The Journalists International Forum for Migration (JIFORM) through its Gambian Chapter has consoled the media community and the families of the bereaved Journalists in the country. A statement signed by Biriam. S. Jobe, the Coordinating Secretary of the JIFORM, West Africa in Banjul conveyed the message of the global media body that has over 300 Journalists covering migration across the continents with headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria. “We received news of the death of Maimuna Sey Jawo, who was with The Point Newspaper in The Gambia. This sad news occurred on Saturday 22nd of January 2022 following a brief illness. JIFORM Tasks FG On Prioritising Capacity-Building For Migration… Christmas: JIFORM Felicitates With Christians,  Preaches Love… “She was a very hardworking colleague and devoted Muslim who was very passionate about reporting on issues of national development. “Her death comes at a time when the Gambian media fraternity is mourning the passing of two senior colleagues, Pa Modou Faal and Musa Ndow both former employees of the then Daily Observer Newspaper and the Gambia’s Ministry of Health communications officers.” Both Modou and Ndow died while attending a training and sensitization trip in the Lower Part of The Gambia while Maimuna who is married to a fellow Journalist was sick for four days. Biriam on behalf of the JIFORM extended condolences to their families and loved ones, the entire Journalists fraternity and Gambia Press Union, colleagues. “We pray that almighty God forgives their shortcomings, and grant them the highest place in Jannah” he prayed. POLL “Her death comes at a time when the Gambian media fraternity is mourning the passing of two senior colleagues, Pa Modou Faal and Musa Ndow both former employees of the then Daily Observer Newspaper and the Gambia’s Ministry of Health communications officers.” Both Modou and Ndow died while attending a training and sensitization trip in the Lower Part of The Gambia while Maimuna who is married to a fellow Journalist was sick for four days. Biriam on behalf of the JIFORM extended condolences to their families and loved ones, the entire Journalists fraternity and Gambia Press Union, colleagues. “We pray that almighty God forgives their shortcomings, and grant them the highest place in Jannah” he prayed