OYENIRAN APATA LAGOS  – Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker, House of Representatives, on Monday suggested upward re­viewof the minimum educational qualification for those seeking to be president, governor, Na­tional Assembly members and others. The speaker made the case while presenting the 52nd convo­cation lecture of the University of Lagos entitled, ‘Building Back Better: Creating a New Frame­work for Tertiary Education in Nigeria in the 21st Century.’ Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… Gbajabiamila, an alumnus of the university, said as the coun­try approaches another year of general elections, it has become imperative to increase the mini­mum educational qualification for persons aspiring to be future presidents of Nigeria or occupy other top offices. “As the country is faced with yet an other election in 2023. Prior to the 2019 elections, we succeeded in amending the constitution to effect the ‘Not Too Young to Run’ request and ensured the eligibil­ity of young people to aspire to high offices in the land by reduc­ing the eligible age for political offices. “I also sincerely believe that the National Assembly needs to look into section 131 (d) of the 1999 constitution with a view to increasing the minimum educa­tional qualification for persons aspiring to be future presidents of Nigeria and other top offices including the National Assembly as against the current minimum requirement of a secondary school certificate or its equivalent”, he said. The speaker added: “As we have reduced the age for eligibil­ity to contest those offices so also we should in crease the minimum educational requirement.” This, he argued, will bean oth­er step in reforming the country’s electoral system and providing strong leadership for the country. POLL Speaking on the controversial Electoral Act Amendment Bill, 2021, the speaker expressed hope that a direct primary election method will lead to increased and greater participation in the leadership recruitment process. He charged the leadership of the National Assembly and Nigerians in general to begin to move away from considerations of small things to focus on the pursuit and achievement of grand ambitions that could save the future. He advocated a joint collabo­ration to raise a new but consci­entious generation of Nigerians in whose hearts the light of under standing is lit and cannot be put out. Gbajabiamila decried the rot in the education sector, saying sexual harassment must be ef­fectively tackled beyond media hypes and occasional sacks. “We cannot aspire to build 21st century institutions capa­ble of competing effectively in the global space when this issue remains a reoccurring cause for concern. Mental Health: Lagos Tackling Challenges With Building Of First… Oyo CP Leads Routine Patrol Team To Onigari, Assures Commuters… “And we will not solve this problem through occasional purges brought on by external denunciations in the press or on social media, but by reconsidering how our tertiary institutions operate as a matter of course”, the speaker said. He suggested the adoption across the board a system of zero tolerance for individuals, students or staff who are credibly accused of harassment, intimidation, and any infringements of individual autonomy. Gbajabiamila made a case for the setting up of an indepen­dent panel made up of persons of integrity and unquestionable authority, to evaluate the credibility of complaints, taking only relevant variables in to consideration and, after that propose a course of action to which the university must be bound. “Our universities must be places of learning and innovation where people feel safe and where injustice in all its forms has no place”, he said. To the graduating students, Gbajabiamila said, “I congratu­late you all most heartily on your achievement. “This is a historical moment fraught with opportunity and per­il. And you are for tun ate because, throughout recorded history, it is in times such as this that men and women of talent and ability make their name and build their fortunes. “As you enter the world, allow me to share a few lessons I have learned on my own journey over the nearly four decades since Is at where you now sit. I hope that these lessons will guide you to achieve your highest potential,” he added. TheVice-Chancellor, Prof. Olu­watoyin Ogundipe, lauded the contributions of Gbajabiamila and other friends of the univer­sity for their support in various ways, saying such assistance has contributed to the enviable status the institution had attained over the years. Prof. Ogundipe commended the role splayed by Senator Lanre Tejuoso, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council, for restoring peace to the institu­tion when it mattered most and charged other management and staff of the university to continue in that spirit as UNILAG attains 69 years.