BENIN – The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), has held a workshop to equip exporters in Edo on relevant information about the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The workshop which was organized by the NEPC Legal Department in collaboration with the Export Expansion Facility Programme (EEFP) held at the Edo Production Centre in Benin on Wednesday. Speaking at the event, Dr Ezra Yakusak, Executive Director, NEPC, said Nigeria needed to diversify its economic base with AfCFTA being a veritable platform to leverage on. Court Declares Deductions From Federation Account For Police… 2022: Bisi Kolawole Wins Ekiti PDP Guber Primary Represented by Mrs Julie Onmoke Head Legal Unit, NEPC, Abuja office, Yakusak said the workshop was to abreast exporters about the benefits of AfCFTA as well as Nigeria not becoming a dumping ground through the free trade zone. “The workshop, amongst others is to develop the capacity of the exporting communities on the available knowledge, laws, regulations and provision of information regarding the operations of AfCFTA. “It is worthy to note that in order to maximize the benefits of AfCFTA, members country will require some basic knowledge of laws, treaties and conventions governing trade as ignorance of the law will not offer any shield”. He added that exporters needed to have maximum benefits and utilize the opportunities AfCFTA had to offer to increase the value and volume of Nigeria export trade. In her remarks, Mrs Ngozi Ibe, Trade Promotion Advisor, NEPC Benin office, said the council was more proactive to boost the Gross Domestic Products of the country through non-oil exports. POLL Ibe said the workshop was to acquaint Mirco Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs) with market access information that would make them penetrate the Africa Region export market. “It will offer our exporters that push to leverage on the opportunities of AfCFTA. “We are always intentional in continually building the capacity of our exporters/ potential exporters and support them in all ways to see them succeed” Earlier, Mr Noma Iguisi, Chairman, Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists, urged entrepreneurs to leverage AfCFTA for business expansion and trade incentives. Iguisi also urged MSMEs to embrace innovation to enable their products and services to meet international standards as well as compete favourably at AfCFTA. Two More Men Arrested In Manchester As Part Of Texas Synagogue… YOROTA Sensitizes Motorcycle Riders On Registration Process In… The workshop was tagged Role of AfCFTA in the Growth and Development of Intra-Africa Trade: Laws and Treaties.