DAMATURU – Yobe State Police Command, Damaturu has succeeded in the arrest of one suspected thief, Usman Ali of Nayi Nawa Tsallake, Damaturu aged 35. In a press statement signed by ASP Dungus Abdulkarim, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Yobe Police Command, Damaturu revealed that “the culprit was on the 7th January 2022 at about 0600hrs apprehended by Police detectives of the Crack Squad Unit after responding to a distress call from the Ward Head of Marfa-Kallam Village Dtr where over four houses were trespassed into and many valuables carted away in one night”. “The Culprit has specialised in intruding into unsuspecting Victim houses at night while sleeping thereby stealing all valuables that come to their sight ranging from Cell-phones, TV sets, Money, Jewellery and the list goes on”. Tokyo’s Daily COVID-19 Infections Rise 15-fold In One… Zfancy, Vintage Confluence Sign Pact On Digital Media Campaign “The culprit most often patronises Indomie Joins, Tea sellers spot or hang around with friends in the target areas of crimes to observe the movement of people and other security measures and when it is getting dark in the evening they hibernate in some secluded location and come out at midnight to perpetrate their heinous activities”. “They usually operate within the hours of 0200hrs to 0300hrs by sneaking quietly into houses with Doors, Windows or penetrable openings”. “On interrogating the culprit, whether the use of any charm or talisman for deep sleep is incorporated while carrying out the crime? The answer is ‘No’ he said, the magic is the timing and further added that he stole over Two hundred (200) cell phones over the years and sold them at a paltry price, the least is N800 each. short Video clip attached”. “On the other hand, the Command has been trailing the culprit and other syndicates members for a short while now and is one of the most wanted in the list”. “The case is currently under investigation while efforts are made to arrest other fleeing syndicate members”. POLL “To this end, the Command appreciate the cooperation of communities in the state for ensuring public peace and safety and urges more support to sustain the continued efforts in combating crimes and criminality in the State”.