***Says Ruling Party Can’t Outsmart PDP Chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP),Senator Biodun Olujimi has declared that whoever underrate the capacity of the party in the 2022 Governorship election would have his or herself to blame. The senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District and governorship aspirant of the PDP  dropped this warning in Ado-Ekiti on weekend while distributing letters of employment to 25  benefitting  unemployed graduates in Ekiti. Osun APC To Party’s National Reconciliation Committee:… Fulfill Your Electoral Promises To Us, Ifon-Orolu Community… The PDP stalwart boosted that not even the power of incumbency could safe the ruling party from defeat in the  gubernatorial poll. The politician  declared that “nobody can run away with the PDP votes because, “we all know the tricks now. Some of us know the tricks because we have weather the storm before. The Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Senator Biodun Olujimi has declared that power of incumbency won’t work for the ruling All Progressiveness Congress (APC), in the coming governorship poll. Olujimi said “power of incumbency wont work this time around because we all know each other. It wont happen again because we will be proactive and ensure that nobody runs away with our votes. The people of Ekiti will vote and their votes will count. “Anyone that writes the PDP off, does so at his own peril. Because we are capable of reconciling and reorganizing ourselves. That is why anybody that write our party off in the coming governorship election would be making a great mistake. POLL ” However we are trying to put our house in order to ensure that come January 26, we will pick a solid candidate that will give the APC a run for their money. I believe that the PDP will come top in that election.” The protagonist of Ekiti South Agenda  said “I am unrepentant advocate of southern agenda, that power must shift to the south. The reason is for equity, fairness and justice for the zone and nothing more than that. “If you people that treat you with levity, without due respect, then you have got to show them the stuff you are made of  and that is the reason why I am an advocate of southern agenda. I am believing in God and my party that a southern person will become the candidate of our party. “This is because that would be our selling point and that is the best we can do for Ekiti in the present circumstance. That will be the best we can do for a people with six local governments that have been waiting for 25 years. I believe that my party, known for being just and considerate will do that for us.”