The Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) round of 16 begins on Sunday, following a group stage which provided two major shocks, history on the field and several off-pitch talking points. The tournament has come to life following a slow start, which saw nine 1-0s and two goalless draws in the first round of group matches. Two teams have stood out so far: the hosts and Nigeria. The Super Eagles are the only side with a 100% record, a statistic made all the more surprising by the fact they dismissed long-serving boss Gernot Rohr just four weeks before the tournament. Qatar 2022 Qualifiers: Nigeria To Know Foes Today NFF, LMC Condole Family, 3SC Over Death Of Balogun Yet the side have gelled well under interim coach Augustine Eguavoen, domi­nating seven-time champions Egypt in their opening game and going on to beat Sudan and Guinea-Bissau comfort­ably. After an underwhelming World Cup qualifying cam­paign so far, the West Afri­cans are a side to watch. Cameroon, meanwhile, enjoyed fine wins over Burki­na Faso and Ethiopia to top Group A, with skipper Vin­cent Aboubakar netting five goals to equal a tournament scoring record for the Indom­itable Lions. The biggest storyline on the pitch has been the uncer­emonious exit of defending champions Algeria. The North Africans drew 0-0 with Sierra Leone in their opener, then lost against Equatorial Guinea before being soundly beaten by Ivo­ry Coast. POLL Four-time champions Ghana were also dumped out, finishing bottom of Group B after a stunning 3-2 defeat by debutants Comoros. Senegal, among the pre-tournament favourites, finished top of Group B de­spite only managing to score one goal. The Teranga Lions were without goalkeeper Edouard Mendy and captain Kalidou Koulibaly for their first two games because of Covid-19, and their performances will surely improve. Another side struggling to find the back of the net have been Egypt. Mohamed Salah’s Pharaohs drew a blank as they lost to Nige­ria and then could only beat Guinea-Bissau and Sudan 1-0 – although they hit the wood­work three times against the Djurtus. The tournament has pro­vided two seismic shocks. Battle Of Eagles: Expect A Tough Match With Tunisia –Eguavoen MFM Seek To Bounce Back On Tough Ground Equatorial Guinea belied being 85 places below Alge­ria in the world rankings to end their 35-match unbeaten run which stretched back to October 2018. Then came Comoros’s first Afcon goals and maid­en win over 10-man Ghana, giving the side ranked 132nd in the world a famous scalp which ultimately saw them qualify for the last 16 as one of the best third-placed teams. The Gambia, the other first-timers in Cameroon, qualified for the last 16 after winning their opening game against Mauritania, grab­bing a late draw against Mali and also beating Tunisia. Malawi also made the knockout stages with some enterprising football, being narrowly beaten by Guinea before beating Zimbabwe and securing a draw with Senegal. Cameroon should have held the 2019 Nations Cup, but slow preparations de­layed the arrival of the con­tinental showpiece. Despite the time and vast expense spent on hosting, the major disappointment has been the state of the pitch at Douala’s Japoma Stadium. Only opened in 2020, the surface has proved virtually unplayable at times – prompt­ing scrappy games, player er­rors and the Confederation of African Football (Caf) to consider moving matches away from the 50,000-seater stadium. Another moment of con­troversy came when Zam­bian referee Janny Sikazwe blew for full-time 13 seconds early in the Mali-Tunisia game – but Caf rejected Tu­nisian protests. A more positive officiat­ing story came when when Rwanda’s Salima Mukansan­ga became the first woman to take charge of a men’s Na­tions Cup game, refereeing Zimbabwe’s win over Guinea. AFCON matches which do not involve the host team are often poorly attended, but crowds in Cameroon have been better than in previous tournaments, where “neu­tral” ties have historically struggled to attract interest. Because of the coronavi­rus pandemic crowds have been capped at 80% of capac­ity for Cameroon games and 60% for all others. But after low attendances for early games in Bafous­sam, Douala and Limbe, Cameroon’s prime minister ordered schools and civil ser­vants to finish early so that they could attend games. Local people have com­plained about the cost of tick­ets, and the long queues for the compulsory Covid tests – although the stipulation regarding proof of negative tests is not always enforced. Yet fan parks, which do not require the rigmarole of lat­eral flow tests, have been well attended. For the delegations themselves, it has been nigh-on im­possible to avoid Covid cas­es. Cape Verde, Malawi and Tunisia have been among the hardest hit – but all three managed to reach the last 16, and all games have gone ahead as scheduled.