JOS – The Deputy Senate Committee Chairman on Defence senator Instifanus Gyang at the weekend said managing Insecurity is the greatest challenge facing Nigeria today as a Nation. He stated this on Saturday in Jos, the Plateau State capital during the presentation of 75 brand new motorcycles to the chairmen of the 73 electoral wards of his party in Plateau North Senatorial District.Relief materials were also distributed to internally displaced persons (IDPs) in his constituency at the event. Relief materials that were distributed to the IDPs include assorted bags of Rice, Jericans of palm oil, cartons of tin tomatoes and beverages among others. Gbong Gwom Jos An Epitome Of Peace, Equity, Unity – Sen.… Senator Gyang lamented that his constituency has been visited by devastating acts of terror attacks that have caused the displacement of communities, most of whom have been uprooted from their ancestral homes and are in displacement camps. The Senator representing Plateau North Senatorial district at National Assembly pointed out that as the Nation is grappling with the quest to overcome the challenges of insecurity, terrorism, banditry and kidnapping, if not God the country could have been totally destroyed by now. ” As part of the efforts to address the humanitarian crises and challenges which the internally displaced persons are facing, I have made several visits and requests to the national emergency management agency NEMA and today they have responded with these relief materials that were presented to the IDPs.”. He further stressed, ” When you have a Constituency that is almost affected, it can only reach a few people, but I thank God that I can address and reached out to the few ones. I commended NEMA on behalf of the people of Plateau North for their intervention. What we have done is to address critical area, that is starting from Riyom, Barkinladi Ladi, and the Irigwe chiefdom in Bassa LGA.” Senator Gyang added that in distributing the items, they picked five communities in each of the Six LGA that make up Plateau North Senatorial district adding that the items have been shared among local government areas, development associations, representatives of traditional and youth Etc POLL Similarly, the State chairman of PDP in the state Mr. Chris Hassan in his remarks at the event advised the beneficiaries not to sell their Motorcycles but should rather use them for moving around in their localities to preach the gospel of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state.