LAGOS – The Made in Nigeria SME Conference and Exhibition held recently at the Landmark Events Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. The conference and exhibition, themed; A Post-Covid Economy – The Growth & Future of SMEs sought to pragmatically address the present realities and challenges faced by MSMEs post-Covid19 and have critical discussions on issues bordering on SMEs advancement, economic growth, ease of doing business, economic diversification, access to finance, and the role the informal sector plays towards job creation and employment. Speaking on the event, Founder and Executive Director of Made in Nigeria Project,Adedeji Alebiosu, said the conference featured notable speakers and panelists drawn from the public and private sectors of the economy and on the sidelines of the event. FG Flags Off  Made-In-Nigeria Products, Services Campaign In… FG Stopping Us From Producing 2m Cars In Nigeria –… He disclosed that the Made in Nigeria Exhibition – WAZOBIA had a special trade hub that was open to manufacturers, distributors, and service providers whose products and services are made in Nigeria. On the sidelines of the event was the “Deal Room”, an exclusive and especially dedicated room for SMEs at the conference. Alebiosu said that there were consultants, private organizations, public agencies, and advisory firms that provided free 360 consultancy, tailored assessment, profiling, financial services, business solutions and mentoring to MSMEs at no cost, as the organizers partnered with relevant stakeholders to enhance their businesses, provide funding, offer business support, empower them and aid their growth. He stated that the key thrust of the conference and exhibition was aimed at redefining narratives about current challenges faced by SMEs Post-Covid and debate on economic growth, SME advancement, economic diversification and the role the informal sector plays towards job creation and employment. According to him, the keynote speakers at the event were Mr. Tony Okpanachi, CEO, Development Bank of Nigeria; Mr. Kayode Pitan, MD/CEO, Bank of Industry; Mr. Abubakar Abba Bello, CEO, NEXIM Bank; Mr. Dikko Umaru Radda, DG, SMEDAN; Mr. Segun Awolowo, CEO, Nigeria Export Promotion Council; Mr. Adebola Akindele, CEO, Courteville Business Solutions; Mr. Babatunde Irukera, CEO, FCCPC; Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, SSA to the President on Ease of Doing Business; Mr. Afolabi Imoukhued; SSA to the President on Job Creation and Employment; Mr. Tola Johnson, Special Assistant to the Vice President on MSMEs. POLL Others were Mrs. Tara Durotoye, CEO House of Tara; Mr. Seleem Adegunwa, CEO, Rites Foods; Mr. Nnanna Ude Head of Policy, NESG; Mrs. Tejumola Abisoye Executive Secretary, LSETF; Dr. Andrew Nevin, Partner & Chief Economist, PwC Nigeria; Mr. Bidemi Oseni, CEO, Corebank; Dr. Timmydam Udam, Commissioner for Foreign Affairs; Dr. Akintoye Akindele, Chairman, Platform Capital; Mr. Gbenga Agboola, CEO, Flutterwave; Mrs. Kathleen Campbell, Head of Global operations, MarketPlace Africa; Mr. Otega Ogra Head Of Corporate Communications, Bua Group; Mr. Idris Olorunibe, CEO, The Temple Company; Mrs. Ife Durosimi-Etti, Founder AGS Tribe; Mr. Adebola Williams, CEO. RED Media Africa; and Hon. Dayo Alebiosu, former Member, House of Representatives; Seyi Tinubu CEO Loatsad Media; Adedeji Alebiosu, CEO, Pike & Hawley; Mrs. Adenrele Sonariwo Founder, Rele Gallery. Embrace Made-in-Nigeria Products – Entrepreneur There were also Mr. Sam Hart, DG, Abia State Marketing and Quality Control Management Agency; Mr. Micheal Afolaranmi, CEO, 12Baskets Foods; Mr. Chin Okeke, MD, Universal Music Group, Nigeria; Mr. Kayode Adegbola, Lead Advisor, Golborne Road Advisory; Mrs. Toyin Onigbanjo, CEO, August Secrets; Barr. Adebiyi Alex-Adedipe, CEO, Ragnarok; Barr. Gbenga Ajala, Partner, Wiseview Legal Consultancy; Mr. Shola Ladoja, Founder, Simply Green Farm; Ms. Kiki Osinbajo; CEO of Konyin Skincare; Mrs. Tosin Faniro-Dada, CEO, Endeavor Nigeria; The rest were Arinze Chilo-Offiah; Special Adviser to Enugu State Governor on SMEs; Ms. Chioma Ugo, Co-Founder, Prospa; Mr. Charles Odii, CEO, SME 100 Nigeria; Broda Shaggi