ENUGU – Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike of Rivers State has been conferred with the Chieftaincy title of “Agu n’ eche ibe of Enugu State” by the Enugu State Traditional Rulers Council The Chieftaincy title was conferred on Wike in Enugu on Monday in recognition of his sterling leadership qualities Receiving the Chieftaincy title when he led members of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Council Chairmen and elders of the state including a former governor of Rivers State, Sir Celestine Omehia to pay a fraternal visit to Gov. Ugwuanyi at his hometown in Ohom Orba, Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State, Wike enjoined the people and leaders of Enugu State to continue to rally round Gov. Ugwuanyi in his pursuit of peace and good governance. Wike Visits Ikpeazu Amidst Rumour Of Defection To APC Wike Condemns Bandits’ Attack In Sokoto He described Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as a God-fearing leader Gov. Wike also described Gov. Ugwuanyi as “a humble, gentle and good man and one of the shining lights of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nigeria. According to Gov. Wike, “Ugwuanyi very quiet, very humble but he knows what to do at any point in time. “Gov. Ugwuanyi is not a noisemaker, he does not shout like me; he is very humble, he takes everything gently. He is a God-fearing man”. Conveying the fraternal greetings of the Government and people of Rivers State to the people of Enugu State, Gov. Wike, who disclosed that he was amazed by the array of leaders of Enugu State that came to receive him, stressed that Gov. Ugwuanyi deserves his commendations. POLL His words: “I am not a sycophant and I will not be a sycophant. I am not here to eulogize anybody who is not supposed to be eulogized. “But when you see a good thing you say this is a good thing. When you see a bad thing you say this is a bad thing. I don’t identify with those who do not mean well for their people. “This man (Ugwuanyi) you are seeing here, he is very quiet, very humble but he knows what to do at any point in time. Gov. Ugwuanyi is not a noisemaker, he does not shout like me, he is very humble, he takes everything gently. He is a God-fearing man. “I called my brother (Ugwuanyi) and I told him that I am coming to see him. That one of the governors I must see before we start work for the New Year, starting from tomorrow (Tuesday) must be Governor of Enugu State. “I have not danced in any of the states I have gone to but I have to dance here. This man is a good man; a good man in all ramifications”. National Assembly Leadership Lacks The Guts To Depart From PDP 2023: Youth Stakeholders Insist On Returning Of Governorship… Describing Gov. Ugwuanyi as one of the shining lights of the PDP, Gov. Wike thanked him for his support and the brotherhood both of them share together and urged him to remain focused, courageous and strong in supporting the Party. Welcoming Gov. Wike to his country home, Gov. Ugwuanyi, who described him as “the Seven Star Governor of Rivers State”, said that the Rivers State Governor has distinguished himself as a visionary, bold and audacious leader, adding: “You have inspired trust and confidence in our democracy; you have been a defender of the defenseless; and you have continued to glorify God with the instrumentality of your office”. Gov. Ugwuanyi told Gov. Wike that “we are proud of your accomplishments as Governor of Rivers State, elected on the platform of our great Party”. According to Gov. Ugwuanyi, “This fraternal visit signposts the deepening of the fellowship between the Government and good people of the Treasure Base of the Nation and the Coal City-states. “I am glad that Enugu State Traditional Rulers Council under the leadership of her Chairman, His Royal Majesty, Ambassador Lawrence Agubuzu deemed it fit to confer on you the revered title of ‘Agu n’ eche ibe of Enugu State as a testament to this camaraderie and your sterling leadership qualities as well as a memento of this auspicious visit”.