IBADAN – The founder of Lead Generation Initiative (LGI) and a member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency, Hon Shina Peller has advised Nigerian youths not to just obtain Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) but to also join political parties of their choice which would allow them to lead in electing credible and competent leaders among themselves into various positions in the 2023 general elections. Peller made the advise while delivering his keynote address at the second anniversary of the organisation through virtual lecture with the theme: Engaging For Credible Election: Role of the Youth and Technology (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats). Lead Generation Initiative (LGI) is a non-governmental, non-partisan and non-profit organization. APC: Court Strikes Out Suit Challenging Legality Of Buni-led… Chief Ezeonwuka Urges Soludo To Make Adequate Provision For… Peller said Nigerian youths should consider joining a viable political party, which is the first step towards strengthening the country’s leadership institution and building a new generation of leaders that will govern the country rightly. The lawmaker, while urging the youths to register for Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVC) to enable them participate in the next general elections, not only to vote but also to be voted for, saying this is right time for any youth to take the mantle of leadership across the country. Peller stressed that having voter cards without joining political parties was not enough because the youths would not be part of the process to nominate candidates who would stand for various elective positions. He maintained that the task of rebuilding Nigeria starts from strengthening and rebuilding the institutions through which leaders are elected, which are political parties. According to him, “Before we talk about building a new Nigeria, we must first of all be ready to roll up our sleeves and rebuild our political parties because of the kind of political system and government we practice in Nigeria. So, without rebuilding the political parties, we cannot rebuild Nigeria. POLL “You can’t change anything with your PVC unless you join a political party. Having a PVC without joining a political party is not enough because you will be left to choose one of the incompetent candidates the political parties have nominated. “If you really want to make any change, you have to get your PVC and join a political party. That is when you really make a change. As Nigerian youths, let us prove to all that we are not lazy by empowering ourselves with political membership cards and then our PVCs”. Earlier in her welcome address, the Executive Director of the LGI, Mrs Ayobola Peller said LGI in the last two years has been consistently and purposefully leading in the development and training of Nigerian Youths for civic engagement, social inclusion and leadership skills towards building a better Nigeria. According to her, “the 2023 General Elections in view and the events leading up to it, we decided that the most important conversation to be having at this moment is about the immediate future of our dear country. “That is why we have invited notable speakers here who are experts on the theme and who we know will contribute richly to the conversation”. 2023: APC To Retain Power At Centre, Overtake PDP In Rivers,… Otaru Of Auchi To Confer Customary Title On Prince Agba Also speaking at the virtual lecture, the Executive Director, Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement, Samson Itodo in his presentation, stated that youths should make use of technology mobilise for political engagement. Itodo, who was represented by the Programme Manager, Ibrahim Farouk, said it is almost criminal for the youth not to show interest in electing those who governed them. The Regional Technical Manager, Airtel Nigeria, Kazeem Sulaiman, said without technology there would be no credible elections.