Real Madrid fans cannot believe Gareth Bale’s body transformation as the Welsh winger shows off he has lost muscle mass on his return to training. Bale has not played for the club since the end of August due to a string of injuries and was pictured on Thursday as he made his return to training. Having suffered knee, calf and back injuries in the last five months, Bale has played just once since September, an international for Wales in November. Ukrainian President Downplays Talk Of Russian Invasion 10 Injured In Pittsburgh Bridge Collapse Fans are now shocked at his physique with Bale looking completely different to when he returned from his loan at Tottenham Hotspur in the summer. During pre-season training, Bale had been pictured with bulging biceps and massive thighs as he trained with his team-mates. However, the images he has uploaded from his return to training on Thursday show the 32-year-old looking considerably thinner. His biceps are much less pronounced and his legs also look nowhere near the size they were just six months ago. One fan could not contain their shock as they tweeted a side-by-side image of Bale now and in the summer with the caption: “At what point did Bale lose so much muscle mass? Only six months’ difference.” POLL Spanish sports newspaper AS took aim at Bale after he posted images from training on social media. They wrote: “Bale has never been characterised by being excessively close with fans on his social networks, but perhaps this absence has been striking for everyone. “The Welsh footballer had been absent from his official profiles since mid-November and had not shared anything related to Real Madrid since last August. Until today.” Despite his return to training, Bale still appears some way off a return to competitive action, something manager Carlo Ancelotti has already suggested may take time to achieve. Jason Momoa In Negotiations To Feature In ‘Fast &… Oil Set For 6th Straight Weekly Gain Amid Tightening Supply Speaking earlier this month, Ancelotti said: “Bale is not injured, but he is not well. We have to do everything possible to make sure he feels well. “If you are not feeling well, you are scared of having an issue. We have to evaluate it.” Bale has already missed 26 matches this season due to injuries and his future is also in doubt, with his contract expiring in the summer.