LAGOS – Former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan on Monday, said late Chief Ernest Sonekan would have solved every problem relating to the 1999 Constitution if he had stayed longer as the head of the Interim National Government (ING). Jonathan, who said his only regret about the death of the late Sonekan was that he left the government too early, insisted that if the former Head of State had stayed for about two to three years as the head of the ING, the country wouldn’t be experiencing the controversies trailing the 1999 Constitution. The former President stated this while fielding questions from journalists after he paid a condolence visit to the Sonekan’s residence in Ikoyi, Lagos. Ajayi Crowther University Mourns Trustee, Chief Ernest Shonekan Okowa Mourns Shonekan While sharing the moments he shared with the ex-head of states, Jonathan said he worked closely and learnt so much from Sonekan, just as he pointed out that the deceased was a man with wisdom and so much experience in both the corporate world and government. His words: “Chief Ernest Sonekan is somebody I worked closely with as a member of Council of States and I learnt so much from him. When I was in office, I was presiding over the Council of States, even as a part-timer, in terms of age, I was the youngest among the heads of state. “And when I left office, I also became a member and listening to him, I learnt a lot because he was a man with wisdom, a man with a background in the corporate world, a good background in economic issues. “And as a private man, he founded the Nigerian Economic Summit Group that is still there till today. And for such a man, who had that kind of vision for this country, he was the brain behind Vision 2010, the NLG, these are investments and programmes of the Federal Government that he participated significantly. “My regret is that he left government too early and I believe that if he had stayed as the head of that Interim National Government for about two to three years and midwife the political process, even the controversies we are having concerning the 1999 Constitution today, we wouldn’t be having them. POLL “He left too early because of the military intervention again and the rest you know, I don’t want to say much about it. And the government was hurriedly given to civilians and today, we are still discussing our Constitution. “Such a thorough minded person, he would have made sure that all the Is were properly dotted and all the Ts were properly crossed and probably we would have been moving in the right direction today. “So when we heard about his death, first, we thank God for him, he lived a worthy life, he lived up to the age which the Bible said because the Bible quoted three scores plus ten. We are happy that he attained that age before leaving us. While speaking on how Sonekan got to work immediately after he became the head of the ING, Jonathan said, “He contributed a lot to the development of this country as a private man and the few months he was in government. “When he took office as an interim head of states, the first he did was to release all political prisoners, and that now opened up a social system for Nigerians to participate in the social and economic activities. Jonathan Condoles With Tofa Family Group Warns Against Conducting 2023 General Elections With 1999… “So he had a vision that we lost him too early in government and of course, now we have lost him finally. But we pray that God will give the family the fortitude to bear the loss.” Speaking on how best he (Sonekan) can be immortalized, Jonathan said, “He was a head of state and whatever is due every other head of state, he will surely get. “Both the Federal Government, his own state government and even the Lagos State where he lived, I believe one way or the other, will do something to immortalize him.”