Jessica Onuoha is a driver and member of the Ladies on Wheel Association of Nigeria (LOWAN). She also has a hairdressing salon. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, she speaks on her experiences on Lagos roads and the challenges of the business. Excerpts: How did you become a driver? Before the lockdown occasioned by COVID-19, I sold women hair but the situation affected the business adversely; only a few customers came to the shop and I was getting little or nothing as sales on a daily basis. Africa Guarantee Fund Gets $2.5m To SMEs In W/Africa We Want To Become Best Cosmetic In Nigeria – Kukoyi, Boltol… We were not allowed to open shop every day; we were only allowed to open for business only three days in a week and things were bad financially for me. I asked myself what else I could do that would fetch me extra income instead of sitting in the shop all day waiting for customers who were not coming. Before that, I had bought a tricycle on hire purchase and gave to one man to operate and make returns to me. I had a serious challenge getting money from him. What did you do? I decided to join the e-hailing business? POLL When did you start? I started last June. And how has it been? It has been challenging and rewarding. How do you mean? FG Should Release List Of Beneficiaries Of SME Funding – Adebayo Digital Marketing Veritable Tool For Business Growth – Ojo It has been challenging in the sense that male drivers and tricycle drivers always want to take advantage of you because of your gender. They shout and rain abuses on female drivers. Many times they refuse to give right of way to female drivers. They believe that women should not drive; that they should sit and home and cook and take care of their families. This is wrong because women are part of the economy and they contribute to its growth and development. They should be given consideration and appreciated for their contributions. How do you respond to the negative attitude? You have to be smart; sometimes you ignore them and concentrate on the job and pretend as if you did not hear what they said and sometimes give it and let them know that being a woman does not make you weak. How do most of your riders assess you? Most of them say that I drive like a man and they appreciate the way I drive When did you learn to drive? I learnt to drive many years ago; l really love to drive; driving is a passion for me and I can drive for many hours in a day, though I may feel some pain in my legs. Do female and male riders discriminate against you because of your gender? A few of them have said they that they would not have ridden with me if they knew that I was a woman. They said they did not want trouble from a woman and that women are troublesome. They said that they had experienced serious issues with women drivers and did not want another. They forget that everyone has their own issues irrespective of their gender. I tell them that I am different and they should not judge me based on what they experienced with other female drivers. But they always change their mind because of the way that I drive. They always tell me that my driving is good and that they would like to use my services again and again. Some express sympathy for female drivers, adding that driving is a difficult thing to do; especially in Lagos. Some said women should not drive and I ask them how would we improve our driving skills if we do not drive and I ask how will survive the harsh economic environment if we do not do anything and if they do not patronise us. How has the condition of the roads affected the business? The roads in Lagos are terrible; there are some places I do not go because of the bad state of the roads. The roads damage my car and so I select the areas I go. If the roads in an area are bad, I will not go there. There was a time I took a client to Aboru, the roads were terrible and my car was damage and I had to spend a large amount of money to fix it. What should government do? The government should repair the roads; this will go a long way to reduce damage to our cars and we will make more money to feed our families. There is also need to put streetlights on the roads to make them safer for all. The bad state of the roads causes accidents and traffic. What qualities should one possess to succeed in driving business? You need endurance and patience to be a successful driver; you must learn to read maps and understand the routes. Learning to maps was a little difficult for me but I learnt and I am good at it now. You also need to learn to professionally relate to people and show empathy and respect to everyone irrespective their status in life. Do you still sell hair? Yes I still sell hair; I only diversified. Do you make hair? No; however, if I customer wants me to refer her to one who makes hair, I do. How lucrative is the hair business? It is a lucrative business before the lockdown; indeed the shop birthed two others. I had to close two down when the economy went bad. Do you import the hair you sell or do you buy from the local market? I buy the packed hair from the local market; if a customer wants imported hair, she has to pre-pay for it; I d not tie my capital down. 