KANO – Director General, Tinubu Support Management Council, Abdulmumuni Jibrin Kofa on Saturday declared that the National leader, All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has an edge over all presidential hopefuls ahead 2023. Hon. Jibrin Kofa who spoke at a press conference at his country home, Kofa on Saturday evening was optimistic that his principal couldn’t be upstage for APC sole ticket in a competitive contest by the likes of Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, Rotimi Amaechi, and Kayode Fayemi. The former House Committee chairman on Appropriations who boasted of Tinubu’s massive network said ” I don’t see a dark horse coming in 2023 to upstage him, and certainly. It will take a super miracle for such to occur in APC.” 2023: Prof Greg Ibe Declares Intention For Abia Governorship 2023: Ebonyi Senator Declares Interest In Governorship Position The smooth-talking ex-federal lawmaker declared in an unmistakable term that“Asiwaju has an edge over others, and God’s willing Tinubu will emerge as President through the All Progressives Congress platform”. The Director General, Ahmed Bola Tinubu support group management council who let the cat out of the bag said ” I can confirm to you that Tinubu will contest the 2023 elections. The aspect of the decision is a done deal. He explained that “Arrangements to publicly declare will soon be made known soon. I’m talking to you officially that he (Tinubu) will contest the President in 2023. Kofa who had earlier joined over 2500 clerics on a special prayer for actualisation of Tinubu presidential ambition stated that” We need somebody who can carry along with everybody and I believed that Tinubu is the best option for Nigeria. He is not a religious fanatic and has massive networks across the country”. He stressed that “Asiwaju has worked extensively for the APC and never shift ground. He is competent to be the President of this country”. POLL Commenting on the likely Muslim- Muslim ticket, Jibrin Kofa said ” Nigerians are always sentimental on issues of religion, but when it mattered most, they looked beyond the horizon of religious consideration and settled for quality.” He cited David Mark/ Ike Ekweremadu’s tenure at the Senate and Femi Gbajabiamila/Wase leadership at the House of Representatives. The ex-controversial lawmaker who defended the health status of his principal said Tinubu is fine, healthy and fit as fiddle to lead the country.