AWKA – The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has allayed fears of possible lockdown of South East next week by announcing that there will be sit-at-home only on Tuesday, January 18. Nevertheless, it has become usual to observe Mondays as sit-at-home in the South East. Violators of last Mon­day’s sit-at home were met with violence by en­forcers of the order even though the spokesman of IPOB, Emma Powerful, had warned severally in the past that those who enforce the order were criminals and not their members. Leaders’ Honesty Will Check Security Challenges – Bishop Eichie Obi Cubana’s NDLEA Invitation, Another Ethnic Harassment –Kalu It was not surprising, therefore, that people liv­ing in the South-East were apprehensive of the three-day sitting of Abuja High to hear the case against Nnamdi Kanu on January 18, 19 and 20. Since Monday had usu­ally been observed as sit-at-home at home, it meant that Monday and the three days during which Kanu would appear in court, would be observed as sit-at-home. But, the group’s spokes­man on Saturday morning in a statement, said, “the upcoming court proceed­ings on January 18, 19 and 20, next week, would only be sit-at- home on January 18, and not on 19th and 20th. “In keeping with our avowed solidarity with our Leader, the entire Biafra land will be on lock down only on January 18 for ob­vious reasons.” The statement contin­ued: “January 18 is the judgment day in the suit by our leader against the Fed­eral Government, which is pending before an Umua­hia High Court. So, there will be no sit-at-home on that day. POLL “Again, we don’t want to compound the pains of our people, hence, we will limit the sit-at-home to only January 18. Bi­afrans and residents of Biafra are free to go about their businesses without molestations on 19th and 20th January.” It added: “Anybody found enforcing non-exis­tent Monday sit-at-home on 17th, 19th and 20th is crim­inal and must be treated as such, IPOB leadership hav­ing given order and that or­der is what signed.”