Equity prices on the Nigerian Exchange close the first trading of the year higher as investors buying interest rekindled on expectation of unaudited Q4 accounts and positive sentiment for the newly listed food company on the exchange after it has rally on high demand for the stock. This positive sentiment and repositioning of portfolios ahead of 2021 financials in the midst of rallying oil prices in the international market, emanating positive economic data, as investing public look forward to December consumer price index and first MPC meeting in the year. Many companies share price recorded gains throughout the first week of 2022 as market players analyzed various signals from the 2022 government budget and proposed removal of fuel subsidy in the year. Access Bank 2021-9M: Positioning For Fiercer Competition, Better… Despite The Mixed Sentiment And Performance, NGX Created Wealth… Just as historical trends and patterns in January also gave insights of what the month will look like if the prevailing sentiment persist in the coming weeks. The recent moves in the market and investors vibes signal the high possibility of this month defying the usual January effect and maintaining the positive performance recorded over the last two years. The month has historically posted gains in seven of the last twelve years, including pre-election years, recording losses in the other five within the period. This rally in the first month of the new year resulted from many factors ranging from market sentiments and performance in the previous year, market expectations in Q1, as well as investors’ and traders’ positioning for dividend paying stocks ahead of the Q4 unaudited accounts and 2021 full-year financials that comes with surprises in form of rewards for shareholders. The chart below reveals NGX January performance till date: POLL The buying pressure in the equity space began from the last minutes end of year 2021 window dressing into the new year 2022 as BUA Foods listing remain one of the drivers, in addition to foreign players interest in Airtel Africa, Seplat Energy and GTCO during the week under review. This momentum and positive sentiment are good to kickstart the year, despite the uncertainties and opportunities associated with pre-election year in Nigeria. On top of that, with the weak economic recovery and ongoing omicron variant, we at Investdata do not see tightening monetary policy coming up in this first quarter of the tear, since inflation remain high, in the face of likely removal of subsidy by the government and rising unemployment rates in the nation today. Let the NGX Manufacturing Companies Q3 Earnings Position below, guide you ahead of the expected full year audited results. During the week, the following stocks Airtel, United Capital, PZ, Royal Exchange Assurance and others hit new 52 week high. So, to navigate the new year profitably, order for Investdata’s video on Technical Toolbox for Buy & Sell Decision Home Study Pack to enhance trading results and boost your bottom line. Access Bank 2021-9M: Positioning For Fiercer Competition, Better… Volatile Market Environment Amidst Seasonal Trends And Patterns,… Also, to up your game in stock trading and investing, understanding the key to trading price and index action will go a long way to make the difference in your trading results, checkout the video materials below Movement Of NGXASI The key performance index NGXASI had a bullish performance for the straight four trading sessions after Monday holiday to celebrate the New Year. These activities extended the positive sentiment of the last trading week of 2021 to the first trading of the year, as it recorded 0.46% up on Tuesday, this trend was sustained at midweek, Thursday and Friday with the index rallying by 1.05%, 0.30% and 0.60% respectively, bringing the week total gain to 2.66% against the previous week gain of 1.07%. Overall, week, month, quarter to-Date and Year-to-Date returns printed at 2.66%, respectively. In all, the composite index shed 1,137 basis points, closing the period at 43,854.42bps, after touching an intra-week high of 43,854.42bps from its lows of 42,479.57bps, after the week opened at 42,716.44bps on a positive momentum and buying interest in dividend paying stocks. Market capitalization rose by N1.33 trillion, closing at N23.630tr, compared to the previous week’s N22.30tr, which also represented a 5.97% appreciation in value. Top advancers table for the week was dominated by kobo stocks which had become the toast of investors, alongside the dividend paying stocks. This was in the midst of continued portfolio repositioning on the strength of Q3 earnings reports and positive economic data. It is noteworthy that the NGX Index and price actions revealed the presence of buyers in the market, a situation that reflected on major sectoral indexes. Market breadth for the week was positive on a huge traded volume as a result of 1.32 billion share of BUA Foods traded after listing 18 billion ordinary shares at N40 during the week. Just as players expects historical trend patterns of January to support the recovery in the short to long-run, as investors increase their positions on dividend yields. Gainers outnumbered losers in the ratio of 40:31, on buying sentiment as revealed by investors’ sentiment report showing a 100% buy volume. Money Flow Index rose to 78.12bps from the previous week’s 72.25 points, an indication that funds entered the market. NSEASI WEEKLY CHART MOVEMENT NGX index’s action, on a weekly chart maintained a bullish pattern, as its set to breakout a major resistance of 44,065.18, just as the candlestick formation at the end of the week revealed strong bull position on a high traded volume in the midst of buying sentiment at a strong resistance level. The candlestick pattern indicates a positive outing and that the market is recovery. Also, with all eyes on fixed income market yields and oil prices to further support market fundamentals and attract liquidity to the equity space. The NGX at this point is creating new buying opportunities for discerning players. Mixed Sectoral Indices Performance indexes across the sectors were mixed, as NGX Energy, Banking and Industrial goods closed higher by 2,68%, 0.78% and 0.34% respectively, while NGX Insurance led the decliners after losing 0.93%, followed by Consumer goods with 0.87%. Transactions in volume and value terms rose as investor traded 2.03 billion shares worth N59.01bn, compared to previous week’s 995.36m units valued at N13.21bn. Volume was driven by Consumer goods, Financial Services and ICT, particularly BUA Foods, Wema Bank, Transcorp FBN Holdings and GTCO. Academy Press and Cornerstone Insurance were the best performing stocks for the week after gaining 20% and 19.529% respectively, closing at N0.60 and N0.55 per share respectively on market forces and earnings expectation. On the flip side, Sunu Assurance and CHI Plc lost 17.78% and 16.46% respectively, at N0.37 and N0.66per share, purely profit taking. Outlook for the week We expect a positive sentiment on dividend paying stocks to continue in the midst of profit taking as investors and bargain hunters position ahead of January historical trends and earnings expectation. It is also noteworthy that funds and portfolio managers continue to take position on the strength of Q3 numbers ahead of 2021 financials. For now, many stocks remain within their buy ranges to attract funds into the equity space. Also, investors will continue tracking yields movement in the fixed income market. Last week low volume suggests that institutional investors are not selling. It is noteworthy that oil price has continued to oscillates in the international market to trade above $70; corporate actions, as well as the Q4 unaudited numbers are around the corner.