LAGOS  – Guinness Nigeria Plc, foremost Total Beverage Alcohol company in Nigeria and a subsidiary of Diageo Plc, has continued its path to sustained growth with an impressive 266 per cent increase in its Operating Profit as stated in the unaudited results for the half year period ended December31, 2021. The results, which were released to the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX), revealed that the company reported a significant profit after tax of N8.820 billion, a huge 2879 per cent improvement from corresponding period in the 2020-2021 financial year. According to a statement from the firm, Guinness Nigeria Plc Managing Director/CEO, Baker Magunda, affirmed that the earnings resulted from headline price increases in key brands; a reflection of the resilient consumer demand; and improved outlet coverage. Lafarge Wins 2021 IoD’s Corporate Governance Award Wema Bank Appoints Two Female Directors The company’s revenue grew by 51 per cent to N109.1 billion in half-year ended December 2021, as it continued to optimise its product distribution system for all segments. The foremost brewer also reported that the impacts on the revenue during the period was engendered by a number of factors including inflationary pressure, forex devaluation impacting imported materials and air freight cost increase. “Revenue growth across all key categories is driven by the company’s strategic focus brands; Malta Guinness and Guinness, as well as double-digit growth in local and imported spirits and the ready-to-drink category”, Magunda said. It is pertinent to note that the company continued to ride on the strong efforts of recovery in Q1 of financial year 2021- 2022, despite a challenging external environment due to continued restrictions related to COVID -19, high inflation and heightening operating costs. The company’s finance cost was also positively impacted as net financing costs decreased by 74 per cent as a result of reduction in the net interest cost arising from improved cash generation, despite the devaluation of the Naira. POLL Dr. Omobola Johnson, the Board Chairperson, Guinness Nigeria Plc, assured that, “The Board remains confident that our strategy is sound and will in the long term continue to drive value to all stakeholders. The Board will continue to support the management in its efforts to build a business that aims to consistently deliver growth for stakeholders.”