“And they said unto the messengers that came, thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, tomorrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the men came and shew it to the men of Jabesh, and they were glad,” (1st Samuel 11:9). The events that preceded this bible verse was a looming war between the children of God and the Ammonites, Nahash the leader of the Ammonites cavalry despised and threatened the men of Jabeshgilead, however, Saul who led the Army of the children of God was filled with inspiration from heaven to proclaim the above promises, and it duly came to pass. Imagine a perfect world, one devoid of troubles and trauma. A world without diseases, pain, wars, strife, famine, drought, depression, suicide etc. Sounds interesting right? But truth is a perfect world is a mirage because of the sin of the first man that altered the prior plan of the Almighty at creation. The Unquestionable And Compassionate God That Needs To Be Served Acts Of The Prophets (5) From inception, the righteous have been faced with trials of different forms and dimensions, Adam faced temptation from Eve, Abel from Cain, Jacob from Esau, Men of Jabeshgilead from the Ammonites, etc. This is to show us that even as Children of God, we are not immune from trials and tribulations, however, we have assurance from our father in heaven that help to prevail will never be far off as long we ask for it in prayer and praises. Though we live in a world inundated with evils, the promise of our God is that “BEFORE NOON, YE SHALL HAVE HELP,” (1st Samuel 11:9). The logic behind this piece is to bring encouragement to any soul who feels threatened by the evils and confusion around them, whose voices is being drowned by the noise outside, swept under by the tides of this turbulent world, to be reminded that “Before noon, ye shall have help”. Our God is ever faithful, never fickle, stays true to his words and most importantly, is ever merciful. For as long as you keep the line open to him in prayers and praise, he will come through. If you are yet to be saved, you unfortunately will remain at the mercy of the world and the garbage it throws at you, help from heaven will not find you because sin is a barricade between you and God. It is therefore a matter of urgency to swiftly confess your sins, repent of them, accept Jesus as your Lord and personal savior, and surrender all to him. First is the peace of mind and joy of salvation in your heart and afterwards, you begin to get help seamlessly from the throne of grace to continually battle and prevail over every trials and tribulations that may arise as you journey towards eternity in heaven. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ never leave you now and always. Amen. POLL God bless.