YENAGOA – The President of the Ijaw National Congress (INC), Professor Benjamin Okaba, has expressed reservations about President Muhammadu Buhari’s vow to recover every kobo looted at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and ensure that those found culpable in the forensic audit report shall face the law. Buhari made the declaration in his address in Abuja at the virtual opening of the NDDC Prototype Hostel at the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, on Thursday. Okaba described the president’s tough-talking as mere rhetoric, stressing that there was nothing exciting about it as he (Buhari) had made similar promises before. Mulade Cautions Niger Deltans, Oil Companies Against… Delta To Complete Ongoing Projects In 2022 He spoke during interview on the ‘THISDAYLIVE’ programme of the Arise News Television on Sunday night, which was monitored by our correspondent. Okaba said, “I won’t say I’m excited by the (president’s) declaration. We expected this long ago. For many Nigerians, this is just rhetoric. We have said it earlier that forensic auditing should be a routine administrative process of the NDDC. It is not anything that anybody should celebrate. “Buhari has made several promises. People have called for the audit report to be made public. The issues, as they are, remain mere allegations and as a far as the INC is concerned, we have before now demanded release of the forensic audit report and as many persons that have not delivered on the assignments given to them, let appropriate actions be taken.” He called on the president to constitute the substantive board of the NDDC, adding that “this is the only thing that will excite us and not the promises he is making.” The INC chief further said, “He (the president) does not the need the permission of Nigerians to prosecute anybody found wanting. We want to see action. We want to see the list published, we want to see persons involved. We want to believe that that whatever is made public is the true report. POLL “We never demanded an interventionist agency. What the Ijaw people demanded and are still demanding is resource control. NDDC has been a palliative and a stop-gap approach to development of the region. So, those who accepted NDDC in year 2000 had certain reservations.” Responding to a question on suggestion that the NDDC should be scrapped, the Ijaw leader noted that although the commission had not delivered on its mandate, there is no guarantee there will be another institution that will do better than the agency. He said it was disturbing that the appointment of officers into the commission had been politicised and not based on competence, “but given to those close to the corridors of power.” While noting that the continuous appointment of interim administrators for the NDDC was a violation of the law establishing it, he said the politicisation of the commission had resulted in huge administrative cost to the detriment of projects delivery. Okaba cited the drama that characterised the investigation carried out by the Senate which exposed how the commission expended funds in fighting COVID-19 in 2020. Obule Performs Son’s Marriage Rites In Rivers State Niger Delta Youths, Human Rights Group, Others Warn Against… He said that the Ijaw and Niger Delta people would continue to insist on resource control, stressing that the NDDC is bedeviled by many challenges and the forensic audit exercise was meant to unravel all the problems.