Governments at all levels have been advised to adopt the use of sporting activities in engaging the youths to avert anti-social vices which can lead to insecurity issues. The Founder and Spiritual leader of Shafaudeen-In-Islam World Wide, Prof. Sabit Ariyo Olagoke in his address during the Inter-House Sports activities of the Shafaudeen Groups of Schools urged the government to adopt sports in combating crime in the society. Prof. Sabit maintained that youths in their prime age with their enormous power can do anything if they are not properly engaged. Security Of Lives, Property Should Be Priority In 2022, Says Obi Dass Youths Protest Attack On Emir, He also advised the government to restore and revisit all our recreational centers and make sporting equipment available and accessible for youths so they can be meaningfully engaged. He said, “In those days, it was through inter-school sports that talent was discovered and developed into skills, We should revisit as I am doing, If I could multiply into thousand, Nigeria will benefit better. “Schooling activities without sports is half-baked. Govt needs to incorporate back in sports all they need is good advisers and representatives in executing the project, they have all it takes to do it. Family upkeep is an antidote to insecurity and a way of enhancing development. In every school, we must make sure that sport takes a vital position. Sport is all-engaging which disallows you to go into anti- societal activities. POLL “Our recreational centres need to be revisited so that we can meaningfully engage those youths, there should be a recreational centres in all our wards with sports equipment that will be accessible for all, Nigerian youths need to be meaningfully engaged to avert security issues. “Youth in their adolescent stage which is their prime time, they have enormous power and if they are not meaningful engaged they will divert those power and strength to something else and that is why we are having problem in this country now.” Prof. Sabit said.