LAGOS – The University of Lagos (UNILAG) Law Alumni Relations Committee and Faculty of Law, say some Judges and Senior Advocates will lecture law undergraduates of the institution, at its reunion. Chairman of the committee, Distinguished Prof. Taiwo Osipitan (SAN) disclosed this at a news conference to announce activities lined up for the institution’s alumni association’s maiden reunion, tagged; ‘The Great Homecoming’ on Friday in Lagos. “The great homecoming will be a five-day event which will kick off at 9 am of February 7 with a formal opening ceremony at the Faculty of Law. NANS Wades Into EBSU, Students Impasse Spring Festival: Chinese Community In Nigeria Awards Scholarship… “Thereafter, invited alumni among whom are judges, Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN), private legal practitioners and those in the corporate business world will serve as guest lecturers on that day and the two subsequent days, February 7 to 9. ”Justice Helen Ogunwunmiju (JSC), Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye of the High Court of Lagos and Justice Oyejoju Oyewunmi of the National Industrial Court are among our guest lecturers,” the chairman said.He noted that the maiden homecoming sought, for the first time, to bring most living alumni of the Faculty back to their alma Mata and the university community, to relieve their days as students.Osipitan added that the homecoming was also to provide a platform to bond among past and present students, as well as give back. According to him, the Faculty of Law of the university is one of the first of the institutions, at the time of its establishment in 1962, noting that former students of the faculty had remained good ambassadors of both the faculty and invariably, the university. He said the occasion would also be used to mark the university’s Diamond Jubilee anniversary.The chairman further noted that other events that would mark the occasion would be a colloquium, scheduled for Feb. 10. He added that Sen. Bashir Ajibola and Mr Ade Ipaye, and Deputy Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, among others, would be speaking on the topic; “Stare Decisis and the Future of Legal Practice”.Osipitan noted that Prof. Fidelis Odita (SAN), also a member of the association would be the keynote speaker. POLL Also expected at the ceremony are Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President of Nigeria and Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker, House of Representatives, among others. He added the high point of the event would be a dinner with Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), as well as Justice Kudirat Olatokunbo Kekere-Ekun of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, in attendance.Mrs. Funke Agbor (SAN), Deputy Chairperson of the association said it was the beginning of good things to come to their Alma Mata. She further promised to improve the teaching and learning environment of the faculty, noting that the association was working on plans to donate a befitting structure that would serve purposes, for both the students and members of staff.