IBADAN – The Olubadan Advisory Council has summoned meeting of all Ibadan kingmakers to discuss the appointment into the vacant stool of the Olubadan of Ibadanland. It could be recalled that on Wednesday, some members of the Olubadan-in-Council converged at Mapo Hall and announced the Otun Olubadan, Chief Lekan Balogun, as the next Olubadan, being the most senior in the civil line that is next in ascension process. According to the notice, kingmakers statutorily empowered to take the decision on next Olubadan. Oyetola Appoints Board Chairmen, Members Activities Marking Olubadan’s Exit Continues On Saturday… The meeting will come up on Tuesday to pick the next Olubadan. The circular seen by journalists directed the kingmakers to meet at Olubadan palace at Oja’ba, Ibadan, next Tuesday. The circular with reference number OAC/1/260/72 and dated January 6, 2022, was signed by the secretary to the Olubadan Advisory Council, K. Liasu. Addressed to all members, the letter entitled ‘Invitation to a Meeting of Ibadan Kingmakers’, reads: “I have been directed to invite you to a meeting of the Ibadan Kingmakers scheduled to hold as follows: Venue: Olubadan Palace, Oja’ba, Ibadan. Date: Tuesday, 11th January 2022. Time: 11:00 a.m. prompt. “Please attend personally and be punctual. Thanks.” The sole business of the meeting, according to the letter, is “filling of the vacant stool of the Olubadan of Ibadanland.” POLL According to the Olubadan Chieftaincy Declaration of 1957, there are 11 kingmakers in the city. They are Otun Olubadan, Osi Olubadan, Ashipa Olubadan, Ekerin Olubadan, Balogun, Otun Balogun, Osi Balogun, Ashipa Balogun, Ekerin Balolgun, Iyalode and Seriki. Currently, the position of the Seriki of Ibadanland is vacant while the Iyalode may be unavailable because she is outside the state. Kingmakers are required by law to forward the name of the next Olubadan to the state government within 14 days from the death of the Olubadan. The deadline expires on January 16, 2022. Oba Saliu Adetunji, the 41st Olubadan, died on Sunday, January 2, 2022, at the age of 93, after reigning only for five years.