ABAKALIKI  – Following the increase in the number of out-of-school children in Ebonyi State after Covid-19 pan­demics in 2019, it has been observed that tuition fees and other levies imposed on pupils in schools have posed a serious challenge and also hampers the re­turn of children back to school across the state. This was made known during a three-day moni­toring/implementation of “Back-to-School Campaign team led by the UNICEF Programme manager in SUBEB, Dr.Christogunus Nweke, when he visited many schools under the three pilot local govern­ment areas such as Izzi, Ikwo and Afikpo South local government areas of Ebonyi State on 19th No­vember, 2021. During their visit to Vo­cational Secondary Ndi­agu, in Izzi local Govern­ment Area of Ebonyi State, the chairman of State Uni­versal Basic Education in Ebonyi State, Chief Hycent Ikpor, received reports from parents and SBMC members who lamented that collection of levies, tuition/exam fees from children remains a stum­bling block in their efforts to draw the children back to school urging govern­ment to cancel every form of levies, tuition/exam fees imposed on the children to avoid more withdrawals from school. 73 Ekiti Communities Captured In N2.4bn Projects Facilitated By… Back-To-School Campaign: Tuition Fees, Levies Hamper Resumption The chairman who was represented by the direc­tor of school services in SUBEB, Mr.Dominic Nwa­for applauded the efforts of head teachers, School Based Management Com­mittee Members (SBMC) in ensuring the safe re­turn of children back to school and also called on parents, religious leaders and other stakeholders to assist in stepping down the campaign to all the nooks and crannies of their clan because those out-of-school children are the future of leaders of this country and shall be giving adequate at­tention to safeguard their future in education for proper growth and devel­opment. He further noted that the assistance of the fol­lowing target groups is highly needed to actual­ise this Back-to-School Campaign. These groups include PTA, school teach­ers, students, traditional rulers, Town Union, head teachers, market women, amongst others, should work hard to ensure the re­turn of out-of-school chil­dren back in their various schools because it is one of the reasons why UNICEF selected the local govern­ment area. Others officers who spoke during the visit,Mr. Emmanel Nwafor, Mr. Ken­neth Ogeh and Mrs.Chin­eye Azudu emphasised on the importance of school work plan in the implemen­tation of this exercise urg­ing them to do everything possible in their localities to bring back the children to school more especially those under the age brack­et of 2–15 years adding that the programme started since 2018 and should be taken serious. At Nwofe Cluster, 80 chil­dren were reached while 26 registered.Ezzainy­imagu; 200 were reached while 28 registered. In the same vein, Nwezenyi clus­ter reached 2010 children while 186 registered.