ABUJA – Otunba Demola Popoola, an aspirant for the governorship in Ekiti State, in the June 2022 governorship elec­tion, has ruled out any sug­gestion of dropping out of the race, saying that he would not Step down for anyone, even at the promise of N200 billion. Otunba Popoola who re­turned his forms to the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Secretariat in Abu­ja said as at today he remains the most popular aspirant across parties in the race and wondered why anyone should broach the idea. He said Ekiti under his leadership would witness massive industrialisation, agricultural revolution and infrastructural development and urged Ekiti people to shun any imposition of an anointed candidate. NYSC Gets Commendation On Innovative Service Delivery Absence of Governing Council Hindering AAU Progress, ASUU… “Ekiti State has a lot of po­tential which as I’m talking to you is untapped and those potential are what I will look into. If it is in the area of industry, I intend to build industries and be in contact with foreign financial gurus and businessmen who have signified their intention to come and support Ekiti State. “In the area of agriculture, they are planning to invest $2.1 billion as soon as I take up the reins of the State be­cause they believe their in­vestment will be secured. Not that they are not secured un­der Governor Kayode Fayemi but you know, it is a thing of relationship. They intend to build roads in all the nooks and crannies of Ekiti State in order to allow agricultur­al produce to come into the city. They also intend to build warehouses and mechanised factories so that farmers can keep their storage in the warehouse while they will buy the product from them and this money is not a loan. It is an investment. The life of the people will be better. “Secondly, the unemploy­ment that is facing Ekiti State, I affirm that we will set up some cottage industries. Ekiti State has gold. We can set up cottage industries where they can work on the gold and let the Chinese pay us and in the process, our rev­enue will go up. We intend to block the loopholes where our revenue is leaking. “In terms of education, no doubt, Ekiti is number one. I am working with my people, I think it will be a good thing if Ekiti can provide free edu­cation. How do we do it? In­crease revenue and give back to our people.” Reminded that one of the aspirants has claimed he has been anointed by Gover­nor Fayemi to replace him, Popoola said the governor and leaders of the party, in­cluding Niyi Akande have not said so.