The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), has set agenda for the Federal Government on the planned removal of fuel subsidy in the country. The congress said the government must ensure revitalisation of existing refineries, establishment of new ones including modular refineries, effective policing of boarders to stem the rate of petroleum products smuggling, before removing fuel subsidy. The union said this in a communique issued at the end of its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting which held in Abuja at the weekend. Asharami Energy Surpasses Industry Target With Two Million… ‘Re-Award Of Addax Licence Will Test PIA Effectiveness’ It said: “NEC-in-Session has mandated the Congress led by the President to take all necessary steps to ensure that these conditions are met before subsidy is removed. Consequently, NEC-in-session directs state councils and affiliates to commence mobilisation of members for industrial actions against SUBSIDY removal without government fulfilling conditions precedent” Acknowledging the giant stride in rice production through various interventions of the Buhari’s administration, the union urged the Federal Government to ensure that price of rice in the market become affordable to the common man in order to justify the rice revolution policy of the administration. According to TUC, the Federal Government must exhibit political will in its economic diversification programmes with major focus on agricultural production. It maintained that the development of the agricultural value chain can create mass employment and put the country on the path of economic recovery and prosperity. It added that the privatisation of the power sector should be reviewed since the contracts have expired to ensure viability, job security and effectiveness of the sector. POLL NEC-in- Session observed with dismay the ongoing job loss and financial insolvency in some electricity distribution companies in Nigeria. It said: “NEC-in-Session enjoined Congress members nation-wide to obtain their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) and ensure active participation in the democratic process ahead of 2023 general elections. Members are also urged to support the Political Commission of the Congress in creating groundswell awareness for providing leadership alternatives that deliver on democratic dividends and transformative governance to the people”