SYLVESTER ENOGHASE Given its importance in determining the wellbeing of the manufacturing sector of the economy, it is laudable that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recent forecast of GDP growth rate of 3.2% in 2022, would likely reshape the growth of the sector this year It would be recalled that in 2020, advanced economies on average were able to deploy about 28 percent of their GDP in fiscal and monetary policy measures, compared with only 6 percent in emerging markets and less than 2 percent in low-income countries. For example the US Federal Reserve increased its balance sheet from $4.1 trillion in January 2020 to over $8.6 trillion by October 2021. FG Pledges Support To Manufacturers FALA 2021: Oyakhilome, God’s Gift To This Generation… While the ECB increased its balance sheet from $5.1 to 9.6 trillion dollars over the same time period. By the end of 2020, the Fed’s balance sheet was 34% of GDP, the ECB’s 59%, the Bank of England’s 1 Georgieva, “The Great Divergence: A Fork in the Road for the Global Economy” IMF Blog Post, Feb 24, 2021 40%, and the Bank of Japan’s 127%. While measures were deployed by developing and emerging market economies, with Nigeria as a key player, to support recovery efforts, their response was limited due to constrained fiscal and monetary space relative to their counterparts in advanced countries. Reflecting this pressure, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, was quick to explain during his keynote address at the 56th CIBN annual bankers dinner on November 26, 2021 that prior to the start of the pandemic in 2019, “our economy was making steady progress out of the difficulties from the global oil price vagaries of the previous years. “Indeed, our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate for 2019 stood at 2.3 percent, on the back of a relatively strong fourth quarter GDP of 2.55 percent that year. “This growth was accompanied by significant foreign capital inflows due to improved fundamentals of the economy”. POLL He specifically said: “It is gratifying to state that the Central Bank of Nigeria deployed more than N3.5trillion, about 4.1 percent of Nigeria’s GDP to critical sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, electricity, and healthcare in order to stimulate and help the economy recover from the deep shock. “Created a N1 trillion facility in loans to boost local manufacturing and production across critical sectors; of which 53 major manufacturing projects, 21 agriculture related projects and 13 service projects are being funded from this facility. “The creation of a N100 billion intervention fund for pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners to expand and strengthen the capacity of our healthcare institutions transformed the sector “We have increased this fund to N200 billion to accommodate more players in the healthcare sector, such as phytomedicine practitioners and manufacturers of medical devices and vaccines. “Our primary focus is to create a hub where medical officers can have access to diagnostic equipment to carry out quality medical services at an affordable price for Nigerians. Applauding BUA Group’s Commitment To Nigerian Economic Growth… Infrastructural Deficiency Resulted To Nigeria’s Low Level Of… Mr. Emefiele, also at the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting held in December last year, recalled that the deteriorating global financial conditions made the global financial conditions tightened as investors withdrew over $120 billion in portfolio flows from emerging and frontier market countries in the first half of 2020. He said: “While flows began to recover in the early part of 2021, financial flows to emerging markets like Nigeria are constrained by expected tapering by the Federal Reserve Bank in 2022, which is likely to affect global financial conditions. “In essence, uncertainty about the evolution of the virus, and the extent of its impact, led to a retreat in investment from emerging markets, and a corresponding rise in investment in safe haven assets, such as gold, and US Treasury bills. “The resulting outflow further heightened pressures on the currencies of major emerging market countries like Nigeria, and this ultimately resulted in the adjustments of our exchange rate”. A cursory review of the statement of members of the MPC reveals their opinion on what is to expect in 2022. According to Emefiele’s forecast, the country’s growth forecast is upgraded to 3.1% in 2022 on the back of several interventions taking place in the country. He stated, “Though vulnerability remains due to the persistent effects of the COVID-19, the Nigerian economy is projected to strengthen in the near-term. With the nearly 2.9 percent growth estimated for 2021 Q4 and the better-than-expected 2021 Q3 outcome, CBN growth forecast for 2022 was upgraded to about 3.1 percent as against a contraction of -1.92 contraction in 2020.” The CBN Governor also explained that the bank is focused on fast-tracking growth “above historic levels” which suggest he is looking for growth in the region of 6-7% last recorded in the early years of the Jonathan administration. To attain the target, he explained that there would be need to focus on “what is working”, and assured that “Our medium-term goal is to fast-track growth above historic average. “Economic activities may reach pre-pandemic levels if the resilience of non-oil activities (especially agriculture and manufacturing sectors) are given continued impetus.” While remaining focused, he assured that there was need for structural reforms. He said, “Extensive structural reforms are also needed to ensure that long-run paths of growth surpass potential” In a similar vein he explained that policies will lead to improvement in livelihood, and said, “As business sentiments brighten, following our various supply-side support and orderly implementation of macroeconomic policies, l expect domestic fragility to diminish with benign knock-on effects on welfare and livelihood.” Also seen from the perspective of short-term projections, is a moderation in expected inflation, especially as development financing continue to resolve supply rigidities. Ostensibly buttressing Emefiele’s outlook on GDP growth and its inherent benefits to Nigeria’s economy, and with emphasis on the manufacturing sector in this context Adamu Edward Lametek’s, a member of the committee comment who believes the policy of excluding BDC’s from sourcing FX from the CBN has helped, and will also continue to help towards the stabilization of the exchange rate at the black market. He said, “Apparently, the revised FX management strategy, which excludes BDCs from direct sales, is working as a substantial share of FX demand has migrated to the DMBs’ window. “We should expect this pattern to continue in the coming months as confidence in the modified framework grows.” On subsidy removal and its impact on external reserves Mike Obadan, one of the MPC members, expects subsidy to be removed in 2022 and the Dangote Refinery coming on stream this year. He believes this could have a positive impact on our external reserves. “Perhaps, when petrol subsidy is eliminated , as the Federal Government has indicated and the Dangote refinery starts to meet domestic needs for fuel, foreign exchange reserves will be significantly boosted to enhance exchange rate stability through increased interventions by the Bank in the foreign exchange market.” He was also pessimistic about the impact of rising oil prices, fiscal policies, and depreciation of the naira on inflation in 2022. “The rate is still too high and impacting negatively on living conditions of the people. Importantly, with the price of oil maintaining an upward trend and translating into overall high cost of energy, high cost of local production and importation, the expected moderation in prices could be dampened. Also, depreciation of the naira, uncontrolled fiscal deficits and the planned removal of fuel subsidy before the end of June 2022 are potential threats to inflation control.” Obadan believes that the anticipated increase in interest rates abroad could trigger capital outflows from the country, and in other words, market sentiments and the potential hike in short and long-term interest rates abroad could lead to capital flight from Nigeria, as investors seek more rewards for their investments. The impact on external reserves, exchange rate, the balance of payments and foreign borrowing costs could be substantial. The icing on the cake for manufacturers is that 100 for 100 policy will boost productivity as one of the Deputy Governors of the apex bank and member of the committee, Kingsley Obiora believes the policy will help boost productivity in 2022. He assured, “I support the current effort of the Bank for introducing the 100 for 100 Policy on Production and Productivity (PPP). The policy will boost production in the manufacturing sector; reduce imports and expand the non-oil exports; improve accretion to external reserves; and ensure exchange rate stability.” He, however said: The CBN’s in-house model, after an exhaustive simulation with various oil price possibilities and numerous scenarios of other macroeconomic metrics, indicate a continued and strong rebound of the domestic economy. Near-term outlook of the Nigerian economy is brightening significantly, with improvements projected into the shortand the medium-term”.