ABEOKUTA – Following a mandate by the Ogun State government on parents, guardians and learners to sign an undertaking for the second term academic session, many students, parents and guardians have continued to besiege business centres across the state to print a hard copy of the form since resumption. Recall that the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, had on Tuesday 4th January 2022, explained that as part of efforts to further instill discipline and restore sanity in schools the government has mandated parents and guardians to sign an undertaking before resumption for the second term academic session. It is on record that a Mathematics teacher attached to the Itori Comprehensive High School, identified as Owolabi, was in October last year reportedly beaten by one of his students after he (the teacher) intervened as the student subjected a female student to torture. FRSC Condemns Recycled Old Video Of Encounter With Tricycle… BREAKING: Gunmen Attack Stirs Pandemonium In Enugu [VIDEO] Arigbabu stated that an undertaking form has been made available in all schools and on the Ministry’s website ogsera.ogunstate.gov.ng before any student would be allowed to resume for the new term, explaining that the form contains columns for parents, guardians and students. However, findings show that the one-page form is not available in schools visited within the Abeokuta metropolis, Ifo, Agbado and Sango. This runs contrary to Prof. Arigbabu’s assurances that “An undertaking form has been made available in all schools and on the Ministry’s website ogsera.ogunstate.gov.ng. Surveillance of schools within the Abeokuta metropolis from Onikolobo, Idi-aba, Iyana-Mortuary, Sapon and Isabo showed large convergence of students, parents and guardians as they besiege business centres just as instant passport photo printers were also on hand to make copies for both parent and learners to be attached to the downloaded forms. Some of the students in a chat with Daily Independent said operators of the business centres with facilities to print the form in original, duplicate and four copies of passport photo charge N400 for the package while others charge N200 for print out while photographers charge N200 for the passport photo. POLL At a business centre in Iyana Mortuary, a guardian, Mrs Cynthia Arinze said she paid N200 for a printout of the form in colour and black/white copies and N300 for the passport photo. “We were told that the form will be made available in schools by the government but to my surprise, my wards returned that they have to pay to print out the form. Well, I do not know what happened and had never bothered to find out from the school. “The important thing is that my wards have paid and the form and passport photo printed to complete the exercise and signed the undertaking in their respective schools,” Mrs Arinze said. Mr. Tunde Babatunde, a resident of Obantoko with two of his children at Abeokuta Grammar School, Idi-aba lauded the government effort at checkmating the rising level of decadence among young pupils and girls. He described the gesture as a welcome development and charged parents and guardians to take responsibility for the conduct of their children within and outside the school and charged school managers not to relent in the new effort to instill discipline in schools. NDLEA Nabs Grandpa, Fake Security Agent Over Imported Drug… Passengers Stranded As Cargo Train Derails In Minna However, he appealed to the Commissioner to ensure that students and parents are not fleeced or turned into cash cows by unscrupulous owners of business centres and photographers that might want to take advantage of the low capacities of schools to make the forms available in schools. “It is unthinkable that the government can make the form available in schools just like that. The number of students in some schools is enough to overwhelm whatever arrangement the management of the school could put in place. I think parents should get the forms printed and processed outside the school,” he added. The form, meant to be signed by parent, guardian and learners, has provisions for both learner and parents/guardian to affix pictures and sign. The forms are expected to be signed in the presence of the class teacher or vice-principal and countersigned by the Principal before submission. The undertaking read: “My son/daughter/ward will be well behaved and not engage in any act of violence/misdemeanor that can disrupt the smooth running of the school in any form whatsoever; he/she will abide by all the laid down rules and regulations of the School and promote peace and tranquility throughout his/her stay in the School; will cooperate with the entire School Management in instilling discipline in my Son/Daughter/Ward and will not work against the School or collude with any other person or group of persons to cause disruption or unruly behaviour that will tarnish the image of the School. “I, therefore, promise to abide by the disciplinary measures put in place by the School against any misconduct and be ready to take responsibility for my son/daughter/ward’s conduct. Besides, the learners are expected to sign the undertaking before the school Principal that “I, hereby, affirm that the above-named person is my Father/Mother/Guardian and the undertaking is made on my behalf. I submit myself to obeying all laid down rules and regulations of the school and being of good conduct. Failure to do this earns me the School’s disciplinary measures/sanctions,” the undertaking read. Recall that the Commissioner had during a press conference advised parents and guardians to abide by the Ministry’s directive in all ramifications and noted that expelling a student would be the last measure resorted to for any misconduct, saying “Any student expelled will not be accepted in any other schools, including private schools across the State and any school that admit such students will be prosecuted”.