Arsenal have received official approaches from European giants Barcelona and Juventus to sign striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on loan until the end of the season, The Athletic understands. Aubameyang’s future has been thrown into doubt since he was stripped of the Arsenal captaincy and made to train alone for what a club statement described as “his latest disciplinary breach”. An offer was made last week by Al-Hilal in Saudi Arabia to take the 32-year-old on loan with an option to buy and cover his full salary, which would appeal to Arsenal but less so Aubameyang. Matt Turner To Join Arsenal As Manager Arsenal Turn Attentions To Victor Osimhen Parallel interest emerged from closer to home and this does satisfy the Gabon international’s wish to continue playing at the highest level if he is to make a switch away from the Emirates Stadium. It can now be revealed that two of the continent’s biggest sides have stepped up their pursuit and are in talks with Arsenal over a potential deal for Aubameyang before the transfer window closes. They want to recruit him on a temporary basis to bolster their attacking possibilities for the final four months of the campaign and while it is unclear what Arsenal will decide, dialogue is ongoing. The discussions are expected to focus on the payment of his salary — around £350,000-per-week — and factors including the length of the agreement, as Arsenal may press for a longer duration. If the north London team are prepared to sanction Aubameyang’s exit, who from the two current contenders he might end up joining is likely to be influenced by the movement of Alvaro Morata. POLL Should the 29-year-old Spain international stay at Juventus — he is on loan there from Atletico Madrid and they want to keep him — then Barcelona would be the most probable destination. But if Morata goes to Barcelona or elsewhere — the La Liga side are thought to be his preference, yet sources indicate that has a low chance of materialising — then Juventus want Aubameyang. Barcelona’s financial problems might call into question their ability to fund Aubameyang’s wages, so that would be an issue for the respective parties to resolve if negotiations progress. Meanwhile Juventus are already in the process of acquiring a new front man in the form of Dusan Vlahovic, however it is understood they would like to use him alongside Aubameyang and Paulo Dybala. The admiration of Barcelona and Juventus for Aubameyang is long standing and undiminished. They are believed to harbour no concerns about his professionalism, having both conducted background checks. Barcelona Files Complaint Against Former Board Barcelona Receives Biggest Sponsorship Offer In The History Of… It is a situation being handled at Arsenal’s end by technical director Edu, although any outcome will be formulated in conjunction with manager Mikel Arteta, the executive leadership and board. Their outlook could be affected by whether or not a replacement can be found prior to the market shutting on Monday night, especially considering Arteta’s men have been struggling for goals and his other strikers — Alexander Lacazatte and Eddie Nketiah — are out of contract in the summer. Aubameyang is tied down until the summer of 2023 but has suffered an alarming fall from grace following his late return from a sanctioned trip to France in order to visit his family. The forward — scorer of seven goals in 15 games across all competitions this season and 92 in 163 appearances since moving from Borussia Dortmund in 2018 — was omitted from the Arsenal group that flew to Dubai on Thursday for a warm-weather camp during the Premier League break.