ABUJA – Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in the June 2022 election in Ekiti State returned his forms to the party’s National Secretariat on Friday and declared confidence that he will emerge as the favoured candidate at the party’s primaries. Senator Bamidele who addressed reporters after completing the process said he has been in the field since picking the forms and has sustained consultations with stakeholders within and outside the state. So far, he said the consultations and campaigns have been taken to all 16 local government areas of Ekiti where’d he said was well-received by APC Stakeholders. Nasarawa Earmarks 2.23bn For Rural  Electrification Emir Of Borgu Inaugurates Committee On Gani Durbar Festival “Back in Ekiti, I can confirm that we have been busy on the field. To the glory of God, I have completed a comprehensive tour of all the 16 local governments in Ekiti and we have not stopped our consultation. ” Consultation is still going on with stakeholders of the party both within Ekiti State as well as outside Ekiti state but most importantly, every card-carrying member of the party in Ekiti state is aware of what we are doing, and we are reaching out to them and answering their questions and addressing their concerns. “And I just want say that I remain hopeful that by the grace of God, I would emerge as the governorship candidate of our party via the primary election slated for Saturday 22nd of January 2022”. Baring further interests emerging for the Ekiti race before the January 11 date for the close of the sale of forms, Senator Bamidele expressed confidence he will have a good outing against the seven Aspirants that have so far purchased nomination forms to seek the ticket of the party. On the contentious mode of the primary, he disclosed his preference for Direct Primary as it gives room for participatory democracy. POLL “I would say any day, I would prefer the direct mode of primaries. Just because one, for me, it is a way of ensuring participatory democracy, which makes it possible for every card-carrying member of the party to participate in the decision-making process. “It also helps to ensure that the most popular aspirant emerges which also gives a lot of impetus to the rank-and-file members of the party who feel proud that they were part of the decision-making process and that it was their decision that carries the day.” According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari is not fundamentally opposed to direct primary but simply because of the logistics involved, adding that the Nation Assembly will address the when it resumed in two weeks.