LAGOS – In the quest to empower young people with skills and reduce unemployment in lbadan North Local Government Area of Oyo State, Prince Olatokunbo Babasola, the Chief Executive Officer of Santoks Demiurge & Co. Limited, has outlined a business proposal to train about of 100 youths in the area. He disclosed that the proposal was designed as a model to the realisation of a larger project aimed at training 70,00 Nigerian youths. In an interaction with Daily Independent on Wednesday, he said that the trainees would be prepared to play active roles in mass processing of a wide range of pocket-friendly furniture products such as sofa beds, multi-purpose mattresses and others designed for use in homes and offices for national distribution and enjoyment of Nigerians under a franchise arrangement with the hope of extending the market to other west African countries. We Want To Become Best Cosmetic In Nigeria – Kukoyi, Boltol… FG Should Release List Of Beneficiaries Of SME Funding – Adebayo He stated that special focus would be placed on institutional bookings from groups such as cooperative societies, Nigerian military and police personnel, National Youth Service Corps members and other paramilitary, students and farmers. Babasola said that the trainees would be trained in the art of furniture designing/production, foam conversion and equipment adaptation/fabrication for mass processing. He disclosed that his company decided work with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) to give practical on-the job training to minimum of 100 young people for a period of 12 months in the area. POLL According to him, the trainees would be prepared to play active roles as individuals or team of persons in mass processing of functional furniture. Babasola said that the youths would be trained in batches of 30, adding that the training would take place in NDE training centres in the local government area. The project is a product-based training, intended for the youths within the age bracket of 16 to 30 years. He said his company would collaborate with the local government authority and private individuals in the local government to make the project a reality. He disclosed that discussions were going on here and there in collaboration with National Directorate of Employment, Ibadan North Local Government Authority and Vitafoam Nigeria Plc (as potential off-taker) of end products of the trainees/graduates and trainers. Last Year Was Difficult For Entrepreneurs – Iche Good Customer Service, Proper Planning Keys To Success In… He argued that, “The project is achievable by giving “product-based training to our youths and getting big organizations and private individuals involved in national distribution of resulting end products.