Mikel Arteta has been told he sent away a “natural leader” in Matteo Guendouzi – amid Arsenal’s ongoing captaincy issues. The French midfielder is currently spending the season on loan at Ligue 1 club Marseille where he has impressed with his displays and leadership qualities. The Gunners are currently without a club captain after Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was stripped of the role last month. Real Madrid Beat Athletic Bilbao To Win 12th Super Cup Title Rafa Benitez Breaks Silence After Everton Sacking Alexandre Lacazette is the current armband wearer for the North London side but is not an undisputed starter for the side and is out of contract at the end of the campaign. There are a lack of clear candidates for the role in Arteta’s first-team squad with Granit Xhaka having previously been removed from the position. Marseille boss Jorge Sampaoli has now praised the leadership qualities that Guendouzi has shown at the French club this campaign. The midfielder had made 82 appearances for the North London side in all competitions and had looked set for a bright future at the club but is now in the second of two loan deals away from the Emirates. Marseille are riding high in Ligue 1 this season with 36 points from their 19 league matches putting them in third place, while they have two games in hand over the sides around them in the standings. POLL Sampaoli told a press conference, in quotes carried by GFFN : “Aside from his youth, Matteo has a particular energy. He has a desire to win and he’s a natural leader. “We imagined that would be the case but that it would happen over time. Seeing this in addition to his performances, we have an energy that everyone can envy. “It is contagious and it’s a very important value in life. Experience is important for everyone but, for young people, sometimes difficult events are not good experiences. “There is also personal capacity on the mental side. “Guendouzi, for example, he is a 22-year-old but he acts like he is 30. The most important thing is maturity.” Rooney Emerges Among Favourites To Replace Benitez At Everton Everton Keen On Belgium’s Roberto Martinez To Replace Rafa… The 22-year-old, who joined Arsenal from Lorient in 2018, spent last season out on loan at Hertha Berlin, making 24 appearances and scoring two goals before injury cut his campaign short. He subsequently joined Marseille on a season-long loan deal while the Ligue 1 club have an option to buy him permanently this summer. It remains unlikely that Guendouzi will return to Arsenal due to his apparent fallout with Arteta, who subsequently secured the signings of Thomas Partey and Albert Sambi Lokonga. Guendouzi made his France international debut earlier this season as he appeared for Les Bleus in a World Cup qualifier against Finland in November.