ABUJA – There appears to be confusion over the proposed plans by the Federal Government to exit fuel subsidy by 2022. While the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, confirmed that President Muhammadu Buhari has not directed any of his offi­cials to remove fuel subsidy on account of the prevailing eco­nomic hardship, the Minister of Information and Cul­ture, Lai Mohammed, on Wednesday differed with the latter’s position, say­ing he was not sure if the presidency had directed otherwise. Mohammed, who is the spokesperson of the Fed­eral Government, howev­er, promised to initiate a fact-finding mission to de­termine the true position of the government on the removal of fuel subsidy. Expert Says FCTA Can Revamp Revenue, Reduce Cost Of Governance FCT-IRS Launches Aggressive Tax Drive To Meet N200bn Target He said this while brief­ing State House correspon­dents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osin­bajo, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednes­day. His reaction was in re­sponse to a question that he should provide clarity on the alleged plans to re­move subsidy since the 2022 budget has no subsidy pro­vision beyond June 2022. Mohammed said he would need to consult with the relevant government agencies to determine the exact position of the sub­sidy removal issue. “As for the removal of fuel subsidy, I think you will give me time to consult with relevant departments and ministries and I will get back to you,” he said. It would be recalled that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Plan­ning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, explaining in October, last year, said the Federal Gov­ernment only made pro­vision for fuel subsidy for the first six months of 2022 because it was seriously considering complete de­regulation of the sector. POLL “In our 2022 budget, we only factored in subsidy for the first half of the year; the second half of the year, we are looking at complete deregulation of the sector, saving foreign exchange and potentially earning more from the oil and gas industry,” she had said. But the Senate Presi­dent who met with Buhari on Tuesday told reporters that the president had not directed anyone in his ad­ministration to implement the removal of petrol sub­sidy. The Senate President had stated: “Well, it will be of interest to Nigerians to hear what I came to discuss with Mr. President, among several other things. “Many of us are very concerned with the recent agitations, protests and many citizens were so con­cerned, our constituents across the country are very concerned that the Federal Government will remove the petroleum subsidy. And for us, as parliamentarians, as legislators representing the people of Nigeria, this must be of interest to us”. Beyond these controver­sies, the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Com­pany Limited (NNPC), Mele Kyari, had said the government was indeed overburdened with pro­viding subsidies for daily fuel consumption of the citizens.