The Inspector-General of Police, Alh. Usman Alkali Baba has disclosed that the Nigeria Police Force is now deploying technology in virtually all areas of its operations in tackling new waves of banditry and kidnapping in the country. IGP Baba who was in Akwa Ibom State for the commissioning of the Special Protection Unit based in Onna local government area of the state  said this while addressing officers and men of the State command, Ikot Akpana-Abia,Uyo on Wednesday. The police Boss also disclose that the Marine Unit of the force has been reactivated, crime section digitalised, drones acquired while the Technical Intelligent Unit is fully functional to cope with new trends in crime and criminality. Obi Cubana’s Club: Police Orders Autopsy Of Lady… 70-Year-Old Man Arrested For Defiling 7-Year-Old In Bauchi The innovations according to him,  were necessary to get the Nigeria Police to work with time and modernity to contain the ever-dynamic crime waves,  adding that training and retraining have remained the cardinal point of the present administration. “Crime and criminality is a dynamic thing; it is not something that is static. It moves with time, it moves with modernisation, it moves with technology. Nobody has ever told us that human beings can be stolen, now we see human beings being stolen and taken away and they’re asking you to bring money. That is new crime which is called kidnapping. We know of armed robbery and now we started hearing of armed banditry. “So we must work with time modernity and therefore one of our cardinal principles in the job now is to train and retrain ourselves.,So training is the cardinal point of our administration. We just started training our 10,000 recruits effective last Monday and we have been able to change the curriculum to reflect modernism. “Since we came we have gotten a lot, we have just been given 200 brands of Pick Up vehicles that are very strong by the Police Trust Fund. We have made our Airwings very effective, we are proud of putting six helicopters on the air at one time. “Our Marine segment has been reactivated, our Technical Intelligent Unit is3 working. We have acquired drones,we have digitalised our crime section. We have involved a lot of technology in our works” The IGP said. POLL The IG, therefore, encouraged police officers to constantly educate themselves by reading and listening to the news on television in order to acquaint themselves with the latest happenings in society. He however lamented that before the launching of Operation Restore Peace to the South East, the secessionists had demoralised the workforce with unprovoked attacks and killings, adding that the force is working tirelessly to equip itself with tools to aid operations. The commissioner of Police,  Akwa Ibom State Command, Andrew Amiengheme in his remarks lauded the IG for his result-oriented policies which are in line with global best practices CP Amiengheme said though there had been unprovoked attacks since he assumed office as the 30th commissioner of Police, the measures he initiated by rejigging the security apparatuses of the state has started yielding fruits. He attributed his success so far to the collaboration between the Nigeria Police and the support of the state government in crime-fighting and prevention in the state Technology, Vital Tool For National Security – DG NITDA Anambra Guber: NGO Tasks INEC, Security Agencies On Special… In his words “Since we assume office we have been to rejig the security apparatuses of the state and that is yielding results in the state. Some of our men are still in the affected areas”.