A socio-cultural group known as the Yoruba Heritage Art and Cultural Group Worldwide in its efforts in ensuring that the tradition’s and cultural values of the entire race does not go into extinction has called on parents and guardians of Yoruba descent on the need to ensure that the language, heritage and it’s cultural value is well preserved and kept. This call was made during the 2nd anniversary of the group that was in Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo State on Saturday. The group which was said to be an umbrella body for the Yoruba in the diaspora was created with support from Obas in the Yorubaland to promote the heritage, language and cultural values of the race. According to the leader of the group, Oba (Dr) Saheed Olamilekan Orilobamise said the that the group was created to enhance and promote Yoruba culture and heritage. He said “What we are doing today is the second anniversary of Yoruba Heritage Art and Cultural Program Worldwide. “Under the umbrella of Yoruba Heritage, we use it to promote our culture, most especially Yoruba culture. When we are talking about Yoruba culture, it is our hereditary culture, it is our heritage. We met this before we came to this world and there is no how, as a black man, as a Yoruba man that i will grow without promoting my culture and my heritage”. POLL Speaking on the rate at which the Yoruba language is being despised amidst the Yoruba people, Oba Adufe Orilobamise lamented that it is quite unfortunate for many Yoruba people who have outlawed the Yoruba language. “When I see my Yoruba people complaining about their children speaking Yoruba most especially in school, i see it as a very shameful and regrettable thing. “Talking about countries in Europe, for instance, the Republic of Ireland where I reside, they value their culture and when we are talking about Yoruba culture, it is a unique culture that everybody wants to know about. That’s why you see the Brazilian, the Portuguese, the white people all over the world coming down to Nigeria to learn about Yoruba, ifa, Orisa, our heritage, but unfortunately, many Yoruba people, our mothers, our Fathers have outlawed the Yoruba language and the culture in its entirety, he said. Speaking further, Oba Adufe complained that many Yoruba people lacked understanding by tagging the Yoruba culture an old fashion while noting that “there is no how anybody will see you even from far distance that they will not know that you are a Yoruba man because our culture is so unique.” “I pray to Eledumare that if I’m coming to this world another time, I will prefer to come Yoruba man, he prayed.