Says Iwoye Stakeholders Mischief Makers ILORIN – His Royal Majesty, HRM, Oba Olusegun Rotimi (Dr) of Ayedun has exonerated Salman Jawondo, SAN, attorney general, AG, and commissioner for Justice, Kwara State, and the state’s director of public prosecution, DPP, Alhaji JA Mumini, SAN, of allegations of executive meddling in court matters relating to the chieftaincy between his kingdom and some interests group with separatist agenda from Iwoye, a ward in Ayedun. Speaking to select journalists in Ilorin personally and through Chief Adeyemi Dada, secretary, Ayedun Oba in council, the Oba dismissed the self-styled Iwoye Stakeholders as mischief-makers who stay abroad and foment trouble back in their homes in Iwoye. Alaafin, Ooni Give Royal Blessings To Shina Peller To Advocate… News Of Otunba Alao Akala’s Death A Bombshell, Oloye… Iwoye Stakeholders had on two separate occasions addressed the media alleging that the state’s Ministry of Justice through Jawondo and Mumini, both SAN, tried severally to stymie court processes against the paramount ruler arising from a chieftaincy tussle for which a previous chieftain of Iwoye, Late Michael Sunday Ayantola, was convicted for falsely claiming to be an Oba. “Let me state clearly that Iwoye remains a ward in Ayedun. “Those saying otherwise and trying to attack the commissioners of Justice and his office are just mischief-makers who are not even in Ayedun as we speak,” said HRM Dr Rotimi. Showing journalists copies of a court judgement, local government council reports on the matter as it all started 19 years ago, the ruler said that the Iwoye Stakeholders were just runts from Obaoye, the homestead from which they failed to build an Obaship but got Ayantola convicted to boot. Proving his case further, the royal father allowed one of his chiefs, one of the kingmakers, High Chief Bode Fatokun, the Obaoye, traditionally the second in command to the king of Ayedun and who succeeded Ayantola, to speak on the matter. POLL Chief Fatokun stated the so called Obaoye being paraded by the Iwoye Stakeholders have since remained renegades from their home in Aiyedun. Putting further perspectives to the case, Chief Dada, Secretary, Oba in Council, traced the genesis of the turmoil in Iwoye to 2014. “Problem started after Ayantola, who was installed Obaoye in 2014 attempted to transmute himself into an Oba by excising Iwoye Ward from Ayedun as a separate Community, an action which necessitated his prosecution and conviction by the State Government. “Ayedun remains a united entity notwithstanding the desperate attempt by some disgruntled elements to balkanize it,” he said.