Lekki axis residents, under the aegis of Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association (LERSA), have called on Gover­nor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State to immediately stop the ongo­ing allocation of parts of the land earmarked for the Lekki Coastal Road project to private property developers. The call was made on Friday at a press conference addressed by LERSA President, Olorogun JamesEmadoye, wholamentedthe hardship that residents of the area experience on account of building projectsbeingexecuted by property developers on the coastal road. Emadoye noted that the reluc­tance of the Lagos State Govern­ment to develop the coastal road, which offers the only access route for some residents in the area, has resulted in large-scale illegal prop­erty development projects on the portion earmarked for the road. Buhari Inaugurates NNPC Board, Outlines Guidelines For… NIA DG Never Failed Promotion Examination – ONSA According to Emadoye, efforts by the residents, which took him meeting withgovernmentagencies inchargeof physicaldevelopment, to issue a ‘stop work order’ on the projects have been futile. “What is happening in this area is sad and unfortunate. During Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s campaign to become governor, he promised to ensure the development of the coastal road to ease the challenge residentsfacetoreachtheirhomes. “Two years down the line, noth­ing is happening on the road. Just last year’s we began to notice build­ing projects on the road. When we approached the state government, we were told that it was just a tem­porary approval. Since then more building projects are springing up everydayandnothingisbeingdone about it. “We are worried because we find itdifficulttonowaccessour homes. We believe that this is also an indi­cation that government is not ready todeveloptheroaddespitethehuge revenue the state generates from Lekki. “Weareready tosupportthegov­ernment in developing the coastal road but the government must stop these improper allocations to developers who are not concerned about the hardship residents pass through but are only after mon­ey. What is happening here will further create problem for gov­ernment in paying compensation when iteventuallydecidedto devel­op the road.” POLL Also speaking to journalists, Secretary of LERSA, Gbemi Adelekan, said the residents have written to the Lagos House of As­sembly over the issue and are hope­ful that the legislators will move to prevent the situation from getting out of control.