BENIN – A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Barrister Kenneth Imansuangbon, has added his voice to the number of those rooting for the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to fly the Party’s flag at year’s general election. Although some chieftains of the PDP had recently called on Atiku to support younger aspirants from the Southern part of the country to lead the most populous black nation after the Buhari era. But Imasuangbon, popularly known as the ‘Rice Man’, on Thursday said Atiku remained the best choice candidate of the PDP to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) if the party is desirous of winning. 2023: Igbos Are Ready To Rule Nigeria – Ohanaeze 2023: Ohuabunwa Canvasses For S’East President Imansuangbon, who spoke in a statement made available to newsmen in Benin City, Edo State capital, urged PDP members to market their aspirants instead of presenting Atiku in a bad light. The former Edo governorship aspirant said Atiku has the prerequisite experience, contacts across the country and has impacted many lives through his many philanthropic works. He cautioned PDP Governors and other party chieftains to call their supporters to order and refrained them from casting aspersion on Atiku. He argued that those using the issue of age and zoning against the former Vice President are doing that for selfish and parochial reasons. According to Imansuangbon, “What I want PDP members to understand and focus on is winning the election. We cannot field candidates Nigerians do not know and trust. POLL “How on earth can someone argue that Atiku should not be given our party’s ticket on account of his age? Age is not a curse but a blessing. “For example, it is on record that the founding father and former President of Singapore, late Lee Kuan Yew, became President at a very old age and he led his country into economic prosperity. Same with former President Ronald Reagan of the United State. So what are they talking about? “Again, If we are talking about fairness, equity and justice, power should remain in the North. He is the most qualified in the North and doesn’t forget that the North-East has not produced the President. Even if you leave the presidency open he is the most qualified and his presidency will usher in prosperity for the country. “From 1999, the South has done 14 years while the North will have 11 years by the time Buhari completes his tenure next year. There is a four-year deficit for the North to balance up. “PDP where I belong, the North has not finished it tenure. Obasanjo did eight years, Yar’ Adua did 2 years and Jonathan did 6 years. In fairness, they should take it to the North 2023 Presidency: Buhari Should Back Tinubu As Successor, He… 2023: Give Room For South Region To Rule, Presidency Not… “Atiku is well known across the country. He is the best option to defeat the APC. I want to appeal to PDP Governors and other members to support Atiku.”