UGHELLI – Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, 2023 governorship aspirant in Delta State, has stated that it would be ungodly and po­litically inaccurate for Delta South Senatorial District that vacated the seat less than 8 years ago to aspire for the seat in 2023 Gbagi who made this known during a ceremony to appreciate members of his campaign organisation, hosted by the Gbagi Solidari­ty Movement, said he was one of the foremost PDP mem­bers in Delta State vying for the governorship seat among others in the state. He noted that he has never at any time shown interest to contest the governorship in 1999, but that he was the ma­jor sponsor of Prof. Sam Oy­ovbaire for Governor in 1999 until he withdrew from the race at the residence of the Late Chief David Dafenone in Apapa, Lagos State and di­rected him to run in his place Jonathan Pays Tribute To Late Olubadan Obiano Attaches No strings To My Governorship Election, Says… According to him, “So, I decided then that when the circle completes, and it comes to Delta Central, I will run and become the Governor. If you look at the calendar by the time Governor Ifeanyi Okowa finishes, Delta Cen­tral would have waited for 16 years.” “The way it was designed, every senatorial district will wait for 16 years. I want us to understand it because it looks as if some of us are groping in the dark; some of us talking politics; some of us were not a party to know how it was enacted; some of us do not know where we started from; some of us were not part of those that brought PDP to Delta State, but I pride myself to be one of that aspirant and mem­bers of PDP who decided that the governorship should be rotated from one senatorial district to the other. One must wait for 16 years for the oth­ers to take their turn,” he explained. “Delta Central has wait­ed for 16 years; we can not change the game plan in the middle of the game. I plead that the peace and develop­ment we have enjoyed as a people should continue. Delta South Senatorial District that just finished their turn in less than 8 years ago cannot claim that a senatorial district that has waited for 16 years should not be allowed to take its turn. That will be ungodly and po­litically inaccurate. I plead that we should understand ourselves and work together in unity for the good, great­ness and development of Del­ta State,” he added.