PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU;CHUKWUJEKWU ILOZUE ENUGU / AWKA – There was pandemonium in Enu­gu and Anambra on Monday as unknown gunmen tried enforc­ing the sit-at-home order can­celled by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). It was learnt that the gunmen went on shooting spree on differ­ent locations in Enugu metropo­lis and at the boundary between Oko community in Orumba North Local Government Area and Ekwulobia commu­nity in Aguata Local Gov­ernment Area of Anambra State, burning vehicles and destroying property as two people were alleged to have lost their lives in the pro­cess. Subsidy Removal Will Help 2022 Budget Implementation — CSOs FA Cup: Man Utd Ride Luck Against Aston Villa To Reach 4th Round Daily Independent gath­ered that people started running helter-skelter on Monday morning in ar­eas such as Amechi Ak­wakunanaw, Agbani Road, Holy Ghost Market, Okpa­ra Avenue, Trans-Ekulu, Abakpa Nike Road, among others. An eyewitness, Chie­dozie Nnaji, told Daily In­dependent that some sus­pected members of IPOB engaged in shooting spree in Amechi Akwananaw community Monday morn­ing, an act meant to attack people for disobeying the sit-at-home. Nnaji said a commercial bus and a tricycle were set ablaze in the area while people ran back home for safety. The report of the attack which spread to other parts of the city caused tension forcing residents to run for safety. Daily Independent re­ports that traders at the popular Holy Ghost Mar­ket as well as other parts of the city hurriedly locked up their shops while banks and offices opened earlier in the day also closed down. POLL A resident of Maryland, Grace Ogbe, said that she trekked from her office for over an hour before she could get a tricycle that brought her home. “I went to work this morning at Trans-Ekulu but around 10a.m., we saw people running helter-skel­ter and we were asked to go home because gunmen were shooting around Lib­erty area in Abakpa”, she said. Meanwhile, Enugu State Police Command has vowed to cripple activities of miscreants enforcing sit-at-home in the state. In a statement made available on the attack, Po­lice Public Relations Offi­cer of the state command, Daniel Ndukwe, assured citizens of their safety, urg­ing them to go about their daily activities without any intimidation or fear. He said, “Following the alleged cases of sporadic shootings at Topland Ame­chi-Awkunanaw, snatching and burning a Toyota Sien­na vehicle and a tricycle at Umueze and Agbani axis of Nkanu West LGA of the state by miscreants al­leged to be enforcing illegal sit-at-home order, which caused panic within Enugu metropolis in the morning hours of Monday, citizens of Enugu metropolis and the state in general are hereby assured that the po­lice, in collaboration with other security agencies, have brought the situation under control. Iraq Takes Back 111 ISIS-Linked Families From Syria Democrats Urge Biden To Grant Deportation Relief To At Least 2… “Consequently, law-abid­ing citizens of the state have been enjoined to go about their lawful busi­nesses without fear of in­timidation or harassment. “Police and other secu­rity operatives have been duly deployed to further thwart the untoward ac­tivities of the miscreants in the state. Further devel­opments will be communi­cated,” he said. Pandemonium In Anambra Over Shooting, Arson Similarly, there was pan­demonium Monday morn­ing following alleged heavy shooting at the boundary between Oko community in Orumba North Local Gov­ernment Area and Ekwulo­bia community in Aguata Local Government Area by suspected enforcers of sit-at-home. Daily Independent learnt that suspected members of the proscribed IPOB car­ried out the act. It was learnt that the shooting spread panic in the area, causing residents and passers-by to scamper for safety. It was also learnt that a Toyota Sienna vehicle be­longing to an unidentified indigene of Isuofia, a neigh­bouring community to Ekwulobia was set ablaze. A source said, “The man was driving past in the area, when the men start­ed shooting. He left his car in the middle of the road and ran for his dear life, but before he could return, the men had set it ablaze.” Following this, the Anambra State Police Command mobilised to the area. A statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said the Com­missioner of Police, Ech­eng Eworo Echeng, ordered reinforcement teams from the command headquar­ters to intensify patrols around major areas in the state like Onitsha, Nnewi, Ihiala, Aguata, Awka and environs in the state. “The reinforcement team which comprises Police Mobile Operatives, Counter Terrorist Units, Special Forces and other tactical teams are to ad­dress any security concern that may arise and to fore­stall any breakdown of law and order in the state. “This order is following a reported case of arson around boundary between Ekwulobia and Oko at about 7a.m. today, Monday. “Police operatives are currently on ground and normalcy has been re­stored in the area. The sit­uation is been monitored.” President Muhammadu Buhari had on January 5 ruled out the possibility of a political solution re­garding the detained lead­er of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. The president said this while answering questions at an exclusive interview anchored by Channels Tele­vision. His comment came de­spite assurances to select leaders of the South-East who had earlier paid him a courtesy visit at the Presi­dential Villa, Abuja. Recall that Kanu is fac­ing charges bordering on treasonable felony institut­ed against him in response to years of the campaign for the Republic of Biafra through IPOB. In November 2021, South-East traditional and religious leaders had asked the president to grant am­nesty to Kanu to deescalate tension in the region.