Nigerian leading financial service company, OPay, cel­ebrated its top performing agents and aggregators in recognition of their immense contribution to achieving the company’s goal of enabling shared prosperity among Nigeri­ans. OPay and its agents are promoting access to afford­able financial services and driving financial inclusion in Nigeria. The award ceremony which started in Lagos on December 29, 2021, was also held across multiple states such as Port Harcourt, Kano and Abuja. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference Speaking during the cer­emony, the CEO of OPay Nigeria, Olu Akanmu, ap­preciated the OPay agents and aggregators for being exemplary in setting the pace for financial inclu­sion in Nigeria, in addi­tion to helping millions of Nigerians to connect to opportunities, share and spread prosperity through OPay. When Nigerians depos­its money in their accounts through the OPay agents, it is more than cash; it is a de­posit of prosperity, a deposit of a plan to prosper, to fulfill a dream for their businesses and families. Mr Olu further reiterated OPay’s commitment to pro­viding impactful financial services to the underserved customer segment Pan-Ni­geria. During the award, OPay rewarded 30 top perform­ing agents and aggrega­tors across the nation with prizes ranging from chest freezers, flat-screen TVs, washing machines, home theatres and many more. Vice President, OPay, DotunAdekunle, said, “The sole purpose of the event is to appreciate the agents and aggregators for their commitment and relentless efforts in providing fast and convenient agency banking services in their communi­ties with OPay. POLL “We are pleased to an­nounce a policy review, starting from January 1, 2022, there will be a reduc­tion in withdrawal charges. OPay will also be opening more customer support centres across the states to improve service delivery and attend to the needs of agents, aggregators and cus­tomer,” Adekunle added. OPay launched its mobile payment service in August 2018, creating an infrastruc­ture on which the company is now also adding new ser­vices. The agent-centric mo­bile payment operation focuses on reaching the massive unbanked popu­lation of Nigeria. OPay’s vision is to rapidly support the realisation of Nigeria’s vision for financial inclu­sion for everyone through the use of global-leading technology. OPay is more than a pay­ment company. It is a one-stop mobile-based platform for payments, transfers, loans, savings and other essential services for every individual. OPay boasts of over 500,000 active agents and reliable service coverage Pan-Nigeria, is currently the largest agency banking platform in Nigeria.