ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) through its Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS) has restated the preparedness of the Secretariat to reinvigorate the FCT Aquaculture and Allied Trades Centre for women and youth towards empowering more vulnerable groups in the nation’s capital. Mandate Secretary of the, Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS), Mallam Abubakar Ibrahim made this remark during a visit to the Center at Kuka Village in Kwali Area Council to assess the production activities at the Centre. According to him in a statement made available to newsmen by Deputy Director Information, Zakari Aliyu stated that, the Centre which was Commissioned by the Minister of State, FCT Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu in 2020 was part of her grassroot developmental programmes aimed at providing opportunities for vulnerable groups particularly women and youths towards poverty alleviation as well as boosting fish production in the FCT. We Are Committed To Total Welfare Of The Vulnerable –… The Secretariat he assured will do everything possible to ensure that with the provisions that have been made in the budget, facilities at the centre will be improved and expanded to accommodate more groups. His words, ” the vision the Honorable Minister of State FCT, Dr. has is to have a centre that will provide entrepreneurial skills on a regular basis to the less privileged and the choice of Aquaculture is very strategic being one that is thriving in terms of demand. We will ensure that this worthy vision is realised so we are going to put in the required funding to improve on the programmes at the centre” The mandate Secretary directed the Department of Fisheries to Strengthen its monitoring mechanism to follow-up on the progress of the trainees to ensure that they are supported and properly guided on managing their businesses. POLL In her remarks, the Director of Fisheries in the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat Mrs Ifeoma Okeke commended the Secretary for displaying strong commitment towards repositioning the Agric Sector since his appointment.  This she noted has boosted the morale of staff who are more encouraged to put in their best. Okeke hinted that the pilot beneficiaries are all doing well in other businesses and contributing their quota in enhancing nutrition fish production output in the FCT. One of the beneficiaries Mama Safiya Nokoda who still maintains a pond at the centre thanked the Honourable Minister of State for the laudable project which she stated has enabled her fend for her family with the proceeds from the fish business. In another development the Secretary has reiterated the readiness of the Secretariat to work with Area Council Authorities towards improving meat handling and sanitary conditions in the various slaughter slabs in the 6 Area Councils. Abubakar who was at the kwali slaughter slabs commended the Charman for the ongoing rehabilitation works taking place at the slaughter slab which he advised should make provision for easy removal of waste. “I recently held a meeting with the Chairmen of the Area Council and they assured us that they will improve on the conditions in the slaughter slabs and with what we have seen here today the chairman of Kwali has proven to be a man of his words” Abubakar said. The Chairman Kwali Area Council Hon. Chiya Boboyi welcomed the collaboration with the Secretariat which he noted will help the Area Councils benefit from the expertise of the Secretariat towards improving the quality of services and hygienic conditions.