OSOGBO – The factional state chair­man of Governor Oye­tola-led All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince Adegboyega Famodun, has accused the former governor of the state and now Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, of anti-party activities for declaring his full support for The Osun Progressives (TOP), a faction of the par­ty loyal to him. It would be recalled that Aregbesola, during the commissioning of Digital Nigeria Centre in Ilesa, Osun State, declared that he was with TOP soul and body. But, in a swift reac­tion to Aregbesola’s dec­laration, Famodun said it reduced his status as a former governor and as a serving minister under the APC government. Leaders’ Honesty Will Check Security Challenges – Bishop Eichie IPOB Allays Fears Of Lockdown In South-East, Announces… While accusing the min­ister of arrogance, selfish­ness, self-centeredness, recklessness, wickedness and an inconsiderate pol­itician who wanted the whole world to himself, Famodun maintained that “Osun APC is too strong for Aregbesola to break.” He said: “Squel to the self-confession of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, of being part and parcel of a pressure group, The Osun Progres­sives (TOP), under the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at an event in Ilesa, Osun State, I want to say categorically that Areg­besola’s conduct in that regard is far below the expectation of the right thinking members of the society.” Famodun, in a statement personally signed, said, “It was unfortunate that Areg­besola, who was the imme­diate-past governor of the state, could champion sub­versive activities against the political party that has transformed his life from that of obscurity to lime­light through prestigious offices as a Commissioner in Lagos State, two-term governor of Osun State and a serving minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Famodun, who de­scribed the activities and activities of TOP as rebel­lious, noted that the group had constituted itself into an opposition within the Osun APC. The intra-APC oppo­sition group, called TOP, which meets every Thurs­day in Aregbesola’s cam­paign office in Osogbo, he alleged, had become a venue where barrage of insults were being heaped on the person of Governor Gboyega Oye­tola, the APC state lead­ership APC and the state government. POLL According to him, the faction was peopled by members of Aregbesola’s cabinet during his tenure as governor, who he said, had been protesting their not being appointed by Oyetola for the third term. Famodun told Aregbesol to perish the thought and notion of being the Alpha and Omega of Osun State progressive politics, re­minding him that he had only grandstanding in his past glory.