ABUJA – A group under the aegis of APC Unity Group, Ekiti State, has petitioned the Chairman Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, over an alleged secret deal between  Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi and former Governor, Ayodele Fayose to foist an anointed candidate on the state in the forthcoming governorship election scheduled for June 2022. The group said Fayemi is doing everything possible to manipulate the internal workings of the party to favour the emergence of his anointed crony as the Governorship candidate of the party in the state. They added that the Governor is relying on a pact with former Governor Fayose of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP )  to win the election, but fearing this could backfire and cost the part the chances to win the election. Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… Arewa Youths Commend NEDC For Exceptional Service In… This was contained in a letter dated  December 30, 2021 jointly sighed by Idowu Daramola of Ward 8 ( Igede Ekiti ) Irepodun/ Ifelodun Local Government Area and Boluwatife Shittu of Ward 3 Ado Local Government Area of the state. The letter added that the deal with the former Governor was aimed at scuttling and manipulating the internal process of the party using backend arrangement. The group expressed fear and concerns about the negative implication of such an undemocratic and dangerous plot on the chances of the party winning the election in the state. The group said it would be extremely difficult for the party to win and the election  rather it would be a walkover for the opposition if the Peoples Democratic Party  ( PDP ) pick a better and more popular candidate, The letter reads, “Ekiti 2020: The plot to impose an unpopular governorship candidate will lead to our defeat. We trust this communication meets you well as we hope for a better 2022 for our country and party. May God continue to strengthen and guide your leadership to conduct a successful convention in 2022. POLL ” The troubling developments in our party in Ekiti should be an immediate concern to you because of the importance of the governorship election next year. This calls for your immediate and urgent intervention. “It is no longer hidden that His Excellency, Dr Kayode Fayemi, our APC Governor in Ekiti, is doing everything to manipulate the internal workings of our party to favour the emergence of his anointed person as the governorship candidate. “We fear that the lack of level playing ground for all the aspirants may spell doom for our party, considering the concern among the majority of party members that his chosen person is unpopular within the APC in Ekiti State. “We are not unaware that Fayemi is also relying on a secondary strategy to help his handpicked choice to win the main governorship election in June 2022. But the risk behind this school-boy strategy is quite enormous and capable of jeopardising our chances of winning. “This is a party that boasts of popular aspirants like Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, Hon. Femi Bamisile, Chief Dayo Adeyeye and a few others. They are capable of holding grounds against any PDP candidate. New Year: Support Buhari To End Banditry, Kidnappings, Oba Alabi… Let’s Be Driven By Love, Peace This New Year, Shina Peller… “While our Governor is aware that his chosen aspirant is politically weak and may not have the gravitas to substantially impress the people in the main election, he is, however, banking on a backend deal (long-sealed) with former Governor Ayo Fayose for a suicidal compromise. “The plan is for Fayose (a man who can do anything for money) to secure the PDP ticket through a weak, controllable and pliable candidate to complete the trade-off. It is a shameful plot of “supply meets demand”- Fayemi is interested in a successor, while Fayose is interested in the money and the state leadership of the PDP unchallenged” The group, therefore, requested the leadership of the party to conduct Direct Primaries in the state to give the party opportunity of presenting a popular choice. They also urged the party to prevail on the Governor to allow a level playing field in the exercise and give all aspirants a sense of belonging.