The Lagos state chapters the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives, on Saturday declared a three-day strike as a warning to the Lagos State government to improve their working conditions. According to the statement issued by the Chairman of the State chapter, Comrade Julius Awojide, the strike will commence on Monday, January 9 and end on Wednesday, 12, 2022. The Chairman of the State chapter, Comrade Julius Awojide, in a  statement at an emergency congress  on Saturday, said the action is to demand better working conditions from the Lagos State government. Kolawole Ajeyemi To Critics: My Wife’s Wealth, Popularity… Insecurity: Buhari Gives Up, Seeks Divine Intervention The statement partly reads, “The Council decided to embark on the warning strike after careful consideration to call the attention of the government to the severity of the situation and to get them to address the issues promptly. We engaged the government on several occasions on the issues without the desired pace of outcome. “In our estimation, the Lagos government is yet to fully come to terms with how incredibly challenging the situation in the health sector has been for our members especially in the last two years. “More than 496 out of 2,350 nurses in the employ of Lagos State Health Service Commission left between 2019 and 2021 and with less than 15 percent due to statutory retirement. “Over 200 nurses left the services of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital within the same period. Over 80 nurses left the Primary Healthcare Board within the last two years which has only about 700 nurses and midwives. “Out of the 500 vacancies approved for recruitment by the governor for the health service commission recently, less than 300 applied, especially in a country with a 33.2 percent unemployment rate. POLL “A reduced capacity in the health workforce means a reduced capacity to contain and fight new waves of pandemics and outbreaks. A poor retention rate only guarantees paralytic responses to new waves of pandemics within the foreseeable future.”