As Ake Palace denied any rift between Alake and Olowu The Ogun State Command of the Nigeria Police has assured that it was closing in on those reposonsible for the gruesome murder of the Alagado of Agodo in Ewekoro Local Government Area of the State, Oba Ayinde Odetola. The Command Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, while speaking with Independent, Tuesday, revealed that the culprits would soon be arrested and exposed to the public. Bagudu Directs Renovation Of Burnt Dadin Kowa Market Senate Moves To Protect Witnesses In Corruption Cases Oyeyemi, who described the killing of the Monarch as a callous and cruel further clarified that it was only the Monarch that was killed and latter set ablaze in his vehicle and not four people as being reported by some section of the media. According to him, the remains of the Monarch has been retrieved by the Police while residents of the town have vacated the entire town because of the incident. Oba Odetola was assassinated on Monday before his corpse was taken to his vehicle while both his remains and the vehicle were set ablaze. It has been speculated that the killing might not be unconnected with the acrimony between the Egbas and the Owus who are major occupiers of the town. There has been issues in some part of Ewekoro and Ota over the ownership of the land and the consenting authority between Alake and Olowu as it affects traditional institutions. POLL Buy the Spokesperson of Alake-In-Council, Alhaji Lai Labode has dispelled any rift between the Alake and Olowu on the ownership of the land. The Spokesperson, while speaking with Independent on the development insisted that it is not right to bring in Alake into the incident, appealing that people should wait for the outcome of Police investigation. He said, “To the best of my knowledge, I don’t think there’s any rift between Alake and Olowu and it is not right to involve Alake now, that appears as a mere insinuation and I don’t think that is true. “I listened to the police PPRO today and he said what they are doing, I appeal that we rely on the statement and investigation of the Police.” Meanwhile, Governor Dapo Abiodun has promised to visit the perpetrators with full wrath of the law. Okowa Appoints Orodje Of Okpe Chairman Of Traditional Rulers Adeniran-Ogunsanya Didn’t Die A Coward, Jandor Mourns Declaring that his administration would not tolerate breach of peace and harmony being currently enjoyed in the state, Governor Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, also directed the security agencies to immediately fish out the killers. In the statement, Governor Abiodun sent a stern warning to those threatening the peace of the state, stressing the incumbent administration would stop at nothing to deal decisively with the perpetrators by prosecuting and meting out the full wrath of the law on them. The governor, who described the incident as unfortunate noted that politics, land and chieftaincy matters should not attract descent to self-help and killings.