Dr. Phillip Idaewor is a UK based medical practitioner and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The former Edo State chairman of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) who is currently the chairman of APC UK and chairman of APC Committee of Diaspora Chairmen Forum in this interview with CHARLES OKOH, shares his views on developments in Nigeria and proffers solutions to governance in the country. Excerpts: You have been away for a while but how do you relate with the current situations in the country? It’s very sad and frightening. The situation in Nigeria has to be of concern not only to Nigerians but to the global community. The scope and intensity of insecurity for example cannot be taken lightly. 2023: Lalong’s Deputy Joins Plateau Guber Race 2023: MURIC Tackles Afenifere Over Refusal To Support… Resolving the present challenges will require a root and branch, evidence-driven actions focused on unpicking the present and historical issues driving our national security challenges. I feel that as a country, historical political leadership issues have to a large extent been responsible for unbalancing the key elements of Nigeria’s nation building aspirations. As a leader, what would you say is responsible for the political impunity in the country? And how can it be resolved? The straight answer to your question is the failure of consistent applications of consequences for deleterious and bad behaviours by citizens at any or every level. Human beings are the same around the world. The difference between those countries which have been transformed into economically viable entities and those struggling to start on the journey to nationhood is the consistent application of the law. For example, there has to be consequences for both moral corruption (nepotism, ethnic and religious bigotry and such discriminatory behaviours) and financial corruption (bribery and stealing from our commonwealth). And the consequences have to consistently be applied to all regardless of status in society. This is the critical difference between the so-called developed countries and the rest. What is your advice to the grassroots and youths of Nigeria? POLL At this stage of our national development, a focus on revamping, restoring honour and dignity to political leadership, and the ideals of community leadership is one of urgent need. We all must begin to speak out in one voice against bad behaviour in our country’s political space. The best option to achieving success in this is to become actively involved in political parties and the electoral process. It can no longer be fashionable to just complain, Nigerians need to rise to the challenge of seeking citizens with the right capabilities and integrity value addition to become community and national political leaders. This is the hard reality and need for our country. We can’t afford to continue to sit on the fence and watch some few individuals decide our future, which in our present experience has been less than acceptable. So I say to our young compatriots, get organised, collaborate, work strategically, seek out and pick your best to promote into political offices. Part of the organising includes making sure you register and get your voters card, encourage your friends, and family to do same. Then speak up about what you’ll like see happen in your community and when the time comes go out and vote for the candidate of your choice. And please, don’t collect money from anyone to vote, people who do such do not care about your future and the future of your community. What would be your priority if given a chance by the citizens of Nigeria to lead as the President of the nation in 2023? The greatest challenge facing Nigeria today is not just insecurity occasioned by perverted citizens and their foreign partners, but the eerie silence on the part of the political leadership to advancing an ordered and coherent national conversation to better foster unity, equity and reconciliation where necessary amongst Nigeria’s ethnic nationalities. Ekiti APC Primary: Between Personality And Ambition PDP Nullifies Ekiti Ward Congresses There is, therefore, an urgent need to emplace a safe space for national conversations to the extent that all Nigerians are seen as critical stakeholders in our country’s search for the path to nationhood. Top of the agenda, therefore, will be the immediate convocation of an ongoing national conversation programme. This will open all outcome documents from previous national conferences. No matter how long it takes to arrive at an acceptable, equitable and peaceful model to grow the greatest gift of this country; our human asset, I will make sure that this project succeeds. Secondly I will declare a state of emergency in three critical sectors of our national economy, namely security sector, education and health care. This will allow an aggressive focus and channeling of resources into putting our very best hands and feet forward to leapfrog our country out of the present cesspool. Our people need to feel safe to pursue their aspirations; we need to give all our young people the best public school education in and out of the classroom to prepare them for the global space regardless of the wealth status of their parents. And we need to think and act radically to ensure that all Nigerians can access healthcarewhenneeded, withouthaving to pay for it at the point of need.