AWKA  – The Anambra Governor-Elect, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo has said that Governor Willie Obiano never attached any strings in order to support his governorship ambition and emerge victorious in the election. Soludo spoke at Aguleri, Anambra East Local council area, country home of Obiano on Sunday when he led a delegation of Old Aguata Union (OAU) to thank Obiano for assisting him emerge victorious in the Election. He said: “Governor Obiano had no interest in insisting on any conditions and I never discussed such with him, during and after primaries or the elections”. Says Ortom Had No Hand In Selection Of Ochi’Idoma -CPS 2023: APC Working On One Lie That Will Return PDP To Power… “Governor Obiano’s interest is to project Anambra high. His obsession is to ensure that I continue with the good works he has done in the state. “My Deputy and I will work hard, every minute of the day to make him and make Anambra proud”. While expressing his gratitude to Obiano, Soludo said: “I say thanks a billion times for your support. There could have been a dozen and one reason to walk away from me; but you stayed resolute. Your expectations to make Anambra proud must be met. “Some believe that APGA will die under his administration, but God intervened.’’ The Catholic Bishop of Awka Most Rev. Paulinus Ezeokafor who also attended the occasion, urged Prof. Soludo to ensure that Anambra would continue to sustain the tempo of development it had ensured throughout Governor Obiano administration. POLL Bishop Ezeokafor, who is also a member of the OAU, called for maximum collaboration between Governor Obiano and Soludo. The Traditional Ruler of Enugwu Umuonyia Community, Igwe Nnebechukwu Ezeamama, who also doubles as the Chairman, OAU traditional Rulers Council, commended the Governor for choosing the best candidate from OAU. The wife of former Vice-President of Nigeria, Dr Ifeoma Ekwueme thanked God for the victory of APGA at the polls, in spite of political violence the opposition planned to distort the elections. The Member who represented Orumba North and South at the National Assembly, Hon. Ben Nwankwo reviewed all activities in all the towns in OAU, stood down and suspended because of the visit. Nwankwo while thanking God, Governor and his wife, Dr Ebelechukwu Obiano for their support, recalled that the Governorship dream and aspirations of OAU started since 1991, but never achieved until Governor Obiano administration. Osun 2022: Wole Oke Urges PDP Stakeholders To Embrace Peace Religious Group Gives Aregbesola, Oyetola 7 Days To End Feud The National Vice-President, Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief Damian Okeke Ogene said the election and victory of Soludo had raised the pride of Igbos globally. Okeke Ogene while describing Obiano as a giant achiever, said he (Obiano) had completed lofty projects in the state, such as the Anambra Airport, the Stadium and the International Convention Centre, (ICC), to be completed before the end of his tenure. In his response, Governor Obiano expressed optimism that Soludo would deploy his wealth of knowledge in attracting more meaningful projects to further reshape the state’s development. While commending the OAU delegation,  Obiano urged the people of the state to always support Soludo, as he would consolidate on his recorded achievements. The event climaxed with presentation of gifts to the Governor by the OAU in appreciation of his endorsement#