★Opposition Rep Kicks, Alleges Booby Traps, Plot To Frustrate Amendment ★We Prioritised Safety Of Democracy In Its Decision – Reps Spokesman ABUJA – The House of Representatives has re-amended clause 84(2) of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021 to include an option for both direct and indirect primaries in the nomination of candidates by political parties. Omicron: Reps To Reposition Nigeria Health Sector We’re Yet To Get Buhari’s Position On Electoral Act… This followed the representation of the Bill recently rejected by the President, on the floor of the House and reconsidered at the committee of the whole. The House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila had earlier informed the House noting that the “bill was by the committee of the whole on Wednesday 19, 2022. We move for the consideration of the observation made by the president in his letter.” “A letter was written by Mr President after declining assent to the bill and the relevant portion of the letter, paragraph 5. The Speaker had before commencing the proceedings cited relevant rules of the House guiding the process, noting that the House was constrained by the rules to only consider the item which formed the basis of the President’s refusal to grant assent. “It is this letter that has brought us where we are, and in line with the provision of our rules, we are in order to recommit and reconsider based on the observation officially communicated to us as a House. The relevant rule here is Order 12 Rule 20 which the subhead is a reconsideration of Bills. POLL “And it says “any bill referred to the House of by the president withholding assent may be reconsidered through a substantive motion by the House which has been. The motion shall include all the clauses objected to by the president which shall be reconsidered in the committee of the whole,” which is what we are about to do. And I believe there is only one clause objected to by Mr President. “Sub three, “if necessary, the House may rescind its decision on this affected clause and reconsider the bill in the committee of the whole. “So basically our rules have tied our hands. We cannot even go outside that clause to inject any other thing even if we so desire. “We would go straight to Clause 84, which reads, “a political party seeking to nominate candidates for election under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions “That establishes that primaries would be held and it goes on in subsection (2), “the procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the various elective positions shall be by direct or indirect primaries,”. this is the original copy that came to the House, Gbajabiamila stated. Reps Move Against Excesses Of Online Loan Providers Reps Member Calls For Regulation Of Water In Nigeria The as re-amended was voted and carried by the House. At this point, an opposition lawmaker, Hon. Awaji-Inombek Dagomie Abiante (PDP, Rivers) raised a point of order demanding that all the clauses be taken one after the other and allow members to make inputs. According to him, there are still clauses left in the Bill requiring that every presidential candidate must hold a special convention at state levels including the FCT. He said: “I read. A political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the choice of its candidates shall adopt the procedure outlined below: “A. In the case of nomination for the position of presidential candidates, a political party shall hold special conventions in each of the 36 states of the federation and FCT, where delegates shall vote for each of the aspirants at designated centres in each state capital on specified dates. “Mr Chairman if you go further, a national convention shall be held for the ratification, so you don’t elect at the national convention. The election of the presidential candidate would remain at the various state levels. That is what this English says, sir. And it is not the way the primaries have been held. “This is not the intent of the electoral act that has been passed that was referred back to us to continue to consider the inclusion, to give Nigerians the option of direct or indirect. “This thing still negates the principles of what we have always done here. And it is my suspicion, Mr Chairman, that it is intended for this Electoral Act not to be signed. These are all obstacles that have been put in the way of Nigerians to actually determine who governs them so they can provide effective leadership. “Mr Chairman we have to take all these clauses one after the other and allow members to make inputs,” Abiante said. Gbajabiamila, in his response, said: “As a seasoned legislator I have read the rules of the House to you and you know that we are confined to the observations made by Mr President. We have a near-perfect document. It may not be perfect, but we have a near-perfect document. We adjourn to plenary.” Also briefing the Press after the plenary, the House Spokesman, Benjamin Kalu, stated that the safety and advancement of democracy were prioritised in the decision to toe the line of the president in the amendment, adding that sticking to the guns would have been counterproductive. Kalu noted that though the concept of direct primaries was a laudable one that should be considered by the country in its journey to electoral and political maturity, it was, however, important that such an ideal step is not used as a stumbling block to the attainment of other important reforms already embedded in the amendment which the president also agrees with. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to keep faith with the Parliament as the Bill when signed into law can still be amended in the future, saying: “no law is cast on stones.”