AKURE – The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is currently deliberating on compensating one of its chieftains, Barrister Morayo Lebi, with the party’s Southern Senatorial ticket for the 2023 general elections. A chieftain of the party, who prefers anonymity, disclosed that the leadership of the party in the state was considering compensating the chieftain with the ticket judging by his huge contributions to the growth and development of the party. According to the source, Lebi had on so many occasions rescued the party’s leadership when financially stranded and had been assisting the party across the 18 local government areas of the state. 2023 Presidency: Entrenched Interests In APC Plotting To Pull Me… 2023: APC’s Enemies Rooting For Jonathan As Party… Lebi, who is from the Southern senatorial district of the state, had been carrying out various empowerment programmes across all the local government areas in the state. The source said: “Barrister Morayo Lebi has indeed contributed to the growth and development of our party, APC, across all the 18 local government areas of the state. “His support for the party under the leadership of D.I Kekemeke during the national convention of our party was huge. At a point when our delegates were stranded, he was the one who rescued us. He sent enough money to us which covered all our expenses then. “During the last governorship election in the state, he made contributions to all necessary logistics needed by all the local government areas in the Southern Senatorial District. “It is a known fact that he has not just started supporting our party as a member, he has been carrying out various empowerment programmes, not only in his senatorial district, South but across the three senatorial districts in the state. POLL “Though the contest for the party’s tickets had been thrown open, some of our leaders are deliberating on seizing this opportunity to reward Barrister Lebi for his huge contributions to the success of our party, particularly n the last gubernatorial election. “Therefore, it is not out of place for the leadership of the party to consider compensating him with the party’s senatorial ticket for the 2023 general elections. “Some of our leaders are putting heads together and considering presenting Barrister Morayo Lebi to our amiable governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to consider the advice. “The move became necessary because of his loyalty to our party and the governor. He has always been consistent even in the face of temptations from other political party trying to woo him to their side. “This is payback time and we are looking at briefing his Excellency on his profile, contributions to the growth and development of our party.”