The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has said that the recent trending video involving an out-bound passenger at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos and its officials occurred in August 2017. The service said that the video, which went viral sometime last week, was aimed at denting its image before the public, insisting that issues raised in the video had since been addressed. The service also further emphasised that visa, as one of the strongest tools in modern migration management remained a conditional approval granted to a migrant by a government, allowing the holder to enter, remain, work or to leave a certain territory within a given period of time. Why SIFAX Group Is Interested In Airport Concession – Chairman Sanctions: France, Senegal, CIV Cancel Flights To Mali Mr. Isah Jere Idris, the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration Service, stated these in his reaction to the video in a statement signed by Mr. Amos Okpu, the Public Relations Officer, NIS. According to him, the service would have ordinarily ignored the re-trend video, but for the need to inform unsuspecting members of the public that the re-trending of the video was the handiwork of mischief makers dissipating their energy to portray the service in bad light The statement said: “Suffice it be mentioned that the said incident was subjected to full investigation by all the agencies at the airport then. During the investigation, so many facilities including the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) camera system were deployed to unravel the veracity of the claims, but nothing of such was found. “It is however, unfortunate, that some persons now find it relevant to embark on a re-trend of an unverifiable incident of 2017 in 2022 for reasons best known to them. Nevertheless, it is important to state that a new dawn has begun in the service and great efforts are being directed at enhanced reforms that would reposition the service to a very responsive and proactive agency fully committed to transparent service delivery. “The service is poised to consistently ensure that it places robust migration facilitation processes and systems across frontiers to enable visitors have pleasant experiences at our controls. To this effect, the service has continued to deepen its public engagement exercises to create enriched understanding of its processes and procedures by prospective visitors and the public at large.” POLL The service enlightened that it had made some progress in its visa reforms efforts and reassured the public that it would fairly and justly implement the visa reforms in line with best practice. Idris insisted that as one of the strongest tools in modern migration management, visa remained a conditional approval granted to a migrant by a government allowing the holder to enter, remain, work or to leave a certain territory within a given period of time.