LAGOS – Pastor William Ku­muyi, General Super­intendent of Deeper Life Bible Church and Prof. Ayodeji Olukoju, Coun­cil Chairman of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, have said there was urgent need to focus on practically equip­ping youths and harnessing their potential should Nigeria be developed. They said this on Wednes­day during the opening of the church’s Global Youth Convocation with the theme, ‘IMPACT’, at the Deeper Life International Conference Centre, Lagos/Ibadan Ex­pressway. The convener of the pro­gramme, who decried the rate at which the youths were flee­ing the country, implored the Nigerian government to tar­get their creative potentials, enthusiastic energy, capaci­ty to attempt and adopt new ways of thinking. Barber Stabs Motorcyclist To Death In Bayelsa Novena University College Of Law Commences LL.B Degree… “The youth population of any nation is pivotal to its devel­opment. The extent of develop­ment is inevitably dependent on how involved the youths are in the process. If the young segment of the population is to play the role thrust on them by God, as the veritable future of nations, they must be adequate­ly equipped. This begins but is not limited to education in a formal setting. “Equipping the youth means targeting their cre­ative potentials, their enthu­siastic energy, their capacity to attempt and adopt new ways of thinking. This is how change that works in societies is driven by the youth. When their role is left unserved, or their involvement is not well targeted, the result is often not encouraging, ” Kumuyi stated. Contrary to the criticisms that have trailed the choice of Iyinoluwa Aboyeji and Ibukun Awosika as speak­ers, with Dunsin Oyekan ministering in songs at the five days youth programme, January 5 to 9, Kumuyi stressed that the speakers were carefully selected being part of professionals (though non members of the Deeper Life Bible Church) who have demonstrated character and are highly successful in their professions. Olukoju, in his remarks as the guest speaker, noted that the youths should not be left to chance. “The vast majority of the world’s population, and some 52% of the Nigerian popula­tion, of which half are aged under 19 years, constitute a critical demographic that cannot be wished away but must be carefully harnessed for their good, and for the good and future of humani­ty. We cannot leave their de­velopment and prospects to chance or caprice, “the For­mer Vice Chancellor of Caleb University stated.