Arsenal have failed with a bid for Real Sociedad striker Alexander Isak, with the La Liga side demanding the Swede’s release clause be paid. According to Mundo Deportivo, Arsenal have seen a €70 million bid for Alexander Isak rejected in the last few hours by Real Sociedad. The Gunners were hoping to tempt the La Liga side with the offer, but La Real want the Swede’s release clause to be paid in full to complete any potential move. Arsenal are leaving it late in this transfer window as they attempt to bring in a quality striker before the deadline. The market shuts in a few hours, and the Gunners are still without a signing, despite their glaring need for a top-rated frontman. Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… First Female Nigeria Police Officer Appointed Adviser For… Mikel Arteta and Edu Gaspar spent most of the month chasing Dusan Vlahovic. The manager considered the Serbian to be the best fit for his team. However, the striker rejected any overtures from the north London side and got his dream move to Juventus instead, which has left Arsenal to scramble for alternatives. Dominic Calvert-Lewin’s name was also mentioned, although, with Frank Lampard installed as the new Everton manager, a move seems improbable. The Toffees are extremely unlikely to sell their striker on the last day of the window, given how much they need their main man at the club for the second half of the season. Arsenal are aware of this and have had Alexander Isak in their sights as a natural alternative to Vlahovic if the pursuit for the Serbian fails. There have been whispers the Gunners might make a late move for the La Liga striker before the deadline, and it seems like they have put in a bid. Arsenal have seen their offer of €70 million rejected by Real Sociedad, who want Isak’s release clause of €90 million to be paid in full. With the Gunners desperate to sign a top striker, nothing is ruled out just yet. With still time left in the window, the north London side could still pull off a deal, like they did with Thomas Partey back in 2020. Isak has not been in prolific form this term, but his all-round forward play attracts clubs towards his signature. He is well settled at Sociedad, and the club are wary of selling the La Liga striker midway through the season. POLL While the striker remains on the shortlist of Arsenal, they were hoping to acquire him without paying his full release clause. As things stand, Sociedad are open to a sale only if his full price is paid, and things will be clearer in the next few hours on whether the Gunners can broker a deal for the Swedish international. (SOURCE: The Hard Tackle)