David Onuh, Chairman of ADREX Properties Limited, a leading Lagos-based property development and investment company, has been conferred with Real Estate Personality of the Year Award, by Apples Bite Magazine, a foremost society and political magazine. During the award pre­sentation, encomiums were showered on the real estate businessman in recognition of his innovation to real estate practice, as well as for main­taining integrity and trans­parency with dealing with his numerous satisfied clients, which continues to earn him their referrals. Furthermore, Onuh was also applauded for adding val­ues to society, through infra­structural development, replete in his chef-d’oeuvre architectur­al designs which his properties are known for. Plateau Monarch Escapes From Kidnappers’ Den We Won’t Tolerate Defaulters Of Speed Limit Devices In 2022 –… David Onuh’s Adrex Prop­erties Limited is specialised in residential and commercial investments, property valua­tion, portfolio management, as well as Short Let services, around Lagos, with a 2022 plan to launch in Abuja. Some of the company’s legacy projects among other places are locat­ed in highbrow areas like Victo­ria Garden City and Ikota axis of Lekki. Onuh, while receiving the award, appreci­ated organisers of the reward platform for recognizing his company’s ef­fort at providing luxury housing services for Ni­gerians. “I am honoured to be recognised for our efforts at ADREX Properties Limited, at providing luxury housing services to Nigerians, without compromising quality. I am particularly thankful to the editorial team of Apples Bite Magazine, and the publisher, Seunmanuel Faleye. “A successful real estate en­trepreneur to me is one that has ability to solve problems, pays attention to details, ability to network and negotiate, among other qualities. POLL “It is thinking big and dreaming even bigger, believ­ing in the power of positive thinking and always seeing the glass half full, taking goal-set­ting to the next level, embrac­ing challenges and obstacles, taking the road less travelled, believing that anything that’s going to be worth having is go­ing to be achieved through con­sistency. I believe that making mistakes is how we learn and become better, challenging our­selves to be better with a desire to create a legacy. “It’s so hard to put into words what this award means to me and to us at ADREX Properties Limited. Now I can proudly hold up this award as a mark of my achievements in the country,” he remarked.