Antony Blinken, U.S Secretary of State, in November, announced the removal of Nigeria from the list of religious freedom violators, but many queried the indices used to arrive at the decision. In this interview, with BOLU-OLU ESHO, Primate (Dr.) Ade Ademisokun-Turton, President, C&S Unification of Leaders of C&S Church, disagreed with the U.S. government. Excerpts: Nigeria was recently delisted from among nations that are intolerant to religions. What does this portend for the nation? The delisting of Nigeria, to me, is political decision. Don’t forget, the Secretary of State of the US has been a friend of Nigeria even when President Donald Trump was tormenting Africa. So, Nigeria, having contributed to the success of President Joe Bidden, would need to be compensated. So, the delisting is the least they could do for us by saying religious intolerance is no more in Nigeria. The Unquestionable And Compassionate God That Needs To Be Served Acts Of The Prophets (5) However, it’s very glaring that it’s a mistake on the part of the America to have Nigeria delisted from that list. The strongest of our problems is religious intolerance. Then clannishness, ethnicity, nepotism. All those three that I mentioned are secondary to the religious intolerance that pervades the land. In fact, in Nigeria, you win elections along religious line. Not because you’re popular, not because you will deliver, not because you’re acceptable, or a good material for the job, but because you belong to a certain sect. Catholics win elections in Imo and Muslims win elections in the North. Only in the Southwest you win elections by merit. But, it’s been seriously eroded. It’s the strategy that merely changed. Now, let us look at what made Nigeria be on that list. The Boko Haram insurgence, the ISIS, the banditry and kidnapping that are obviously targeted at Christians. The churches that have been burnt in Nigeria, now let us ask ourselves, how many have been rebuilt by the state? Benue, is it free from religious crisis? Is Plateau free from religious crisis? These are the two core Christian states in the entire northern Nigeria. So, the attack on church and Christians has not abated. It’s only the strategy that merely changed. So, the America thought Nigeria is still in the Stone Age. Nigeria never lacks human resources, intelligent people. The Americans believe that they know everything. They don’t know that they are novice when it comes to Nigeria politics of religion and ethnicity. Americans should come to Nigeria and learn about the politics of religion and ethnicity. It’s not the duty of America to rationalise the issues in Nigeria. They should have found out from CAN, OIC, PFN, the C&S people and the real religious people accepted by the Nigerian government. POLL So, it is wrong for Nigeria to be delisted just like that. But, everything about them is done from the analysis from the press and diplomatic interaction. They are no longer on ground. They can be on ground on our economic reality. They are not likely to make mistake at least for some time concerning that. But, they don’t play politics of ethnicity over there. They supposed to have recruited some Nigerians to come and assist them in assessing Nigeria how they go about their politics of ethnicity and religion which is our albatross. Looking at it from another angle, those who have been kidnapped by separatists and the religious bigots, have they been released? Do you know that the few that were released were Muslims? Where is Leah Sharib? If the Federal Government had successfully been able to bring back Sharib and said whether you’re Christian or Muslim, these people were merely kidnapped and we are bringing back all of you. Sharib was not brought back because she said she would remain a Christian. A government that cannot achieve that cannot be cleared or delisted from the list of religious intolerance. Another aspect that we need to look at is every attempt to abduct people in exchange for money had always been targeted at Christian schools and or a Christian-dominated institution. The only Islamic school that was attacked was out of interreligious problem that happened then. At the end of the day, it was discussed among them and was revealed to the whole world that they were having serious quarrel among themselves. They alleged one another of pouching students of their schools. If all these are happening in any nation, what is the position of the Federal Government in this matter? The President of Nigeria is biased about Mohammedanism. When he was being sworn in, he carried Qur’an right on his shoulder, displaying it like never before. Though, he has been certified to be a religious and ethnic bigot. This is not decent enough for any nation. Meanwhile, he still had to be sworn in by one, he had to carry one in a bag, placed it on his lap. Only a fool would not know what he set out to achieve. Deeper Life Bible Church:Emerging From Conservatism Remembering God’s Generals Who Answered The Last Call In 2021 Again, here is a president, even when the Senate said he should declare bandits terrorists, he refused. It is either Sunday Igboho or those who are seeking self-actualisation that would be found guilty. Those are the people who would be called terrorists. It’s Nnamdi Kanu that would be called a terrorist. Do you know that the Emir of his own town was abducted by the bandits, yet they are not terrorists! It’s okay by him because the organised body and the Miyetti Allah made him win the election. He’s their patron and happened to be a life member of Cattle Rearers Association. He does not have the courage, the power, even the academic qualification to check this people. The only thing Buhari, my president, who I used to like very much, has is the support of the nonentities and they are so many in the north. Those people have resolved to start killing Christians. They felt Christians are cheating them. They said they are in charge of the economy and many other things, but they are dropouts. Buhari wouldn’t have won the second term election if he didn’t support them. These are people who are liabilities to humanity. These are people who will have several wives without means of livelihood. They don’t fend for their wives and children. While it’s a shame for a man not to feed his family in the Southwest and Southeast, it is shame for a wife not feed her husband in their own area. The children will go out and be begging in the street. They migrate to the South to beg in the street. When the Buhari administration had to amplify concession for academic qualification, there is only one JAMB, you score 140 and go to university in the North studying Medicine, but with 300 cut off mark, you can’t even study Medicine in the Southwest. So, the tokenism has got into their heads and that’s why they felt Christians are threat to them. So, the officials of America that delisted Nigeria do not know that in Nigeria today, as a Christian, you have to hide your identity in order to go to the North. They do not know that any branded church vehicles would be attacked and killed. No branded vehicle of any Islamic sect has ever been attacked in this country. These are the things they supposed to have verified before agreeing into what will soil their image. The issue is: it is not only political, but America will benefit from that. Nigeria is looking for investors and they will say they want to invest. We borrowed from them, China, Britain. As a borrower, beggars, we have little or no choice. What will happen is this, and why they are doing this is accepting that the little term from the Buhari government, they want to give them, the Buhari government, a soft landing. If they did not delist Nigeria, it would be difficult for America to come and do business in Nigeria. All they would now do is providing soldiers and policemen. Do you know that in Nigeria of today, I am over 60 years, I have no guard, no police guarding me, but to a 20-year-old Chinese, there are four soldiers guarding him to come and mine my own minerals. That is the government that’s operating in Nigeria today. It is not a blessing. It’s just a political gimmick, because they just want America to come and invest. It is political signage between the American Secretary of State and Buhari government to abandon the reality and deceive people to come and invest. Let them come, we need investors. But, it is the American government itself that would later put Nigeria in the list in no distant time. To Nigerian government, they will give American investors 10 soldiers and policemen because that’s what they’ve been doing to the inferior Chinese who have not gone to school at all.