From the very beginning of creation, God intended and designed a world of perfection, peace and bliss for mankind. However, the first man rebelled against God and that completely altered the destiny of man forever. Humans’ flagrant disregard to God’s directives could have been more fatal, but Jesus came to the rescue. During the exodus out of Egypt, the Israelites displayed an unforgiving act of ingratitude to God who was trying to give them freedom and a better life, simply because they couldn’t get food. Surprisingly, despite their grumbling, he hearkened to their request (Exodus 16:3, 16:12). The Scribes and Pharisees of the temple brought a certain adulterous woman before Jesus to be convicted and condemned as the law states, but in the true merciful nature of our Lord, he charged and dared her accusers to prove their righteousness, and when they couldn’t, he forgave the woman and charged her to go and sin no more. (John 8:3-11). Pray Hard To Avert Wars, Olukoya Tells Nigerians, Other Nations Praise And Worship The Lord (II) God’s mercy is fueled by his kindness and willingness to always forgive man each time he does something wrong. His mercy is a direct indicator of his genuineness towards mankind. Mercy is mentioned many times in the bible. It strengthens the fact that it is one of the most standout attribute of the Almighty God. Adam’s disobedience in Eden meant we no longer have direct access to God. Mankind needed a full sacrifice and a mediator between him and God. At this point, his unrivalled compassion and mercy meant he gave up his son as a ransom for our sins. What a great love! (John 3:16). A striking element in how God treats man is his unconditional genuineness, regardless of the enormity of man’s misdeeds. While hanging on the cross, enduring untold physical, emotional and psychological pain, he still had it in him to pardon one of the thieves beside him. It is perhaps one of the most profound demonstration of compassion ever (Luke 23:42-43). His mercies are like daily packages of presents, for they are renewed everyday so we can never run dry of it (Lamentation 3:22-23). The fountain of his mercy never runs dry. As stated earlier in this piece, Gods mercies are unconditional, but to truly tap into the fullness of his compassion, you just have to give the totality of yourself to him. Romans 6:1-4 says: “What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? “Know you not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.” Repent from all your sins today, obey him and see how his love, compassion and mercies abounds on you. POLL Happy New Year!