ABUJA – An election monitoring group, Yiaga Africa has indicated its readiness to observe the Federal Capital Territory Area Council elections, scheduled for February 12, 2022. The Group gave this indication when it paid an advocacy visit to the FCT Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Alhaji Yahaya Bello. While receiving the Group, Bello lauded the effort of Yiaga in observation of the Continuous Voters Registration and its recommendations to improve the process. Yiaga Africa To Train Young Politicians In South-West Ahead Of… Jonathan Tasks Int’l Observers On Benchmark For e-Election… According to him, “during the CVR, Yiaga Africa was the first to deploy observers who consistently observed the process. “We are going to continue partnering and engaging with you and we cherish whatever contributions you are going to make to ensure the election is a success”. He added that feedback from election observation from organisations like Yiaga Africa will be very important in improving the electoral process. He however urged Yiaga Africa to also concentrate on ensuring that women participate in the political process. The Yiaga Africa delegation was led by the Head of Knowledge Management, Safiya Bichi who said that the visit is aimed at exploring areas of collaboration to improve citizens’ participation for the February 12th FCT Area Council elections. POLL She noted that the visit is part of Yiaga Africa #WatchingTheVote advocacy to critical stakeholders to promote peaceful and credible FCT Area Council elections with improved citizens participation in the process. While the meeting lasted, the head of Yiaga Africa’s Elections team, Paul James said the organization will be employing the election-circle approach in its observation of the FCT election to observe what happens before, during and after the elections. “For Yiaga Africa, every election is important. For the FCT Election, Yiaga Africa has started observing the pre-election environment. This includes providing a platform for young candidates running for the elections to share their plans and challenges ahead of the elections,” he added. According to him, pre-election observation enables Yiaga Africa to provide information on what is happening and recommendations on anything that is going wrong. Yiaga Africa will deploy observers across all the Area Councils in FCT to observe the election process from the beginning till the end including the collation of election results. E-Transmission: Yiaga Africa Insists On NASS Amendment Of Clause… Despite Threats, Anambra Does Not Witness Election Violence… The visit to the FCT Resident Electoral Commissioner is part of Yiaga Africa #WatchingTheVote advocacy to critical stakeholders to promote peaceful and credible FCT Area Council elections with improved citizens participation in the process.