Real Madrid boss Carlo Ancelotti has addressed transfer speculation linking the club with moves for Kylian Mbappe and Erling Haaland. Mbappe has recently hinted at a move to Real Madrid and his most recent interview suggested that he is open to a move away from Paris Saint-Germain, where he is out of contract this summer. Real Madrid lodged a world record bid – which Sky Sports reported to be in excess of €220million – but received no response from the Ligue 1 club in the closing hours of the summer transfer window. Antonio, Lanzini Score As West Ham Triumph Southampton Midfielder Retires At 26 Borussia Dortmund have recently confirmed that the Spanish giants are among those who are interested in signing Haaland. The Norwegian striker looks set for a high-profile transfer in the medium-term, with a reported £70million release clause kicking-in to his Dortmund contract from this summer. The 22-year-old has this week added further fuel to speculation that he will move to Madrid by confirming that he wants to play in Spain during his career. Speculation of signing Mbappe, Haaland or both is a mouth-watering prospect for fans of Los Blancos, who already possess star attacking players Karim Benzema and Vinicius Junior. Ancelotti’s side hold an eight-point lead at the top of La Liga while they are a whopping 17 and 18 points clear of Atletico Madrid and Barcelona respectively. POLL The Italian remained coy when asked about how his side would line-up with the potential additions of Mbappe and Haaland, but refused to rule out moves for the duo. Ancelotti told reporters on Saturday: “There is no such thing as an unbeatable team but yes, there are strong teams. “The future of this club has already been written and this is a club that is going to compete, and with more force in the future for sure. “What is important for me – and this may sound selfish – is that I am here when the club’s new stadium opens, regardless of the players who we have available.” When pressed on the situation of Mbappe – who will be a free agent on 30 June and is now free to speak to other clubs – Ancelotti instead refocused attention on upcoming matches. Conte Delighted With Win But Admits Spurs Have Room For… Guardiola Congratulates Man City Players After Emirates Drama “I do not know about speculation, we are only thinking about continuing to fight for titles,” the former Everton boss added. “We are at an interesting moment as we return to La Liga action, then we have the Copa del Rey and Spanish Supercopa in Saudi Arabia. “This is an important moment for us. “The last thing I am thinking about is what will happen on 30 June.” Borussia Dortmund CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke last month name-checked Madrid as the club who held a firm interest in signing Haaland. “It doesn’t matter where you go, everyone talks about Erling Haaland,” Watzke said. “The only thing I know is that Real Madrid are very interested in his signing. “I could name you other 25 teams, but I know for a fact that Madrid are interested.” Real Madrid appear to be in prime position to sign Mbappe this year while their ongoing interest in Haaland seems to be gathering traction. The futures of both young strikers is worth following closely in the months to come.