Olushola Olojede, is the country General Manager of Tricontinental, an IT system integration firm. He is the current Zonal Coordinator, FRSC Special Marshall for Lagos and Ogun states and the Assistant National Secretary. In this interview with OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA, he gives insight into the overwhelming success of the Marshall in executing its constitutional role of providing support to the FRSC. Excerpts: What is the vision or mission of the FRSC Special Marshal and when was it created? Special Marshall is part of a bigger picture. The real picture is the FRSC which we all belong to. In the act establishing the Corps, the role of the Special Marshalls was enshrined as a support arm operating to assist the regular officers who wear uniforms to carry out the Corps’ daily activities. Ogun Seeks Special Status For Federal Government’s Funding Of… Police, VIS, TRACE To Synergise For Effective Field Operations… Our support could be moral; the execution of projects or programmes and in other forms aimed at helping the regulars achieve its overall mission and goals. The third arm is the road safety club involving the NYSC, students in schools, especially secondary schools, with the aim to catch them young. The first set of Special Marshall Group was inaugurated sometime in 1990 or 1991. As members we pay a token as annual dues to aid our day to day operations and when executing projects we make contributions to that effect, because each unit is expected to carry out projects/programmes for the successful operations of the FRSC command within their jurisdiction. How do you become a member, the entry conditions, qualifications or what caliber of people are you looking for? POLL Firstly and foremost, we are looking for people of proven integrity, people of honesty, which is why one of our slogans says – ‘we say, we do’. The age requirement used to be between 28 to 70 years, but I think that has been lowered now to about 25 years of age as the minimum age requirement, secondly, the person must have a meaningful source of income. He must have his own valid driver’s licence, and he must also own a vehicle of his own. To come in as a Special Marshall, you have to write an application so it will not look as if you are being compelled, but a freewill decision to join, then you must belong to a group, though you can come in as an individual, but when coming as a group with membership strength of not less than 25 and maximum of 50 members, it will be registered as a Unit, and conduct an election for them to choose a Unit Coordinator, Deputy Unit Coordinator, Unit Secretary, Assistant Unit Secretary, down to Welfare officers who will run the affairs of that unit. But when you come as an individual, we will look for a unit that can accommodate, especially those near your place of residence or work place that can be convenient for you. How is the group structured, how do you get into positions, who authorises what, how about training, and promotions? Year 2022: FG Will Consolidate On Completion Of Road Projects –… Govt, Crisis Of Articulated Vehicles In Nigeria The structure begins from the units, then we have the states, after that the zonal level and then the national level. Each Unit coordinator automatically becomes a member of the committee which we call Committee of Unit Coordinators, CUC, who forms part of the state ruling committee, holding regular meetings as they choose, especially once a month. It is from this group that the state executives are elected to run the affairs of the state. At the zonal level, the executives of each state come together to choose their Zonal Coordinator. At the national, the zonal coordinators are the ones qualified to vie for the national coordinatorship and we have a total of 12 zones. The elective offices run for four years without option of re-running for the offices again. How do you operate, what are your schedules and timing? In Lagos for instance we have operations mainly on Saturdays. Every unit is expected to have a minimum of three statutory Saturdays of operations, including unit patrol, state patrol organised by the state, and the national patrol which is a directive from the headquarters, all spread into the three Saturdays of the month. In Lagos today we have the national patrols on the third Saturdays of the month, state patrols on the last Saturday of the month, while the unit patrols are the prerogative of the units. However, when it comes to patrol operations, the commander of the regular FRSC in charge of the unit is expected to give them a patrol vehicle and a regular officer that can be able to apprehend an offender and to book such an offence, with reference to the fact that such an arrest was made during the Special Marshall patrol. Give us a list of some of your achievements in supporting the regular FRSC Part of the achievement was that, when I came on board as a state coordinator, I was able to stabilize, the special marshals in the state, that was between 2016 to 2021, bringing back the status quo of what special marshal should be, we increased in number and become more visible in the state, earning the respect that we used to have. We adhered strictly to the instructions from headquarters, while also improving on the relationship between the marshal and the regular officers. I also de-marshaled those among us who are not performing their roles as they ought to, the organization is not there for showmanship but those who truly want to contribute their quota to road safety. The number of marshals during my tenure as the Lagos Coordinator increased from 3000 to over 5000. Supply of many Kits owed by the past administrations (facts and figures available on request); Refurbishment of the PE Hall at Ojodu Sector Command to meet the standard befitting of a Hall; Supply of a Public Address System for the use of all the Special Marshals at the Sector Command during functions; Periodic training of special marshals; Purchase of modern Computers and Printer for the use at the Special Marshals’ Secretariat; Carving out of a conference room for the use of the Executives at the Sector Command; Purchase of Operational Bus in the name of Special Marshals in the State; Recognition of all the 6 Past State Coordinators in Lagos State through the presentation of Awards to them (first in Nigeria); Supply of Identity Cards, just to mention a few. What are the challenges associated with the work? One of the major challenges is time; members have to juggle between their working periods and the time required for our operations. Another is the attitudes of the motoring public when our members are trying to instruct them on adherence to the right road culture; most times you find them reacting negatively. We also have some members who joined for different motives aside the purpose for which it is created. What would you say is responsible for the high number of crashes in the country – according to data from World Health Organisation, WHO, Nigeria has 26.8 deaths/100, 000 people from road crashes above the acceptable limit of 8 deaths/100, 000 people. What are your suggestions for reducing this to the barest minimum? The road is calibrated into three main components, the human users, including animals, the furniture on the road and the vehicles plying it. Human beings are majorly responsible for what happens on it. Many drivers are not patient, lawless, recalcitrant refusing to obey regulations or the traffic managers assigned to manage road usage. The lead causes of road crashes are known to all but we just refuse to adhere to them. As a body we carry out a good number of road safety advocacy programmes involving major stakeholders, like the transport unions and others. Do you have any programme outlined for this year, what are they? To get more stakeholders involved with the special marshals, especially for the execution of our various projects, like we have some respected individuals in the system or those we call honourable special marshals, these are highly placed individuals in the society which I hope to draft into the service this year at the zonal level. I also plan to hold a zonal conference this year, but with the ratification of the headquarters from Abuja. I want to also ensure the two states under my zone are more visible this year especially in the execution of laudable programmes. What’s your message to your members? I will implore them to continue to give their time for the service of humanity, because God will always reward the good deeds done for others. They should remain encouraged, knowing that it is a selfless service to the federal government and whatever you give will come back in multiple folds.