LAGOS – Critical observers have commended the National Assembly on its latest de­cision to rejig the Electoral Act Amendment Bill to ac­commodate options for par­ty primary elections. According to those who spoke with Sunday Inde­pendent, the final decision to provide options – neces­sitated by the rejection of its earlier version by the presidency – has made that section of the Bill truly democratic. The lawmakers, who had earlier provided for only the direct primary move which was rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari, swal­lowed their pride and bent backwards to now provide that political parties can choose any of direct, indi­rect, and consensus options in the latest amendment to the Bill now before Presi­dent Buhari. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… 2023: Bauchi People Don’t Want Me To Go For Presidential… Responding to the de­velopment, Bishop Funso Awe, a cleric cum politician, maintained that the Nation­al Assembly has now done the right thing. Bishop Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese, said it all both­ers on political interests, and noted that in the com­ing general elections, the outcome of the primaries would depend on the state governors. “In Nigerian political parties, there is nothing like primaries. They all depend on what their gov­ernors say. Look at what happened in the recent APC governorship primary in Ekiti State. Awe maintained that what the federal lawmakers wanted to do at first by pro­viding for only direct prima­ry was in their interest, add­ing, “What they have done now by their review of their earlier stand could be said to be right because not every party has what it takes to conduct direct primaries.” He also considered the other dimensions of party primaries. POLL “The governors and sometimes the former gov­ernors wield a lot of powers and that came to play in the Ekiti primaries of both the APC and PDP.” Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbowei Cleric, Chair­man, Board of Trustees, Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Cru­sade (CHURAC), on his own, maintained that the National Assembly’s move to review the Electoral Act Amendment Bill had saved the country from an im­pending political crisis. According to him, “The new provisions of direct and indirect primaries as well as consensus candidacy is a welcome development. We will manage it for now.” Comrade Gbenga Ko­molafe, a social activist and General Secretary, Fed­eration of Informal Work­ers’ Organisations of Nige­ria (FIWON), maintained that if the idea was to ex­pand the process of choice of candidates running for public office by political par­ties by allowing all, it was a step in the right direction. Komolafe, Co-Convener, Coalition for Revolution (CORE), however, stressed that “but of more funda­mental importance, of course, is the character of those presenting themselves for public office in the domi­nant parties.” 2023: My Presidency, Solution To Biafra Problems -Mazi Ohuabunwa NDLEA Intercepts 55,000 Tramadol Tablets, 1,200 Packs Of Loud According to him, “No matter the process and method of selecting candi­dates by these parties, the unwholesome influence and use of money remain a challenge. “But for the smaller par­ties that do not have huge amounts of money to play with, the amendments might make selection of party candidates less cost­ly and cumbersome.” Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Fo­rum (AMBYF), in his con­tribution, said: “Direct or indirect, I stand for trans­parent process so that de­mocracy will grow. “Consensus process is like legalising the ‘Baba Sope’ imposition, which usually throws merit away in favour of imposition to the detriment of popular choice and it is not a beau­ty of democracy.” Nevertheless, Hon. Den­nis Adikwuru, Leader, Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) in Aboh Mbaise LGA of Imo State, in his reaction, stated: “The most recent amendment by the National Assembly providing direct, indirect and consensus primaries is most democratic as it gives a range of choices for polit­ical parties to make.”