The Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), an economic and private sector think tank, has commended the appointment of Dr Doyin Salami as the Chief Economic Adviser to the President. Dr Muda Yusuf,Chief Executive Officer, of CPPE, said his appointment perhaps signals the aspiration of President Buhari to reset the economy and correct some glaring distortions that have been undermining investors’ confidence over the last couple of years. “Dr Salami is bringing to this position a pedigree of intellectualism and robust knowledge of the nexus between sound economic principles, macroeconomic stability, investment growth and the welfare of the citizens. Though coming rather late in the life of the administration, it is a fitting appointment nonetheless.  It is worthy of note that Dr Doyin Salami is the current Chairman of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council. SIFAX Group Moves To Expand Ijora Terminal, Contracts CCECC For… NB Honours 2020 Maltina Teacher Of The Year, Donates 200-Seater… “It is imperative to refocus economic management strategy for growth, efficiency, productivity, sustainability and inclusion.  However, the impact of the appointment would be felt only to the extent that his advice and that of the economic advisory council are adopted and implemented to shape the course of monetary, fiscal and regulatory policies as well drive vital reforms. “The CPPE looks forward to the espousal of institution of a market based foreign exchange policy framework to correct current distortions bedevilling the foreign exchange market policy pathways to ensure a quick reset of the Nigerian economy for accelerated recovery and growth. “This would ensure the normalization of the foreign exchange market and unlock capital inflows into the economy”. Dr. Yusuf specifically said: “We propose sustainable mix of policies to stem the intense inflationary pressures in the economy as well as ensure the effective coordination between the fiscal and monetary policies. “We call for synergy between key economic and investment ministries and agencies to ensure policy and regulatory coherence as well as infuse a general equilibrium mindset in the policy making processes to ensure a broaden comprehension of the impact of economic policies. POLL “We also call for the Promotion of  the reduction of fiscal deficit monetisation because of the profound inflationary outcomes, promote the philosophy of a level playing field for all investors in the economy, fixing the port congestion crisis, cargo clearing constraints and traffic gridlocks along the Lagos ports corridor”. The CPPE urged government to foster a regime of trade facilitation culture among the agencies at our ports as well as encourage a review of the Cash Reserve Requirement for better financial intermediation in the banking system.