Former Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Niger state chapter, Mr. Jonathan Tsado Vatsa has expressed fears that disrespect for the party by members after clinching elective and appointive positions is killing the party. It is common that after being voted into office from the local, state and federal level, the people feel that they are above the party or show disrespect for party supremacy, this according to Vatsa is basically why the APC seemed to be without a clear direction. Vatsa in an interview on the state of the nation, Niger state in particular where his position as Publicity Secretary brought incumbent Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello into office said it is important for politicians to respect political platform through which they got their mandate. Political parties, the ruling APC inclusive have constitution and other by-laws that guided its operations but sadly candidates easily jettison all that they have agreed to once they clinch the ticket and win elections and this is unhealthy for the political parties. Vatsa who also served as the Commissioner Information, Culture and Tourism said, “The sad thing is that people think more of themselves than the political party that brought them into office, there is no more party supremacy any longer, and that is where the problem started”. The APC Chieftain also said he is worried that the attitude of some politicians and public office holders is not encouraging younger politicians and future leaders from learning how to become better politicians ahead of next year’s general elections. While not agreeing to the insinuations that the crisis bedevilling the party is beyond redemption, Vatsa who is a member of the state reconciliation committee said he is of the views that the reconciliation should entail that everyone who got his/her mandate through the APC respect and subject self to the authority of the party. “I hope and pray that the reconciliatory moves initiated by the new leadership of the part in this state will achieve expected results for the good of all of us. If and if only the people elected or got their mandate through the APC will subject themselves to party supremacy”. POLL “It is sad that we find ourselves in this situation”, Vatsa said, adding however that with the growing level of awareness among Nigerian voting population, political parties, particularly the APC should know that their destiny is in their hands. “Nigerians are politically more enlightened than what was obtainable about 10 years back, so no political party can or should take Nigerians for granted because Nigerians will surely make a statement in 2023”. Jonathan Vatsa nevertheless said for an all-inclusive government, ‘political parties should be guided by; equity, justice and fair play in making decisions. Nigerians are likely to go for individual candidates and not political party in 2023’.