LAGOS – A human rights group, the Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corrup­tion Crusade (CHURAC), has described as unnec­essary the recent reply of former President Olusegun Obasanjo to an earlier letter written by the Niger Delta elder statesman, Chief Edwin. K. Clark. Barrister Alaowei E. Cleric, CHURAC’s Chair­man, Board of Trustees (BoT), in a statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT, noted that the former presi­dent, in his reply, relied on the provisions of the 1999 military decree, oth­erwise known as the Con­stitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. According to the state­ment, “To us in the Ni­ger Delta, that military decree did not reflect the will of the people,” stressing, “A constitution is supposed to be the true reflection of the people’s will, but that is not the case with the 1999 Consti­tution.” 2023: Sanusi Urges Nigerians To Get Voters Card, Elect Competent… BREAKING: Diesel Tanker Tumbles, Spills Content The group stated that if the provisions of the 1999 constitution were acceptable to the Niger Delta people, the latter would not have boycotted the conference when the demand for 25% deriva­tion were rejected by the conferees. It added: “Obasanjo ought to have informed the world that his NPC and the 2014 National Di­alogue approved 18% der­ivation for the producing states. “If the ownership of the natural resources be­longs to the central gov­ernment as erroneously provided in that military decree, the constitution­al conferences from 2005 to date would not have resolved to increase the derivation in the consti­tution in order to address the yearnings of the Ni­ger Delta people. “There is a national consensus that the nat­ural resources belong to the people whose lands produce them, but dra­conian military decrees were promulgated by competing interests to deny the people of their rights. “That is the reason why they are making an upward review of the provisions of the consti­tution in order to appease the people whose rights have been constitutional­ly stolen from them.” POLL It also explained that Obasanjo also relied on international treaties to support his constitution­al claim of ownership of natural resources. “We stand to be cor­rected. The provisions of the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights, which was do­mesticated in Nigeria, did not vest ownership of natural resources in the Federal Government of Nigeria. “That treaty clearly provides that ownership of natural resources be­long to the people where they’re found. “Baba Obasanjo should tell us the particular trea­ty that gives ownership of natural resources to the Federal Government of Nigeria.”