***Gets Congress Mandate To Take Legal Actions BENIN – The Congress of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma Chapter, has condemned what it described as “the non-procedural and unwholesome activities and actions of the Special Intervention Team (SIT) towards the University and its staff. ASUU who gave particular reference to alleged SIT violation of the pre-action notice to the University over the biometrics verification exercise as was allegedly evidenced by issuance of queries to staff over the same matter said the congress has mandated the EXCO to urgently take legal actions, for and on behalf of the Union over the matters. Bello Bags Doctorate Degree, As PAAU Graduates 60 First Class,… Teach For Nigeria Advocates Increased Govt, Stakeholders’… These were part of the resolutions as contained in a statement signed by Dr. Cyril Oziegbe Onogbosele, Chairperson and Dr. William Odion Asst. Secretary of ASUU, AAU, Ekpoma chapter. According to ASUU, “the Congress of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ambrose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma Chapter was in session on Tuesday, 25th January, 2022 and received update on the recently conducted biometrics verification exercise for staff, the non-procedural activities and actions of the Special Intervention Team (SIT) which are inimical to the well-being of staff and alleged anti-union activities by some members of the Union. “Congress was also informed of the indiscriminate issuance of queries to staff without clear offence and the unabated violation of the pre-action notice to the University over the biometrics verification exercise. “Furthermore, Congress was briefed on the deliberate reconstitution of the Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee (SSDC) (with Mr. Austin Osakue as a member) by the University in violation of the principles of fair hearing and natural justice”. ASUU further said that the Congress also deliberated uponthe need to critically examine membership of the different Committees constituted by the University, including the Special Intervention Team. POLL While expressing objection to the reconstituted SSDC, ASUU said, the Congress also faulted its membership by the inclusion of an SIT member, Mr. Austin Osakue, who it said, played a major role in the biometrics verification exercise for staff and made utterances suggestive of indictments of staff and inclination to vendetta. “Consequently, Congress mandated the EXCO to write a protest letter to the University Administration over the membership of SSDC by Mr. Austin Osakue which negates the principles of fair hearing and natural justice. “Congress also resolved to explore and use legal options to deal with SIT matters, violations of pre-action notice to the University over the biometrics verification exercise for staff, including issuance of queries to staff over the exercise, and the membership of Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee (SSDC) by Mr. Austin Osakue. “Congress noted the need to review all the committees (including SIT members) constituted by the University with a view to determining the appropriateness of membership of the committees. Consequently, Congress resolved and mandated the EXCO to deal with the matter. “Finally, Congress noted the allegations of anti-union activities by some members of the Union with particular reference to SIT-Union matters and mandated the EXCO to investigate the allegations and identity any member(s) involved in such activities with a view to meting out the relevant sanctions to any member(s) found wanting. LASU: Tunji-Bello Canvasses Expanded Admission Quota For… Global Ranking: Nigerian Universities And The Missing Links “Arising from the aforementioned deliberations, congress therefore mandated the EXCO to urgently take legal actions, for and on behalf of the Union, over the matters”, ASUU.