***As Ekanem Heads To Court ABUJA – Yusuf Banki Sheriff, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Akwa Ibom State Congress Committee and his secretary, Sule Yakubu have filed separate petitions to the Inspector General of Police IGP Usman Alkali Baba, and Director of the Department of State Service (DSS), Mr. Yusuf Magaji Bichi alleging forgery of their signatures and result of the Akwa Ibom State APC Chairmanship result. The two APC chieftains in separate petitions sent to Prof Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC also express concerns that the commission may have been compromised in that Ntukekpo was brandishing a certified result of his emergence as Chairman in an election he did not participate, and urged the commission to investigate the matter Democratic Principles Must Guide Democratic Choices –… PDP National Chair Leads 11 Governors, Fmr Senate President,… Banki Sheriff who led the APC State Congress committee to Akwa said Ntukekpo was fake and never participated in the exercise he (Sheriff) conducted and which he said was won by one Hon. Augustine Ekanem. In separate petitions sighted Daily Independent and addressed to the heads of the security Agencies, the duo accused Stephen Leo Ntukekpo, APC Chairman Claimant of forging their individual signatures, adding that claimant never featured in the APC State Congress held on 16 October 2021 at Sheer Grace Arena , Nsikak Edouk Avenue,Uyo. Stephen Leo Ntukekpo, an ally of Senator Godswill Akpabio had on.the Strength’ of the document allegedly submitted “several fake documents to a Abuja Federal High Court in Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/1635/2021 as purported results of the APC State Congresses in Akwa Ibom. The petitioners alleged that the documents filed by Stephen Leo Ntukekpo and others in a suit entered into at the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division, are forged and product of fraud. They have therefore asked the security chiefs to as a matter of utmost urgency, institute a thorough investigation of the case with a view to establishing the veracity of the claims and appreciate criminal sanction f against Stephen Leo Ntukekpo and all others mentioned in the suit applied. POLL For the avoidance of doubt, they claim, “Hon. Augustine Ekanem and Nkereuwem Enyongekere emerged as Chairman and Secretary in the Congress conducted by Yusuf Banki Sheriff and Yakubu Sule and monitored by INEC officials and Security agents, at the Sheer Grace Arena, Uyo. They are due to be inaugurated alongside other recognised and legitimate Akwa Ibom State Executives on Thursday 3rd February, 2022”.