ILORIN – Kwara State government, for the first time, commenced funding for residency training for medical doctors at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, UITH, it has been learned. The revelation came when the Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital chapter, commended Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq for funding the commencement of residency training for medical doctors for the first time in state hospitals. Speaking at the January edition of its Ordinary General Meeting and Scientific Conference on Saturday, ARD UITH President Dr Dele Abdullahi said the Governor is clearly committed to the growth of the health sector and deserves commendations for his efforts, especially the residency training that has now begun in the state. The residency training followed the first-of-its-kind accreditation of the state’s premier hospital —Ilorin General Hospital — for the training of resident doctors, among other health professionals. “You are a Governor that listens to us. We at ARD UITH are very grateful as we have always enjoyed your support. You have supported our outreaches, you listen to us, and you give us the platform to reach for greater heights,” Dr. Abdullahi said. “Under you, the residency training started in Kwara State. This is one huge achievement we cannot push aside. We will keep reaching out to you, we hope that this open-door policy that you have pushed forward as well as your cordiality will always be there. “The residency training means that we can now train more doctors in the state and that will impact positively on the sector,” he said. In a short address to the conference, the Governor commended health professionals for their selfless service to humanity and restated the administration’s commitment to the improvement of facilities and workers’ welfare. The Governor said he took part in the zoom meeting to understand the theme of the conference which is ‘Medical Residency Training Act: Interpretation and controversies’, especially because the state just recently commenced the programme.