Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has tasked the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Reconciliation Committee to deploy wisdom, patience to resolve their differences and strengthen the party’s unity in their assignments. Speaking while receiving the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led APC National Reconciliation Committee on a courtesy visit at his Marina Residence on Thursday, Governor Sanwo-Olu said that given the party’s popularity, the committee would be meeting different people with different ideas and expectations. He noted that there is a need for patience and wisdom to enable the APC to come together and resolve its issues collectively. 2023: Opposition May Take Over If APC Fails To Manage Its… Sanwo-Olu Does Not Deserve Second Term – Shelle Sanwo-Olu said that the assignment and terms of reference of the committee speak to the real essence of the constitution and the party’s politics. “People might have different expectations and different ways in which things need to run in their various states and so I believe that the assignment and terms of reference of the committee speak to the real essence of the constitution and the real essence of party politics and participations that indeed we might have differences. “But in those differences, we should be able to sit together and iron our differences and I like I have said, given the calibre of eminent Nigerians and members of our party that have been drawn together, I’m certain that the outcomes of these interventions that you have taken up will be very fruitful,” Governor Sanwo-Olu said. Stressing the essence of patience in the task of reconciliation, Sanwo-Olu added:“We need one another, we need to ensure that what we see that what has brought us together will continue to reunite us and so I will only just plead that wisdom, patience is applied. It’s a very important assignment and there is nothing that cannot be resolved.” Earlier on his part, Senator Adamu said that though the state has no issues since the committee did not receive any petition to justify that there is disunity, adding that the committee’s visit was to further strengthen the existing unity of the ruling party in the state. POLL “We appreciate the reception of his Excellency. I am happy and I speak for the members of the committee. There are no petitions. We are all one family, there is no strain and no complaint of anything regarding the relationship between the media and stakeholders. “This is encouraging and this kind of state of affairs does not just come by accident, it goes to show the extent to which his Excellency and his team have been able to manage the party’s affairs in the state and how they have been able to advance the interest of the very complex party membership in Lagos.“We commend you, the people, particularly party members,” Adamu said.