IBADAN – The Ibadan Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Wednesday, January 26, 2022, secured the conviction of six internet fraudsters on charges bordering on fraudulent impersonation. The convicts according to a press statement signed and issued by Head, Media & Publicity of the Commission, Wilson Uwujaren are Ahmed Oguneye Abiona, Owoade Kehinde Elijah, Oriade Sunday Oluwatobiloba, Usman Adams Shehu, and Waris Adegoke Adeyemo – were prosecuted before Justice Nathaniel Ayo-Emmanuel of the Federal High Court, Oshogbo, Osun State, while David Fatunla Taiwo (aka Jeff Wood), was prosecuted before Justice Babs Kuewunmi of the Federal High Court, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State They pleaded guilty to their respective one-count charges and were convicted accordingly. FIRS Exceeds Target, Announces Over 100% Performance As 2021… ICPC, CoDA Sign Pact On Recovery Of Stolen Assets Abiona, Adeyemo and Shehu bagged four months each, Owoade three months, while Oriade was sentenced to five months imprisonment. Taiwo was slammed with twenty months imprisonment. The court according to a copy of the press statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT also ordered the defendants to restitute their victims. Oriade is to restitute his victim the sum of $590USD (Five Hundred and Ninety United States Dollars). He was equally ordered to forfeit an iPhone XR, one Samsung S5 mobile phone and one Acer Laptop to the Federal Government of Nigeria, Ahmed is to restitute to one Michael Johnson the sum of $500USD (Five Hundred United States Dollars) and further forfeit the sum of Three Million, Thirteen Thousand, Seven Naira, Thirty-nine kobo (N3, 013,007.39) found in his United Bank of Africa Account, an iPhone 11 Pro Max mobile phone and one Toyota Camry car to the Federal Government of Nigeria, being proceeds of his crime. Adeyemo was ordered to return the sum of $300USD (Three Hundred United States Dollars) to one Peter Decker and forfeit one iPhone 11 Pro Max to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Shehu is to restitute his victim the sum of $400USD (Four Hundred United States Dollars) and forfeit one Samsung Galaxy S8 to the Federal Government of Nigeria. POLL Owoade was ordered to restitute his victim the sum of $300USD (Three Hundred United States Dollars) and forfeit an iPhone 6 mobile phone to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Taiwo was ordered to restitute his victim, one Joanne K. Thornhill, the sum of £450 (Four and Hundred and Fifty Pounds) through the Federal government of Nigeria.