In his sustained pursuit of opportunities and avenues to advance the welfare and wellbeing of his people, the Amanyanabo and Natural Ruler of Grand Bonny Kingdom, His Majesty, King Dr Edward Asimini William Dappa Pepple III, CON, JP, Perekule XI, has made a passionate appeal to the government to establish a deep sea port in his area of jurisdiction. The monarch took advantage of the occasion of the silver jubilee anniversary of his coronation to make this call. Apart from establishment of deep sea port, he also demanded for five other things to be established for his kingdom and people. Onne Customs Generates N188.6bn In 2021, Surpasses 2020… NDLEA Reads Riot Act To Drug Smugglers, Traffickers The Amanyanabo of Bonny Kingdom said: “We look forward to the immediate commencement of the construction and timely completion of the deep seaport project considering its importance to the Kingdom and the nation at large.” The Bonny Deep Seaport which was conceptualized by the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government and driven by the Federal Ministry of Transportation, aims at providing a landing space for vessels bringing in high end cargo into Nigeria and the West African sub-region. It is envisaged to be the terminal point of the $3 billion 1,443 kilometer Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail line, which is expected to also have a container terminal, all aimed at boosting foreign trade in Africa, especially, along the West African economic corridor. The Monarch urged the Federal Government to expedite action on the project, noting that it holds socio-economic advantages for Bonny Kingdom and Nigeria, as a whole. Continuing, he said: “When I ascended the throne twenty-five years ago, my vision was to ensure that the Kingdom experiences rapid, sustainable long-term growth that would result in the emergence of a socially, economically and environmentally prosperous community with the highest quality of life.” POLL The 11th occupant of the King Perekule throne reminisced on his developmental vision upon ascending the throne, reiterating his resolve to see it through, stressing that though mileages such as constant power and water supply were now a reality in Bonny Kingdom, there were yet big infrastructural lacunas to be closed. As a shared vision succinctly captured in his referenced Bonny Master Plan, it was clear what his intentions were, namely ramping up support and stakeholdership from the public and private sectors to drive and actualize the vision, thus making Bonny Kingdom a destination of choice for both aesthetic and economic Tourism.