Tottenham Hotspur’s hopes of potentially offloading Tanguy Ndombele may soon receive a lift, with Calciomercato reporting that Napoli are working hard on a move for the Frenchman. Ndombele played no part for Spurs in their Carabao Cup semi-final on Wednesday. Of course, that came about after he was booed off the pitch at the weekend. It is currently difficult to imagine Ndombele playing for Tottenham again. He has struggled under a number of managers now. And it seems particularly ominous that Antonio Conte has, so far, been unable to get the best out of the 25-year-old. Milan And Juventus Linked To Tottenham Backup Defender Tottenham Reveal New Date For Postponed Leicester Game Between… But there is a big problem for Spurs. As noted by the Daily Mail, Tottenham agreed a deal worth up to £65 million when they signed Ndombele. And he is currently on £200,000-a-week in North London. It was recently claimed that Jose Mourinho had spoken to Ndombele about a surprise loan move to Roma. Mourinho once labelled him ‘phenomenal‘. But the pair do not seem to have the smoothest relationship. But there is also another Serie A side in the mix, it seems. Calciomercato is now reporting that Napoli are working hard to sign the midfielder. It is not clear whether they plan to pursue a permanent deal. But surely, an initial loan is much more likely. POLL Napoli have shown that they are prepared to spend big sums. Their record buy, Victor Osimhen, cost the club £67.5 million. So there may be scope for a future fee to be discussed should a loan deal be on the cards. Certainly, Tottenham do not appear to be in a position to turn down reasonable offers – unless Conte still holds out some hope that Ndombele can turn his fortunes around this season. A loan move could prove to be ideal for Spurs. It may present Ndombele with the chance to restore some confidence and put himself in the shop window. There are likely to be plenty of Tottenham fans who hope that Napoli do indeed now make an offer for Ndombele.