Yes, I knew a time like this would come and everybody will be won­dering what went wrong with Coach Eguavoen and his Super Eagles in the ongoing AFCON 2021 in Cam­eroon! They came to Cameroon with a very high spirit to conquer the African continent but failed to quickly realise that pyrrhic victory doesn’t last long like the euphoria of determination, discipline and the technical know how of a particular profession such as football as it was too early for the Eagles to exit the tourney after a straight three wins in their preliminary stage group matches. When Nigeria was fixed with Tu­nisia, I was, indeed, very skeptical with Eguavoen if at all he could scale through that hurdle of the Carthage Eagles in the first play of the ongoing knock out stage of the AFCON. In Eguavoen, I saw a jittering coach al­ready. In the Eagles, I also saw a team that had already lost its battle before the first blast of the referee’s whistle. So, I settled for less. The euphoria of the first three wins got into the heads of the players, including the interim coach, who did not see what was in the far front until he became overwhelmed and lost his winning streak to the Tunisians at a time he needed to advance his ingenuity. In fact, the entire coaches in the AFCON tourney both black and white have already penciled down Eguavoen for a possible next oppo­nent for a vigorous attack. They saw him as one magical wand who’s taking the Championship for a ride and he must be stopped. So, while Eguavoen and his team were basking in the glory of their win­nings, other coaches and their teams were preparing for Eguavoen and the Eagles from Nigeria at the battle field. And Eguavoen became the prey for the Carthage of Tunisia, whose players soared against the Eagles of Nigeria under a foreign coach, who had taken his time to plot and finish the best of Eguavoen on the day the Eagles were beaten 0-1. Eguavoen had no answers to all the questions posed by his counterpart foreign manager as the match progressed on the pitch with Iwuobi bagging a red card; leaving Nigeria with ten men on the pitch to the mercy of the North Africans. Pinnick, Beware Of The ‘Ides Of March’ Menace Of Toxic Dust On Orlu-Owerri Road It was a deep shock for Eguavoen. It was also a painful exit for the players. However, what I really know is that it doesn’t matter to the Nigerian Football Federation or the Sports Ministry the way football is run in the country as Nigerians had since lost interest in the national team long before now, so seeing this development as it replays in Cameroon wasn’t a surprise to ma­jority of the football loving citizens. The only surprise was how Eguavoen managed the team less than a month to become the coach of the moment in Cameroon, Nigeria and the world at large as he automatically was the focus of interest amongst football pundits across the globe. He set for himself a very high standard of the game but couldn’t sustain the tempo of his euphoria. This is how most Af­rican coaches roll in tournaments of this magnitude. It was very unsavory the way Nigeria left Cameroon with ignominy! Eguavoen is a bronze medalist coach of this tourney. We had thought that giving him some benefit of the doubt, given the way he started the fi­esta, he was going places but sudden­ly he missed the track of efficiency, effectiveness, tactical and technical approach sustenance of the game as the tourney became stiff and stiffer. There’s no way these Eagles I saw against Tunisia could have been better with their psychological approach of that match! Like I mentioned earlier, Nigeria was already defeated before the beginning of the match. You can see that that first three victories in a row was not just only the expertise of Eguavoen but coupled with that of the individual players of the team. Then, with the fourth game against Tunisia both the coach and the players missed that connectivity, the telepathy to do the impossible right there on the pitch of play. And all of them went bereft of ideas as they fell like pack of cards. No doubt, the absence of Napoli’s Victor Osimhen was well pronounced in that attack, especially when the Tunisians got their only goal of the match. The Carthage Eagles, were left with one option of maintaining their lead by closing up the gaps against Ni­geria from equalising the score line. There was no opportunity for Nigeria to make any impact at the Tunisians backline, especially with ten men who struggled not to concede any­more goal. No doubt, the Tunisians’ coach is one amongst the best in this AFCON. He’s a coach to beat by the rest teams as Nigeria’s Eguavoen, who was the fear of the tournament has been shown the way out. If the federation wants to continue with the Edo born former Eagles Cap­tain, it’s left with it to do so, if it also thinks on the contrary, it is good for the Glasshouse as usual, in as much as it goes down well in its opinion, Nige­ria is not an issue; hence, our football will continue to be footdragged by the administrators in Abuja Glasshouse. A lot of insincerity, lack of purposeful­ness and focus had denied this country so many ample opportunities to excel in football global tourneys; and we are yet to know or to identify those areas of maladministration in the running of the game by the day. How can Nige­ria qualify for major tournaments and represent well? The male and female national teams of the country couldn’t qualify for the recent past Olympics in Japan. Here again, another disaster in Cameroon! We are simply not there yet with a clear cut out vision for Ni­gerian football! In all these, no one administrator is ever willing to own up to the respon­sibility of these multiple failures. The usual cliche is “We shall go back to the drawing board” Who is this “Fine Arts” Master who has always remained invisible each time the country is ready for this Art’s Class? It’s very shameful that Nigeria will continue in this ugly system because the best will never come out from Ni­geria’s football. You may believe me or not. For me, Eguavoen came for a res­cue mission and he has had his best. However, his best couldn’t take the Ea­gles to the expectation of Nigerians. Anyway that was the end of the story. He’s an employee of the federation but was appointed interim coach after the exit of Rohr. He has completed his as­signments whichever way you may want to look at it, and he’s through! More so, he’s has resigned that inter­im designation without apologies after the ouster! POLL If the federation knows what better to do for the Eagles it should start now and never be late just like it gambled with Gernot Rohr’s sack until the elev­enth hour. In this regard, you cannot blame the one called “Serezo” for dis­appointing you. In fact, he has done more favour to the federation than the interim coach appointment so far. Eguavoen had no salary as the interim coach aside his allowances and per­haps the winning bonuses. This is Ni­geria where our own is undervalued. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria!