LAGOS – The Mai Borgu, Alhaji (Barrister) Muhammad Sani Dantoro, Kitoro the 4th, has inaugurated a 15-man central working committee to plan and articulate the cultural tourism ecology of the sixth edition of the Gani Durbar Festival, which is slated to take place later in the year. Also immediately constituted to fully active far-reaching focal agenda of the biggest cultural festival in North Central Nigeria, were nine strategic sub-committees, covering various terms of reference on finance and fundraising, accommodation, feeding arrangements, publicity, security, works, venue and Protocol, events, sanitation and logistics. The emir also approved the appointment of Dr Ibrahim Goni, the Conservator General of National Parks Service as the Chairman of the Central Working Committee and also did same for the various sub-committees, leaving no room for distractions in the various referenced expectations duly assigned. Nasarawa Earmarks 2.23bn For Rural  Electrification Gombe: Inuwa Appoints Prof Amuga As Special Adviser On Project… Other members of the Central Working Committee, include Hajia Zara Is, Dr Dauda Jikantoro, Alhaji Mohammed Mohammed, Alhaji A, A Umar, Alhaji Ya Mohammed Damisa, Alhaji M. B Mohammed and Pharmacist Mohammed Sani Adamu. Others are, Alhaji Isa Idris, Frank Meke, Hajia Zainab Dantoro, Hajia Zainab Ibrahim, Barrister Abubakar Jubril and Mr Peter Nze, Secretary of the Committee. Goni, appreciated the emir for the trust and confidence reposed in the committees, assuring that the assemblage of the best brains and professionals to deliver on the mandate, would not disappoint. He called on members of the sub-committees to go into action and articulate detailed inputs that would improve the ranking of the festival on the national and global Cultural tourism map. The next festival Committees meeting is slated for the last week of this month and would take place at the Royal Palace of the Emir of the Borgu Kingdom in new Bussa, Niger State. POLL A date is yet to be fixed for the festival that is expected to welcome Nigerians and foreigners from all over the world.