ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has directed all security institutions to immediately leverage 5G Network when deployed, in order to beef up security in the country and tackle insecurity bedeviling the nation. Buhari who spoke at the launch of the Fifth Generation (5G) Network for a digital Nigeria at the Presidential Villa in Abuja on Tuesday, commended the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Professor Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) for “delivering the mandate for a digital Nigeria.” He expressed his satisfaction with the exemplary leadership and unprecedented developments Pantami has brought to bear on the digital economy sector as well as the country at large. 2023 Presidency: Over 600 Women Groups Back Yahaya Bello Aregbesola, Others To Interface On Alma Mata’s Renovation… He said “I applaud the commitment and consistency of the Honourable Minister of Communications and Doigiotal Economy, towards the delivery of the mandate of developing Nigeria’s digital economy. “The progress has been unprecedented and truly commendable”. He further emphasised that the digital economy sector has had a significant impact on the nation’s economy through its development and implementation of impactful policies. President Buhari enumerated some of the sector’s contributions to include the fastest growing sector in 2020, recording double-digit growth rates of 14.70% and 12.90% respectively, a 17.92% contribution to the national GDP, the prime role in enabling our economy swiftly exit the pandemic-triggered recession, among others. He reiterated that 5G technologies can support every sector by enhancing connectivity, healthcare, education, foster smart cities, boost agriculture and support security institutions with real time information. POLL He said the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy is to oversee a multi-stakeholder implementation of the Policy” In his presentation, Pantami said the deployment of fifth Generation (5G) network will play a vital role in improving the security situation in the country. The Minister said, “5G network is a viable platform for security institutions to leverage on, in tackling the security challenges that have bedeviled the country, by harnessing the potential of digital technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), Robotics etc. which explore real time information for maximum efficiency.” He further disclosed that the “5G Network will enhance transparency and economic development as its potential for job creation is unprecedented.” Pantami who expressed gratitude to the President for the immense support enjoyed by the Digital Economy sector, also said that the National Policy on 5G will achieve numerous goals, including the security of the ecosystem and the protection of data, ensuring that international best practice and globally accepted standards and specifications are entrenched in Nigeria’s ecosystem. Ugwuanyi Swears In Ozoemena As Enugu Chief Judge Ex-Reps Member, Okorie Declared Wanted By Ebonyi Govt The formal launch of the 5G Network in Nigeria is in furtherance of the Federal Government’s commitment to develop a thriving digital economy. Recall that the National Policy on 5G Networks was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on the 8th of September 2021 after a series of trials and multi stakeholder engagements eliminated perceived health risks.