One of the contenders for the Governorship seat of Akwa Ibom State in 2023, Sen. Bassey Albert Akpan has declared that his entire campaign structure is going to run on ViaNile. Akpan who made the disclosure at the launch of an all-in-one digital application called ViaNile thanked the initiator of the  app for sharing his idea, expressing optimism that the innovation will help the state and nation run where the world is heading The  Senate Committee chairman on Oil and Gas confirmed that ViaNile has the latest facilities to rival and overtake other technological giants, describing it as an emerging technological hub. His words “I will run for the governorship of Akwa Ibom State in 2023 and my entire campaign structure is going to be run on ViaNile. I can attract 500,000 to one million followers at a time to boost my governorship ambition.’’ ”From my experience, I can attest that technology has taken over the world. During Covid-19 Lockdown, most activities were done online and through virtual applications. In the gas industry, most companies like Chevron shed off about 80 per cent of staffers’ strength. In fact, most staffers in the oil industry work in their houses.” In his remarks earlier, the Chief Operating Officer of the multi-million dollar ViaNile Digital Application, Mr. Itai Albert said with its latest features, the new digital application will soon rival older digital applications in Africa. Albert listed functions performed by the digital app to include; instant messaging, video conferencing & unlimited streaming, private and group chat, screen sharing capabilities, group audio and video calls, turning the smartphone into a walkie talkie, creating a store and sell, virtual workplace and workgroup as well as a marketplace with endless capabilities. He said the new application was built for the African society as it was designed to accommodate a low bandwidth regime. POLL The US-based technology expert said that ViaNile “is a digital container with multiple digital activities” capable of enhancing and providing digital solutions to a variety and wide range of human activities and endeavours that older applications have not provided. “ViaNile is more than a social media application, but a digital container in the social media space. The application is built with the African continent in mind as it requires a much lower bandwidth for good connectivity in Africa. “For once we now have a digital enterprise application that puts Africa first by correcting over 300 years misinformation of our people, our continent and what we truly represent. The philosophy behind ViaNile is to use the wealth created in Africa to directly empower Africans to have a foothold in the emerging digital economy. “A good percentage of the profit from  ViaNile will be used to fund start-ups across the African continent while also training young Africans in the development of emerging technologies like Video Conferencing, Instant Messaging, Payment Gateways, browsers, app stores, Cyber security and also help in the deployment of these companies to use their skills. “Our target is that within a short time, ViaNile will be the main source of information on Africa, Africans and amongst the Diaspora population. We are out to change the narrative about Africa and Africans once and for all,” Executive Director of Operations, ViaNile Global Operations.”Albert explained. He explained that his intention of bringing it home to Akwa Ibom was also to expose the people to the potentials embedded in the app, and to generate employment opportunities that can attract remunerations of global standards.