Experts have proved that the use of contraceptives in population control is crucial in achieving broad socio-economic growth and overall national development, even as COVID-19 pandemic persists. Boosting contraceptive use should be a priority for all countries aspiring to achieve national development. Unfortunately, contraceptive methods remain poorly used in some African countries, including Nigeria. As an essential component for that nation building, investing in family planning is one of the smart ventures for national development as population dynamics have a fundamental influence on the pillars of sustainable growth. A Nation In Search Of Its Soul The Real Reason Buhari Vetoed Electoral Act Amendment Bill (3) However, with the raging COVID-19 pandemic, development in many under-resourced countries like Nigeria further faced deepening economic recession, resulting in low uptake of the use of contraceptives. In view of this, various reproductive health experts are of the opinion that family planning would help countries with distressed economies to achieve balance, push for economic and overall population development. According to them, population control through family planning increases the ability of developing economies to provide all citizens with the required services including priority health services and adequate education. Evidence shows that the use of modern contraception has resulted in an accelerated economic growth by helping women prevent unplanned pregnancies, leading to rapid fertility decline in countries with high fertility rate. By preventing unplanned pregnancies, family planning also prevents mother-to-child transmission of HIV. POLL Investing in family planning contributes to savings in maternal and child healthcare costs. Wikipedia says that family planning is “the ability of individuals and couples to anticipate and attain their desired number of children and the spacing and timing of their births. It is achieved through use of contraceptive methods and the treatment of involuntary infertility. The World Health Organisation (WHO) in a document entitled, “Health Benefits of Family Planning” avers, “Family planning saves lives of women and children and improves the quality of life for all. It is one of the best investments that can be made to help ensure the health and well-being of women, children, and communities. Further, it also helps reduce the broader costs of health care since fewer mothers will seek care for pregnancy complications, unsafe abortion and delivery. By this, it enables women to lengthen intervals between successive pregnancies resulting to improvement in child health and survival. The risk of prematurity and low birth weight doubles when conception occurs within six months of the previous birth. However, family planning can reduce deaths among children younger than five years by 13 percent if births are spaced two years apart. Such deaths would also decline by an estimated 25 percent if there were a three-year gap between births. Similarly, deaths among children aged less than one month old would decline by an estimated 10 percent and deaths among children aged one to four years would fall by an estimated 21 percent. Bolaji Akinyemi: Fountain Of Ideas Embrace Challenges In addition, studies show that with fewer children, couples are able to save and make more investments per child resulting in better education and health outcomes as well as quality of life. Furthermore, women have more time to get education and contribute productively to the economy. Also, the rapid fall in birth rates results in a reduction in child dependency ratio and an increase in the labour surplus. The emergent labour surplus can propel national economic growth and development if the working age population are skilled, healthy and gainfully employed through the demographic dividends. However, these effects works well, when accompanied by good economic policies and governance which are critical for attracting savings and direct foreign investments into the country. In a submission by African Institute For Development Policy (AFIDEP), ensuring universal access to contraception despite COVID-19, would have invaluable benefits to improve health outcomes, preserve the global and local natural environment and enhance the prospect for sustainable development in Nigeria and its border countries. Yet it is estimated that some 120 million women who do not wish to become pregnant are not currently using contraception. Nigeria is the most African populous country and the seventh most populous in the world. Despite a high fertility rate of 5.5 per woman and a high population growth rate of 3.2 percent, Nigeria’s contraceptive prevalence is one of the lowest in the world. The 2018 Nigeria demographic and health survey (NDHS) shows that overall 17 percent of currently married women in Nigeria are using a contraceptive method, an increase of only two percent since the 2013 NDHS. Only recently, Sanusi Lamido, former Emir of Kano state, called on Nigerian couples to understand their responsibilities in terms of family structure, child spacing, family planning and parental responsibilities to produce good human capital outcomes. Indeed, to have good human capital and national development, Nigeria must begin to focus on appropriate education, awareness and regulation with regards to effective child spacing. No doubt, family planning is a win-win strategy which has far reaching benefits for national growth and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These include addressing poverty, hunger, and food insecurity, enhancing gender inequality, improving education outcomes (especially among girls), improving child survival, among others amid the COVID-19 pandemic.