LAGOS – It was like it would never come to pass and that was quite un­desirable. For almost greater part of 2020, the coronavirus wrecked hav­oc in the world leading to cancellation of activities and sporting events were not left out. However, the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) to be played in Cameroon was not sparred as the event was expectedly cancelled with no hope in sight that it would be staged after all. But as the world eased activities, the Africa’s flag­ship football competition was rescheduled for 2022 but not without another doubts on the possibility of it taking place as and at when specified. Injured Osaka Pulls Out Of Australian Open Warm-Up Alalade Relieves Form With Shooting Stars That latest pessimism was over the ability of the host country to provide the needed infrastructure to stage the 24-country event – the first time AFCON would be graced by that number of countries. But at last, the 2021 Af­rican Cup of Nations (AF­CON), its 33rd edition, will get down today in Yaoundé as the host country takes on Burkina Faso in the curtain raiser. This piece looks at the history of the biannual championship with some important statistics and other records. Looking at the competi­tion with constant evolve­ment, the Africa Cup of Na­tions’s format has changed over time, with the number of teams increasing from 3 in 1957 to, after several ex­pansions, 24 in 2019. Grow­ing participation also led to the introduction of quali­fying rounds in 1968, the same year that CAF decid­ed to hold the tournament biennially. History POLL The Africa Cup of Na­tions (AFCON) was first held in February 1957 in Khartoum, Sudan, where Egypt defeated the host na­tion in the final to win the Abdel Aziz Abdallah Salem Trophy, named after its do­nor, an Egyptian who was the first CAF president. That trophy was perma­nently awarded to Ghana in 1978 when it became the first country to win the tournament three times. The next trophy, known as the African Unity Cup, was awarded permanently to Cameroon in 2000 when that team claimed its third championship since 1978. The Indomitable Lions, it could be recalled, defeat­ed Nigeria’s Super Eagles in Lagos in that year 2000 to permanently win that trophy. It marked the third time Nigeria was falling to their neighbours and cur­rent host of the competi­tion. In 2002 a new trophy called the Cup of Nations was introduced. Talent Showcase The competition has served as a showcase for the talents of African play­ers. In the 1950s and ’60s the tournament’s attacking, entertaining style of play seized the imagination of African fans and attracted European talent scouts, agents, and journalists. Un­der the leadership of Ethio­pian Ydnekachew Tessema, CAF president from 1972 until his death in 1987, the cup earned greater inter­national prestige. Profes­sionalism was allowed in 1980 and corporate spon­sorships accepted in 1984. Among the cup’s greatest performers are the current president of Cameroon Football Federation (FE­CAFOOT), Samuel Eto’o, who holds the record for most career goals scored in the Cup of Nations (18), and Ivorian striker Lau­rent Pokou, who tallied five goals in a 6–1 victory over Ethiopia in 1970. Politics And AFCON Akwa Utd Will Try To Defend Title – Boboye World-Class Players To Watch In AFCON Live On StarTimes Beyond the boundaries of the playing fields, the Cup of Nations has been a conduit for the articu­lation of political values and ideas. Having inher­ited colonial institutions devoid of indigenoussym­bols of national identity, many independent African governments invested con­siderable economic and po­litical capital into national football teams in order to elicit pride and build unity among their diverse popu­lations. For example, with the enthusiastic support of Ghana’s first president, Kwame Nkrumah, Ghana won the cup in 1963 and 1965. In winning the 1996 tournament at home, South Africa’s racially mixed team seemed to symbolize football’s power to bridge the gaping social and eco­nomic inequalities left by apartheid. In contrast, the Algerian government was unable to capitalize on Al­geria’s victory in the 1990 Cup of Nations, as fans celebrated the team’s tri­umph in Algiers by chant­ing their support for the op­position Islamic Salvation Front. Political tensions violently disrupted the Cup of Nations in 2010: the Togo team bus was attacked by separatist gunmen as it traveled into the Angolan exclave of Cabinda on its way to the tournament; two team officials and the bus driver were killed in the attack, and the Togolese team withdrew from the 2010 Cup of Nations, which was held with 15-team field. Coaches with most AFCON wins Some coaches have dis­tinguished themselves as serial winners of the Africa Cup of Nations. Below are managers who have won the title multiple times. Charles Gyamfi: Ghana­ian Coach Charles Gyamfi won the Africa Cup Na­tions three times with his country’s Black Stars. He was victorious with the four times African cham­pions in 1963,1965 and 1982. Hassan Shehata: Coach Hassan Shehata led his country’s Pharaohs of Egypt to three AFCON ti­tles in 2006, 2008 and 2010. His feat was most remark­able because he did the hat trick consecutively as the Pharaohs dominated the continent in those six years. Both managers are also the ones that successfully retained the AFCON titles. Shehata retained the title twice in 2008 and 2010 while Gyamfi retained the title once in 1965 after emerging victorious in 1963 Appearance in finals as player and coach Managers stand out here who played and reached the final of AFCON and also coached a team to either win it or reached the final. Egypt’s Mahmoud El-Go­hary won the AFCON 1959 as a player and won 1998 fi­nal as a manager and both wins were with Egypt. Senegalese Aliou Cissé played in the final of 2002 AFCON and lost. As man­ager, he led the Teranga Li­ons to the final of the 2019 edition but they were beaten by Algeria. Stephen Keshi of Nigeria was instrumental to Nigeria’s run to the final and eventual winning of the Cup of Nations in Tunisia in 1994. The late coach and player also guided the team as the man­ager to win the title in South Af­rica in 2013. Past Winners In the list of winners of the bi­annual competition, Egypt holds the bragging right as the best na­tion with seven titles. They were victorious in 1957, 1959, 1986, 1998, 2006, 2008 and 2010. They are followed by Camer­oon with five titles won in 1984, 1988, 2000, 2002 and 2017. Ghana are third on the list with four ti­tles won in 1963, 1965, 1978 and 1982. They are followed by Nige­ria with three titles, a feat they achieved in 1980, 1994 and 2013. Meanwhile, the trio of Côte d’Ivo­ire, Algeria and Democratic Re­public of Congo (Congo DR) fol­lowed in the stead with two titles each. Côte d’Ivoire won in 1992 and 2015; Algeria won in 1990 and 2019, while DR Congo won in 1968 and 1974. In the one title category are Zambia, Tunisia, Sudan, Ethio­pia, Morocco, South Africa and Congo. However, among the big teams that would be gunning for their first title in Cameroon include current top ranked side on the continent, Senegal, as well as Mali. Meanwhile, the Super Eagles will be gunning for their fourth title in Cameroon with their opening match taking place on Tuesday, January 12, 2022. Meanwhile, Finidi George, for­mer Super Eagles star, remained coy on the match against Egypt. The former Ajax Amsterdam winger said the match is not about Mohammed Salah, urging Eagles to believe in themselves. “I think in football you have eleven players, everybody has his own role,” Finidi told Filgoal when asked if Nigeria could come out on top if they stop Salah. “Definitely Salah is a key play­er for the team and even if you stop him there are other players that can do magic, that can do their best as well to make sure that they win. “If you add Salah if he has a good day then he’s going to be a problem, if he’s not having a good day definitely you have a chance to win. “I think Egypt have been there, they have won the Cup so many times so definitely they have a good team to face Nige­ria. I hope Nigeria will have a good day.” But the Super Eagles are al­ready depleted with the absence of star players like Victor Osim­hen and Oghenekaro Etebo, even as Odion Ighalo’s availability as at the time of this report re­mained a subject of speculation. But Coach Austin Eguavoen, while admitting a bit pressure going into the competition, said he had gained confidence ahead of Tuesday’s opening game for his wards. “I will say there was pressure on me because even the biggest coaches in the world face pres­sures. “Guadiola faces pressure at Man City; he is one of the best managers in the world that I admire so much but down three years or more at Man City he is yet to win the champions league and can you say he is not under pressure? “But I am better now more than three weeks ago and I like the understanding in this team. “We need the support of every­one to do well and in our own, we will try as much as possible to get it right and take it match after match,” he said.