JOS – Youths operating under the aegis of Plateau Regeneration Group on Wednesday called on university don, Honourable Ishaya David Lalu, to contest for the Mangu / Bokkos Federal House of Representatives seat under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) come 2023. In a statement jointly signed by the chairman of the group, Panshak Joel and secretary, Mr Emmanuel Alkali the group said their call on the University Don was based on the track record and achievements of David Lalu, describing him as a man who has the interest of Mangu / Bokkos Federal Constituents and Plateau state at heart. They described Hon Lalu as a grassroots politician, seasoned administrator and a man of the people. Pepco CEO Andy Bond To Step Down Due To Health Reasons Carabao Cup: Chelsea Ease Past Lacklustre Tottenham To Put One… The statement reads that “We want to commend David Lalu for always keeping in touch with the people at the grassroots and for his massive empowerment programmes and urge him to contest for the Mangu / Bokkos House of Representatives, seat come 2023. According to the group leaders, “The call becomes necessary because what the Mangu/Bokkos Federal Constituents needs now is a pragmatic and realistic grassroots politician that feels the pains, yearnings and aspirations of all in the constituency. “We need a politician that will give quality and robust representation that will ensure dividends of democracy that Lalu represents and stands for.” ” We call on members of the group to give their unflinching support to Hon David Lalu if he decides to contest for the elected position.” “We are ready to go to the length and breadth of Mangu/Bokkos Federal constituency to ensure that Lalu emerges as our flag bearer in our party the APC as well as win the elections come 2023.” POLL They urged all their members to rally around Lalu as he has been proven to be a man of integrity and deserves the support of not only the group but the entire people of Mangu / Bokkos, and Plateau state as a whole.