ENUGU – The Executive Secretary of Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate, (PTAD), Dr. Chioma N. Ejikeme has expressed the commitment of the Federal Government to provide Health Insurance to Pensioners in the country. She stated this on Thursday during the Southeast stakeholders forum held in Enugu with the theme Pensioners Welfare is our Priority. According to her, the Government, under the auspices of the Federal Ministry of Health has established a Ministerial Committee to look into the issue of providing Health Insurance for senior citizens adding that PTAD and representatives of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners are members of this Committee. We’ll Make Insurance Affordable For Low Income Earners,… NHIS Unveils National Health Insurance Research Agenda “We are consequently in collaboration with some of our stakeholders including the National Health Insurance Scheme, the National Senior Citizens Centre, and Federal Ministry of Health, to see how making health insurance available to our Pensioners can be a reality,” she said She said despite the challenges posed to the country due to Corona Virus Pandemic, PTAD has be up and doing to prioritize the welfare of the pensioners “In the past two years, the whole world has been thrown upside down by the Corona Virus pandemic which virtually grounded all activities all over the globe, and Nigeria was not an exception. “Bearing in mind that the safety of our Pensioners is of utmost importance to us, we opened up more channels of communication and complaints resolution to enable us serve you better while the country battled to contain the Virus. “We are not completely out of the woods yet, with the various variants springing up here and there, but the situation has greatly improved, especially with the Covid-19 Vaccine. I do hope that you all have availed yourselves of the opportunity of the free vaccination being offered by the Government. POLL “However, despite the lockdown, PTAD continued to pay monthly pensions promptly, resolve complaints, cleared arrears, paid death benefits to some Next-Of-Kin and one- off payments of some Defunct Agencies such as the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO), Aluminium Smelter Company of Nigeria (ALSCON), as well as Ex- workers of Savannah Sugar Company who have submitted themselves for verification. “ Most recently, on the 14th of December, 2021, PTAD completed the payment of all outstanding inherited liabilities due to Ex-workers of two of the Defunct Agencies; namely Nigeria Reinsurance Corporation (total 126 months of inherited liabilities completely liquidated). New Nigeria Newspaper Limited (total 219 months of inherited liabilities completely liquidated). “We also settled a significant portion of the outstanding inherited liabilities due to Ex-workers of another three (3) Defunct Agencies:- NICON Insurance, Delta Steel Company Limited and NITEL/MTEL. “Also in December 2021, we implemented the approved 9.7% Pension Increment for Pensioners of the Defunct PHCN. This Increment took effect from June 2016. “In the year 2020, I declared a state of emergency in the Civil Service Pensions Department and approved the commencement of an expanded re-validation and re-computation exercise in a bid to on-board verified Pensioners not on the payroll, clear all outstanding pension arrears and resolve all complaints of short payments and outstanding gratuities for the Civil Service Health Insurance: FCT Unveils Working Document To Enhance… Group Urges FG To Expand Health Insurance For Senior Citizens “The accrued arrears were paid along with the 6months balance of the arrears as a result of the consequential adjustment to pensions. The total amount paid to this sector was N6.9B “Pensioners and their Next of Kin (NoK). At the end of the project, the Directorate was able to review, compute, re-compute and pay over Seven Billion Naira (N7B) to over Twenty-Four Thousand (24,000) Pensioners. “This computation exercise has been ongoing leading to the computation of a total of 25,950 files so far with total payment to date at N8.1B. The post verification validation for the Parastatal Pension Department is ongoing. Over 21,000 unverified Pensioners were dropped from the payroll in October 2020. So far, 4,069 of the October dropped have been verified, restored to the payroll with the attendant arrears paid. The on-boarding of verified and not on payroll Pensioners is ongoing. So far 358 verified, not on payroll Parastatals Pensioners have been brought on board,” Dr Ejikeme said “I also wish to use this opportunity to inform you all that our quest to recover the pension assets with some Insurance Underwriters has been yielding some positive “On another happy note, on the 12th of October 2021, PTAD formally launched the “I Am Alive” confirmation platform, an online application to confirm that Pensioners on our monthly pension payroll are alive and should continue to receive their pension. “This is a web-based platform designed to enable our Pensioners to easily confirm their aliveness from the comfort of their homes or neighbourhood using either a smartphone or a computer system. “This solution takes the Pensioner through a three-step confirmation process that ends with a text message response. “The Directorate has decided to deploy the application in phases, starting with fifty thousand (50,000) Pensioners cut across the four operational departments and the six geo-political zones, selected to participate in this pilot phase. On the successful implementation of this pilot phase, we will deploy the application on a full scale at predetermined intervals on a continuous basis for all verified Pensioners on the payroll. We will conduct the exercise here on all of you as you have been informed, so you can see and understand how it works. Other Pensioners who are part of this pilot phase have equally been notified by PTAD via SMS.We earlier promised that the era of bringing out our aged Pensioners for field verification is over, and we stand by our promise.” She said The Executive Secretary thereby assured that PTAD will continue to prioritise the welfare of Pensioners in Nigeria calling on all the Pension Unions under the Defined Benefit Scheme, and other stakeholders for their support in achieving this feat.