Former Wimbledon cham­pion Simona Halep says she is confident she can climb back into the world’s top 10 this year. The 30-year-old Ro­manian struggled with injuries in 2021 and has dropped to 20th in the rankings as a result. Halep reached the semi-finals at the Mel­bourne Summer Set – a warm-up for the Austra­lian Open – on Friday. Djokovic Row: Second Player Loses Visa Over Vaccine Status … Players To Storm Lagos From Over 20 States “I want to finish the year in the top 10 if it is possi­ble. This is the goal and the dream,” said Halep, who won the 2018 French Open and Wimbledon in 2019. “I know it’s going to be difficult. But also I know it’s possible.” Halep suffered a calf in­jury at the Italian Open in May and was subsequently ruled out of Roland Gar­ros, Wimbledon and the Olympics. In August, the former world number one dropped out of the top 10 after 373 consecutive weeks. Halep returned to court at the back end of 2021 be­fore calling time on the season after withdrawing from her Linz semi-final in November with a knee injury. POLL She has started the new season with three victo­ries in Melbourne, but was made to work hard for a 6-2 5-7 6-4 win over Swiss sixth seed Viktorija Golubic on Friday. On trying to regain her place in the top 10, Halep added: “I embrace it. I like the challenge. I like the pressure. It’s good that I have a restart, refresh in my mind. “Of course it’s not what I wanted, but I was injured so I couldn’t play. That’s where I’m where I am. “I feel like it’s possible to get back to top 10. I have that confidence. I have just to put hard work and to trust.” If second seed Halep beats Chinese qualifier Zheng Qin­wen, she could face Naomi Osaka in the final. COVID-19: US Open Champion Raducanu Pulls Out Of Abu Dhabi… WTA Suspends China Tournaments Over Peng Shuai Concerns Japanese top seed Osa­ka also reached the last four with a 6-1 7-5 win over Germany’s Andrea Petkov­ic. The four-time major champion plays Russian third seed Veronika Kud­ermetova next. Meanwhile, Australia’s world number one Ash­leigh Barty reached the Adelaide International semi-finals with a 6-3 6-4 victory over American Sofia Kenin. Barty, 25, is also making her own comeback after ending her 2021 season early because of quaran­tine rules.