ABUJA – As clock tick to February 26 Convention of the All Progressives Congress, one of the leading Chairmanship Senator George Akume will vigorously encourage women in general to strive to occupy significant portions of the political and governance Spaces. To bolster confidence in APC, Senator George Akume will hold periodic Town Hall Interactive Sessions around the country and convey feedback to the APC Governments at all levels. Also, he will promote and participate in a robust social media communication scheme to feel the pulse of Nigerians, especially the youths and encourage the respective APC Governments to appropriately act on key issues raised. Senator George Akume will passionately see to the faithful implementation of APC’s Manifesto. Senator George Akume and Special Duties Minister believes the party needs someone with his vast experience to reposition APC to retain power in 2023. 2023: PDP Set To Take Over Lagos As Ayu, Saraki, Wike, Makinde,… I’m Not Seeking To Be President, I Want To Be APC Chairman… Flaunting a rich resume that cut across the civil service, public service and politics, the two time Governor of Benue State said the party needs someone with his experience to address the myriads of challenges facing the APC and secure the electoral value of the ruling party in a post Mohammadu Buhari era. Simon Sango who was accompanied by eminent politicians to briefed journalists on the aspiration of the former governor Friday in Abuja, Insists that APC needs Akume, saying his calm and focused disposition stand him out as candidate to beat. He said: “The calm, focused and foresighted, Distinguished Senator George Akume will bring his extensive experience and competences to bear on the job, by thinking and acting outside the box in prioritizing the tackling and solving of APC’s myriad problems. “Senator George Akume is well placed to achieve these goals, having been two-term elected Governor of Benue State, three-term (12 years) Senator including as Chairman Senate Committee on Army, Senate Minority Leader, and currently, Minister of the Federal Republic, among others” He said the emergence of Senator Akume will end the ongoing agitation of APC Youths as.he will device credible strategy for inclusion of all stakeholder and vulnerable groups in the party. POLL “Senator George Akume will vigorously encourage women in general to strive to occupy significant portions of the political and governance Spaces. “To bolster confidence in APC, Senator George Akume will hold periodic Town Hall Interactive Sessions around the country and convey feedback to the APC Governments at all levels. Also, he will promote and participate in a robust social media communication scheme to feel the pulse of Nigerians, especially the youths and encourage the respective APC Governments to appropriately act on key issues raised. Senator George Akume will passionately see to the faithful implementation of APC’s Manifesto”. He observed the series of sponsored negative reports against the Aspirant pointing out that the sustained attack was indicative of Senator Akume’s high profile as the Aspirant to beat in the APC Chairmanship race.