ABUJA – The scheduled arraignment of a former Governor of Imo state, Chief Ikedi Ohakim and one Chinedu Okpaleke, at the Federal High Court Abuja, was on Monday stalled due to the absence of the prosecution counsel from the Federal Ministry of Justice. At a resumed proceeding, the trial judge, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, was informed by the counsel representing Lady Chinyere Amuchienwa, who is the nominal complainant in the case, that the prosecution counsel was bereaved. Emeka Etiaba SAN announced appearance for the 1st defendant (Ohakim) while Kenneth Njemanze appeared for the 2nd defendant Okpaleke. Ukraine’s Former President Poroshenko Arrives In Kyiv To… Dangote Is Africa’s Richest Man, Not You, DJ Cuppy Slams Kanye… Ifeanyi Nweze entered appearance for the nominal complainant (Chinyere Amuchienwa). There was no legal representation from the office of the Attorney General of the Federation, which has taken over prosecution of the defendants. Addressing the court, Nweze said, “My Lord, the prosecuting counsel from the Ministry of Justice is bereaved, that is why he is not in court today. In a short ruling, Justice Taiwo said “in view of the information passed on to the court by counsel to the nominal complainant, this matter has been adjourned to February 24. The former governor and Okpaleke are being prosecuted for allegedly threatening to release nude photographs of an Abuja based wom Chinyere Amuchienwa, if she fails to drop charges of attempted kidnap against them. POLL Following a petition by Chinyere Amuchienwa, the police had filed a criminal charge against Ohakim and Okpaleke, but later discovered that the allegation was false and misleading. Consequently, effort by the Police to withdraw the charge against the defendants marked FHC/ABJ/CS/287/2020, proved abortive as the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice applied to the court to take over the matter. On September 27, Justice Taiwo ruled that the AGF has unfettered power to take over the case.