LAGOS – The Lagos State Government has charged members of the Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, to cultivate good working relationship with Leaders at the Local Governments/Local Council Development Areas, Traditional, Community and Market leaders across Lagos State, for the smooth discharge of their duties and responsibilities on Lagos roads. Dr. Wale Ahmed, Honourable Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, made this charge during the courtesy visit of the delegation of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Lagos State Sector Command, and encouraging members of the Corps to take advantage of such relationships to reach out to the members of the Communities. This he explained, will help in changing the perceptions of our people about their operations, thereby gaining full acceptance and engender peaceful operation within the Communities. Dr. Wale Ahmed therefore implored the Corps to make use of the different meeting platforms, put in place by the Ministry in reaching out to the Communities. This he said include; Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC) meeting for Local Government Chairmen, Community Development Advisory Council Meetings and Market Advisory Council meetings for Market leaders in the State, while noting that periodic sensitisation of the public during the such meetings would help to ensure adequate safety of lives and properties 2023: PDP Set To Take Over Lagos As Ayu, Saraki, Wike, Makinde,… I’m Not Seeking To Be President, I Want To Be APC Chairman… He added that cases of covering of number plates and indiscriminate blaring of sirens should be looked into as well as other serious traffic offence on Lagos roads. In her welcome address, Mrs Kikelomo Sanyaolu, the Permanent Secretary, thanked the delegation for the visit and gave explanation about the statutory responsibilities of the Ministry, highlighting areas of involvement with grass root dwellers as major stakeholders in the maintenance of peace, order and good governance in the State, while assuring the team of the Ministry’s collaboration in achieving smooth and cordial operation of the FRSC on Lagos Roads. Earlier, the FRSC Lagos State Sector Commander, Olusegun Adeola Ogungbemide who took over in Lagos on 11th June, 2020 applauded the Lagos State Government for its smooth rescue response. This he described as remarkable as Lagos is well equipped in the area of rescue operations and emergency management. He however sought for more cooperation from the grassroots to establish more Station Offices across the 20 Local Government Areas. According to him “this is necessary for database collation, Public enlightenment, collaboration with sister Agencies of the State during rescue operations to prevent road accidents and other related emergencies”. Ogungbemide stated that great synergy with the Communities is needed to curb crashes and other road emergencies, abuse of number plates – a threat to State security, among other offences. He noted that “crime starts and ends on the road, the FRSC owes it a duty to give accounts of people and what comes into Lagos State”. POLL Present at the event were the Special Adviser on Chieftaincy Matters, Prince Bayo Osiyemi, Special Adviser on Community Affairs, Hon. Babatunde Jimoh amongst other management staff of the Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs.