LAGOS – Dr. Daniel Olukoya, General Overseer of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles (MFM) has asked Nigerians and other nations to pray hard in avoiding COVID like situation, unnecessary disagreements and wars. He, also asked individuals to engage serious prayers as 2021 will witness the rage of marine powers and deadly spirits. Also, he called on Christians to be fervent against persecution of the church. The Enduring Mercies Of God Praise And Worship The Lord (II) Olukoya, however, called for sincere worship of God, as he expressed that the year marks new and better things for the children of God, with banked up prayers receiving answers. Olukoya’s prophecy tagged ‘prophetic picture of the year 2022’, made available to INDEPENDENT partly states:”This year is a subtle year, a dribbling and a two phased year. “1. It is a year for true sons of God to have a voice “2. It is a year of new and better things for the children of God. So, make sure you serve God wholeheartedly in year 2022. “3. It is a year of falling away of the old and the emergence of the new. “4. The Lord said new, accurate, prophetic voices will emerge, not like what we have now. POLL “5. The Lord says that for many, all the doors that were shut against them shall be forced opened. “6. The year shall be a year of new beginning for many. “7. We need to pray really seriously on strange and great movement in the waters, in the rain, in the river and in the sea. “8. It is a year of positive dislocation; some will be dislocated, they will think it is for evil but it shall be for good. “9. It is a year that you have to be serious with God; sort yourself out and put your life right. Don’t play games with God in year 2022.” Organisation Lifts Widows, Asks Govt, Worship Centres, Firms,… Lord’s Chosen @19: The Feat Is Only Possible By God, Says Muoka Meanwhile Bishop David Oyedepo of Living Faith Worldwide, in his prophetic declaration prayed for broken homes. He partly stated: “All through the year, you shall never know setback!The zeal of God will keep burning brighter in your life! It is your year of full-scale laughter!No battle will be able to stand before you! “No emergency call for anyone all through the year! Every open door shall be opened wider for you! It shall be congratulations for you all through the year! Every parent shall enjoy the fruit of their labour. Every broken home shall be restored! Every marital challenge shall be turned into a testimony.”