ABUJA –The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has said that allowing terrorists mount roadblocks in any part of the country amounts to telling the world that there are two sovereignties in Nigeria. Welcoming Nigerians to the new year, MBF charged President Muham­madu Buhari and security agencies to defeat Boko Haram terrorising the nation. Calling on President Buhari to re­scind his earlier decision not to sign the 2021 Electoral Act Amendment Bill, MBF, in a statement by its National President, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, said that the best this administration can offer Nige­rians is to provide a platform where the votes of citizens count. Buhari, Makinde, Ladoja, Akala, Adegoke, Others Mourn Olubadan Ooni Tutors Politicians On Good Governance The statement read: “That we are alive today to witness the dawning of a new year demon­strates God’s great mercy on us as citizens of a beloved country passing through challenging times. “In the previous years, Ni­gerians, especially ethnic na­tionalities of the Middle Belt, suffered severe and persistent attacks from marauding gangs of murderous herdsmen whose agenda have always been to ex­terminate our people. Recently, some of our people have come under severe attacks in many states of the Middle Belt, includ­ing Nasarawa where no fewer than 45 people were gruesome­ly massacred by coldblooded killer herdsmen. “These killings have become the trend in many parts of the Middle Belt region of Southern Kaduna, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Adamawa, among others. “In Damboa Local Govern­ment Area of Southern Borno, Boko Haram elements have completely taken over the LGA in the past three years without any challenge from the securi­ty personnel. It is from Damboa LGA that Boko Haram launch­es attacks on communities, including the recent attack that killed a military general. Allowing the terrorist organi­sation to mount roadblocks in any part of Nigeria amounts to telling the world that there are two sovereignties in Nigeria. “In the new year, we call on President Muhammadu Bu­hari to send a clear message to the security forces to defeat Boko Haram and throw them out of Damboa LGA.” POLL The MBF added that “the de­struction of our communities and the unprovoked killings of defenceless citizens can no lon­ger be tolerated. When innocent and vulnerable people are left unprotected from the terror of criminals, there can be no op­tion left than self-defence. “The Forum calls on rele­vant security agencies not to relent in cleansing our commu­nities of these terrorists who take pleasure in kidnapping, destroying our communities and dislocating our people. The continuous wielding of arms by these criminals in daylight to intimidate locals must be stopped in order to protect our communities and not force then to embrace self-defence. “Closely tied to the hor­rendous attacks on our com­munities and the resultant displacement, with farmers abandoning farms in protect­ing their lives, is the problem of food security. We do not need a prophet to warn us of the dire consequences of what this massive displacement of our farming population holds for our people. “In the face of these severe attacks that have not attract­ed commensurate responses from the security personnel, we call on security agencies to smoke out these murderous bandits from their holes and bring them to justice. As an umbrella organisation of eth­nic nationalities in the Middle Belt region, we call on President Buhari to swiftly order the secu­rity agencies to stop the human carnage ripping across Nigeria, especially in the Middle Belt.” Calling on the National Assembly over recent develop­ment, the MBF said, “We also call the attention of the Nation­al Assembly to the charade go­ing on in Bauchi State where a court recently dismissed a suit challenging the state law­makers’ decision to relocate the headquarters of Tafawa Bale­wa Local Government Area to Bununu town. Olubadan Did Not Die Of COVID – Palace Olubadan: Oyetola Commiserates With Makinde, Oyo people “Without any doubt, the court’s verdict and the state lawmakers’ decision violate the provisions of the Nigerian constitution that confer such powers on only members of the National Assembly. We call on the leadership of the National Assembly to wade into the matter and order an immediate reversal to forestall the break­down of law and order.” Speaking on the Electoral Act, which the president failed to assent, MBF said, “With Nigeria marching to another national election year, the Fo­rum calls on President Buhari to rescind his earlier decision not to sign the 2021 Electoral Act Amendment Bill. “The best this adminis­tration can offer Nigerians is to provide a platform where the votes of citizens count. Strengthening the electoral process for transparent polls should be an irrevocable focus of the present administration. No effort should be spared by the president to contain de­structive forces lurking in the dark and plotting anarchy for the country ahead of the 2023 polls.”