LAGOS – Worried over the huge financial losses to cyber crimes and hackers, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), has expressed its commitment to standardise the nation’s Information Technology (IT) sector. According to reports, Nigeria loses over N200 billion on an annual basis to cyber crimes, a figure described as ‘unacceptable’ by the standards body while restating its commitment to sanitise the IT industry. The Director-General and Chief Executive, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Mallam Farouk Salim, gave the assurance during a recent validation exercise for the ISO 27001 Information Security Management Systems Course organised by the SON in Abuja and Lagos. Kanu: IPOB, Urges Ndigbo To Storm Umuahia High Court On… Dangote, Emefiele Commend Ogun As Investment-Friendly According to the statement issued to newsmen in Lagos, stated that SON is committed to sanitising the IT industry through training and the implementation of the International Organisation for Standardisation’s (ISO) Standards. The Director General, who was represented by the Director Training Services Engr. Timothy Abner revealed that the validation of the ISO 27001 ISMS course is part of the organisation’s effort to guarantee confidence in its ability to offer full training and certification packages to the Nigerian IT Industry. Salim said the validation course would amongst others provide the organisation with a holistic and strategic training package, when deployed would address standardisation and regulatory deficits in the Information Technology sector, in a bid to boost reliability and efficiency in the sector of the nation’s economy especially through the regulatory agencies and the professional bodies. The SON boss indicated further that the training will also ensure that SON can commence offering ISO 27001 Information Security Management Systems Courses for institutions and businesses that wish to secure their information away from hackers and other cybersecurity threats. Salim was quoted as saying, “The training will also increase SON’s pool of qualified auditors in pursuant of the execution of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between SON and the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), the nation’s foremost supervisory body for Information Technology.” POLL “At the end of the capacity building training, it is expected that the training package developed will be implemented successfully in the training. SON has scheduled for staff of the Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) to be facilitated by the SON Training Services (STS) Directorate in the coming week,” he said. To further achieve these objectives, the SON trainees who participated in the validation were drawn from the Policy, Research and Statistics (PRS) Directorate, and the Information Technology Departments of SON. The SON Training Services Directorate also within this period of the validation exercise for ISO 27001, announced the release of the year 2022 training programmes and the commencement of the circulation of enrolment forms to the general public for various courses scheduled for the year. The courses according to the schedule released on its website are categorised into Management System Courses and Technical courses (by sector) commencing from January all through to December 2022 with highly rated courses open to both the public and the private sector. According to the governor, no matter how highly placed the perpetrators may be, they will not be spared, but confronted, apprehended and be made to face the full force of the law. 2022: Prophetess Calls For Special Prayers For Nigeria FG Trains, Empowers Abia Community Farm Smallholders On Cassava… “It is a serious matter. And I’m going to take it head on. In fact, it is a war. It is not poor people doing this, they’re a cartel. You must go and arrest these people; Chief W. J. Wocha, you must arrest Fubara Ohaka, and chief Promise Ezekwe. You must arrest them. “It doesn’t matter how highly placed they are, even if it’s the paramount ruler. In fact, any traditional ruler that is involved, pick him for me. Let him understand that the law does not respect anybody.” Speaking further, Governor Wike directed the Emohua Council chairman, Dr Chidi Lloyd to locate residences where processed crude oil products are stored and let the people ascertain their sources.