ABUJA – The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate unlawful administrative charges and levies by departments and agencies (MDAs) in the award of contracts. This followed the adoption of a motion brought by Hon. Kpam Jimin Sokpo. In the lead debate, the House notes that the National Assembly makes laws for the peace, order and good government of the Federation to ensure the welfare and security of every Nigerian 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello Approval Of Rail Line Project: Buhari Scores Another Milestone… Presenting the motion, Hon. Sokpo said, “one of such very important legislations is the Appropriation Act which appropriates funds to various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government for implementation of specific projects.” He said: “The most critical component of the Annual Budget is the Capital and Recurrent Expenditure Estimates approved by the National Assembly for the provision of critical infrastructure and to cater for national priority projects.” He alleged that various MDAs are mandated by the Appropriation Act of each year to execute such provisions on projects by awarding contracts to qualified and competent companies and entities in line with extant laws while maintaining fairness, reliability, transparency, accountability and ethical standards in theprocess. He noted that the process of awarding contracts on projects mandates contractors to pay such taxes asValue Added Tax and Withholding Tax, and are the only charges required by law for such contractors to payto the government for the award of the contracts. He acknowledged that, the House should be worried by the alleged arbitrary, indiscriminate and unlawful administrative charges, levies and contract fees charged by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of Government ranging from 5% to 25% of contract sums to be paid by contractors to officials of the MDAs. POLL He argued that, such charges by the MDAs are unlawful, fraudulent and clear cases of corrupt practices as suchmonies when collected, are not remitted to government coffers. The lawmaker noted; saying, “when contractors are compelled to pay such advance fees, there is the high tendency of not keeping to the terms of the contract as such projects are often abandoned or poorly executed.” “The House is aware of the provisions of Section 88 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (asamended) which states that each House of the National Assembly shall have power by resolution published in its journal or in the Official Gazette of the Government of the Federation to direct or cause to be directedan investigation into any matter or thing concerning which it has the power to make laws, and the conduct ofaffairs of any person, Authority, Ministry or Government Department charged or intended to be charged, with theduty of or responsibility for executing or administering laws enacted by National Assembly anddisbursing or administering money appropriated or to be appropriated by the National Assembly and that such powers are exercisable only to expose corruption, inefficiency or waste in the execution or administration of laws within its legislative competence and the disbursement or administration of funds appropriated by it. The House therefore set up a mandatory an Ad-hoc Committee to investigate alleged cases of indiscriminate and unlawful administrative charges on contracts and such percentage charges on project implementation by Ministries, Departments, and Agencies of the Federal Government from 2010 to 2021 and report back within 12 weeks for further legislative action.