ABUJA – Senator Ali-Modu Sheriff, leading National Chairmanship aspirant in the February 26 National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dismissed insinuations that he is using the aspiration as bait for the party’s presidential ticket, declaring emphatically that he is not interested in the presidential office. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Friday, the former governor of Borno State said the clarification became necessary to douse untoward comment bandied around, adding however that his decision not to run for president was not because he was scared by anybody. “There has been so many insinuations going around, saying no! Ali Modu Sheriff is not looking for Chairman, he is looking to be Presidential candidate. Please!, I want to put it on record today, I am not looking for President. Arsenal Set To Offer Arteta New Contract Before End Of Season Police Recruitment: PSC Expresses Concern Over Low Enrollment Of… “I am looking for a National Chairman so that I could lead a campaign like what we did in 2014 to make sure that our father and leader (Buhari) hands over power to another APC man as a President. If I want to be President, I am not afraid of anybody but I don’t want to be President but National Chairman”. As National Chairman of the party, he vowed to support and deliver to victory whoever emerges as the APC presidential candidate in the 2023 general election. Mentioning six persons he said first came together to build the called APC, including himself, Senator Sheriff said his utmost desire is to rebuild the APC to again become the home of all members of the party across the country. Asked about other Aspirants in the race for the party’s National Chairman job, Senator Sheriff said all the Aspirants are qualified for the office but only one person is capable to do that job, adding that person is no other than Ali Modu Sheriff. According to him, there are just a few persons in the race the opposition would dread to emerge while praying quite a good number of the Aspirants to carry the day. POLL “No doubt we have an array of aspirants for this APC top job and all of them are eminently qualified, but only one person can have the job. With the greatest respect and humility, I make bold to declare that I am that person. “May I state that I have the skills and experience to unite different interests, not only within the party, but across the diverse groups in the country have placed me as the most suitable man for the job. “My mission is to transform the APC into a vehicle of greatness for Nigeria, to model the party to bring about a united Nigeria and collaborating with the government, support the achievement of technological greatness for the country. “My desire is to contribute immensely to the transformation of Nigeria using our party, the APC, as a tool to enthrone a better society for all and to make our people, digitally inclined. “I also intend to transform the party into a political institution for all, especially for the empowerment of youths and women for more political participation so that the party will be the party to beat in the next 50 years in the continent of African. Gerrard Makes Luis Suarez Claim Amid Transfer Links With Aston… Police Arrest Officers Caught Assaulting Lady In Viral Video “Let me at this juncture commend the APC National Progressive Women for holding the just concluded conference, the first of its kind by any political party in Nigeria since this democratic dispensation,” he said.