The Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) Plc has reaffirmed its plans to partner with the Federal Government, as part of efforts to ensure meter rollout across its franchise to reduce unmetered customers of the meter asset provider scheme (MAPS), this year. John Ayodele, IBEDC’s Chief Operating Officer made this disclosure in Ibadan on during a roadshow organised by the company. Ayodele was represented at the event by Peter Oni, the company’s head of strategy. Soot: Rivers Govt Seeks Citizens, Security Agencies Synergy To… AFAN Set To Boost Food Production Through Irrigation Facilities,… The meter asset provider policy came into force in 2018 as an interventionist programme by the federal government to allow third parties to close the metering gap for electricity consumers. Ayodele, speaking on the development, said the meter rollout would commence immediately, following the directive given by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to give customers the choice to purchase meters. “We are officially announcing the restoration of the Meter Asset Provider Scheme for customers who are in urgent need of meters and are willing to pay for them,” he said. According to him, a single-phase metre goes for N63,061.32 while a three-phase metre costs N117,910.69. He stated there were no charges or processing fees. POLL He said customers would get a refund of the cost of the meter through an equal instalment of energy credit whenever they vend for 36 months. Ayodele said customers could register for MAP meters online or visit any of IBEDC’s offices, after which a unique ID would be generated for a technical evaluation of the customer’s premises. Once the technical evaluation is successful, he added that payment can be made at any bank branch, and the customer will get the meter within ten working days after payment. He explained that the prices of these meters are as stipulated and approved by NERC. “IBEDC has secured the services of the following MAP vendors to meter allocated parts of our franchise, namely Mojec International Limited for customers in Ogun State, Protogy Global Service for customers in Oyo State, Integrated Resources Limited (IRL) for customers in Osun State and finally CWG Plc will supply meters to customers in Kwara State,” he said. Tradition, Poor Communication, Others Challenges To… How Nigeria, Other 174 Countries Can End Illicit Activities In… “Customers should not pay to anyone to avoid being scammed, and please note, no application or processing fees required.” He, however, encouraged customers to key into the scheme to avoid estimated billing.