LAGOS – Professionals in the Nigerian aviation industry have castigated the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) over its letter to the Senate to expunge the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) from the civil service structure. The professionals described the letter, which was signed by Alhaji Abdulmunaf Yunusa, the President of AON as unnecessary and meddlesomeness in the internal matter of the agency. They also said that the letter portrayed the Nigerian aviation industry as unsafe, while it could also push up the insurance premium for operators in the sector. NCAA Grants Approval For Anambra Airport To Operate Boeing… NCAA DG Speaks On Security, Facilitation, Safety Audits Capt. Ibrahim Mshelia, the Chairman, of West Link Airlines in a telephone conversation with our correspondent, insisted that the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) of any country was a standalone agency, stressing that the presidency could not deal with CAA matter by proxy. Mshelia explained that NCAA has always been autonomous, stressing that rather than canvass for its removal from the civil service structure, the CAA could improve the welfare of its staff through allowances. He opined that with this, the wages of technical persons like pilots, engineers and others working in NCAA would be competitive with their counterparts in the airlines. He said: “Removing NCAA from the civil service structure is not going to work. AON needs to bring more ideas on how to make the agency competitive with the operators in the sector. You can employ more people and give them the same allowances like their counterparts working in the airlines. The bottom line is income. “For instance, you can improve the allowances of technical persons working in the agency. You can say for you to work in NCAA as technical personnel, you can have a minimum of 10 years of working experience and then increase their allowances based on their certificates or licenses. POLL “You can say Commercial Pilot License (CPL) and others, carry a certain amount of allowances. The experience can be monetised, depending on the type of rating that you have. With this, the man will be earning as if he works in airlines and some people will resign from airlines and come to NCAA. For me, the letter is unfounded. The AON faction that wrote the letter doesn’t have sound knowledge of the industry. For the fact that you are an investor doesn’t make you knowledgeable in the industry.” Also, Alhaji Muhammed Tukur, the former Deputy General Secretary, AON, described the letter as meddlesomeness in the internal matter of NCAA. Tukur who is now the Chairman of Hudson Bay Aviation advised Abdulmunaf to rather concentrate on building his airline that was just coming out of the authority’s hammer over safety concerns than raise the unnecessary alarm to create panic and fear in the minds of the flying public. Tukur noted that NCAA has the most skilled and experienced manpower in the sub-region, which enabled it to acquire the American Federal Aviation Administration, (FAA) Category One Status, adding that the country has laboured hard to build the regulatory authority to a global standard such that beginners like Abdulmunaf should not be allowed to pull it down through unguarded statements. “If the remunerations of the staff of the authority have become contentious matter, it was not the duty of AON as a body to champion the cause,” adding that if there was a need for such input from the operators there is an open channel of communication between NCAA and the operators on one hand and the Ministry of Aviation. National Assembly Leadership Lacks The Guts To Veto Buhari On… National Assembly To Pass Proposed 2022 Budget This Week, Says… Tukur emphasised that he was not convinced that the AZMAN Airlines boss was speaking the mind of all the members of (AON, noting that the purported statement was self-indicting on the part of the operators as they with such letter have admitted that they were not properly being over-sighted by the authority for lack of manpower. “This position also tends to imply that Nigerian aviation is not safe for investment, it is also likely to push up insurance premium and the cost of aircraft lease among others,” he added. Recall that AON in a letter signed by its President had on January 19, 2022, called for the removal of NCAA from the civil service structure, saying this would enable it to attract the right personnel for the industry. According to Yunusa, the removal of the NCAA would enable the regulatory agency to attract the right personnel to the agency, thereby promoting safety and security in the system. The letter hinted that NCAA was established to regulate the aviation industry and implement government policies in the industry and also enforce the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) safety standards and recommended practices to ensure that the operators in the industry met the safety requirements.