A social media commentator, Rilwan Akeula, has tasked young entrepreneurs in Nigeria to support former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki as the next president of Nigeria, citing how the former President of the Senate articulated various legislative instruments in boosting the fortunes of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. Recall that Saraki has made his intention known to run for the office of president at the 2023 general elections. In support of Saraki’s presidential bid, Akeula, who made the aforesaid call in a series of posts tweeted on his Twitter handle, said that the 8th Senate under the leadership of Saraki implemented various instruments that evolved into actional tools to help the executive create the environment for jobs to grow, enterprise to prosper and reduce the burden of regulatory compliance. 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello BREAKING: Sanwo-Olu Reinstates Suspended LASU Registrar, Amuni In his words, “The 8th senate under the leadership of H.E Bukola Saraki articulated various instruments that evolved into actional tools to help the executive create the environment for jobs to grow, enterprise to prosper and reduce the burden of regulatory compliance, many don’t know this! “These Bills and areas of intervention will deliver tangible outcomes that are aimed at boosting the fortunes of SMEs, job creation and access to credit for business growth. I will mention all…” “I. The Public Procurement Act (Amendment) Bill; ii. Companies and Allied Matters Act (Repeal & Re-enactment) Bill (CAMA); iii. Investment and Securities Act (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill; iv. The Secure Transaction in Movable Assets; v. The Nigeria Independent Warehouse Regulatory Agency Bill; vi. The Franchise Bill; vii. Credit Reporting Bill; viii. Electronic Transactions Bill; ix. FederalCompetitionCommission x. National Payment Systems “The initial start-up capital of micro-enterprises were predominantly less than fifty thousand Naira, while small and medium enterprises were predominantly less than ten million Naira. “The main challenges confronting the operations of MSMEs in Nigeria are access to finance and poor infrastructure. The total number of persons employed by the MSME sector as of December 2010 stood at 32,414,884. The ownership structure by age showed that the age bracket of 24 – 50 dominates. Hence youth entrepreneurs are dominant!! POLL Akeula strongly believes that Saraki has all the competence to lead Nigeria having been able to actualise changes and set foundational frameworks in the three priority areas of assistance to MSMEs, which are access to finance, provision of infrastructure and regular supply of power and water.