ABUJA – All Progressives Con­gress (APC) women leaders from Abia State on Wednesday stormed the national secre­tariat of the party in protest of what they alleged to be an imposition of Ikechi Emenike faction of the party on the state, describing him as a ‘stranger’ in Abia State APC. The women who came in their numbers threatened to go naked should the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraor­dinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) proceed to inaugurate the faction of APC executive loyal to Eme­nike. Warning that politics is not about imposition of friends, they said Abia State APC is too blessed with great personalities to be handed over to a friend, saying that such a move would sound the death knell of APC in the state. NSE Ikeja, Getjob Nigeria Organises Job Fair For 1,000… Court Remands Woman 55, Over Alleged Trafficking Of Ladies For… The Abia APC women, who arrived the party secretariat at exactly 12 p.m. and held forte at the gate, defiled all entreaties to allow free flow of vehicular movement. Some were still keeping vigil at the entrance of the Secretariat at the time of this report. Displaying placards with various inscriptions that clearly condemned the action of the Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Committee, threat­ening to strip naked should the party leadership, preferably the chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni or Secretary, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, fails to address them. Some of the posters read, “Buni and Akpanudoedehe should not kill Abia State APC,” Ikechi Emenike not a grassroots leader and can’t lead Abia State APC,”among others. Speaking with newsmen, Abia APC Women leader-elect, Mrs. Ezinne Ude-Uduma, warned that if the right thing is not done “the party will go the way of Anambra State.” “Our demand first is for the national chairman, Buni, to do the right thing. He should wait for the recommendation of the Reconciliation Committee re­port to come out. They should not impose anybody or impose any candidate. We voted for Chume Acho Iheanacho Obio­ha as Abia State party chair­man and we want him; he’s a grassroots leader, not the other man. We don’t even know his name.” POLL When asked what they would do if their demands are not met, the women leader said, “What happened in Anambra will happen in Abia State. We would lose election. Everybody will go to the other party and PDP will take over Abia State and we want APC to take over Abia State. “We are here because we were reliably informed that the national leadership of this party wants to inaugurate the newly-elected leadership of the party in our state. We demand that either Buni or Akpanu­doedehe must address us or we won’t leave this gate. “We are ready to strip naked here if the party inaugurates those taunting and embarrass­ing us for identifying with APC those early days of the forma­tion of the party in the state.