EMEKA OKAFOR; PASCHAL NJOKU Justice Benson Anya of Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday ordered the Federal Gov­ernment to pay N1 billion to Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous Peo­ple of Biafra (IPOB), as damages for September 10, 2017, invasion of his country home in Isiama Afara community in Umuahia North council area of the state by the military. Kanu had through his spe­cial counsel, Aloy Ejimakor, on August 27, 2021, filed a suit marked HIN/FR/14/2021 against the Federal Govern­ment and seven others. Expert Says FCTA Can Revamp Revenue, Reduce Cost Of Governance FCT-IRS Launches Aggressive Tax Drive To Meet N200bn Target Other defendants are the Attorney-General of the Feder­ation, Chief of Army Staff; Bri­gade Commander, 14 Brigade; Nigerian Army, Ohafia, Abia State; Inspector General of Po­lice; Commissioner of Police, Abia State; Director-General, Department of State Services (DSS) and Abia State Director, DSS. The court had on December 10, 2021, concluded hearing on the suit. Delivering judgment, Justice Anya also ordered the Federal Government to publish in three national dailies public apology to Kanu over the infringement on his fundamental human rights by the military whom the judge described as agent of the government. On the competence of the state High Court to hear the suit as raised by the respon­dents’ counsel, Justice Anya dismissed a written prelimi­nary objection raised over the jurisdiction of the court to hear the suit, saying the court has the jurisdiction to entertain the matter which bordered on infringement of a citizen’s fun­damental human right. The Judge, who failed to de­clare the extradition of Kanu from Kenya to the country by the Federal Government as illegal, said the court lacked ju­risdiction to entertain matters on extradition. POLL Speaking to newsmen, the lead counsel to Kanu, Ejimak­or, described the judgment as victory for Nigeria judiciary. “The gavel has finally fall­en on the search for justice for Nnamdi Kanu over what hap­pened to him at his family resi­dence on 10th September, 2017 at Isiama Afara community. “The greatest challenge this case had was the combined ef­forts of the respondents of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to defeat the jurisdiction, the au­thority of this court to hear this case”, Ejimakor disclosed. Recall that Kanu had urged the court to make four declara­tions and issue three orders. Alleged Terrorism: Nnamdi Kanu Re-Arraigned, Trial Continues Feb. 16 National Assembly Re-Amends Electoral Act Amendment Bill Tinubu’s Associates Split Over Osinbajo’s Alleged Presidential… Meanwhile, the detained leader of the Indigenous Peo­ple of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, was on Wednesday re-arraigned before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on a 15-count amended charge. This was the 6th time, the Federal Government is amend­ing its charge against Kanu. Kanu is at present being prosecuted by the Federal Gov­ernment over alleged treason­able felony, terrorism and other related offences. Shortly after taking plea, wherein he pleaded not guilty, the prosecution counsel, Shuai­bu Labaran, informed the court that he was ready to proceed with the trial. The prosecutor told the court that two of his witnesses were in court to testify in the case while some exhibits to be tendered to establish terrorism charges against Kanu were also brought to court. Labaran cited section 396 of the Administration of Crim­inal Justice Act 2015, which stipulates that trial should be­gin after arraignment while objection on any issue can be taken at any time along with the substantive matter. However, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), leading the legal team of Kanu objected, because he has two pending applications challenging validity of the ter­rorism charge and jurisdiction. Ozekhome said the entire counts of the charge are wa­tery, baseless and like a pack of cards designed to fall. According to Ozekhome, the 15 charges are “incurably defec­tive and have no force of law.” The defendant’s lawyer told the court that the offenc­es brought against his client were committed in the United Kingdom, outside the shores of Nigeria. Kanu’s lead counsel, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), object­ed to commencement of trial, adding that his client has filed two motions on notice, one questioning the validity of the charge and the other seeking bail. Ozekhome said that the two motions are so fundamental because one of them is chal­lenging the competence of the whole charge and must be first resolved. The second motion seeking for fresh bail for Kanu filed on January 18 and served on the prosecution January 19, was not ripe for hearing. In view of Ozekhome’s ap­plication for an adjournment, the trial judge, Justice Binta Nyako, adjourned to February 16, for hearing of the pending applications.