AKURE – Geographical restructuring of the nation has been suggested as the solution to the ravaging insecurity in the country. A retired military officer, Olumuyiwa Adu, suggested that the restructuring would engender equity and justice which would give the citizenry sense of belonging. According to the security expert, who is an advisor to an oil and gas multinational company, restructuring would allow true federalism, where individual regions could develop and grow on their own. Ugandan Writer Charged Over Tweets Against Museveni, Son Gov Bello Felicitates Senate President, Lawan At 63 The aspirant to the Akure North/South federal constituency vacant seat at the National Assembly on the platform of People’s Democratic Party(PDP) stated this in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Monday. He said: “A country where you want to offer admission to citizens of this same country and you say some people can have lesser mark and some have higher. Is that a country? We can only call it a country, not a nation because we don’t do things in common, we don’t share things in common. There is a lack of equity and justice. These are things that restructuring will address, if only it is allowed. “In Nigeria today, the structure is such that the whole of the north was divided into two and the South was divided into four and the core part of the South, North Central geopolitical zone.  Whereas, Abuja is the middle in latitude zero, which means anything below Abuja is South and anything above Abuja is north. “This is a question of geographical terminology, not South East-West. It was not created by tribe or tone. It is geographical, meaning that from latitude zero everything up there is north and when you come to longitude zero too, anything left of longitude zero is west. “Rather than the way they divided North into two comprising of Northwest and Northeast, come down to the South and divide the south same way, so that there can be that block power in a situation where the entire country will see themselves as equal but it wasn’t done. “ POLL Adu emphasized that “Restructuring will ensure that we prioritize our projects. We don’t have electricity, Ajaokuta is in a moribund, we went borrowing money to construct road and rail lines, whereas if you have electricity and you are able to develop that Ajaokuta, from there, the steal we need to construct the rail tracks will come from there without importing them from Germany. The only thing we need is technical support.” He called for the replacement of state-of-origin with state-of-residence to stamp out ethnicity problems in the country. According to him, “A country where we are still talking about the state of origin. These are the things we need to address in our constitution. I am a lawyer, am not just going there as a layman who doesn’t know what is in the constitution and if you don’t know what is in the constitution, you can’t perform well in the National Assembly. “I want a country where we talk about the state of residence and not the state of origin. If you leave in Ondo state, you should have an identity card or a social security number that gives you the claim that you leave in the state. You should be able to pay your tax, the government should have your data and everything. “So, if you want to go to another state, you should drop as the residence of that state and get a clearance before you go to another state. So, we have a server that controls the data of all the citizens and at the same time, you have zones being represented there, managing the server of the entire nation through which the resources of the states are managed.”