ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Tuesday Mandated the Federal Ministries of Petroleum Resources and Environment to urgently develop and implement modalities to clear off soot currently experienced in Rivers State and other parts of the Niger Delta Region. The House also mandated the House Committees on Police Affairs, Navy, Army, Defense and Interior to investigate the alleged involvement of security agencies in the illegal oil refining activities in the Niger Delta Region of the Country. These followed a motion of urgent public importance on “the need to curb the activities of illegal crude oil refineries in the Niger Delta Region, to end the soot currently experienced in the Region” brought by Hon Unyime Idem (PDP, Akwa Ibom). CBN Crashes Rice Importation From 1.3mmt To 2,160mt In 2021 Consensus Candidacy Threatens APC February 26 Convention The Lawmaker in his presentation of the motion noted that in section 44 (3) and item 39 Schedule II of the Exclusive Legislative List of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) said the control and management of natural resources and hydrocarbon operations on the Federal Government are for the common good and benefit of the citizens. According to him, the economy of Nigeria has over the years been predicated and totally dependent on oil from the Niger Delta Region of the Country. He expressed worries that the Niger Delta Region of the Country has over the years been plagued by the activities of illegal oil refiners at the detriment of the lives of residents and the economy of the country. These activities he said “have compounded the age-long problem of environmental pollution and degradation caused by the seismic and exploration activities of the multinational oil companies operating in Niger Delta, contributing to the dramatic changes in the weather pattern being experienced in this region.” “These illegal activities have sabotaged economic activities of residents of the area, caused severe health hazards on citizens, robbed the country of critical revenue, and aggravated the problem of pollution in the region” He added. POLL The Lawmaker expressed grave worries, pointing out a particular case of soot currently suffered by citizens and residents of Rivers State and the environs in the last three years, “as a result of incomplete burning of organic matter by these illegal refiners.” “The House is disappointed that some security agencies and some influential individuals have been alleged of complicity in the activities of these illegal refineries in the Niger Delta region of the country.” The House expressed fear that “if this trend continues unabated, the Niger Delta Region will be at health risk and economic activities will be crumbled.” In debating the motion, Hon. Luke Onofiok, Lawmaker representing Etinan/Nsit Ibom/ Nsit Ubium Federal Constituency of Akwa Ibom state amended that the midstream and downstream regulatory authorities be asked to grant licenses for the establishment of modular refineries and support their establishment. He added that the existing licenses for modular refineries should be reviewed to enable either cancellation or renewal or additional licenses. US Secretary Of State To Visit Ukraine As Russia Tensions… Raisi, Putin To Discuss Joint Economic Projects The motion after amendments by members of the House was agreed on and passed by presiding Speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, just as the House mandated relevant Committees on Host Communities and Downstream to ensure compliance and report back in six weeks.