LAGOS – Nigerians have been advised to work together and do everything humanly possible to prevent the outbreak of war in the country, as the nation can only strive in an atmosphere of peace and tranquillity. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was speaking through Dr Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, his Deputy, gave the advice on Friday while speaking at the year 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration Dedicated Jumat Service at the Secretariat Mosque, Alausa Ikeja. He urged those beating the drum of war in the country to desist from such and thread on the path of peace for the good of all Nigerians. Nasarawa Earmarks 2.23bn For Rural  Electrification Emir Of Borgu Inaugurates Committee On Gani Durbar Festival While admonishing the citizens to be positive in their mindset, the governor emphasized that the fall of the Nation will affect everyone and “we all will suffer for it”. He said by calling for war, there would be no justification for the death of those people that fought for the country.” Speaking further, the governor advised that Nigerians should stop criticizing the Armed Forces as they are making a lot of sacrifices for the unity of the country by protecting the citizens and fighting for her peace and unity. He, therefore, advised that in the memory of those that have died, citizens should be nice to the country and consider how to make Nigeria a better nation in their individual spaces. He beseeched them to use the talent deposited in them by Allah to ensure a greater nation. “I was watching a documentary about a week ago, I don’t know if people saw it. They were showing a place in the State of Ohio, it was worse than Ajegunle, and I have lived in America for 11 years and I never knew such a place was there. “They hid their problems but it is our problem that we raise, why? In memory of the people that have died, let us be nice to our country. Let us try as much as possible to see how we can make this country a better place. POLL “Every citizen must use their personal uniqueness to collectively build our country for a better place of living.” He thanked the Almighty Allah for preserving those alive to be able to celebrate the event. “We celebrate those who have fallen and those that have vouched to protect the country with their lives. We appreciate the soldier and pray that Almighty Allah protects you and repose the souls of the departed,” he said. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, Lagos State Head of Service in his goodwill message, said the true essence of the celebration was to recognize and appreciate the immense contribution of the Armed Forces to the peace and unity of the country. He added that Nigerians should always remember that the event is not just praying for the repose of the souls of the fallen heroes but also a call to support the children and widows they left behind, stressing that Nigerians appreciate all they have done and their sacrifices for a peaceful and united nation will not be forgotten.