LAGOS – Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP) national Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu will on Friday lead 11 governors on the platform of the party, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and other chieftains of the party to a formal declaration to PDP of Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor. Jandor who is lead visionary for Lagos4Lagos, a political movement has since last year decamped from the All Professives Congress (APC) to the main opposition party, the PDP in Lagios State  and the formal declaration will take place on Friday at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) It would be recalled that the event had experienced postponements at the instance of PDP governors. The upcoming event has attracted interest from the PDP and beyond with no fewer than 11 sitting PDP governors  confirming their availability for the event. Democratic Principles Must Guide Democratic Choices –… INEC Arraigns Prof. Ignatius Uduk For Electoral Fraud A press statement from the media office of Jandor on Friday stated that  the governors confirmed to attend the high octane political event include; Governor Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Godwin Obaseki(Edo); Ahmadu Fintiri (Adamawa)Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu); Emmanuel Udom (Akwa Ibom); Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia); Nyesom Wike(Rivers) Duoye Diri (Bayelsa); Samuel Ortom(Benue) and Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State. Alsoto attend is former Senate President,  Senator Bukola Saraki, Former Governor of Ondo State Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, Honourable Rita Orji and Other PDP chieftains including members of the National Assembly, state and National Executives of the party, to be led by the National Chairman. Chief Iyorchia Ayu. Jandor, a former APC stalwart and a leading aspirant in the party had announced his decision to join the PDP after a long battle with the APC on issues bordering on internal democracy and due process within the party. The Lagos4Lagos helmsman and his teeming followers and members will officially join the PDP on Friday. Speaking ahead of the formal declaration, Jandor revealed that the much anticipated event will show Lagosians that the PDP is ready to win Lagos. POLL “As we formally join the PDP on January, 21, 2022, the day will signal the burial of APC in Lagos,” he said.