Delta Governor, Sen. (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated his Sokoto State counterpart, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, as he turned 56. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, Okowa said that Tamuwal, former Speaker of House of Representatives, had deployed his abundant experience in the development of Sokoto State, especially in the education and road transport sectors. He commended the governor, who is Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum, for his outstanding accomplishments and contributions to the enviable growth and cohesion in the PDP. Remembrance: Military Men Make Unquantifiable Sacrifices,… Nigeria Is Broken Because Of Personal Responsibility Issues, Not… Okowa also lauded Tambuwal for his sterling contributions to the socio-economic and political re-engineering of Sokoto State and Nigeria, stating that such efforts were worthy of inspiration to the younger generation. According to him, Governor Tambuwal is a nationalist, whose selfless and impressive political endeavours had placed him ahead of his contemporaries. “Having served as a lawmaker and Speaker of the House of Representatives, the people of Sokoto State thought it  wise to benefit from your amazing wealth of experience by electing you as their Governor in 2015. “And, re-electing you in 2019 was one of the best decisions the people made because I am convinced that they are obviously reaping the benefit of trusting you to lead the state for a second term as can be seen in the monumental achievements in infrastructural development of the state recorded by your administration. “As Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum, you have provided leadership and direction to a virile opposition ready for the #RescueNigeria Project in 2023. POLL “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I congratulate a gentleman-politician and a detribalised Nigerian, a leading light of this generation and a courageous democrat, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, on his 56th birth anniversary. “Over the years, you have become a household name in the contemporary politics of Nigeria by dint of hardwork, sagacity and doggedness. “As you celebrate this birth anniversary, I join your family, associates and well-wishers to thank the Almighty God for your life which has been marked by remarkable accomplishments,” he said.