ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA)on Thursday threatened to shut down any school that fails to provide the necessary information required in building a credible database required in assessing the health status of the education system. The FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr. Olusade Adesola, sounded the warning during the official flagging-off of the 2020/2021 FCT Annual School Census for all basic and post-basic schools in the Six Area Councils of the Territory. Adesola who was represented at the event by the Director of the FCT Secondary Education Board, Mrs. Lanre Emeje, also threatened to sanction school proprietors and administrators who default in the data collation process. FCTA Commences Mapping Of Structures Around Charly Boy Estate,… FCTA Restates Commitment To Completing Ongoing Projects Across… He, however, noted that the continuous influx of people into the nation’s capital puts enormous pressure on infrastructure, including educational facilities. This population growth, he said, has resulted in increased enrolment in schools and the need for additional schools and expansion infrastructure in existing ones. According to him, “I wish to also commend the private sector participation in the provision of education services to the residence of FCT. You have keyed into the slogan “Education for all is The responsibility of all”. However, in as much as we appreciate your contributions, we need to know the status, level and quality of the education you are providing. Participation in the Annual School Census is one of the means of providing us with the data on such information which in turn will pave way for any intervention. “I enjoin all stakeholders to take the conduct of 2020/2021 ASC seriously through diligent participation by providing accurate, reliable and timely data required. Appropriate sanctions including shutting down of any school will be enforced for any school that fails to comply. School heads, Principals and Proprietors will be held accountable for failure to participate.” POLL Meanwhile, the Mandate Secretary, FCT Education Secretary, Sani Dahir El-Katazu, said aside providing reliable and timely data of all schools to ensure proper planning, the Annual School Census will also provide an opportunity to evaluate the performance of the school system towards effective management of education in FCT and in Nigeria at large. He lamented that accurate data for education planning and decision making has been a major concern of the government and this has also created difficulties for development partners to make interventions in certain areas. He regretted that some principals and headteachers of public and private schools have shown carefree attitude to data collection with many failing to make timely remittance of returns. According to him, “This problem of data quality is even worsened by the increasing number of schools that may not be included in government figures such as unregistered private schools and religious schools that may be teaching some secular subjects, thus resulting in large figures of out of school children as recorded for Nigeria by International Development Partners (IDPs).” He, therefore, advised that all hands must be on deck in the conduct of the 2020/2021 ASC in ICT to ensure that credible, reliable and usable data is provided for effective planning,research purposes and sound decision making.