Chelsea appear on the verge of completing a stunning move to sign Ousmane Dembele from Barcelona, according to reports. Dembele has long been linked with a move to the Premier League having struggled to live up to expectations in Barcelona. With his contract running out at the end of the season, Dembele was locked in talks with Barcelona officials over a new deal. Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… First Female Nigeria Police Officer Appointed Adviser For… It was previously reported that Dembele’s preference was to stay at the Nou Camp and fight for his place under Xavi. But negotiations have since broken down between the two parties with Barcelona reportedly telling the winger to find a new club on deadline day. That has sparked mass interest from a host of clubs all over Europe, including Paris Saint-Germain. It was suggested that PSG would only strike a deal if one of their players moved in the opposite direction while Barcelona wanted a straight transfer fee of around £16million. But PSG have now pulled out of the running to sign Dembele, leaving Barcelona high and dry. POLL Chelsea though appear to have jumped to the front of the queue to sign the 24-year-old. According to Spanish outlet ABC, Dembele’s move to Chelsea is now ’99 per cent done’. It is claimed that Dembele will undergo a medical with just hours left of the January transfer window. Barcelona are reportedly hoping to offload Dembele in the final hours to free up funds needed to bring in Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. The Gabon international’s potential switch to Arsenal has dominated headlines on deadline day. Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (31/01/22) Having fallen out of favour under Mikel Arteta, Aubameyang has been allowed to find a new club with Barcelona showing the most interest. Amazingly, Aubameyang was spotted landing at Barcelona airport despite a deal not being agreed. And negotiations between Arsenal and Barcelona have supposedly broken down, meaning Aubameyang will now head back home. The Athletic claim the loan deal collapsed after a disagreement on the salary package on offer for the remainder of the season. (SOURCE: Express UK)