ISAAC ASABOR Prior to his appointment in 2017 as the Director General of the then Consumer Protection Council (CPC), now the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), the phrase “Computer protection” was largely unknown to many. But today, the Executive Vice-Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the FCCPC has achieved a lot so much that his achievements in the business of protecting consumers across markets earned Nigeria the commendation of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) for taking proactive and effective action against price gouging and other anti-consumer activities at the time the Coronavirus pandemic was ravaging the world in 2020. Excitement Trails Government’s Plan To Reduce Cooking Gas Prices 2022: Consumers Pessimistic, Say Inflation May Deepen In a similar vein, the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Investment (FMITI) gave FCCPC an award for outstanding performance during the COVID-19 pandemic. As a leader that has an unprecedented knack for preparedness in any venture he chooses to embark on, he was reported to have ensured that enabling environment exist at the council before he commenced the national assignment given to him. As gathered, when he realised that it would be challenging for him to succeed under an atmosphere of knowledge and resource gaps and a total gap in capacity and skills, he met at the council then, he engaged the Federal Government, and had to start pushing for the need to prioritise consumer protection in a way that truly delivers result to the people. Fortunately, the administration was very keen (and still is) on the issue. So, he got some attention all the way up to the Presidency. Despite the snag which he experienced upon resumption of office, and which ordinarily would have compelled a typical bellyacher to go about complaining, he rolled up his sleeves and hit the ground running as he knew that there was a lot of work to be done. POLL Against the foregoing background, there were series of conversations at that level and they were all focused on the real issues and there was an agreement on how to resource the council. The situation he met at the council took much of the time he would have utilised to get busy carrying out his assignments, but he had to equip the office because the infrastructure he met in place was really bad. These include physical infrastructure and soft (human capital) infrastructure. The other thing he was also asked to work on was the Competition and Consumer Protection Bill that was then pending at the National Assembly. However, by the time the bill was passed to the House of Representatives, it was a different version, but as a child of God and committed Christian, the grace of God upon him was enough for the bill to go through harmonisation in such a way that a clean bill can came out from the effort. By virtue of his expertise and negotiation skills, the Consumer Protection Act 2019 was notified on August 9th 2019, and came into effect from July 20th 2020. Extolling Irukera’s Ingenuity At FCCPC As New Year Beckons Shoppers Worry As Inflation And Shrinkflation Hit Christmas… Given the main features of Consumer Protection Act 2019 which retains certain old provisions, the New Act has certain new provisions that tighten the existing rules to further safeguard consumer rights and create exhaustive consumer protection law. Having put things that are needed to work in order, Irukera has since then been meeting the expectations of consumers across the country as he has been at the forefront of activities that have led to the development and promotion of fair, efficient and competitive markets in the Nigerian economy, facilitation of access by all citizens to safe products, and sustenance of the protection of rights for all consumers in Nigeria. Against the background of his preparation, there is no denying the fact that he has been able to break new grounds. The foregoing can be justified as he has been doing something at the commission in a completely different way to achieve results. After all, it was Albert Einstein that advised: “If you want different results, do not do the same things”. Not only has his expertise in the area of consumer protection been brought to bear in resolving consumer issues in virtually every sector of the economy, he is also a man of his word. For instance, in June 2021, he promised that FCCPC will go after digital loan apps operators that hack into customers’ mobile phones to retrieve their details which they later use to harass and intimidate them. His promise was necessitated by the criminal act whereby digital loan apps operators gain access to the phone of their customers to retrieve sensitive information like their contacts, address, social media account, work information, bank details. Sometimes, loan collection officers use information obtained to harass and intimidate defaulting customers. On account of the risk posed to consumers in the financial sector of the economy, particularly as some of them go as far as impersonating security operatives when they speak with defaulters, Irukera at the time disclosed to Nigerians that the commission, under his watch, was aware of some of the illegal and unethical tactics used by loan apps operators and assured them of the readiness of the commission to delist such apps operators if found guilty. Unarguably fulfilling the promise, FCCPC is presently in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in the bid to commence rights violation investigation into the money lending industry. As contained in a document signed by Irukera, the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) were also members, and disclosed that the committee would lead efforts to address multiple potentially dubious conducts of certain money lenders, otherwise known as loan sharks. According to him, the meeting resolved to collaborate, pursue urgent enforcement action against already known violators while investigating others, as well as criminal prosecutions where applicable. He regretted that the act was fast becoming a dominant and abusive practice targeting some of the most vulnerable in society. “Continuing complaints about questionable repayment enforcement practices including public shaming and violations of privacy have led to significant and understandable consumer aggravation and dissatisfaction. “Others are arbitrary, unjust, unreasonable, or exploitative interest rates and or loan balances calculations, harassment and failure of consumer feedback mechanisms, among others have caused consumer aggravation. Unarguably extolling Irukera’s leadership qualities, an excited Nigerian reveals, “This is how a country should work. I am grateful for FCCPC and Babatunde Irukera. This time in Nigeria and under Covid19 is a bad time. It’s a time where a lot of people are struggling with depression and many feel worthless, uncared for, unimportant, and unrecognised. “ I cannot imagine if Nigeria did not have the FCCPC or Babatunde Irukera right now. There are still so many unsolved cases. We have even become so entitled we now complain that FCCPC has not responded or solved a case. We don’t even remember just a few years ago when there was nobody to go to. All we had were consolation prayers like “God dey”, “God will judge us”, “my God will fight for me”. God is judging and fighting for us. He has sent FCCPC as the instrument to fight our battles as consumers. He excitingly added that Babatunde Irukera and the FCCPC are going the “Extra Mile” for consumers and that it is only befitting to shower him with praises so as to encourage him and his team be doing more. He said, “What the FCCPC is achieving under his leadership is unprecedented and they do it by going the extra mile. Thousands have commended him for his strides in the protection of consumers’ rights leaving others wondering if we could have many more like this across others facets of governance in Nigeria, dubbing him to be an instrument of transformational leadership. 