Comrade Chris Okonkwo, president of the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, bare his mind on the 2022 budget, wherein he advised the government to give priority to the power sector on grounds of the benefits that would be derived from such move. Excerpts: For some months now, Nigerians have been unhappy as electricity supply across the country has worsened. The development makes mockery of the fact that eight years after the privatization of the assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria, PHCN, Nigerians are still deprived the benefits of regular and uninterrupted electricity. What do you think should be the way out? To answer your question, let me say first and foremost that whatever would be my response might have being proffered to the government in this political dispensation or in previous ones. COVID-19: FCTA Makes Good It’s Threat, Shut Unvaccinated… Bauchi Governor Approves Employment Of 1,061 Medical Students We have for the umpteenth time advise the government that what is needed to rejuvenate the sector are only practicable and achievable options for resolving the challenges in the sector, and the government has been supportive in adhering to our suggestions We have for years been on the trenches agitating for rejuvenation of the sector. In fact, we would be delighted if the government embarks on more policies that would boost power generation and distribution in the country. Looking at the SSAEAC as an association, how are you responding to the challenges of the pandemic? The way we respond is to engage our members to manage the challenges of the moment; on the need to use Information Technology (IT) and a whole lot of that is happening. POLL Lots if businesses are still holding their meetings online using zoom, webex and all sorts of platforms through which meetings are being held. We are encouraging businesses to minimize face to face interactions, to minimize holding meetings physically. We are also talking to businesses about strategies on how to survive the moment because these are very difficult times and we have a lot of macro-economic challenges such as foreign exchange, foreign Reserves, problems at the Port etc. Again, businesses need to go on; because if the businesses don’t go on, a lot of Lives will be at risk. This is due to the fact that this economy is still largely driven by the Private sector. Close to 85per cent survival of people are dependent on Private sector activities. So, we cannot allow the private sector to go down. We encourage businesses to review their business model; to look at how they can forge ahead in the midst of all the challenges Covid has imposed. That is also yielding results plus the fact that people are also looking for opportunities, even, in the pandemic; because they are thriving in this pandemic, better than they used to do before the pandemic. Workers Strike: You Can’t Gag Workers, NLC Tells Lawmakers National Assembly Staff Protest Non Payment Of Salaries,… An example is the ICT sector because a lot of businesses are now migrating to the ICT space and a lot is happening in the e- commerce area and so forth. So, there are opportunities, even, in this pandemic and we tell our members not to focus on the challenges but on the opportunities thrown by the pandemic. That is the kind of engagement we have been having with with our members. So, we teach them how to manage the Covid risk and second, how to survive, as a business, within the challenges we currently face at this trying time. Talking about compliance, what is your assessment of the level of compliance so far and for businesses, what are the risks? The level of compliance within the corporate community is still relatively high. By corporate, I mean very structured businesses; formal sector businesses. But in the informal sector, compliance is very weak; there are people who still believe this COVID we are talking about is just ‘an academic exercise. It is not really here in Nigeria’ and so forth. This is because to some people, it is still not visible to them. For them, they still can’t believe until it hits them or someone close to them, they still will not believe. So, the level of compliance, in general, has been very weak and that is why I believe government is looking for better framework for enforcement. There are some legislations or policies that require enforcement for you to get result. It is not enough to depend on moral suasion, persuading people and things like that. In this environment, you need to complement it with enforcement. If you don’t enforce, you may not get result. The states government is now scaling up enforcement. The Lagos State government, for instance, is threatening to invoke fines or imprisonment on violators of the Covid protocol. Those measures need to be brought on board to ensure better compliance; because it is in the interest of everybody to ensure we don’t push the government to take extreme position of shutting down the economy entirely; which I do not believe the government is keen to do. As much as is possible, government still want the economy to run, while it manages this Covid challenges. What is your take on the 2022 budget? Thank God the budget was passed despite the hitches and objections that characterised its coming to a legal document. Be that as it may, the government should strive for inclusive growth in the implementation of the N17 trillion 2022 budget, with special focus on economically viable sectors of the economy. It would be profitable for the government to this time around give priority to the power sector as that would trigger productivity, and consequently add value to the economy as well as transform the economy into a job creating one. What do you suggest will be the way forward on security challenges in the country? On the way forward, it suffices to say that for the government to achieve better results in tackling insecurity, a key turning point should be to understand the causes of insecurity as well as to investigate the sources of social disorder and instability. Again, there is need for collective and integrative security architecture by the federal, state, and local governments in Nigeria as the synergy will no doubt pave the way for a strong and coordinated presence at different levels with the responsibility of providing sensitive security information to security agencies in their areas of operation. The arrangement will no doubt assist in identifying criminals, their sponsors, and hideouts in the country. We at the SSAEAC have been urging the government to sustain the needed funding for defence operations to equip the military with advanced weaponry and intelligence infrastructure. These should be supported by heavy deployment of modern military intelligence technologies. SSAEAC has for many years been promoting a healthy business environment. How important is digital technology for the survival of modern business? Obviously, we are in the age of advancement in technology. As technology is a catalyst for business growth, tt is, therefore, important for businesses to embed technology as a core driver of growth, to gain global competitiveness and enhance profitability. Businesses in the country must embrace technology for an improved operational performance, and we acknowledge this fact and therefore strive to leverage on technology in carrying out our activities as Senior Staff of of Electricity and Allied Companies