Former member of the National Assembly, Hon Bimbo Daramola (alias congressman) has tasked the university administrators  to always align their investment goals with compelling realities in order to attain self actualization in the 21st century. The former Nigerian parliamentarian also argued that the advent of internet could be a blessing to the body of knowledge rather than a threat ,if only what happens between Matriculation day and Convocation day matches up to the need of the 21st century. Daramola, the converner of Nigeria Skits Industry Awards & Festivals, who was the Guest Lecturer at the New Year party organised by the Ekiti State University (EKSU) Alumni Association, Oyo State chapter  outlined other  potent measures for self actualization in  the 40-year- old citadel of learning. Osun APC To Party’s National Reconciliation Committee:… Fulfill Your Electoral Promises To Us, Ifon-Orolu Community… The high point of the ocassion was the conferment of the Grand Patron honour  on Daramola by the Association. Sharing his thoughts on the topic ” EKSU @40: Exploring The Tangible and Intangible Potentials  For Self Actualization In The 21st Century ” Daramola submitted that ” the  21st century has no place for predictability or adaptability that you don’t control or trigger,  the century will not brook fastidious compliant institutions to processes and protocols. According to the Speaker, for EKSU to attain self actualization as desired by the organisers, the university management  must to take cognisance of dynamism of the 21st century . The Ire-Ekiti born panafricanist disclosed that the greatest potential of any university  would be her capacity to be able to INFLUENCE SUSTAINABLY using her identities as an incubation centre of knowledge  or citadel of learning within a formal structured system. “The  reality of today shows that knowledge can be acquired on Internet without going through the campus formal system, and if we are not careful the Internet that offers all sorts of DIY ( Do It Yourself) opportunities from baking cookies, through how to fly airplanes to arrangement of lethal weapons or how to undertake non invasive surgeries could be a threat to the body of knowledge  that used to reside within the four walls of the University. POLL “No matter how modern employers may continue to look for plug and play graduates or the self raised inventor or whizkid, if you do not have Character, its a matter of time. “However I believe the University is not threatened for as long as what happens between Matriculation day and Convocation day matches up to the need of the 21st century, I reminded them of the phrase ” having satisfied this University in Character and learning” as a prelude to the award of a degree may be the safety valve of the University in the 21st century because Google does not teach Character”, he maintained. Speaking further Daramola said “This is so because planning for an EKSU that will be relevant enough through the effective discovery and deployment of her potentials in the 21st century is a mark of profound thoughtfulness because by the time we screamed Happy New Year four days ago we are just 20 years into the 21st century according to the Gregorian calendar and if the 21st century would end by 2100, we have 79years more, I said we would be lucky to still have anyone in the room alive to see where EKSU will be, but this lecture seeks to prepare us for EKSU’s journey over the next 79years.” Daramola also spoke about the threats to discovery of potentials of the University to include the attitude of Copy and Paste, Joining the Crowd etc by University management, I discussed Town and Gown vehicle for interphase with the publics that the University  must be enduringly  relevant to by reason of the potentials to influence  constructively  using the positive disruption enablers like failure is a thing of the mind; how to bounce back after defeat. He expressed optimism  that the 21st century wiould es still be typified by consumerism, and the hazy increasing demanding lifestyle holds prospects for the University in areas like Agriculture, Creative Arts; Digital Entrepreneurship, Fintech, the University must allign her investment goals with compelling  realities. Anyam Vows To Create Over 20,000 Sports Related Jobs In Benue Only Renewed Spirit Of Brotherhood, Love, Peaceful Co-Existence… Daramola ,however commended  the  EKSU Vice Chancellor Professor Eddie Olanipekun for the quick turn around processing time for transcripts. He therefore encouraged the VC to realise that if EKSU must discover and develop her potentials as conditions for self actualisation in the 21st century the University administrators must live above board and eschew all drain ducts characters  that can dim the lofty  vision of this Pacesetter chapter.