A ‘value chain’ in agriculture identifies the set of actors and activities that bring a basic agricultural product from production in the field to final consumption, where at each stage value is added to the product. A value chain can be a vertical linking or a network between various independent business organizations and can involve processing, packaging, storage, transport and distribution. The terms “value chain” and “supply chain” are often used interchangeably. FG Tasked On National Quality Policy Implementation For Improved… Stakeholders List Gains Of Restricting Forex For Food-Related… Traditional agricultural value chains are generally governed through spot market transactions involving a large number of small retailers and producers. Modern value chains are characterised by vertical coordination, consolidation of the supply base, agro-industrial processing and use of standards throughout the chain. A value chain encompasses the flow of products, knowledge and information, finance, payments, and the social capital needed to organize producers and communities. Information is especially important to all value chain actors and flows in two directions: markets inform producers of price, quantity and quality needs, product handling and technology options, while producers inform processors and markets on production quantities, locations, timing and production issues. In a value chain, processors and marketing agents may provide producers with finance, inputs and training in technologies of production. POLL Rice is an increasingly important crop in Nigeria. It is relatively easy to produce and is grown for sale and for home consumption. In some areas there is a long tradition of rice growing, but for many, rice has been considered a luxury food for special occasions only. With the increased availability of rice, it has become part of the everyday diet of many in Nigeria. Nigerians spent not less than N1 billion daily on rice consumption, while spending had drastically reduced, consumption had increased because of increased local production of the commodity. “The consumption rate now is 7.9 million tones and the production rate has increased to 5.8 tons per annum,’’ This is as a result of CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) with a total of 12 million rice producers and 4 million hectares of FADAMA rice land. Since inception of the program, it has created economic linkage between Small Holder Farmers (SHF) and reputable large-scale processors, thereby increasing agricultural outputs and significantly improving capacity utilisation of processors. Despite Neglect, Cocoa Still Nigeria’s Number One Non-Oil Forex… Lagos APPEALS To Enhance Farmers Productivity With Production Of… The unveiling of the world’s largest rice pyramid in Abuja is a good testimony of the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), an initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which has been described as a major agricultural breakthrough and a source of pride to the country, as rice farmers continue to count gains under the scheme. Additionally, there has been a significant reduction in the country’s rice import bill, from a monstrous $1.05 billion prior to November 2015, to the current figure of $18.50 million, annually. The programme has also created an estimated 12.3 million direct and indirect jobs across the different value chains and food belts of the country. The agricultural industry is a sector that has huge lucrative business and career opportunities within the value chain especially in the rice value chain. If you have an interest in agriculture or open to learn about business ideas in agriculture sector, you don’t need to own a farm or practically engage in any kind in animal husbandry or crop production before making money from Agricultural business. In fact, people that make the most profit from Agribusiness are not necessarily farm owners. In recent time, agribusiness has taken a dramatic turn to a better direction, creating all year-round wealth and making Millionaires through it in Nigeria and there is certainly no end to the prospects of creating more wealth through Agribusiness in the coming years. As agribusiness plays a critical role in jump-starting the economic transformation through development and growth of agro-based industries, successful agribusiness investments stimulate agricultural growth by providing new markets and developing a vibrant input supply system to all sectors. There is no doubt that agriculture is vital for the sustainability of most countries, as it supports the basic need of a consumer, provided it is placed in the right direction. Everyone in Nigeria, from the president to the man in the street, is talking about diversifying the economy from the oil-dominated mono economy to agriculture/food production focused-economy, with the COVID-19 pandemic that came with its attendant oil price crash, as demand dropped in 2021, yet we must not be deter in investing in green gold. To sustainably develop agricultural business in Nigeria and make it an alternative source of income to the nation’s private sector is critical in the development of opportunities in the desired value chain component for our agricultural products. It is the private sector that drives the process and government role is to create conducive environment through sustainable policies which stake holders in Agricultural sector such as RFAN (Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria) and the parent body ALFAN (All farmers Association of Nigeria) should be part of, that will encourage private sector participation. For instance, government policy on rice importation ban paid off, the rice value chain has been improved as many investors invested into branding, processing and packaging and machineries that has improved the quality of our local rice. I can stand to say some our local rice can compete with the foreign both in quality and finishing. Viable and sustainable jobs are now available within the value chain. In this year, there are a whole lot of opportunities for those that wants to invest into rice value chain as RFAN launch dry season farming such as: – • Productive resources e.g., seeds, fertilizers, equipment, energy, machinery. • Facilitative services e.g., credit, insurance marketing, consultancy, branding. • Storage or warehousing, • Processing and packaging. • Transportation and distribution. • Irrigation equipment and services