(Psalm 63:3, 5; Acts 16:25–26; Matthew 15:25; Psalm 100:4). What is Praise and Worship? Praise is for one expression of approval or admiration, the act of praising is when someone win a prize, he received praise from his colleagues for winning the Prize, Praise is an achievement worthy of great Praise. While worship of God is to give God the glory of is loving kindness, for his mercy over us for preserving our lives to see the month of January year 2021 – December 2021 God deserves Praise and worshiping at all times. Pray Hard To Avert Wars, Olukoya Tells Nigerians, Other Nations The Enduring Mercies Of God Worshipping God is for those who believe in God and have Jesus Christ as their Lord and savior; worshipping God is everyday opportunity to express reverence to the Lord by thanking God Almighty. Christian worship does not have a fixed time or a location. Christian worship God daily by sacrificial service. You could see this in Romans 12 vs 1 -2. Christian function daily as Priests to God. 1 Peter 2 vs 5 and 9. We worship God daily by bearing the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ see Luke 9 vs 23. We worship God daily by praising God for his provision and saving our lives at all the time. Acts 2: 46 – 47. We worship God daily to proclaim God’s word we could see this in Acts 5 verse 42 We worship God daily by making supplication to God. We worship God daily by singing praises to God we could see this in Eph. 5 vs 19. POLL We Worship With Others We worship God with others, because of our love for one another, especially on the First day of the week i.e. (on Sundays like this) 1. Christian teaches and admonish one another with songs. We could See this in 1Cor. 3 vs 16. 2. Christian sing praises to God. We could see this in Eph 5 vs 19. 3. Christian can worship God anywhere, since God is everywhere, Psalm Organisation Lifts Widows, Asks Govt, Worship Centres, Firms,… Lord’s Chosen @19: The Feat Is Only Possible By God, Says Muoka 63 vs 5. God is everywhere, Psalm 63 vs. 5. In Psalm 92 vs 1 has this to say, it is a good thing to sing praises to the Lord. Then in Psalm 100 vs 2 says, serve the Lord with gladness, and come before his presence with singing. In Psalm 109 vs 1 says, hold not thy peace, O God of my praise and verses 20 says I will greatly praise the Lord with my mouth, yea, I will praise him among the multitude; psalm 96 has this to say sing unto the LORD a new song, sing unto the Lord all the earth and in verses 9 says unto the Lord all the earth and in verses 9 says O worship the Lord in the beauty of his holiness, fear before him all the earth and in Psalm 145 vs 2 says Everyday will I bless thee, and I will praise the name forever and ever. Praise and Worship the Lord Psalm 124: 1-8 As we journey through another year, many people will be looking back thinking of their achievements. Some may say they do not have reason to praise God. Maybe because of some sad experience they had during the year, or as a result of their failure to realize their dreams and goals they set for themselves. Any person who is alive has a reason to praise God. Have you stopped to think of the number of people that died this year? Who delivered you from all the terrible and ugly event that took place this year, the road accident, the kidnappings, the armed robbery attacks that claimed innocent lives e. t. c. you slept and woke up 365 days and did not know that many died in their sleep while they have slept. Are you afraid that this year may turn out to be like, or worse than the past one? There were many battles, God fought for you, which you are not aware of in Psalm 31 vs. 15 has this to say “my times are in thy hand……’’ Yes. God is in firm control of the world. He created and he never sleeps nor do slumbers in Psalm 121 vs. 4. There were storms in 2021, and there could be more 2022, but he who is master over the storms will not leave you alone. And you will triumph over them. He says even if a woman forgets the child she gave birth to, he will never forget you. So as you plan for year 2022, don’t leave Jesus out of your plan. With God you are secured, I think you need to praise the Lord at all the time. Number 14: 1-4 The children of Israel are wonderful children in history of mankind. They are the people that right in the presence of God; God divided the red sea and destroyed the Egyptians. He brought out water for them from the rock, fed them with Manna from above and so many other miracles; but they lack spirit of appreciation. You could see this in Numbers 14 vs. 2 `And all the children of Israel Murmured against Moses and Aaron and the whole congregation said unto them. Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt or would of God we had died in this wildness? In another development; in Luke 17 vs. 12-15 our Lord Jesus Christ entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off, And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus Master, have mercy on us; And when he saw them, he said unto them `Go show yourselves unto the priests and it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. Meaning that they were all healed, meaning that not only one but all, but the bible recorded that only ten of them that were cleansed only one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God. In verse 16 has this to say the man fell down on his face at his feet giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan and in verse 17, And Jesus answered said, where there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? When God has done something for you, there is need for you to give thanks to God almighty. A thankful and appreciate spirit is two qualities, God expects his children to manifest in all dealing with him. We ought to appreciate and be thankful to god for his mercies, love, grace, miracles, kindness, goodness and his provisions. In gratitude is failure to show thankfulness, gratefulness and appreciation for the goodness and kindness shown to us; God abhors it, in gratitude leads to murmuring and complains we could see this in Number 14 vs. 1-4. Anytime we appreciate and give thanks to God for good things he has done for us, he is moved to do more in our life.