Lekki and its environs is perceived to be millionaires’ playground and haven. It is not out of place to think everything that comes out of the Island location would cost an arm and a leg. For the low and medium income earners, to approach any fast food outlet, restaurant, bar or a hotel in Lekki it comes with a lot of caution as one may find himself totally out of his/her own league. ‘ For the management of Foodies Hot and Spicy simply known as Foodies, a fast food/restaurant/bar on the Admiralty Way it is totally false that you have to break the bank to have a decent meal at their establishment as they had all classes of people in mind when they were starting out. FG Strengthens Health Regulatory Agencies To Actualise Mandate –… Lagos Shippers Move To Monitor Cargo Defence Fund In a recent chat with newsmen the manager of the outlet, Bukola Adeniji gave out the blueprint of their operation and constitution, asserting that they have everyone covered. “What MD used to say is that she wants and prefers all classes to walk into Foodies and be able to pick up a meal to eat. It depends on your choices, like I said, if you want to have our jollof rice with a thousand Naira you can fill your belly. There is a particular set of proteins we call assorted. We have the beef, we have the sharky, we have the kpomo, we have the liver, we have the kidney, we will sell it for 400,” he said. “This place is across the board, all classes, irrespective of whether you are a driver, rich or poor, everybody comes in. What we do at Foodies is for every man, every woman, it’s affordable for everybody depending on your choice,” he added. The Foodies is fast becoming an iconic location on the Admiralty Way as it is a spectacle of attraction always filled up with people and cars. Even the building is a posh affair and the ambiance of the interior is top-notched designed with sheer bias to beauty and comfort. “We have all classes of people in the society walking in to fill their stomach, to feel the ambiance of the environment because it’s a cozy environment. And aside from the fact that we take care of meals, you can see the environment, the environment is wow! Foodies is like a home away from home. We tend to give a wow experience to people that come around us. We do local, we do continental and intercontinental. When you talk about the local, people tend to come in and eat what they eat at home, it’s as if you are eating from your house,” the manager emphasized yet again. POLL When asked if their focus is basically on the Island, Adeniji posited that being on the Island has not prevented their brand from traveling to the Mainland as they have had various orders from the Mainland. He explains, “People call from Ikorodu, some even call to ask for the address and we are on Admiralty Way, Lekki. I have one old woman who would always ask me to send moimoi to her in Festac and the cost of moimoi is just 400 Naira not minding the extra cost to transport it through Bolt to Festac.” The manager also revealed they presently have two outlets on Admiralty Way in Lekki, Lagos, two in Dubai, UAE, while one is fully operational, the other is set to take off soon. Speaking about the uniqueness of the Food Brand, the manager said Foodies is founded on the concept of healthy living rather than just food.