JOS – The Senator representing Plateau North Senatorial District at national Assembly Senator, Istifanus Gyang has condoled the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev Dr Yakubu Pam on the demise of his mother, late Ngo Zimi Pam who passed on to glory on 15thJanuary, 2022 in Jos . Senator Gyang said he was at the residence of the NCPC boss on a condolence visit over the loss of his mother on behalf of the good people of Plateau North Senatorial District. He explained that the visit was to convey his heart felt condolences and the entire Plateau North Senatorial District for the loss of their dear mother whom he said was a mother for all . APC: Court Strikes Out Suit Challenging Legality Of Buni-led… Chief Ezeonwuka Urges Soludo To Make Adequate Provision For… He posited that a special place has been reserved for women by God, hence they are used to give a generation good leaders. Senator Gyang thanked God for using Rev Pam late mother to raise a man of his calibre. He commended the NCPC boss for the good work he is doing for the nation and prayed that God would grant him special grace to do more for the nation Sen. Gyang further averred that the legacy of late Ngo Zimi Pam would live on and should be emulated by the family and others. He prayed God to grant the soul of late Ngo Zimi Pam eternal rest. POLL Responding, the NCPC boss said he was deeply happy for the visit of Senator Gyang and his associate. Rev Pam Commended Senator Gyang for displaying leadership at the Plateau North Senatorial District.He averred that his late mother had gone having completed her own assignment on earth . According to Rev Pam, his late mother was a devoted Christian and a very disciplined woman. He added,” she was a virtuous woman, our mentor and our teacher”. Rev Pam said he would remain eternally grateful to his late mother for bringing him up in the ways of the Lord. 2023: APC To Retain Power At Centre, Overtake PDP In Rivers,… Otaru Of Auchi To Confer Customary Title On Prince Agba He affirmed that his late mother is resting in the Lord and had left for them lessons that would make them live a fulfilled life. The NCPC helmsman thanked Senator Gyang for his effort tn coming to the house to commiserate with the family.