AKURE – Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has called on the electorate to re-elect into offices public officeholders who are performing creditably well. He made the call on Friday in Owo, Ondo State, at the funeral service of the late Engineer (Dr) Chief Benson Akinola Otegbeye JP, father-in-law of Honourable Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo currently representing Akoko North/East North West Federal Constituency at House of Representatives. Hon. Tunji-Ojo was buried amidst pomp and fanfare on Friday, January,28th of 2022 at Owo, his home town. Tanker Explosion: Soludo Commiserates With Victims Ebubeagu Not For Political Witch-hunting – APC The late Engr Otegbeye JP, who is the father of Mrs Abimbola Tunji-Ojo, the wife of Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, before his demise, was the founder of the C&A Movement Church, Ijoka Road, Akure. The minister, who described Tunji-Ojo, the Chairman, House Committee on Niger Delta, as a bridge-builder who epitomizes future Nigeria, noted that the electorate should ensure those who truly represented their interest should be given another chance. He said: “Hon. Tunji-Ojo is a man who has made Ondo State very proud. He epitomizes future Nigeria, and I know that Ondo’s very lucky to have him. “I want to appeal to our people that anyone who’s being elected into any office by the people and performs very well, they should re-elect such good representatives for continuity of the good jobs done.” Akpabio, therefore, urged the people of the Ondo State to give him Tunji-Ojo another opportunity and higher responsibility in the coming 2023 election. POLL He said: “By 2023, the people of Ondo State should give him(Tunji-Ojo) more responsibilities because he has shown capacity and availability. The fact that he’s able to attract the high and mighty is evidence of his sagacity. He has been able to build bridges across the Niger and I’m telling you that.” The programme, which was held at Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church, Owo, was graced by many dignitaries among those who are, Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, his wife, Mr Effiong Okon Akwa, NDDC sole administrator, the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade led Council of Obas in Ondo State, while the state Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa led members of the state cabinet, Chief Emmanuel Uduagha, the Elema of Warri Kingdom, Delta State.