Chief Segun Osoba, former governor of Ogun State, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a close friend of the late Ernest Shonekan, former Head of the Interim National Government in this interview monitored on Arise Television, speaks on how the departed statesman contributed to the economic development of the country, his role in the June 12 crisis, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What kind of man was Ernest Shonekan and how will you define his place in history? He was a very gentle person, a gentleman to the core. He had a good pedigree and a good family man. To a large extent we had a very strong relationship because my uncle, late Chief Albert Osoba was very close to his father, and he had a lot of influence bringing up Ernest Shonekan. He made his mark in the corporate world, where he rose to become the chief executive officer of the giant UAC, and he created his own brand, changing the UAC brand into a very big estate Development Company, with so many projects in Ikoyi and all over Nigeria. I must say that his death is a painful loss to those of us who were close to him. Ambode Urges Youths To Embrace Cricket, Other Sports AFDB President Urged To Run For President I want to draw attention to your memoirs, “battle lines, adventures, journalism and politics’, in which you went into details about the circumstance that surrounded the formation of the Interim National Government (ING). Can you throw more light on how that came about? The ING happened because there was pressure on Chief Ernest Shonekan. I recall that the government was involved in the high-powered politics that followed the June, 12, and mounted pressure on Shonekan to accept to be the head of the ING, and that created very big family row and high political tension between us, the contending forces on the side of MKO Abiola. I must say that both sides, as I described Chief MKO Abiola in my book, were very large-hearted people. To our shock, Chief MKO Abiola still allowed his son to be the best man to Chief Shonekan’s son at the height of the political tension that was going on then. On the side of Chief Shonekan he remained a gentleman in spite of the tension between the two sides. I was on the side of MKO Abiola and the Egba traditional council became divided over the issue. While the British government was putting pressure on Abiola to remain in London in order to allow Chief Shonekan’s Interim Government to settle, they were also mounting pressure on Shonekan to take up the job of the head of government. It was a tension-soaked period. A lot of people said it was a stop gap for General Sanni Abacha to take over. Do you think that the government was dead on arrival even at its formation? The Interim Government was a terrible set up. Abacha had always been ambitious to be President even before Babangida left; he had wanted to succeed him. Abacha got involved in putting pressure on MKO Abiola to return to Nigeria so that his return could create greater tension for him to get rid of Shonekan in office. While the British government was asking Abiola to remain in London to create an enabling environment for Shonekan, Abacha was putting pressure on those of us close to Abiola to get him to return to Nigeria, pretending to be on the side of Abiola. A lot of deceit happened at that time, all towards Abacha’s emergence. Abacha was desperate to become the President. I led some governors to Abacha when we were still working on the idea that June 12 would be restored, but he deceived us. We met him and Diya, but we didn’t know that they were on the way to upstage Shonekan. He told us that he was going to arrange a meeting between us and his boys, only to find out that the following week; we were all kicked out of office. Abacha had always had his own agenda, unknown to any of us. Chief MKO Abiola was too trusty, he trusted many of these people and he was shortchanged. Some people have said that ING was a unifying force at a time of great uncertainty that Chief Shonekan was at the forefront of that, do you think that the ING which lasted for just 93 days helped to unify the country when in fact; the emergence of the ING was a catalyst for further division in the country? POLL The situation was a high powered conspiracy theory on the side of Abacha who at that time was determined to get Babangida out of office. His agenda was to succeed Babangida even when Babangida was in power. Shonekan was the person who was unfortunately, innocently being used by Abacha. Eventually he was forced almost at a gun point to sign a resignation letter. It was a high powered palace coup, first it was to get rid of Babangida and the second palace coup was to get rid of Shonekan and the third one was to deceive MKO Abiola, all geared towards Abacha becoming the head of state. After getting Shonekan to resign, the arrangement was not for Abacha originally. I was told that one of the officers said that Abacha, being Chief of Defense Staff at that time, would automatically become the head of state. Can you state some of the contributions of Chief Ernest Shonekan to national development? After he was kicked out, he still believed in the economic development of Nigeria. The group of people that he was able tobring togetherhelpedtheeconomy. Hedid hisbesttorevamptheeconomy of the country, getting all the private sectors self-fundedtoseehowhecouldrescuethe economy of the country. It was so unfortunate that Chief MKO Abiola paid the price, in his innocence and determination to make Nigeria better. Shonekan was a member of the council of state for so many years. I am sure that as his friend, he must have shared some views with you regarding the economy of this nation up till when he died. Can you discuss some of the views that he must have shared with you and what issues must have bothered him about the economy of this country? We were both members of the council of state because as a governor I was also a member. I know that his interest was in the economy of the country. He used his experience in the private sector at all times to advise on the way forward. His advices most times probably were not taken but he did his best in terms of the economic development of this country. In my relationship with him, he doesn’t keep prejudices just like MKO Abiola. I can tell you that even after all the political tensions, when I became governor again in 1999 he and his wife were one of the first to visit me in my private house. He always attended any ceremony that I was involved in. He attended my book launch even at a very short notice. We tried to put behind us all divisive issues and tensions that were created between me, MKO Abiola and him. MKO Abiola’s children remain very close to his children and the relationship is maintained till today. LASG To Hold Conference On Mental Health I Joined Politics In Order To Sanitise The System – Waya You said that the politics of 1993, the ING affected the Egba traditional council and at that time there were very prominent Egba sons playing major roles, Chief MKO Abiola, Chief Shonekan, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and yourself. If the issues have been resolved at family levels because of personal relationships, has it affected politics within Egbaland? It did because a meeting was called at that time and Chief Adebo was the only one who stood firmly. Some theory that was propounded by the Egba traditional council was that they didn’t have a double score in terms of Abiola and Shonekan and they came up with a resolution to say that we should all tolerate the situation at hand and I was governor then. I went on air immediately and condemned the position of the traditional council, where they said that we had double score on both Chief MKO Abiola and Chief Shonekan, and I went there immediately to condemn the whole thing, pointing out that the Ogun State government was not comfortable with the position of the traditional council but it was a highly divisive situation at that time, but as I said, the attitude of all the families put together helped. In spite of all that happened, the MKO Abiola and Shonekan families managed the situation well and they had continued to create a very strong relationship between the families and so all of us had to take everything in stride. What would you say is the legacy of Ernest Shonekan? His legacy is more in the economic sector. Today there are many skyscrapers developed by him as chairman of UAC. The UAC is the baby of Royal Niger Company, the company that the British government ceded Nigeria to. They virtually developed most areas in Nigeria, Ikoyi in Lagos and other Government Reservation Areas (GRA) throughout the country. After the amalgamation the UAC was still in control. He moved the UAC from a trading company to real estate. I am sure that UAC is still making money out of those assets that Shonekan helped to develop.