Ayobami Olamilekan Ojo is the Chief Executive Officer of Asford Display Solutions Ltd., a digital marketing and advertising company based in Lagos. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, he speaks on how he grew his company, challenges and future prospects of the sector in the country. He also speaks on other issues. Excerpts: Tell us about your company? We fabricate billboards, rent out led screens for events and others; we are also into sale and installation of LED screens. FG Should Release List Of Beneficiaries Of SME Funding – Adebayo Last Year Was Difficult For Entrepreneurs – Iche What led you to start the business? As a young person, I wanted to be an entrepreneur and I built on what I learned from my former employers to stand out as a billboard fabricator. With the help of my Chinese partners, I was able to learn how to install a LED screens and repair them. How long have you been in the business? I started the business way 18 years ago but I established and registered Asford Display Solutions Ltd. 14 years ago. How has it fared generally over the years? POLL Well, it has its ups and downs; we give God all the glory because we are growing. We have built on what we have learnt and we have made innovations in the business. What challenges have you faced and what strategies did you deploy to overcome them? We have faced many challenges in terms of unstable government policies and procedures, but we have overcome the challenges by the grace of God. What is your assessment of the digital marking and advertising industry in Nigeria? The digital marketing and advertising industry has enormous potential in terms of growth; its an industry that one cannot do without in the present-day business world and it is going to be a continuous avenue for business advancement. My Brand Is Adding Value To Nigeria’s Economy – Olumide How To Succeed In Business, Career In The New Year – Akinsiun Are Nigerians responding to digital marketing and advertising? Nigerians are responding to digital marketing and advertising positively; the youth are taking the stage to develop their digital skills, they are also taking advantage digital marketing and advertising to promote their goods and services. How does the Internet and data situation affect the industry? The Internet and data situation is challenging for entrepreneurs. This is posing as big challenge to OOH practitioners, but our clients are patronizing us us despite the Internet challenges. Did you access a loan to start the business? Have you accessed one after you started? Not at all; I did not access a loan to start the business; the financial institutions in the country are not ready to assist entrepreneurs in terms of loans. Their terms and conditions are too stringent for entrepreneurs to meet. What is your assessment of the business environment in the country? The business environment is not friendly at all; indeed it is hostile to business but we have to endure to achieve our aims. What do you think the government should do to make the environment better? The government seems not ready help entrepreneurs; it is a pity our generation is rotting away. We are in a situation whereby a graduate takes a job of security man to feed his family. So the government has a lot of work to do. There should be a total overhauling of the system. It should provide infrastructure like power and good roads. Power is not stable and electricity tariff is high. What qualities should one possess to succeed in the industry? One has to be above board, one needs to work hard to be on top of the game. Also, you should expect unexpected from different quarters. What is your advice to young Nigerians? My advice to young Nigerians is that they should not to relent; they should build on their God- talent. By so doing, the sky is the beginning for them.