ABAKALIKI – Senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial district, Senator Obinna Ogba, has declared his intention to contest the Governorship seat of Ebonyi State in 2023. Ogba, a two-term Senator and chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) made the declaration while briefing Journalists at his country home, Amanvu Nkalagu community in Ishielu Local Government Area of the State on Saturday, January 1, 2022. The Federal Lawmaker who is the Chairman Senate Committee on Sports said he would run for the governorship seat on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). 2023: Prof Greg Ibe Declares Intention For Abia Governorship 2023: Tinubu Has Edge Over Osinbajo – Jibrin Kofa Ogba who captioned his campaign slogan,”Ebonyi Will be Happy Again”, said he would tackle poverty and youth unemployment in Ebonyi if elected governor in 2023. “Our government will be basically welfarist and building the capacity of our economy so that we can provide jobs for the youths, make Ebonyi attractive, suitable and secure for businesses. “Once the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) releases time table for political campaigns, our campaign slogan will be tagged Ebonyi will be happy again. “If elected, I shall immediately embark on full restoration of the glory of Ebonyi and make the people the cornerstone of the government to revamp the environment that has become a den of hunger, anger and politically induced hate and communal clashes. “Our government focal point will be to provide the greatest good for the greatest number of people in Ebonyi,” he said. POLL Ogba, who is also one-time state chairman of the PDP acknowledged the successive administrations in Ebonyi State for their contributions to the growth and development of the state, adding, “but, despite all efforts of the past governors, youths and human capital development are still suffering while poverty is still massively prevalent in our homes. “It’s for this reason that I am declaring an intention to run for the office of governor of Ebonyi with the intention to do things differently if given the opportunity to serve the people,” ogba concluded.