BENIN – Edo State government on Saturday said, it was not relocating the over 100 years old hospital but rebuilding it for better service to the people contrary to insinuations that the hospital was being removed to create space for a public motor park. The government also debunked the fears that healthcare may become inaccessible to the poor, saying that it would explore all existing health policies and programmes that would take care of the poor in the state. Professor Obehi Akoria who made the clarification while speaking to newsmen on the demolition of parts of the Central Hospital said there was no plan to turn the hospital site into a motor park, adding that it was being demolished to be rebuilt. Tokyo’s Daily COVID-19 Infections Rise 15-fold In One… COVID-19: Omicron Is Not Mild, Kills People Like Other Variants… According to the Health Commissioner, with the COVID-19 that has changed global narratives, Stella Obasanjo hospital which was closed to its normal hospital services to strictly handle COVID-19 treatments was being rebuilt to be restored to its original status of rendering public health care services. “What we are doing is this; Edo State has Edo Health Insurance Commission, Edo State has Edo Health Insurance Scheme with various packages suited to the needs of various people in our heterogeneous population. “We have stationed about ten teams right there between Stella Obasanjo and Central Hospital and as patients comes in, they are accessing the team because there is something called the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund which is supposed to care for the healthcare needs of the poorest of the poor via insurance and our people are already paying for insurance. “The federal government has provided some funding, the state government has its own counterpart funding and there are many mechanisms that are on ground that will take care of the health needs of different strata of the population, and for the very poorest of the poor, Basic Healthcare Provision Fund is available to ensure that they get minimum package of healthcare without having to pay anything. Speaking further on the movement of the over 100 years old Central hospital, the commissioner said, it was being moved to the Edo Specialist Hospital, adding that in recent time, anybody who has been to the Central Hospital will see the state of the structure and infrastructure and service provision. POLL “So the decision to upgrade the hospital was part of the decision to upgrade healthcare for the citizens, meaning that, there has to be a lateral phased movement of services from Central Hospital to Edo Specialist Hospital. “That is where we are right now and we have been managing that to ensure that disruption of services is minimised and we are available to respond to the obvious challenges that will arise as quickly as possible.” she declared.