LAGOS – Erelu Bisi Fayemi, wife of Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, has denied reports that she is nursing a senatorial ambition in the 2023 general elections. In a statement she personally signed and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, she said some mischief makers are claiming that she will be rewarded with the ticket for Ekiti North senatorial district as a reward for supporting Biodun Oyebanji, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. “This is morning, I woke up to see posters online for Erelu Bisi Fayemi, Senate Ekiti North. This information has been circulating for some time now so it is nothing new. 2023: Igbos Are Ready To Rule Nigeria – Ohanaeze 2023: Give Room For South Region To Rule, Presidency Not… “Today’s poster was however released the morning after Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO) emerged as Gubernatorial Candidate for the next Governorship election in Ekiti State. Those behind this mischief have been floating the narrative that the Senatorial seat is going to be my reward for supporting Mr Oyebanji’s aspiration. My position is as follows: “I have no interest whatsoever in contesting for a Senatorial seat. I have never discussed this with anyone and how this story keeps circulating is a mystery. Let me repeat, I am not interested”. “My sole political agenda in Ekiti State is to support my husband, HE Dr Kayode Fayemi, and to ensure that he finishes well. My husband’s success is the only reward I need”. “The Ekiti  APC Primaries were held on January 27th, and a winner was declared by the relevant authorities. Many people of all ages spent a lot of time promoting their candidates online, a very important part of the political process. “However, this can be done without resorting to slander, libel, and other untoward acts. While the principals concerned will find ways to resolve their differences, those who bear arms in their name on all sides need to be careful. I would therefore like to appeal for a cessation of hostilities and for all hands to be on deck.”