ABUJA – Hard economic prediction for the country seem not to be relenting after a think tank sponsored by the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ACCI, and the World Bank in less than one week made gloomy readings of the country’s economic fortunes ahead 2022. At the ACCI, a team of economic experts raised concern over the high level of taxation in Nigeria and its negative effects on businesses, stressing that it had continued to fuel unemployment crisis nationwide. The experts at the ACCI, called the attention of the Federal Government on the issue of high taxation, stressing that it had crumbled many enterprises and worsened joblessness in the country. NITDA Assures Of Achieving 95% Digital Literacy By 2030 FG Markets Its Mining Sector Abroad Ahead 2022 The reading seem to tally with World Bank projection which stated that Nigeria may have one of the highest inflation rates globally in 2022, with increasing prices diminishing the welfare of Nigerian households. According to the World Bank, Nigeria is projected to have one of the highest inflation rates globally and the seventh highest among Sub-Saharan African countries in 2022 The chamber advised the government to broaden the tax base and reduce the country’s tax rates in a statement issued in Abuja and signed by the ACCI President, Al-Mujtaba Abubakar. It said: “Increasing level of inflation, high taxes, and high interest rates contribute to the increasing cost of production. This has resulted in many businesses not breaking even and many are closing shops. “The situation is further complicated by insecurity challenges and the exchange rate instability. We recommend easing the harsh business environment by transforming regulatory agencies into facilitating bodies. POLL “In a drive to generate funds at all cost, businesses in Abuja are subjected to more than five levels of taxation. This needs to change so that SMEs can thrive and employ more workers to ease the increasing level of unemployment.” It added: “The chamber believes that the economy grows and the Gross Domestic Product multiplies when government’s policies, agencies and programmes facilitate, rather than impede businesses.” The ACCI urged for government support and called for closer synergy between the public and private sector, assuring stakeholders the chamber was ready to fully support government at all levels in the drive to grow the economy, create wealth and resolve national economic challenges. It further noted that as election activities commence in earnest this year, the business community hopes for a peaceful and progressive process that will protect the country’s economic and business activities. The experts at the ACCI, however, acknowledged the many interventions of the government to enhance and boost economic opportunities. FG Clears Air On AEDC As DisCo’s New Board Begins Work Glitz, Glamour As Luxury Real Estate Awards Holds In Abuja “We also note the constraints confronting the government in the area of low revenue and mounting expenditure,” they stated. The chamber added, “However, the persistent insecurity in the country has significantly affected the ease of doing business. “We call on the government to follow through with its promises of re-energising and reorganising the security apparatus to tackle this hydra-headed monster to an end.” The move is quite imperative, given World Bank’s take that “In 2022, Nigeria is expected to have one of the highest inflation rates in the world and the seventh highest in Sub-Saharan Africa,” it said. The bank said this in the November edition of its Nigeria Development Update. According to the global financial institution, high inflation hampers the country’s attempt to achieve economic recovery and erodes the purchasing power of most vulnerable households. The document read in part, “High inflation is frustrating Nigeria’s economic recovery and eroding the purchasing power of the most vulnerable households. In the absence of measures to contain inflation, rising prices will continue to diminish the welfare of Nigerian households.” The bank further highlighted the adverse effects of inflation on Nigeria, which include pushing eight million Nigerians into poverty and the possible disruption of consumption, investment and saving decisions, among other consequences. “If inflation had been closer to the CBN’s goal of nine per cent in 2021, the average Nigeria’s consumption would have been 15 per cent higher, and eight million Nigerians would have not fallen into poverty. “If double-digit inflation persists during 2022-2023, rising prices will distort consumption, investment, and saving decisions of the government, households, and firms, with adverse ramifications for long-term borrowing and lending. “Over time, the disproportionate impact of inflation on lower-income households and those working in sectors with low savings , for instance agriculture, will exacerbate inequality. Ultimately, inflation will not only negatively affect incomes, but also economic productivity and job creation, further constraining the recovery,” the bank said. The Washington, United States-based institution also disclosed that over two years, an increase in food prices accounted for about 70 per cent of the annual increase in the rate of inflation. It also said that inflationary pressures were trigged by multiple demand and supply shocks. The document read in part, “Inflationary pressures are being generated by multiple demand and supply shocks. Supply shocks arising from disruption of supply chains linked to COVID-19 and associated containment measures have eased, but security issues, border closures, and limited access to markets continue to fuel inflation.