Alleges Cartel’s Involvement In Frustrating Turn Around of Refineries ABUJA – Nigeria Christian Forum, (NCF), a coalition of Protestants and Catholic faithful has called on the organized labour (Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) ) and other private sectors to support the federal government’s bid to remove the subsidy on fuel. They urged labour to shelve their planned protest and toe the path of dialogue, warning that any attempt to protest could be highjacked by hoodlums especially as the country nears an electioneering campaign year. Subsidy Removal Will Help 2022 Budget Implementation –… Subsidy Removal: N5,000 To 40 Million Nigerians Can’t… Insisting that the Federal government must be courageous to make the move to salvage the nation from total collapse, NCF disclosed the presence of indicators that “if the fuel subsidy which guzzles a whopping sum of N250 billion monthly was not removed now, the nation has allowed itself affliction that would continue to have a devastating effect on the economy, stating that the nation must be wriggled out of the burden at all cost.” At a press conference in Abuja on Monday, Chairman of the Nigeria Christian Forum (NCF), Bishop John Mathew who was flanked by other executives lamented that “fuel subsidy”, was an identified evil that must be tackled headlong without sparing any effort. He said that “fuel subsidy regime was a creation of elites’ ‘pipeline’ to swindle the Nigeria economy. The elite, they said, some of who are no more in government, but hibernates and were monitoring developments within the oil downstream sector from the comfort of their hotel rooms to ensure they impose their will on government.” This is as thr forum lamented that fuel subsidy was long overdue for complete removal. He alleged that there were “cartels conniving with some bad elements within the oil sector to frustrate the turnaround maintenances and rehabilitation of two ailing refineries.” POLL NCF also argued that the Nigeria National Petroleum Limited (NNPL) would be able to meet the country’s daily fuel consumption target of 56 million litres, if the refineries have been reactivated, noting that it would not be possible if the cartels behind fuel subsidy regime were not dismantled. The body tasked the NNPL to channel funds recovered from the removal of subsidy to rehabilitation and reactivation of the refineries, which they believed would force down fuel price per litre if fuel was being produced locally. It said: “For decades, one wonders, why the Federal government has failed in the turnaround maintenances of the two refineries, one in Kaduna and another in Portharcourt. “If the refineries are working, there would be no need for the importation of fuel and it could be optimally produced locally which, of course, means there is no need for fuel subsidy, so we know where our challenges in the oil sector lies. “As at April 2021, there was a slight decline in the distribution of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) to 56 million litres, despite FG’s effort at ensuring continuous increase which the NNPC recorded trading surplus by 24% in that month.” Former Rep To Buhari: Use Subsidy Removal Gains To Fix… Subsidy Removal: History Will Be Kind To Buhari –… The Christian group further commended the Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Limited, Mr. Mele Kyari for the reforms that saw the Petroleum Industry Bill passed into law by the National Assembly last year, adding that the act should be implemented to the latter. According to them, the NNPC’s construction and rehabilitation of some roads across the nation was a right step in the right direction, even as they called on the NNPC to intervene in other critical sectors for rapid development and growth of the country.