LAGOS  – The Council of Maritime Transport Union Associations (COMTUA), has expressed worry over corruption going on at the Lagos ports’ access roads. The Council thus, has demanded forthwith, an end to extortion of truckers along the access roads leading to the sea ports of Lagos by officials of the enforcement team responsible for the free flow of traffic in and out of the ports. Mr Yinka Aroyewun, President of COMTUA made this call when he led some members of the council on a courtesy visit to the Assistant Inspector General (AIG), Adeleke Adeyinka, of Zone 2 police Command, Onikan, Lagos, last weekend. Shippers’ Council Wants Economic Regulatory Functions Backed By… Merchant Navy Union Laments Harassment, Extortion Of Seafarers… Yinka told the police boss that truckers have become cash cows for the enforcement team which consisted of the Police, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) officials among others. He urged the Police AIG to put an end to the extortion outside the port premises. According to the COMTUA President, “We are here to intimate you of our business, what we do and what we represent, the maritime industry is so large that it contributes about 40 percent of revenue to the government coffers yearly. “We are the members of COMTUA, some people believe when they talk about union you are talking about touts, but we are here so that you can see who we are, we are law abiding citizens who know the importance of the maritime sector to the economy. “However, while carrying out our lawful businesses, we do experience some bottlenecks outside the port corridors which fall under your jurisdiction, this includes extortion from officials of the enforcement team responsible for free flow of traffic in and out of the port, the enforcement team consist of the Police, LASTMA officials NPA officials among others. POLL “We want you to come to our aid in this regard, it has gotten to a level where police officers remove our plate numbers, demanding that we path with some money before the plate numbers are returned,” he alleged. In response, AIG Adeyinka assured that he would try his best to bring sanity to the Apapa traffic environment. He said that there was no perfect environment but assured that he would use his good office to stop the illegal act on the port access roads. The AIG also urged members of COMTUA to have a representative who will be part of the enforcement team. He said by so doing it would be easier to remove some of the bottlenecks highlighted. Bonny Monarch Tasks Govt On Deep Seaport Development, Others In… NDLEA Reads Riot Act To Drug Smugglers, Traffickers “Let me reassure that we will try as much as possible to bring sanity to the environment, there is no environment that is perfect, but we will do our best to stop the illegal act. “Also, I think it would have been better if you have a representative in the enforcement team, this I believe will help reduce the bottlenecks you have stated, I mean you’re the ones who knows where the shoe pinches,” he said.