ABUJA  – The FCT Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture, as at the time of filling this report are at loggerheads over use of the Abuja Old Parade Ground, OPG, either as site for building of pyramid to showcase the newly introduced genetically modified maize products, or its continued use as training and match venue for soccer clubs that has gainfully engaged over 300 professional and amateur professional players. The matter is made more complicated after the stadium was re-grassed and given befitting uplift by a soccer enthusiast to a tune of N3 million recently. According Dr Ramatu Aliyu, Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT), no such erecting of any pyramid must happen on the pitch, directing that all plans to destroy the Old Parade Ground football pitch and defacing of the perimeter fence of the pitch to make way for building of Maize pyramid at the football pitch be halted. ARDS To Boost Tractor Hiring Scheme With Tracking Devices FCT-IRS To Begin Enforcement Of Submission Of Annual Tax Returns The minister says she is unaware of the plan to destroy the only pitch open for all Abuja based male and female football clubs in the FCT. She declared that the decision was ill-considered and conceived considering its imminent impact on the lives and livelihoods of youths in the FCT. Speaking through her aide Ronke Ogunleye, the minister said she was not aware not briefed on the programme and use of the facility so as to give informed advice. But the Agric Ministry through another official is saying that the FCT minister has no power to halt the pyramid construction. In what appeared like a show of power, one Alhaji Mohammed Kabir has insisted that the minister cannot stop the plan, stating that his Committee received approval from the presidency. POLL Speaking to journalists on phone, Kabir said that it was only president Mohammadu Buhari that can stop them ,pointing out that over hundred trucks conveying the maize from different parts of the north are due to arrive Abuja Monday night. Asked who in the presidency gave approval to deface the pitch , he said he would not disclosed the name. Kabir who said he is the Chairman of the committee charged with erecting the pyramids said the plan has advanced and cannot be halted. A massive protest akin to the #Endsars protest was averted yesterday when the news of the capital city The youths from over four clubs that make use of the pitch condemned the decision of government said to have emanated from the presidency and to destroy the Old Parade Ground pitch. 2022 Economic Outlook: High Taxation, Inflation, Others Killing… FG Markets Its Mining Sector Abroad Ahead 2022 Over three hundred youths whose clubs use the old Parade Ground pitch had planned a protest there late evening on Monday, but decided to shift it to Tuesday. They listed the action as part of anti-youth policy of the administration. The maize pyramid it was gathered is part of the administration’s Political action to showcase its commitment to food security in the country. Along the same programme, Rice farmers Association have already built rice pyramids at the ABUJA Trade Fair along the ever busy Umaru YarAdua Bulavard ( Airport Road) Lugbe Abuja. Already, agents from the Agric ministry breached the perimeter fence of the pitch in readiness for the arrival later on Tuesday of hundreds of trucks believed to be conveying Biologically Modified Maize. It would be recalled that a private individual, Barrister Paul Edeh had late last committed over N 3 million to re-grass and water the pitch which was abandoned for long to enable clubs in the FCT have access to standard ground to ply their trade.