Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a seasoned politician, is a former Head of Publicity, Rochas Okorocha Presidential Campaign Organisation as well as Secretary General, Igbo Peoples Movement (IPM). He later became the National Coordinator, Igbo Peoples Action Congress (IPAC) and Director General/National Facilitator, Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha. Adikwuru, who served as Executive Secretary, Imo State Pools Betting and Gaming Board under Okorocha between 2012 and 2013, and a Leader of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in AbohMbaise LGA of Imo State, was appointed Director of Operations, Imo State Pools Betting and Gaming Board during the Ihedioha Rebuild Imo Government, before power suddenly switched over to the incumbent Governor Hope Uzodimma of the APC, courtesy of a Supreme Court judgment. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, Hon. Adikwuru discusses the number of presidential contenders for the 2023 election. Excerpt: Former Lagos State governor and All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has finally declared that he would want to succeed President Muhammadu. How do you see this development? Former Governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s reported visit to his Party Leader and President Muhammadu Buhari to announce his presidential ambition was long speculated, but now history. It is normal for anyone nursing the ambition of such magnitude to reach out to the incumbent occupant, especially of same party. Tinubu Is Preferable To Osinbajo As Presidential Candidate –… APC Has A Lot To Learn From PDP – Adoji Before Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s announcement, there were speculations that the All Progressives Congress (APC) might be considering former President Goodluck Jonathan as possible presidential candidate. Do you see this as realistic considering that Jonathan has been a chieftain of the PDP? Speculations rule the days we are presently in right now. So, it is not unusual to hear that former President Goodluck Jonathan was being lobbied by the APC to run the presidential race under the ruling party’s platform. However, it appears to me that APC is running helter-skelter for possibilities in the coming 2023 elections. It is difficult to believe that former President Jonathan would ever contemplate going into elective politics under any party platform, not even the PDP and worse of all, the APC that had made life miserable for Nigerians and also made a mockery of the former president at every occasion. So, the speculations can go on, but it is not feasible. It is also believed that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, also want to run for the position of president under the APC. Between Tinubu, Osinbajo and Fayemi, who among them do you think would make a better president of the country? Speculations again have it that Vice President Yemi Osibanjo and Governor Fayemi of Ekiti State are both eyeing the presidency. You cannot expect me to see anyone of the three hasslers, including Tinubu, in the light of acceptability for the presidential seat, simply because the All Progressives Congress (APC), as a platform of governance, is a total failure. There is no evidence that giving another chance to the APC can better the lives of Nigerians, let alone leading to the recovering of our lost economic values. I cannot also discourage the trio from contesting the presidential primaries because their party must field a presidential candidate, irrespective of their imminent rejection by Nigerians. Also, Governor Yahaya Belo of Kogi State has long indicated that he wants the APC presidential ticket. How realistic and possible do you think his aspiration could be? POLL Governor Yahya Bello of Kogi State has the fundamental right to his ambition. It does not matter that he has not shown responsibility of governance in Kogi State. Yet, he is entitled to contest for higher positions. We must have various shades of political gladiators, including clowns who will enliven the depressed minds of Nigerians. One of such clowns or comedians is Bello, whose reported presidential ambition forcefully puts laughter in the mouth of Nigerians, at least to ease off the frustration emanating from the APC regime across the federation. How would you say the Asiwaju Tinubu’s announcement would leave the South? The declaration by Alhaji Bola Abmed Tinubu of his presidential ambition is already drawing up commentaries all over the country and the Southern Nigeria in particular. Not here to quote anyone or take a cue from any commentator, but I will simply say that Tinubu’s proclaimed presidential ambition is laughable and an insult on the entire Southern Nigeria. I do not see reasoning and regard to the South by this man with greed allegedly as his mainstay in political participation. Again, I do not see wisdom in an ageing man with frail health conditions coming to draw Nigeria further into senility. And I cannot comprehend the mission of a man who has amassed so much wealth through politics to seek to wreck Nigerian economy the more. Be it as it may, I see Tinubu’s presidential ambition as end of career, as APC will be unfocused to grant him the ticket. Chief Anyim Pius Anyim, former Senate President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) has also indicated interest to run for president. Would you say that Anyim, a top Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, has the capacity to rule the nation? Chief Pius Anyim, I must say, has exercised his political right in aspiring for the presidency of Nigeria. On records, he has held the Office of the President of the Senate of the Federal Republic and as such, a Presiding Officer of the National Assembly. He has also served as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), a position that placed him as the Chief Administrator of the Federation.To this extent, one can say that Senator Anyim Pius Anyim has gathered reasonable experience in the Legislative and Executive arms of government at the national level. As a lawyer, he has traversed between the three arms of government, being the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. In the light of this, it can be logically placed that the aspiration of Pius Anyim is laden with cognate experience. AFCON: Atiku Hails Super Eagles Over Sudan Defeat Tinubu Pays Condolence Visit To Makinde Over  Olubadan, Soun,… How do see the presidential aspiration of Mao Ohuabunwa, who is also of PDP stock and leader of the New Nigerian Movement? Mao Ohuabunwa is also sighted on the presidential aspiration arena. It is a welcome development and probably the second aspirant from the South East PDP. Of course, Ohuabunwa is a known name in politics and a legislative colossus, so to say. One can only say that it is encouraging to have the aspirants coming from different corners, activating the polity and creating greater awareness among the populace. As time draws up, Nigerians will have an array of aspirants to make their choice from. Apart from Senator Anyim and Mao Ohuabunwa, would you say the PDP has other leaders that can stand against the APC and win come 2023? Talking about Anyim Pius Anyim and Mao Ohuabunwa of the PDP in comparison with APC, I can say that it is too early to begin the comparison. Even as we talk, more and more aspirants are emerging, while others are still consulting and would soon come up to the public to announce their aspirations. All I can say is that the 2023 presidential election will be one of the hottest contests in Nigeria’s political history. Governor David Umahi has also announced his intention to run for president under the APC. Do you see him as a serious and strong contender? On the declaration of interest by Governor Dave Umahi to run the presidential race under APC, it is the balancing of equation with Bola Tinubu. Dave Umahi is on the threshold of the promises given to him by the APC, which prompted his defection from the PDP. I must say that APC is on trial with the latest declaration by Dave Umahi because, with all sincerity, Umahi has better credibility, integrity, pedigree and acceptability than Bola Tinubu, whose political history is shrouded in alleged fraudulent activities. Umahi is a trap unto APC should the party show preference to Bola Tinubu, with an array of alleged ugly past. What direction do you think South South will likely go as regards the 2023 presidency? The South South is going to play a critical role in the presidential election come 2023. Sometime in the past, the South East was seen as the beautiful bride. But, it appears certain that the South South has emerged as the beautiful bride. Let me stop here till further unfolding.