JOS – Wife of Silas Vem, the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Deputy Governor of Plateau State, Dorcas Vem, has been kidnapped by gun­men. The gunmen, in a sep­arate operation, also kid­napped Dr. Samuel Audu, a Director in the state Minis­try of Health. A source from the Gov­ernment House said, “For almost three days now, the whereabouts of wife of the Deputy Chief of Staff, Government House, Dorcas Silas Vem, has remained unknown. Okowa Mourns Shonekan Inner Wheel District 912 Marks Founders Day, Donates Baby Kits… “She is a staff of the University of Jos and her husband is the Deputy Chief of Staff in the Office of the Deputy Governor of Plateau State, Professor Sonny Tyoden. “Their house is at the Little Rayfield in Jos, very close to the Government House. The woman was just driving to their house when some gunmen accosted her in front of their gate. They forcefully dragged her out of her vehicle and took her away to an unknown desti­nation. The incident hap­pened on Sunday and since then, we have not seen her.” A worker at the state Ministry of Health, who confirmed the director’s abduction said he was go­ing home after closing from work when some hoodlums abducted him in the Barkin Ladi community. He said, “It was just last night (Monday). The Direc­tor has a hospital at Barkin Ladi LGA. He was in his car driving back to his house in Barkin Ladi after attend­ing to an emergency at his hospital when some people emerged from nowhere and blocked his vehicle at his gate at the Chairman’s quarters. “He was still calling his wife to open the gate for him when the hoodlums immediately, ordered him into their waiting vehicle and drove away. POLL “They abandoned the vehicle driven by the di­rector with the doors wide open. We don’t know what is happening in Plateau State with regard to the security of the people be­cause the kidnapping and abductions are just too much. Something needs to be done and quickly too be­fore the situation gets out of hand.” The Police Public Rela­tions Officer in Plateau, Ubah Ogaba, when con­tacted, said the Command was aware of the abduction of the wife of the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Dep­uty Governor, saying that efforts were being made to rescue her.