P/Harcourt – Thousands of students from all the tertiary institutions in Rivers state have come out in their numbers to show solidarity to Senator Magnus Abe and urged him to immediately declare his ambition to contest for the governorship of the state in 2023. The students under the aegis of Progressive Students Network, PSN, on Monday stormed the Freedom House, Magnus Abe’s political office located at the highbrow area of GRA, in Port Harcourt, the state capital, informed the former senator that they were ready to mobilize millions of youths in the state to support his candidacy. The state coordinator of the group, Comrade Endwell Otonnah in his speech said the reason for the overwhelming support for Abe by the Rivers state students was because of the “deep interest he has on the welfare of students across the state, party and ethnic lines”. Ukraine: US Troops On High Alert Over Stand-Off AFCON: Cameroon Beat 10-Man Comoros To Reach Quarterfinals Otonnah said that at some point, students in the state were denied “scholarship, bursary and empowerment scheme among others. These things are very important in the Students community. But Distinguished Senator Magnus Ngei Abe came and ensured that we were paid our bursaries and every other thing that we needed to excel in our studies were made available through him. “One good turn deserves another”, he said, “we are here in Freedom House to call on our leader to present himself for the 2023 governorship election in Rivers state. We are here to promise you that we will galvanize support in every unit, ward and local government areas in the state to ensure that you emerge the next Governor of our dear Rivers state” he said. Otonnah who launched the political concept; operation 10,000 for Senator Magnus Abe, assured that being the most vibrant of all the political structures in any society, members of the PSN who are mainly students would go extra mile to ensure that the sensitization of Abe’s candidacy is taken to the nooks and crannies of the state. Inaugurating the group, the factional chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Barr Golden Chioma urged the students to be law-abiding citizens and good ambassadors of their respective families. He urged them to continue to talk to family members and friends about the need to vote for APC and Magnus Abe when the elections finally come. In his response, Abe said that he accepted to associate with PSN because of the steadfastness of the members and promised not to let them down. “I agreed to meet with you today because you have put in a lot of efforts in doing this”. POLL Abe who represented the Rivers South-East senatorial district in the senate charged the students to fully participate in politics, noting “the future belongs to you. But if you don’t participate in how the future is determined, then you don’t have any reason to complain”. He said that though he was yet to officially declare his governorship ambition, “I am still consulting and being with you today is part of that consultation. When the time comes and if I am chosen by our party to run, I will definitely inform all of you”.