PZ Cussons ,consumer and home appliances manufacturer, hosted its customers in the spirit of the yuletide. Its brand, Devon King’s which hosted the customers to an event tagged King’s Fest, was organised to promote and celebrate the joy of family bonding amongst its consumers. During the event, Devon King’s also unveiled a new television commercial to showcase the importance of family bonding amongst other activities. Uber Introduces 3% Booking Fee From This Month Bastion Health CSR Project Donates To Health Units Of Five… Chioma Mbanugo, the Head of Marketing for PZ Wilmar, while speaking at the event, said the event was organised to bring families together during this Yuletide season and also to create memorable moments with family and friends. “This event has been organised for our consumers, in the spirit of the season to come celebrate with their loved ones and create fun memories they’ll carry on for a lifetime. Christmas really brings us more opportunity to bond with family members and that’s the brand’s goal.” Category and Brand Manager for PZ Wilmar Ltd, Oluwatoyin Popoola-Dania, emphasised the uniqueness of Devon King’s in cooking meals and how the product has helped in creating magical bonding moments for families. She further stressed that the event was aimed at helping families unwind from year-long activities. “King’s Fest is targeted at bringing families together to unwind even as they get into the yuletide season; the year has been a tough one for everyone, given the pandemic but regardless of everything, it’s time to share beautiful moments of bonding together. Devon King’s has always been encouraging moments of bonding by creating platforms that allow such moments to be possible and ensuring that each time we come together we enjoy tasty meals cooked by Devon King’s products,” she said. POLL Miyonse Amosu, a celebrity Chef and influencer attested to the power of using Devon King’s range of products to create that refreshing moment that he has been enjoying from his childhood. Devon King’s has been in existence for over five decades and has established itself as a Brand that makes consumers seek moments of togetherness and experience the most memorable ones with Tasty Meals.