If there is one fundamental truth you need to know, believe in, and act upon to succeed in 2022, it is this: Results Don’t Lie! This truth has the potency to radically transform your results in 2022. Many desire to succeed in life but discover that success is like a mirage or illusion. Some have become disillusioned, others cynical about success, while a small minority have become depressed and suicidal. What they all fail to understand is that results don’t lie. Results do not respect personalities, nationalities, gender, ethnicity, or religious beliefs. Your results will ultimately reflect who you are and what you deserve in life. Just as water reflects a person’s face to themselves, results ultimately reflect who you are to you. Ultimately, your external world will correspond to your internal beliefs, attitudes, and actions. If you are mediocre within, you will have mediocre results without. Because results do not respect persons, you will get what you deserve and not what you desire. And this principle holds true in every generation and society. In the end, life delivers to people what they deserve. You may not like the following statement, but if you are producing mediocre results year in, year out, you are either putting forth mediocre effort or you have a mediocre strategy. Either way, whether due to poor effort or faulty strategy, your results don’t lie! You can deceive others and even lie to yourself, but results do not owe any allegiance to you—it will tell you the truth and reveal to you your true self. You can get angry all you want, but Results do not care. It is not emotional or politically correct. It fears no one. And it cannot be cancelled. You can either deny it or accept the truth and deal with it. Guess what? The day you start believing that results don’t lie and start taking responsibility for your results is the day you empower yourself to change the negative results in your life. Novak Djokovic’s Unforced Error Electoral Act Amendment: From A Democracy To An Oligarchy Life is like a game. The most important metric to measure in a game is the result. If you missed a match, the first question you would ask is, Who won? Not who played better. And if you meet a match mid-way, the first question you would ask is, What is the score? This is the most important metric of the game. Why is this question important? The score is used to judge the strategies of both teams and arrive at a reliable prediction of the future outcome. The score not only reveals the current state of affairs—who is winning or losing—but also helps you determine how to invest your time— whether you should continue watching the game or do something else worthwhile. Can you win one game by a stroke of luck? Yes, of course. But can you win a tournament or the league (38 games played over nine months) with luck? The answer is NO. The positions of the teams at the end of the season are a true reflection of all the efforts, strategies, and tactics deployed during the season. The results at the end of the season don’t lie. In the same vein, your position and results at the end of the year will be a culmination of the principles, strategies, efforts, and stupidity you exhibit in 2022. This principle that results don’t lie is a fundamental principle of life and nature. To truly understand this concept, we need to understand and appreciate one of life’s deepest mysteries—what I term life’s feedback loop. A feedback loop is a circuit that completes output and input to form a chain. What do I mean? Every output from you comes back as an input to complete a loop. All ancient sages, philosophers, and major religious movements wrote about this mystery of life. Called by different names—cause and effect, seedtime and harvest, sowing and reaping, action and reaction, karma, boomerang—it doesn’t matter; it is simply an unbreakable chain. Results are life’s feedback for our efforts, strategies, and outputs. Life will always give you feedback, whether now or sometime in the future. This law is immutable. Whatever we give to life will come back to us in “good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over.” Life is always giving us feedback, but many fail to heed the message of the feedback of life (more on this next week). If you provide poor service, life will return to you in the same measure with customers leaving in droves. If you are diligent, life will reward you with promotions and honours. If you are disrespectful to your spouse, don’t be surprised when your spouse is withdrawn. One challenge I have discovered is that when life gives people feedback in the same measure they have given to life, others will attribute it to luck, whether good or bad. It is the simplest way the uninitiated discount people’s years of hard work or explain away their poor results. So, what is the lesson for today? Results don’t lie. Therefore, look at your results. Pay attention to them. If you do not like the results you are getting, you need to change something you are doing because, as you now know, results don’t lie. • Dr Maxwell Ubah is a growth strategist, organisational transformation expert, and an executive leadership coach. He is a graduate of the prestigious Sloan Fellowship Programme in Leadership and Strategy from the London Business School.