ABUJA – A frontline governorship aspirant in Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC), Honourable Bamidele Faparusi, has warned those he branded as “detractors” to stop tagging him as playing a spoiler’s role in the agitation for the zoning of the governorship ticket to Ekiti South Senatorial District. Faparusi who described himself as a “Frontline proponent and champion of zoning advocacy in APC,” said, the fact that he resigned as a serving Commissioner under Governor Kayode Fayemi and plunged into the race further substantiated how unwaveringly committed he is to the agitation. The former federal lawmaker counselled those spreading the rumour of being allegedly used by Governor Fayemi to whittle down the zone to desist, clarifying that he has no records of being known as a fifth columnist in his political dossier and trajectory. Frustrated Heavyweight Boxer Leases Heavy Jab On Referee For… Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (04/01/22) He stated this in a statement to Daily Independent on Monday which was signed by his Media Assistant, Adeyinka Fadumiye. According to the statement, Faparusi denied the sinister allegation milling rounds that he was being “teleguided” by some powerful APC members to rip the southern agitators apart. Describing the accusation as not only baseless and unfounded, Bamidele considered himself and Prof Bolaji Aluko as the most vociferous politicians of southern extraction that had consistently ventilated their views about zoning despite serving in government. He wondered why the detractors were out to smear his image just because of the brotherhood that exists between him and Governor Fayemi, stating that his own views about zoning were not laced with venom, hatred and blood, but based on principles of fairness and justice. He said: “Our attention has been drawn to the invidious fabricated claims and unfounded rumour making the rounds that a leading governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Hon. Bamidele Faparusi is being used by Dr Fayemi to whittle down the votes from the Ekiti South Senatorial District and defeat the advocacy for the deafening south agitation that is gaining currency. POLL “Alternatively according to the faceless proponents of this sinister rumour that Faparusi perceived defer the move as his joker, however, it will be an honour if he secures the support of Governor Fayemi and every other leader to secure the party’s ticket for the 2022 Governorship election “While these extreme display of belligerence and infantile conducts are mere concoctions being peddled by detractors, we are not oblivious of the fact that this could have been inferred from the cordial relationship and brotherhood shared by the duo of Hon Faparusi and Dr Kayode Fayemi, notwithstanding Hon Faparusi’s resignation from the cabinet. “In view of this, it is important to set the record straight in the spirit of accountability. We want to make it absolutely clear that Hon. Faparusi is not being used by H.E Dr John Kayode Fayemi or any other person in the party to undermine the chance of Ekiti south to produce the next Governor in the state. “To reinforce this position, Hon Fappy and Prof Bolaji Aluko were the only Exco members who demonstrated rare courage to speak out in favour of Ekiti South amidst the deafening silence engulfing the hallowed spaces where decisions are made”. Faparusi recalled that he was among the thirty-three aspirants that contested the 2018 Governorship election along with Governor Fayemi wherein he was in the field campaigning for over three years building structures across the state. Buhari, Atiku, Ganduje, Anyim Mourn Former Presidential… One Shot Dead As Police Foil Attempt To Burn Imo Monarch’s… “It is also worthy of mention that Hon Faparusi was offered the opportunity to return to the house of representatives after the 2018 general election, an offer he declined on the premise of equity, fairness and justice. “He has historically demonstrated his perchance for participatory governance particularly at the time he put the overall interest of Ekiti South Federal Constituency over self-interest. This culminated in the rotational system that shifted power to Ekiti East that produced the current House of Representatives member after Hon Faparusi’s local government had done it twice in quick succession. “It is, therefore, laughable for anyone to insinuate that Fappy is contesting this election to negotiate for the House of Representatives or the Senate rather Fappy is contesting this election among other reasons to enhance the chances of Ekiti South to produce the next governor, foster unity among party members and to consolidate on the achievement of this administration wherein he served as the commissioner for Infrastructure and Public Utilities. To address every misgiving, Faparusi’s resignation from the state EXCO to contest again for the governorship election was a unilateral decision, taken with the concurrence of his followers in and outside of the State. This is without prejudice to his strong belief that only a candidate from the south senatorial district can win the election for APC in the 2022 governorship election. “It is, therefore, an act of mischief for anyone to believe that someone of Hon Faparusi’s political pedigree and trajectory is been used.” Faparusi said as a former House of Representatives member, grassroots mobilizer, political strategist, former Commissioner, DG of a Governorship campaign to mention a few that, he is a firm believer in the saying that power resides with the people and that God is the author and finisher of the destiny of Man. We, therefore, use this medium to reassure all Ekiti sons and daughters that Fappy is contesting the Ekiti 2022 election to win. “Without the risk of being immodest, Hon Faparusi still remains the best man for the job with his legislative and executive experience, his ideologically inclined leadership and consistent loyalty to the party since 1999 without ever decamping, a professional international businessman with private sector experience, a respected grassroots politician and above all he hails from Ode-Ekiti, Ayekire LGA of Ekiti South senatorial district, a senatorial district that has not had the opportunity to produce the Governor of the state since 1999 (22 years of the State existence). “Let it be known that no amount of blackmail or intimidation will deter Hon Bamidele Faparusi from the struggle of securing justice for Ekiti South Senatorial district. “I, therefore, wish to appeal to all APC members of good conscience to stand up against injustice and refuse to be intimidated or persuaded to support any aspirant that is not from Ekiti south. “We are a progressive party, let us stand up for what is right, let us stand up for equity, fairness and justice, let us stand up for Ekiti South senatorial district, let us stand up for Hon Bamidele Faparusi. “Faparusi remains the easiest way and surest candidate to WIN for APC in the forthcoming governorship election,” he stated.