JUSTUS ADEJUMOH; CHIBUZOR EMEJOR President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday launched the National Policy on 5G for Nigeria’s Digital Economy with a directive to all the security institutions to immediately leverage technology, when deployed, to enhance security in the country. He also assured that the Federal Government will take full advantage of the opportunities that 5G provides for the economy, security and well-be­ing of the nation. Intel Scores Major Win As Court Scraps $1.2bn EU Antitrust Fine 2023: Be Interested In Who Succeeds You, Ohaneze Tells Buhari He allayed fears over health safe­ty of 5G, affirming that such issues have been “effectively addressed” in developing a pol­icy that suits the country. On the benefits of 5G tech­nologies, the president noted it can support virtually every sector of the economy, includ­ing enhanced connectivity, im­proved healthcare, support for education while fostering smart cities, and boosting agriculture, among other advantages. A statement issued by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity) quoted the president as saying: “5G technology is signifi­cantly faster than earlier digi­tal technologies and it provides near real-time communication. This can play a key role in boost­ing our efforts towards enhanc­ing security across the nation. “It will enable our security institutions to effectively deploy robotics, autonomous vehicles, augmented and virtual reality to address any security chal­lenges that we face.” POLL The policy was presented and approved at the Federal Executive Council meeting on September 8, 2021, following a robust debate. The president explained that the National 5G Policy includes a deployment plan to ensure that major cities across the country benefit from the technologies. He added that the policy, which is in line with the com­mitment of this administra­tion to supporting the digital economy as an enabler for the diversification of our national economy, also seeks to make 5G a major driver of the economy, a catalyst for smart cities in the country and a platform for the creation of jobs that support the digital economy. He, therefore, assured inves­tors that the Federal Govern­ment would continue to pro­vide an enabling environment for their businesses to be very successful as Nigeria begins the roll-out of the technology. President Buhari directed the Minister of Communica­tions and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, to super­vise the implementation of the policy, being done by the Nigeri­an Communications Commis­sion with the support of other government institutions. Ashafa Commiserates With Sanwo-Olu Over… Defection; APC Loses Reps Member To PDP He also used the occasion to provide a rundown of how his administration has created an enabling environment for investments to thrive in Nige­ria’s digital economy. He recounted that the jour­ney to the launch of the 5G Na­tional Policy started with the launch of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy in November 2019 as well as the launch of a number of policies to strengthen the digital econ­omy, including the Nigerian National Broadband Plan and the National Policy for the Pro­motion of Indigenous Content in the Nigerian Telecommuni­cations Sector. He noted that under his watch the agreement of the National Economic Council to peg the cost of the right of way at N145 per linear metre which was made in 2013, was only implemented in late 2019, after the intervention of the Federal Government. According to the president, the Information and Commu­nications Technology sector played a prime role in enabling Nigeria’s economy to swiftly exit the recession that was triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. President further said: “The GDP report of the National Bu­reau of Statistics showed that the ICT sector was the fastest growing sector in the fourth quarter of 2020 and entire year 2020, recording double-digit growth rates of 14.70 percent and 12.90 percent, respectively.”