LAGOS  – As the ever rising demand for affordable houses continues to soar high, and as part of the government’s continued efforts to reduce the housing deficit across the state, the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC) has delivered 480 units of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom flats at B.O. Benson Estate, Ibeshe, Ikorodu to be sold between N5,000,000 – N13,500,000. This project was supervised by the State Ministry of Housing. The development which started during the administration of former Governor now Minister, Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN was delivered and commissioned by the administration of Mr. Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu in November 2021. Experts Proffer Solution To Mitigate Building Collapse In 2022 Expired Provisional Planning Permits: LASG Demands Applications… The project is designed to provide decent accommodation for sub-urban dwellers thereby increasing the stock of decent homes in the State. This does not only reduce the housing deficit in the State but also provide conducive environments for family and communal living in all parts of the State. B.O. Benson Estate, Ibeshe sits on a land area of 15 hectares opposite Nichemtex factory, Baiyeku LCDA, Ibeshe Road. It was executed by seasoned professionals in the Corporation (LSDPC) and built by contractors who employed artisans within the locality, giving opportunities for local residents to be a part of the project first hand. Consequently, this led to economic growth and employment around the area. POLL LSDPC has been privileged to have worked alongside the Ministry of Housing in the execution and completion of a series of LagosHoms in the State namely; Anthony Enahoro Housing Estate, Ogba, LagosHoms Shitta Surulere, LagosHoms Suco Road, Oko Oba, LagosHoms Akerele/Randle, Surulere and LagosHoms Amuwo Odofin. The estate is an architectural showpiece erected in its environ. It is an edifice of real estate development equipped with modern facilities to provide homes for the people in a conducive, serene and well planned environment. The structure comprises of 40 blocks of 480 units of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom flats. Each flat comes with kitchen fittings, store and visitor’s toilet. External features of the estate include 7 Nos. Transformer, 1 injection Station, 2 Refuse Houses, Car park, Water Treatment Plant, GRD/Overhead Water Tanks, Borehole and 2 Pump Houses. Among other ancillary buildings include Generator House, Community Halls, Roads/Drains and Central Sewage System. The B.O. Benson Estate is one of the several laudable developments delivered by LSDPC.