Tongans living overseas are facing an anxious wait for news of loved ones after a volcano triggered a tsunami. The underwater volcano erupted on Saturday, about 65km (40 miles) north of the capital Nuku’alofa. The eruption, which was heard as far away as the US, caused waves higher than a meter to crash into Tonga. COVID-19: UK Reports 84,429 New Cases, 85 Deaths JABU Gives N25,000, Automatic Employment To 2 First Class… The authorities have not confirmed any deaths but communications are crippled, making it difficult to establish the scale of the destruction. But the brother of a British woman said she died after being swept away in the waves. Angela Glover, 50, was washed away while trying to save her dogs. More than 10,000km away, two people drowned off a beach in northern Peru amid abnormally high waves. Both New Zealand and Australia sent surveillance flights to find out more, with New Zealand saying there had been “significant damage” along the western coast of Tongatapu, Tonga’s main island. But the Red Cross gave some cause for hope, saying reports suggested the damage was not as bad as had been feared. POLL “We believe that from the information that we can put together that it is not as catastrophic in those major population centres as we first thought that it might be, so that’s really good news,” said Katie Greenwood, who is coordinating the organisation’s response from Fiji. Internet and telephone communications in Tonga are extremely limited and outlying coastal areas remain cut off. ‘We are just desperate’For many Tongans living overseas, it has been two days since they have been able to speak to family and friends. Petilise Tuima told the Sydney Morning Herald that the last time she spoke to her family was on Saturday afternoon when they were fleeing to higher ground. “Everyone is calling each other within our Tongan groups, wanting to see if anyone has picked up or heard anything… We are just desperate,” she said. Group Wants FG, EFCC To Stop Uzodimma From Taking More Loans BREAKING: Cristiano Ronaldo Wins FIFA Special Award Sia Adams, a Tongan in Australia, told the BBC she had heard nothing from family members who lived near the water. “It’s really hard not knowing anything – at the moment we are just waiting like everyone else,” she said. The Ha’atafu Beach Resort on Tongatapu was “completely wiped out” and “the whole western coastline completely destroyed”, according to a post on the resort’s Facebook page written by contacts overseas. The post said those living there “just managed to get to safety running through the bushes and escaping”, and were “not able to save anything”. The Pacific correspondent for Television New Zealand, Barbara Dreaver, wrote on Facebook that it would take “at least two weeks before international phones and internet are working again”, due to damage inflicted on a critical submarine cable as a result of the volcanic eruption. (SOURCE: BBC)