ABUJA –  Bello Matawalle, Zamfara State governor, has said that banditry in his state has turned into a lucrative venture owing to the influence of politicians. The governor gave this assertion after he met President Muhamma­du Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday, to brief him on the security situation in his state. Matawalle, who crossed to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP), a plat­form on which he clinched the position, said security situation was bound to im­prove in the coming days be­cause the president has given a directive to the military to quell the crisis. Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… “The president is now de­termined as a result of the briefing he got from me to strengthen security activities and this will bring changes in the situation by this Wednes­day,” he told State House cor­respondents. He debunked reports that over 200 persons were killed in the recent attacks in Bukuyyum and Anka area of the state, saying 58 persons fell victims. The governor buttressed his position, insisting that he personally visited the scenes of the attacks and got firsthand information from the emirs. He blamed those he re­ferred to as “political ban­dits” as being behind the ban­dying of unverified figures. Commenting on possible solutions to the insecurity in Zamfara, he said: “Well, you know when I assumed duty as a governor I used so many options to bring this insecu­rity to a minimal level. First of all, I initiated dialogue and reconciliation between the herders and farmers and during that dialogue, we spent more than nine months without any crisis in Zam­fara State. It worked. POLL “But unfortunately, people used politics, because they have collaborators, of course. So, they went back to those bandits, telling them that the government is not serious about this dialogue, that we did not give them anything. “So, the bandits decided to go back to their normal busi­nesses. That’s why I backed out from the reconciliation programme. But definitely, it worked for over nine months. But because this is some­thing that I inherited, that has been going on for almost eight years, and you don’t ex­pect it to end within just two years of my administration. Because it is supposed to be ongoing process. “So, after I realised that some of them had backed out of this dialogue, then I cut off the programme. I then initiated the cutting off of communications, and some logistics that used to go to the bandits from August 2011 to December 2011. And it worked too. “But sometimes those col­laborators who are usually happy with what is happen­ing, who are even jubilating if people are being killed, they went back and started again, saying that the gov­ernment is not serious and instigating some of the pub­lic. In fact, they even dragged me to court. “So you see with the kind of people we have in Zamfara State, I don’t think this issue of banditry will end very soon because, already, some people are behind it. Some people are using it”. Mental Health: Lagos Tackling Challenges With Building Of First… Oyo CP Leads Routine Patrol Team To Onigari, Assures Commuters… Recall that beyond Zam­fara, other states like Katsi­na, Sokoto and Niger have be­come hot beds for terrorism, a development that prompted President Buhari to order massive onslaught on the attackers. “And all they need is at least to show Nigerians that both the federal and Zamfara state governments are not se­rious on the issue of insecuri­ty, despite the fact that some of them are involved in the crisis of this insecurity. But we’re doing our best.” Asked about actual people killed in the latest terrorist attacks in the state over which he said he came to the Villa to brief the Presi­dent, Matawalle stated: “So, I briefed Mr. President on what happened and the next action that we should take and the government is doing everything possible to make sure that we bring sanity in the state. “Ahamdullahi, all the action that we have taken, we have recorded successes within just three days. And you will bear me witness af­ter that attack, there has not been any report of any ban­ditry activities in the state up till today.” On the number of people killed recently, the governor explained: “Yes, I have al­ready cleared the air about the figures because I have seen some reporting that 200 people, 300 people, 500 people were killed. But I went to the community by myself and the security agencies. “First, we went to Bungu­du and we confirmed from the emir that it was only 36 people that have been killed and two communities were razed by these bandits. And when we went to Anka, we met the emir, at the time we met him he gave us a list of 22 people that have been killed, making the total number of 58 people killed. “But as I’ve been saying there are some political ban­dits who have been spreading lies, rumours so that they can achieve some political gain. “But actually it is just 58 people that have just been killed. But some people will just go to social media and be writing some figures and I have informed Mr. President of some people who think that with this insecurity they can achieve something out of it. “Because I wonder how people will just be writing figures without having gen­uine information from those communities. Someone will just call a media personnel and tell him that look so so number of people have been killed in so so place. “Some people even swear with Holy Koran that thou­sands of people have been killed which is grossly mis­leading but we know all those kind of people do not want peace in the nation but God will prevail Inshallah.” The Zamfara governor in­formed that his government is investigating those who may be collaborating with terrorists in the state with a view to fishing them out. He added: “Well, like I said, we are still investigat­ing those that are involved in these activities and we’ll make the public know after the confirmation of the real­ity of all the information that we have at hand. Because, we are working to make sure that all those who have hand in this insecurity must be brought to justice. “Therefore, once the inves­tigation is concluded, we’ll inform the public of the re­sult of the investigation of what the security (agency) is doing about it.” On his interaction with the President Buhari, he said the president assured him on action that will be taken soon to address Zamfara insecurity. He explained further: “You know I do initiate some actions to be taken and if I ini­tiate some action, I do inform Mr. President, and I’ve been getting support from him. “So, now, I initiated anoth­er option which I informed him but you know, some is­sue of security is not some­thing that someone should be talking on the screen of television or pages of news­papers, but I assure the peo­ple of Zamfara State that they will see changes very soon and Mr. President is committed to bringing down this issue of insecurity to barest level. “And I assure people that we have all it takes to fight these people and he has mo­tivated me and when we go back on Wednesday, the peo­ple will see changes between now and Wednesday because I know what we discussed and I know what is going to happen within this period. “So, my people would be happy with the action that the Federal (Government) is going to take on the issue of insecurity very soon Inshal­lah.” Meanwhile, bandits have asked nine communities in Bukkuyum Local Govern­ment Area of Zamfara State to pay levies or face attack. The communities are Gaude, Tungar Gebe, Wawan Iccen Ibrahim, Wawan Iccen Salihu, Galle, Nannarki, Ru­wan Kura, Gangara and Yar­galma. The levies range from N500,000 to N5 million. A resident said the let­ters, written in Hausa, were delivered to the communities through released captives. He said the district heads who had seen the letters had already alerted authorities about the development. “The levied communities cut across four districts and some of the villages have started mobilising to pay the money to avoid raids by the armed criminals,” he said. The communities were levied as follows: Yargalma, N5,000,000; Wawan Iccen Ibra­him, N4,000,000; Wawan Iccen Salihu, N1,000,000; Gaude, N1,000,000; Galle, N1,000,000; Tungar Gebe, N500,000; Nan­narki, N5,000,000; Ruwan Kura, N5,000,000, and Gang­ara, N1,500,000.