The transition from the end of one year to another usually comes with a lot of fanfare and activities. Vigils and musical concerts are held with fireworks as the people usher in the New Year. Expectations are high that the New Year will be better than the previous year. Themes are chosen, prophecies given, and stickers printed calling the year by various appellations. New Year greetings are shared by different individuals and organisations wishing their friends and customers a HAPPY NEW YEAR! While it is customary to wish people a Happy New Year, you need to realise that wishes and greetings will not guarantee a great year. Your year will not be great because of the wishes and the greetings you received. Unfortunately, the New Year will not be different from the past year for many individuals and organisations. The novelty of the New Year will soon wear off, and they will settle into their old habits and behaviours. The vicious cycle of mediocrity will continue. As it were, 2022 will be 2021 rehashed, rechristened, and relived. So, if greetings and wishes do not guarantee a great year, what guarantees it? Simply PRINCIPLES! Principles are the bridge we must cross from our present to our future, from our experience to our expectations, and from greetings to greatness. The principles you are committed to will guarantee whether 2022 would be a great year or not. So today, I’d like to share three foundational principles to make your 2022 a great year using the HAPPY NEW YEAR greeting. Insecurity: A Return To The Hobbesian ‘State Of Nature’ Politics 2023: Algorithm Of Complex Calculations The usual New Year greeting starts with HAPPY. Some use the word prosperous. It is a way of saying that you deserve to be happy and have a prosperous year. Therefore, the questions to answer here are: The third question is essential. Until you are clear about your definition of happiness, you will end up going around in circles or chasing shadows. Why? We are usually motivated to find what we have defined as important to us. Consequently, the starting point to maximising your year is determining what happiness is to you. POLL So, what will happiness mean to you this year? Alternatively, what progress will you make this year? Happiness is impossible without making meaningful progress. Happiness is not a goal we pursue but a state based on our progress in some areas of our lives. President John F. Kennedy noted that the ancient Greek definition of happiness “is the full use of your powers along the lines of excellence.” I like this definition. It means that to truly be happy, you need to commit to doing excellent work this year. Many people think of happiness in terms of toys and the size of their bank accounts, but the original definition of happiness, according to John F Kennedy, was not pleasures and toys, but the full use of one’s powers engaged in excellent work. There is a measure of happiness you would never know except you are truly engaged and fully committed to your job. One of your goals in 2022 should be to engage your energies in doing some excellent work. If maximising 2022 begins with deciding what happiness is, which you now know is connected to doing a great job, the second aspect of our greeting is to decide what will be NEW this year. The word NEW is similar to what psychologists call a tabula rasa…a clean slate. You can write whatever you want into the clean slate of 2022. 2021 has ended and entered the ash heap of history. 2022 is fresh. You can begin afresh, take control of your life, launch into the future, and live out your dreams. In ancient Greek, the word new is used two ways: Electoral Act Amendment Bill: Interrogating The Ogbanje/Abiku… Soot And Our Collective Conscience (2) The former is called incremental innovation in innovation management while the latter radical innovation. Incremental innovation is what the Japanese coined as Kaizen, which means daily improvements made concerning one’s work. 2022 will only be a great year when you commit, at the very least, to making daily improvements. You must be better today than you were yesterday and be better tomorrow than you are today. Only the commitment to daily progress, daily improvements, and daily growth will guarantee that 2022 will be an amazing year. Anything else is a delusion. So, just like you answered some questions under HAPPY, please answer the following questions under NEW: Wishes do not produce results. People are wired to produce the results they are producing. To produce better results in the workplace and life in 2022, you must commit to becoming a better person. We have oft been told that insanity is doing the same things and expecting different results. Just because you have entered a new year doesn’t mean the year is new. Your brain doesn’t know it is a new year. The year will only become new when you deliberately plan and act to make it new. That’s when the brain wakes up and takes notice. Remember Newton’s first law of motion? Every object will remain at rest or in uniform motion in a straight line unless compelled to change its state by the action of an external force. According to Newton, the greatest battle you will ever fight to succeed is against yourself. Your life will continue in the same trajectory of 2021 until you decide to do something different. Some of you might need to develop completely new skills and reinvent yourself to succeed in 2022. Others might only need a slight improvement—a polishing of their existing skills to succeed in 2022. Whatever it is, make this year NEW by doing something different. The New year greeting ends with YEAR. A year is 365 days (or 366 in a leap year) and one key to maximising the year is understanding how short 365 days are. Remember when you greeted people happy new year last year? Until you create a sense of urgency and understand that December 31, 2022 will soon be around the corner, you will not maximise your year. Actually, you do not have 365 days to succeed. Look at the following assumptions: That means that you will spend 166 days for sleeping, going to work, and eating alone. What is left is just about 199 days. If you add the endless meetings, office banter, time spent on social media, and the rest, you have less than 150 days to achieve anything great or meaningful this year. So less than half of the 365 days is available for greatness. Wow! To maximise 2022, you must therefore maximise your time—to increase the number of days you have for success by reducing some meaningless activities or maximise the remaining days available for you. Little wonder Moses prayed, “Teach us to number our days so that we can apply our hearts to wisdom.” Wisdom comes in maximising your day—making daily choices that guarantee the future you want. Show me how you spend your day, and I can predict how you will end up in the year. Serial inventor Thomas Edison noted, “Time is really the only capital that any human being has, and the only thing he can’t afford to lose.“ Abraham Lincoln noted that the one good thing about the future is that it comes one day at a time. That is, today is a portion of your future given to you. Use it wisely. Maximise your day and every day of this year, and 2022 will be a fantastic year for you. HAPPY NEW YEAR! © Dr Maxwell Ubah