ABUJA – Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Wednesday declared as un­constitutional and unlawful, deductions made by the Federal Government from the Federa­tion Account for the funding of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund scheme. Justice Mohammed made the pronouncement in a judg­ment on a suit filed by the Rivers State government against the Attorney-General of the Feder­ation and Minister of Justice; the Accountant-General of the Federation; the Revenue Mobil­isation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission, and Federal Min­istry of Finance, 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th respondents, respectively, in the case. Specifically, the Rivers State government through its Attor­ney-General had approached the court wherein it sought an order stopping the deduction of funds from the Federation Account for the funding of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund. 2022: Bisi Kolawole Wins Ekiti PDP Guber Primary West African Leaders To Hold Summit After Latest Coups By an originating summon marked FHC/ABJ/CS/511/2020, dated and filed on May 20, 2020, Rivers State government had challenged the constitutionality and validity of section 4(1)(a) and section 4(1)(b) of the Nigeria Po­lice Trust Fund (Establishment) Act 2019, which permit the de­duction of 0.5 percent of the total revenue accruing to the Federa­tion Account and be paid to the Nigeria Police Trust Fund. The Governor Nyesom Wike-led Rivers State government had contended that it was not the responsibility of the state gov­ernments but that of the Federal Government to fund the police. Delivering judgment, Justice Mohammed agreed with the Rivers State government that by virtue of section 162 (3) of the Ni­gerian constitution, funds standing to the credit of the Federation Account“can only be distributed among the Federal Government, state governments and local gov­ernment councils in each state of Nigeria and not directly to any agency of the Federal Gov­ernment including the Nigeria Police Force.” Consequently, the court de­clared the section of the law “permitting the direct deduction of any sum or percentage of revenue accruing to the Federa­tion Account or which ought to have been paid into the Federa­tion Account for the purpose of providing funds for the Nigeria Police Trust Fund” as “unconstitutional, null and void.” The court granted prayers 1,2, 3, 4, 5, and 7 of the plaintiff, while reliefs 6 and 8, which sought for refunds of the deduction, were granted only to Rivers State gov­ernment. POLL The court said it’s only Rivers State that will benefit from the deduction and not the 35 states. “Court is not a Father Christ­mas that grants what was not sought for. Rivers State had urged the court to order a refund of the money deducted from the Fed­eration Account and paid into the NPTF since when it was in­formed about it at the April 2020 Federation Account Allocation Committee meeting.” Earlier, Justice Mohammed had dismissed the preliminary objection to the suit, by insisting that the Federal High Court and not the Supreme Court has juris­diction to hear the suit. The court said it was clear that contrary to the argument of the defendant, the suit was between Rivers State government against the Federal Government and its agencies. In the suit, the court observed that it was only the Attorney-Gen­eral of the Federation that filed processes to defend the Federal Government in the action.