Comrade Saviour Iche, national president of the Association of Micro-Entrepreneurs of Nigeria (AMEN), in this this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, reviewed activities in the Nigerian business space in 2021 and recommended policies and programmes the government should implement to make the environment better. Excerpts: How would you describe the business environment in the country in 2021? Year 2021 was a difficult one for businesses generally in the country; both small and big businesses suffered in the year. Good Customer Service, Proper Planning Keys To Success In… My Brand Is Adding Value To Nigeria’s Economy – Olumide The situation was worsened by the intensification of the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to many businesses closing down and many scaling down their operations. As the national president of the Association of Micro-Entrepreneurs of Nigeria, I receive reports from my members on a daily basis and the reports were mostly about the difficulties and challenges they faced in the course of the year. The government, in its response to the pandemic, released billions of naira to help businesses bounce back from the negative impact of the pandemic. However, a large chunk of the funds did not get to the intended targets, as politicians, government officials and others connived to divert the funds to other uses. Only a small number of entrepreneurs got the funds. If the funds had been given to business owners, it would have gone a long way to reduce challenges in the economy; they would increase their production capacity, employed more people and crime and criminality would have been reduced in the country. The country lost all the opportunities because of greed on the part of a few greedy people. Don’t you think Business Management Organizations should have been involved in the disbursement of the funds? POLL That was the proper thing to do because we know each other and what we do but the government had other ideas; it was the usual Nigerian way of doing things. The government should have opened a desk in all the branches of commercial banks. The banks have the financial records of almost all businesses in the country and that could have prevented the funds from getting into the hands of people who are not entrepreneurs. The process was online and there was no one to talk to if an application was not successful. As president of a business organization, I applied and did not access the fund and only a couple of my members got it and we have thousands of our members across the states of the federation. If a leader like me could not get the fund, you can imagine the fate of ordinary members of business associations in the country. We should be involved the formulation and implementation of economic policies in the country. We know the terrain; we know the environment and workings of business and should be in economic team of the government. Imported Skin Care Products May Damage Your Skin, Ajibola-Bodude… We Want To Boost Commerce In Agege With Trade Fair –… Are you saying that those saddled with that responsibility do not have the requisite knowledge of the business environment? Yes, if you check the profile of the Minister of Trade and Investment, he may not be a businessman and may not have anything to do with business. That kind of person may not understand when you said you do not have raw materials or that the prices have gone up. This is because he has not passed through that process. They bring an engineer or a lawyer to head the Ministry of Trade and Investment; this is not good for the economy and business people because they will not understand each other and this will lead to failure. How did this relate to closure of the land borders of the country last year? Closure of the border was an ill-advised decision; the government should have banned some goods from entering the country and closed the border entirely. The decision led to the loss of businesses in the country and the economy suffered. What should government do to improve the business environment? It should improve infrastructure; there is need to increase power supply so that reliance on generators will be reduced. Government should provide low interest loans to entrepreneurs; access to funds should be increased for business people. Government should tackle the security situation because it is affecting the economy adversely. Government should also reduce taxes, especially Value Added Tax.