***Sinks Borehole For Ayere Residents, Treated Over 3000 People IBADAN  –  No fewer than 1500 Physically Challenge Persons were on Saturday benefitted from the humanitarian gestures of the group known as Oodua Progressive Union (OPU) in Kabba town, Kogi State. OPU under the leadership of its Convener, Iba Gani Adams, the 15th Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland as part of line up activities in commemorating it’s 8th World Congress tagged “Kabba 2022” donated relief materials to over 1500 Physically Challenge Persons in the entire Okunland of Kogi state. Armed Robbery: Ooni Restrict Movement In Ifeland APC Primaries: Powerful Politicians In Ekiti Plotting To Attack… The Okun people are descendants of Oduduwa migrated from Ile-Ife in the olden days, comprises of five local government areas in Kogi state with it’s headquarters in Kabba town. Apart from the wheelchairs and the crotches presented to the beneficiaries, the Okun people also benefitted from a medical outreach program facilitated by the OPU where over 3000 persons were treated of various illness free of charge and went their various homes with drugs worthy millions of naira. Presenting the items to Obaro of Kabba, His Royal Majesty Oba Solomon Owoniyi, who is the Head of Traditional Council of Okun Areas of Kogi State, Iba Gani Adams maintained that the items is expected to reach nooks and crannies of the Okunland, stressing that the monech knows who exactly should be the beneficiaries of the items. He however called on the state Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello to replicate the initiative of the Southwest Security Network, known as operation Amotekun in the state, saying the initiative will help in reducing the spate of insecurity in the state. Aare Adams noted that though the state is peaceful, stressing that there is need to beef up the security across the state. He said, “I urge our amiable governor to replicate the idea of Amotekun in Kogi state. The governor can give the state security outfit any name that suits its purpose.This will help in complementing the efforts of the federal government in securing the state” POLL He, however, applauded the efforts of the governor in driving the economic fortunes of the state, adding that the OPU congress in Kabba had really helped Nigerians in diaspora to know more about the state. Meanwhile,Secretary to the Kogi State Government,Mrs Folashade Arike Ayoade, who represented the Kogi state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, expressed appreciation to Iba Gani Adams for using the OPU platform to create a new bond between Kogi state and the people of the diaspora. She added that the Kogi state government will continue to bridge the gap between the North and the Southwest. She said “Our amiable governor is a bridge builder and I am sure His Excellency will continue to bridge the gap between the North and the Southwest. I urge all members of the OPU to be committed to the ideals of the organization and I know our government is always ready to sustain the relationship between the convener,the Aareonakafo and Governor Yahaya Bello.” The guest lecturer, Dr.Oluwayomi Atte,in his lecture,titled”:A strategic Approach to Fulfilling the destiny of Yoruba race:The Way Forward,said the Yoruba people are people of integrity,very accomodating and worthy of emulation. “Yoruba history and ethos reflected a culture of people that are very enterprising .Yoruba believes in certain principles including that of Omoluabi,Yoruba believes in hard work,Yoruba hardly go to war,and they are very patient people. Our destiny as a race is for the Yoruba to achieve their goals for the betterment of the people” Alaafin, Ooni Give Royal Blessings To Shina Peller To Advocate… News Of Otunba Alao Akala’s Death A Bombshell, Oloye… In his remarks,Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi,who is the Royal Father of the day, commended, Iba Gani Adams for contributing his quotas to the development of Okun land, and Kogi state in particular. He said the roles of Iba Gani Adams as the Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land is the only unifying factor across the southwest. “I want to appreciate the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land for counting Kabba worthy of hosting the OPU World Congress.Aare’s title is the only unifying title that can help to fulfill the destiny of our race. Other guests present at the conference include the Olujumu of Ijumu Kingdom,Oba Williams Ayeni,the Agbana of Isanlu Kingdom,Oba Moses Etombi,Olu of Okeri,Oba JJ Falope,Elejuku of Ejuku,Oba Lamidi Ayeni,,Chief Gani Balogun,Osi Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland,Chief Gboyega Adejumo,Gbonga Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Senior Special Assistant to the governor of Ekiti on Arts, Culture and Tourism, Ambassador Wale Ojo Lanre. Members and delegates of OPU, National Executive Council and National Coordinating Council of the OPC,and other prominent guests and dignitaries across the country. The week long program was brought to an end on Sunday with the commissioning of a borehole drinking water situated in Methodist Grammar School area of Ayere. The OPU delegates homes and abroad present for the Kabba 2023 Congress were also led by Iba Gani Adams on a courtesy visit to the Palace of Alayere of Iyereland, Oba Solomon Afolabi, where issues bothering on insecurity challenges of the area was discussed, the monarch also called for creation of Community policing system in the community. He said, we need security outfits like Amotekun here in our town, just yesterday someone was kidnapped in here, I urge you Iba Adams to please help us talk to the people in the authority for them to see the reasons why there should be a local security architecture that will be complimenting the roles of Police in combating crimes in this area. Adams in his response decried negligence of the area by security operatives, he however warned the people of the community against jungle Justice, but promised to work on their demand for local security outfits for the betterment of all and sundry of the community.