BENIN – The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday took the message of ethnic and religious tolerance to the grassroots, even as he has tasked traditional rulers to entrench the virtues in their domains to foster peace and unity in Nigeria. The Vice president spoke in Auchi, Etsako West local government area of Edo State at the conferment of a chieftaincy title; The Oduma (Lion) of Auchi on the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba by the Otaru of Auchi, HRH Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III. According to Osinbajo, Auchi, where I did my compulsory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) symbolises what Nigeria should be where everybody should be accommodated irrespective of ethnic or religious background like in the case of Agba who is from Uzanu in Etsako East but found a home in Auchi where he lived from when he was two years old. We Are Behind You, Oshiomhole’s Mother, Edo North Professionals… Osinbajo To Attend Young CEOs Summit – ACCI “The Auchi kingdom has its rich and special history and a celebrated innovation and enterprise of its sons and daughters have brought development and prominence to this kingdom and Edo State. “It is remarkable and worthy of praise that in the great Auchi Kingdom adherence of both major religions in Nigeria, Islam and Christianity have lived and continue to live harmoniously together for centuries sharing a common bond as embers of this community and even of the same biological families. “Auchi is therefore in a real sense, not just the microcosm of Nigeria, but also an exemplification of our finest values of mutuality and community. “Our country needs men and women who see and understands that our ethnic diversities is not a point of difference, of men and women who understand that all people regardless of ethnicity and faith deserves to be treated equally fairly and justly and this is where the significance of the traditional institution comes to be because they are regarded and rightly so as the custodians of these values and embodied and the highest and noblest ideals of the people.” POLL On his part, Agba said the conferment was an appreciation and encouragement for him to continue to offer more services to humanity. He commended the Edo State government for continuing ten erosion check programs across the state which he said were started when he was the Commissioner for Environment under the administration of Comrade Oshiomhole and appealed that the Benin Water Storm Project which they also started should not be abandoned. Among dignitaries at the colourful event were the Minister of Finance Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, her Transportation counterpart, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo, Minister of State for Power Engr Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare, Accountant General of the Federation, Auditor General of the Federation, several other political appointees and government officials. thanks Others included former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu who represented the state governor, traditional rulers led by the representative of the Oba of Benin. Earlier, Adams Oshiomhole, the immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and two-term governor of Edo State described the Otaru of Auchi as one of the principled traditional rulers in the country Osinbajo Reveals Nigeria’s Most Valuable Assets 2023: Coalition Vows To Mobilise 5 Million  Supporters For… According to him, let me tell you my own story. Otaru of Auchi has always been one of the few traditional rulers who are extremely principled, you can’t sway him with money, you can’t induce him, you cannot falter him to submission. Oshiomhole commended the Otaru for the chieftaincy title bestowed on the ministry as well as the Vice president for gracing the occasion. Addressing the minister, he said “as you say, everybody writes his own testimonials by his actions and whatever has been said today, is a resolve of what you have consciously tried to do using your privilege, not just as a minister, not just a Commissioner but even as an officer in the oil industry.