Cristiano Ronaldo has sent a pointed message to the Manchester United dressing room, admitting he is not happy and that now must be the turning point. The 36-year-old is back in England for the first time in a decade, having completed an emotional Old Trafford return at the end of the summer window. And individually, the move has gone swimmingly, scoring 14 times in 20 appearances since leaving Juventus. Everton Complete Mykolenko Signing Tuchel Laughs Off Questions About Getting The Best From Lukaku But collectively United have struggled, with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer losing his job after a torrid run of form in November. Ralf Rangnick has since come in and steadied the ship, but it looks like a season of battling for the top four, rather than the title chase Ronaldo envisioned. And the Portuguese icon revealed that 2021 had been a difficult year with the upheaval of moving clubs and the difficulties his new side have faced on the pitch. “2021 is coming to an end and it was far from being an easy year, despite my 47 goals scored across all competitions,” he wrote on Instagram. “Two different clubs and five different coaches. One Euro Final Stage played with my National Team and one World Cup Qualification left pending for 2022. POLL “At Juventus, I was proud to win the Italian Cup and the Italian Supercup, and become the Série A Top Scorer. “For Portugal, becoming the Euro Top Scorer was also a high point this year. And of course, my return to Old Trafford will always be one of the most iconic moments in my career. “But I’m not happy with what we are achieving in Man. United. None of us are happy, I’m sure of that. “We know that we have to work harder, play better and deliver way more than we are delivering right now.” Ronaldo then urged his team-mates to use the new year as the perfect opportunity to start afresh and right the wrongs from the first half of the campaign. Dominic Calvert-Lewin Return ‘Massive’ For Everton –… Aston Villa January Transfer Plans As Gerrard Reveals Busy… He continued: “Let’s make this New Year’s Eve a turning point of the season! Let’s embrace 2022 with a higher spirit and a stronger mentality. “Let’s take us above and beyond, let’s reach for the stars and put this club right where it belongs! “Join us, we’re counting on all of you! Happy New Year and see you soon!” Ronaldo and his Red Devil team-mates will be back in action on January 3, when they take on Wolves at Old Trafford, before a full week off gives Rangnick valuable time on the Carrington training pitches.