TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI William Attah in Gombe takes a look at the rift between the former Governor of Gombe State, Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje and the current Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, two political gladiators and concludes that they need more than a mere handshake for true reconciliation. The reports that had continued to filter out of Gombe State for most part of year 2021 was that of the sour relationship between a one time Governor of the State, Muhammad Danjuma Goje (2002-2011) now a serving Senator and the current Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya. 2023: APC Does Not Belong To Tinubu, Says Kalu FG’s Delay In Naming Terrorism Sponsors Has Negative Effects On… Some people look at Danjuma Goje as the political godfather of Inuwa Yahaya because during Goje’s two term tenure as Governor under PDP, Inuwa Yahaya was the Commissioner of Finance from the beginning of the administration in 2003 up till 2010 when he resigned to pursue his ambition of succeeding his boss as Governor in 2011. It is not clear whether Inuwa had the blessing and support of Danjuma Goje as at the time of his resignation because it became obvious that Goje was interested in his son in-law, Dasuki Jalo Waziri, then Chairman of Gombe Local Government Area and ALGON National President succeeding him. But reading the political atmosphere and realizing that Dasuki cannot make a headway, Goje settled for the former Accountant General of the Federation, Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, a late entrant to the race, who got the PDP ticket against Inuwa Yahaya and others that contested in the party primary election. Goje as Governor, supported the PDP candidate, Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, who won the election in 2011 but shortly after, both Inuwa Yahaya and Danjuma Goje found themselves in the APC party, Goje became the leader of the party since as Senator, he holds APC’s highest political office in the State. Inuwa Yahaya again contested and won the APC Governorship ticket before the 2015 general election even when Senator Danjuma Goje as leader of the party, supported Farouk Bamusa during that primary election. POLL After failing in the 2015 general election despite the APC ‘hurricane’ that brought in President Buhari and cleared more States of the federation, Inuwa never believed that he actually lost the election because he contested the result up to the highest judicial level but did not succeed. In 2019 APC primary election, it was reliably gathered that Goje, still leader of the party, again supported Farouk Bamusa but Inuwa still won the primary election and went ahead to win the general election in an overwhelming victory. In 2021, as politicking hots up and with the party Congresses at hand, the battle ground was on again with delegates becoming the target of any ambitious politician. This most likely is where the current rift between the Governor and the Senator started because the delegates that will vote during the primary election, that is the party officials from all the wards, LG’s and the State party officials, would determine who fly the party’s ticket during the governorship election. This obviously is the root of the current rift but this is not however putting aside Senator Goje’s clout on the political space of the State. He is known to have very large followers and many describe him as ‘limamin siyasan Gombe’, that is, a decider of what happens politically in Gombe State. Osun Guber: PDP Screens Adeleke, Ogunbiyi, Others No President Can Change Nigeria Overnight – Obaseki In the early part of the Inuwa administration, Goje announced that he was done with elective politics. He won the hearts of virtually all the APC stakeholders then as he personally empowered all party faithful particularly, officials from the ward to State level in what was like a reward for their roles in the victory of the 2019 election. But after winning the hearts of party members who became officials during the APC party Congresses in 2021, virtually all the elected officials were singing Inuwa’s loyalty making it a cleared road for Inuwa to secure the APC Governorship ticket in the forthcoming 2023 general election. Trouble started rearing its head when just before the Congresses, it was obviously important for Inuwa to claim being the party leader in the State. Before then, Inuwa, even as a Governor, had always described Goje as his boss but during this party meeting aimed at moving the party in one accord for the Congresses, Inuwa declared that a Senator cannot be greater than the Governor, thus, assuming the party leader. This actually divided the party along Goje loyalist and Inuwa loyalist and all hell was lost when in early November, 2021, an attempt to stop Goje from entering Gombe met with stiff resistance which turned bloody and a life was lost. This episode made many party officials to resign their positions in sympathy and loyalty to Senator Goje. The prominent was that of Yamaltu-Deba Local Government Area where over 90 percent of the officials signed in a list compiled by Goje’s aide. This was when the rift got national attention and national figures, especially from the party (APC) started wading in and many opponent of Goje in the State are of the opinion that Goje is too overbearing on the party and as such should now be playing a fatherly role in the politics of the State after paying his due and encourage younger persons to be active participants politically. Again, they say he is being ungrateful after almost half of Inuwa’s commissioners were Goje’s nominees which include his daughter and son in-law. The daughter, Hussaina Danjuma Goje, at the peak of the rift, resigned her appointment from the cabinet while the son in-law, Dasuki Jalo Waziri, is still the Commissioner for Local Governments and Chieftaincy Affairs. On the other hand, Inuwa’s opponents feel he hasn’t made efforts to reward them since after the election in 2019. Some accuse him of even running the State as a ‘family and friends’ business where only his relatives are appointed in juicy positions and given lucrative contracts. In trying to wade in, the Progressive Governors Forum came to Gombe to show solidarity with the Governor after the November fifth 2021, fracas. Governors Masari of Katsina and Badaru of Jigawa States both conveyed the Forum’s unflinching solidarity. Much later again, a reconciliation committee from the party headquarters led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu visited the State after Goje had submitted a petition to the party. According to Abdullahi Adamu, the committee had the mandate to reconcile any perceived misunderstanding, grudges and conflict adding that unity among the members remained paramount to the party. He said, Senator Goje was approached and he gave the committee reason for not attending the meeting in Gombe stressing that they have carefully listened to the Government and party. He expressed confidence that APC in Gombe was strong and alive. “Any grievances in the party would not be left unattended and resolved quickly”. However, after the Abuja meeting on Wednesday 05/01/2022, a statement sent to newsmen in Gombe by the Director General, Press Affairs, Gombe Government House, Ismaila Uba Misilli, both Governor Inuwa Yahaya and Senator Danjuma Goje were given opportunity to present their respective positions on the seeming misunderstanding and conflict in the APC in Gombe State. He said a robust discussion was held with a view to unravelling what the problems are, and how best to proffer solutions and resolve the differences as well as cement all cracks within the party in the State ahead of the national convention and preparatory to the 2023 general elections. The enlarged meeting which was attended by the National Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe State, Hon. Mai Mala Buni and other party bigwigs, including former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Senators and former governors among others, was held at the residence of the former Governor of Nasarawa State and Chairman of the APC reconciliation Committee, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. That was all the success that the Abuja meeting could achieve with both parties in attendance except for the handshake after the meeting between Senator Goje and Governor Inuwa. But from the political precedence between Goje and Inuwa, all parties seem to be bent on their positions which is, Goje doing all he can to remain relevant or continue to be a godfather in the politics of Gombe State while Inuwa will not leave any stone unturned to achieve his second term ambition. All said and done, the Abuja meeting was expected to end in a ‘heart shake’ and not a mere handshake so that all doubts will be laid to rest that Senator Goje and Governor Inuwa are truly moving in the same direction.