Investors of pension funds would have some basic market information to work on to achieve their targets in the new year as the Nigerian Pension Fund Index which closed the year ended 2021 with a double-digit gained 16.96per cent, beating the stock market All Share Index which posted a return of 6.07per cent. The Nigerian Pension Index is made up of about 40 stocks cutting across several industries in the country including Consumer Goods, Banking, Telecommunications, and Industrials. History of the stocks showed that the stocks included in this index pay dividends regularly, are very liquid in trading volumes and have consistently delivered profits over the years. About 15 of the stocks in this index as reported have double-digit growth year on year except only 11 stocks which posted losses. China Opens Borders For International Re-Insurance Brokers President CIIN, Oyegunle, Advocates Health Insurance Coverage… Analysts observed that at 16.96per cent Nigerian Pension Fund Index was able to beat inflation rate by a few basis point, a performance they believe that most pension fund contributors will be proud of, subsequently. Inflation rate for the month of November was 15.4per cent while average inflation for the year is around 13per cent. Despite the double-digit growth recorded in 2021, the index still fell short of repeating the impressive 31.74per cent growth reported by the index in 2020 where Nigerian stocks were on the fly. However, the entire scenario may still be dicey as stocks fail to attract growth in the PFA allocation, implying that pension funds may not be invested that much in equities this year as a percentage of their total net asset value. According to analytical, Pension Funds allocated less of their Net Asset Values towards equities with about N873.4 billion invested out of a total of N13 trillion as of September 2021. With over N8.2 trillion invested in FGN Securities and another N2.2 trillion in local money market securities when compared to 2020, about N858 billion was invested in local equities out of N12.3 trillion. This is as PFAs prefer to invest contributors’ funds in fixed income securities that are safer and more secured such as government securities as well as corporate bonds which pay them fixed returns. POLL In another development, Takor Ivor, Director, Centre for Pension Right Advocacy, has described the release of N16.67 billion by federal government for payment of pension accrued rights as a New Year presents for 2021 retirees. He said the release is evidence that the Federal Government of Nigeria has keyed in fully into the Contributory Pension Scheme. “The release is a beautiful New Year presents to 2021 retirees and evidence that the FGN has keyed in fully into the Contributory Pension Scheme. I personally look forward to the first release for 2022 coming in at the end of March and subsequent once following every three months,” he said. The National Pension Commission (PenCom) recently, said the Federal Government has released N16.67 billion for payment of accrued pension rights to 2021 retirees of Treasury-funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). A statement by Peter Aghahowa, the Head, Corporate Communications Department (PenCom) said the Federal Government had earlier settled all arrears of accrued pension rights payments to the verified and enrolled retirees up to December 2020.