LAGOS – The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has thrown its weight behind the move by the House of Representatives to investigate the alleged failure of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to account for firearms totalling 178,459 as at January 2020. Comrade Debo Adeniran, CACOL Chairman, in a statement signed by Tola Oresanwo, the group’s Director of Administration and Programmes, made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Saturday, recalled that the House of Representatives had mandated its Ad hoc Committee on Arms to investigate alleged 178,459 arms reported to be missing by Adolphus Aghughu, the Auditor-General of the Federation.” According to the 2019 audit report, the arms which included AK-47 rifles and other assorted rifles and pistols from different police formations nationwide could not be accounted for by the Nigeria Police. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference The House resolved to probe the missing arms following a motion moved by the Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu (PDP, Enugu), last Thursday, during plenary. Leading the debate, Mr Okechukwu had lamented the poor record-keeping of the police on arms and ammunition, saying the missing arms could be connected with the spike in insecurity across the country. Supporting the motion, the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), said the investigation would reveal a lot, arguing that there was no need to set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the matter, rather an existing committee investigating arms should be charged with the task. Consequently, the committee investigating arms procurement chaired by Abubakar Fulata (APC, Jigawa), was charged with the investigation. In his response to the development, Adeniran, the CACOL boss, stressed: “It is very unfortunate that the Nigeria Police Force has become a shadow of its former self as a result of maladministration of various funds budgeted for firearms, welfare, logistics and capacity building of the rank and file of the force over the years but which vanished into thin air. POLL “This is a classic example of how much damage corruption and mismanagement of scarce resources have caused us as a nation and has made law enforcement a herculean task for the Force.” He maintained that the issue of alleged missing firearms was just a tip of the iceberg, considering the monumental misappropriation going on in the circle of those saddled with the responsibility of carrying out various procurements for the Force. He said: “It is a known fact that the Police Force has been permanently incapacitated, disabled and rendered helpless majorly by the non-availability of firearms and the use of superior firearms by various enemies of the State which has deprived the Police of carrying out its primary duty of maintaining law and order within the country and also made the use of the Armed Forces inevitable even for internal security. Adeniran, however, commended the House of Representatives’ effort geared towards unraveling the whereabouts of the missing firearms, while urging the committee members to carry out their duties without fear or favour. He stressed that those found waning in the course of the probe should be made to face the full wrath of the law.