ABUJA – The Nigerian Communica­tions Commission (NCC) has alerted members of the public that a cyber­crime group has perfect­ed a New Year scheme to deliver ransomware to targeted organisational networks. A statement on Sat­urday by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, Director, Public Affairs in NCC, said the new ransomware uncov­ered by security experts has been categorised, by the Nigerian Comput­er Emergency Response Team’s (ngCERT) advisory released over the weekend, as high-risk and critical. According to the ng­CERT advisory, the crim­inal group is said to have been mailing out USB thumb drives to many or­ganisations in the hope that recipients will plug them into their PCs and install the ransomware on their networks. Leaders’ Honesty Will Check Security Challenges – Bishop Eichie IPOB Allays Fears Of Lockdown In South-East, Announces… While businesses are being targeted, criminals could soon begin sending infected USB drives to in­dividuals. Describing how the cy­bercrime group runs the ransomware, the ngCERT advisory says the USB drives contain so-called ‘BadUSB’ attacks. “The BadUSB exploits the USB standards ver­satility and allows an attacker to reprogram a USB drive to emulate a keyboard to create key­strokes and commands on a computer. “It then installs mal­ware prior to the oper­ating system booting, or spoofs a network card to redirect traffic. “Numerous attack tools are also installed in the process that allows for exploitation of personal computers (PCs), lateral movement across a net­work, and installation of additional malware. POLL “The tools were used to deploy multiple ransom­ware strains, including BlackBatter and REvil,” the statement said. According to ngCERT, the attack has been seen in the US where the USB drives were sent in the mail through the Postal Service and Parcel Ser­vice. One type contained a message impersonating the US Department of Health and Human Services and claimed to be a COVID-19 warning. Other malicious USBs were sent in the post with a gift card claiming to be from Amazon. However, ngCERT has offered recommendations that will enable corporate and individual networks to mitigate the impact of this new cyber-attack and be protected from the ran­somware. These recommendations include a call on individu­als and organisations not to insert USB drives from unknown sources, even if they’re addressed to you or your organization. Many Presidential Contenders Create Many Options – Elebute Presidential Aspirants Fail To Excite Electorate In addition, if the USB drive comes from a compa­ny or a person one is not familiar with and trusts, it is recommended that one contacts the source to confirm they actually sent the USB drive. Finally, ngCERT has advised Information and Communication Technol­ogy as well as other In­ternet users to report any incident of system com­promises to ngCERT via *incident@cert.gov.ng* for technical assistance.