Manchester City star Kevin De Bruyne has named his dream 5-a-side team – but there was no place for Manchester United rival Cristiano Ronaldo. De Bruyne was asked to pick out his top five players during a recent chat with United legend Rio Ferdinand. And he picked some of the biggest names on the planet, including two PSG forwards, two Premier League rivals and one City team-mate. Russia Sees Record Virus Cases Second Day Running NGOs Demand Justice For 5yr-Old Pupil Murdered By Proprietor There was no place for Portuguese superstar Ronaldo though, with De Bruyne making clear his thoughts on the age-old GOAT debate. De Bruyne was told by Ferdinand that he not need to pick a goalkeeper, so the Belgian’s only defender was Liverpool stalwart Virgil van Dijk. The midfielder has faced off against the Dutchman on numerous occasions, and admitted that he was certainly up there with the best in the world. When asked by Ferdinand where he’d rank Van Dijk, De Bruyne replied: “I think he’s up there. He was unbelievable before his injury, obviously he had his ACL. “He came back to a real high level. It’s very difficult always to say ‘he’s better than this one…’ but he’s probably top three in the world alongside Ruben [Dias] and some other players. I think he deserves it.” POLL Moving slightly further forward, De Bruyne was certain in his next pick, opting for a key man in the Chelsea midfield that he has also faced several times. “I need [N’Golo] Kante,” De Bruyne added. There was room for one City team-mate in the side, with De Bruyne not selfishly picking himself, as he gave the nod to Bernardo Silva, who has excelled in recent years. De Bruyne said of the Portuguese: “In small spaces he’s unbelievable. He reminds me a bit of David [Silva]. “He’s a wind-up, people hate that about him. He gives you a little bit of everything and with the team that I have he fits in perfectly. His quality this year has been unbelievable.” Delta 2023: Okowa Cautions Guber Aspirants Against Political War 2023: PDP Will Produce Next Delta Governor – Agofure De Bruyne’s first two picks were actually his forward options, and he could not see past PSG pair Lionel Messi and Neymar. “Messi’s going to be there for me,” he told Ferdinand. “Neymar is going to be there for me.” Of course, De Bruyne faced off against PSG in the group stage of the Champions League earlier this year as City fell to a 2-0 defeat in the French capital. The Belgium maestro missed the first clash between the pair as City came out 2-0 winners at the Etihad.