Robinson joined the Anfield boardroom setup in 1965, shortly before their first FA Cup triumph as club secretary following Jimmy McInnes’ tragic death. He had already served at Stockport County, Scunthorpe United and Brighton & Hove Albion before finding himself recommended to the Reds’ hierarchy. Pinnick Assures Coca-Cola On Protection Against Ambush Marketers Guru Maharaj Ji Tips Super Eagles To Lift AFCON 2022 Trophy Over the next three decades, Robinson played an integral behind-the-scenes role as Liverpool rose to prominence and won 28 major trophies in that time. Robinson’s business acumen also helped the club to break new ground off the pitch as the first British team to carry a shirt sponsorship in the form of Hitachi. It was also his decision to facilitate the stadium being opened to the public to mourn for the Liverpool fans who lost their lives at Hillsborough in 1989. He took up the role of Liverpool’s chief executive in 1992, a position he held until retiring after 35 years’ service at the end of the 1999/2000 campaign. Among his final acts was appointing Gerard Houllier, who helped revolutionise the club for the 21st century which was accompanied by a trophy-laden spell. POLL Liverpool confirmed that the club was ‘deeply saddened’ by Robertson’s death at the age of and paid tribute to the remarkable legacy he leaves behind. “Robinson provided invaluable support and built the infrastructure around all the managers he worked alongside, from Bill Shankly in his earliest days at the club to Gerard Houllier, with whom he was friends and key in bringing the Frenchman to the club in 1998,” read a club statement. “Peter had changed roles in 1992, taking up the position of chief executive amid a transformational period for the game – one in which he was particularly influential, sealing the first ever shirt sponsorship deal for the Reds and negotiating television rights deals. He was also instrumental in the construction of the club’s Academy base in Kirkby. “Always preferring to avoid the spotlight, he was nevertheless one of the most respected and admired people in the sport.” Anfield’s long-serving stadium announcer George Sephton was among those to pay tribute to Robinson following news of his passing on Wednesday. Owed Salaries: LMC Gives Heartland January 25 Deadline “33” Export Lager Rewards Fans In AFCON Engagement “This really is the end of an era,” he wrote on Twitter. “I was a Kopite when he took over in 1965 and I owe my 50 years working at Anfield entirely to him. “Liverpool fans are in debt to him for the club they have today. R.I.P. PBR”