The Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) is set to take delivery of the Hungarian aircraft, Magnus for the training of students at the college. The plan by the college is a way of thinking out of the box to acquire a choice of aircraft that in relation to flight performance, fuel consumption and flight security – exceeds all other current models, and on top of that, has a highly environmentally friendly design. Capt. Alkali Modibbo, the Rector of the college, in an interview with aviation correspondents at NCAT, recently, said the new Magnus aircraft uses the Premium Motoring Spirit (PMS) which makes it less expensive to operate. Passenger Traffic Slumps By 47% In November Due To Omicron… 2022 Tourism 100 Members To Be Inducted In March At 8th Abuja… Modibbo explained further that the aircraft is also fitted with parachute that can be deployed by the pilot and make it land safely in case of engine failure and other serious incident in the air. He emphasised that the deployment of the parachute would save lives and equipment. “It gladdens my heart to tell you that we are moving another step higher. We are thinking of getting Magnus aircraft, which is another airplane that is manufactured in Hungry. We have been to their factory with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the Ministry of Aviation. We conducted our technical inspection; sooner or later, we will start to have those machines here. “The advantages of that machine are that; one, it is made from carbon fibre, very light and it uses Premium Motoring Spirit (PMS) like the one you use in your car. So, from AvGas, we went down to Jet A1 (aviation fuel) and we are also going into PMS. It is going to be less expensive to run with that aircraft. ‘’Something unique about that aircraft is that it has a parachute of its own. If you lose an engine, there is a parachute that you will pull and the engine will come out and the pilot will be able to land the aircraft with that parachute. With this, you have saved a life and the equipment. The parachute is there for you in case you lose its one engine.” POLL Expressing the confidence that the college has enough aircraft to train any number of students, Modibbo pointed out further that the institution intends to get more aircraft this year. He added more of the Diamond aircraft, which had been ordered earlier, would be delivered to the institution in 2022. ‘’So far, we have Diamonds, Tampicos and Beech Baron 58. We are looking at getting more Diamond aircraft; seven of the Diamond aircraft were supplied in 2020 and this year, we will be taking delivery of two of the Diamond aircraft – double and single engine. At a given time, you have at least five to six serviceable airplanes. Presently, we have about 20 serviceable aircraft in the college, but whatever we have, are enough to train students at any given time. ‘’Like I said earlier, we intend to take delivery of more airplanes this year. We will take one in February and another in April. The Diamonds will be about 15 in all. They are advanced cockpit; we have the latest technology that you can find in any machine in it and it uses Jet A1, which is cheaper than the Aviation Gas (AvGas). Aviation gas is not easy to come by, we have to import it into Nigeria and that is what the Tampicos are using. He disclosed further that NCAT would seek vigorously, to be an Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) this year, adding that it would also by April 2022, ensure that the acquired the B737 aircraft simulator is received all necessary certifications from an international body and NCAA that would enable the college put it to use. Newly Appointed Directors Assume Office In NCAA, Promise To… Senate Passes Nigerian Airspace Management Agency Bill “Also, we are working on the B737 equipment certification. It is taking us longer than we intended, but we will try all our best to ensure that by March this year or April, we will have the B737 simulator equipment and put it to use. You need to have the international accredit certification before NCAA will give you its own certification. For an example, you must have the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) certification and NCAA. Based on one of those certifications, NCAA will now issue you its own certificate. ‘’We are looking forward to be an Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) in the new year; we started last year, but we put it on hold and we intend to continue. Hopefully, we will get the AMO certification this year.”