LAGOS – A night of tributes was on Monday, January 3, 2022, convened in honour of Mrs. Charity Maduka, wife of the Coscharis Group found­er, Cosmas Maduka. To bequeath an eternal honour to her, family mem­bers, friends and well-wish­ers converged to pay her glowing tributes in Victoria Island, Lagos. As announced by the family, the rites continued on Tuesday, January 4, 2022 at Local Christian Assem­bly in Ebute-Metta, Lagos. 2023: Sanusi Urges Nigerians To Get Voters Card, Elect Competent… BREAKING: Diesel Tanker Tumbles, Spills Content In the same vein, service of songs was organised in her honour at Maduka’s residence at Umudimkwa, Umudim, Nnewi, Anambra State, ahead of the funeral service at the same venue on January 7, 2022. To conclude the rites, a memorial service had been scheduled to be held today, Sunday, January 9, 2022 at Headstone Chari­ty Tabernacle, Ndiakwu Otolo, Nnewi, in Anambra State. Until her death on No­vember 27, 2021, in Nnewi, Anambra State, at 63, Mrs. Maduka, was the Execu­tive Chairman of two Co­scharis subsidiaries. At the night of trib­utes, the widower, Cosmas Maduka, described his late wife as a loving wom­an who displayed love, strength and care without discrimination. He said: “From the be­ginning of our journey, God faithfully led us for these 43 unbroken years of love in intimate relation­ships, until November 27, 2021 when you peacefully went to sleep in the Lord. POLL “This date has become like 9/11 in my life, as I was obviously under heavy attack, because that is precisely what your sudden departure means to me. “The love we shared, however, gave birth to the institution that is today known as the Coscharis Group, and most impor­tantly, the loving gift of five wonderful children, though we had to wait for six years before Cosmas Junior was born. The first son of the fam­ily, Cosmas Maduka Jnr, described his late mother as a woman known for her integrity and hard work. “Mum was a remark­able woman. A God-fearing woman. A virtuous woman of integrity, hard work, and a charitable heart. “Her dedication to her family is something I strive to emulate and provide for my family every single day.” Ogun Christmas Gifts: Lawyer Seeks N10m Damages Over Alleged… Lawan Consoles Victims Of Nguru Market Fire Maduka, recalling how he bonded with his late wife wrote in his tribute, “I write to bid you farewell after 43 years of impeccable intimacy.