Barr. Chuka Ezenwune, member representing Idemili South constituency in Anambra State House of Assembly, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the insecurity challenges in the South East, why Nigerians must pray for the exit of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government and the devastating effect of methamphetamine popularly called mkpuru miri among other issues. Excerpts: Do you think that PDP would have given better leadership in Anambra State than the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the party that you just decamped from? Governance is not just delivered by the person at the head; but the entire government structure. I believe that the executive structure in Anambra State from the state level, down to the local government needs an overhaul. APGA has over stayed in power in Anambra State. It is no longer ejecting new blood into the system. If we believe that the present administration has failed, it also means that the party in power has failed. Since the party has failed, I am of the view that considering the pedigree of the candidate of PDP in the just concluded governorship election, that PDP as a party would have offered a better administration than APGA. If you look at the leader of PDP in the state which is Peter Obi, his regime is still being considered as a golden era in the governance of Anambra State. I am not saying that the person who has been elected doesn’t have the capacity or the pedigree but what I am saying is that the party itself has a problem. He cannot be the governor, the commissioner or the special adviser. They have bastardized governance in Anambra State, a party that has over 2,000 special advisers and special assistants that don’t have offices. Even those who are earning salaries are not even living in the country. These are wastages. If we have the opportunity to block those wastages we will have more money to invest in infrastructure in Anambra State, especially road development, provision of potable water. Today everybody is depending on self-help. We sink boreholes in your houses. No city in Anambra State can boast of a water scheme. Anambra State is too backward now compared with other states. The other day I was watching the live broadcast of the Ebonyi State budget. You can see how the man has transformed Ebonyi State, especially Abakaliki. You will begin to wonder what happened to Anambra State in the last eight years. Even in an advanced civilization, no party stays in power for more than 16 years. The highest that you can see is 12 years, normally after eight years, another party will be voted in for a change, to inject fresh blood and new ideas. Over here, the slogan is always, continuity, what are we continuing? Sometimes they will say, to start from where he stopped, where did he stop? I think that PDP would have offered better governance. #EndSARS Will Continually Haunt Sanwo- Olu Even After Leaving… JUST IN: How Buhari Reacted To My 2023 Presidential Ambition… The issue of mkpuru miri has been a great problem in this region and Anambra State in particular, destroying young people. As a legislator, is it not a source of concern to you? If you have been following the proceedings of the Anambra State House of Assembly, we have said it many times that this substance is destroying our youths and if it is destroying our youths, our future is endangered. I don’t know where that substance originated from. It was when it became so rife that people started talking about it that I began to ask questions. Young boys carry lady-like handbags, like that of the native doctors, and we hear that what is inside the bag is mkpuru miri. I haven’t set my eyes on it. Our role should be to call out to those agencies responsible to checkmate their activities. Agencies like the NDLEA, the Police, and other anti-narcotic agencies. Our duty is to make laws, pass motions; we cannot go beyond that because we are not armed. Another thing that should be done is to sensitise the Grassroots. People should watch their wards; know the kind of company that they keep. It is not just about young boys; recently we have seen young girls also get involved. It is a dangerous phenomenon and I don’t even know where society is heading to. I don’t know if it is possible to rehabilitate those who are already addicts. Here in my community as you drive around they will point at different corners where they sell it. Your responsibility is just to report to appropriate authorities to take action. Recently we saw a trending video on social media in Anambra State where people rounded them up and were flogging them. What is your thought about that? It has been done in this community; Oba and in so many other communities. It happened in my community, Nnobi, when young people were caught with the substance. The leader of the youth that went round to round them up told me that he called the NDLEA officials to come and pick the young men but they told him to bring them to their office in Onitsha along with the substance. The leader of the group wondered what he would be telling security men on the road while moving them to Onitsha. He said that he didn’t know how he would identify himself if he was stopped and who he would tell them that authorized him. He said that he didn’t know what would befall him should they misunderstand him. You can see that the locals have tried to do their part but the agency concerned is lukewarm. All they did was to burn the substance, flogged the young men and left them. It was not their responsibility to hold them in forced imprisonment. We are in a helpless situation and what we are witnessing these days is that most agencies are not ready to do their jobs. What can you say about the issue of insecurity in Nigeria, we read about the outcry of the Middle Belt Forum where bandits are alleged to mount road blocks and are collecting tolls from citizens? POLL The Nigerian government no longer provides security in Nigeria. What you can do now is to pray to your God to protect you, your family, loved ones and constituents. Security has completely collapsed and everybody is on his or her own. There is no need to discuss security in Nigeria because it has completely collapsed. Is that the reason your party has told Nigerians not to expect anything positive from the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2022? This government has been in power for about seven years and the only thing that it has offered Nigerians is misery. I don’t know what anyone would want to expect from it because it cannot give what it doesn’t have. This government lacks the intelligence to pilot the affairs of this country and it has failed to admit that. It has nothing good to offer rather what it has to offer Nigerians is misery and suffering. The leaders of our party are right in their New Year message to Nigerians. We should pray for the months to fly by so that the end will come for this administration and Nigerians will breathe in fresh air. This government doesn’t listen to the yearnings of Nigerians. Take a look at what has been happening in this country. People have been crying about killings going on every day in the country, they have cried out about poverty, hunger, abductions, banditry etcetera. Unfortunately this government has not checked any of them because it is not interested. It is more interested in harassing the critics of the government. What are your thoughts about the electoral amendment bill? We have to look at the direct and indirect primaries critically and identify the one that is more prone to manipulation. I think that the direct primary is more prone to manipulation. Which party has the resources, the human capacity to conduct a direct primary which is tantamount to conducting an election, so where is the resources and the manpower to do that? It is prone to manipulation like it happened in the last Anambra State primary election of the APC. People were waiting in various polling units and nobody surfaced and at the end of the day somebody was announced the winner.