At least eight persons have died in a fatal crash which occurred at Kafin Liman village along Bauchi-Kano road, leaving four others badly injured. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi State Command, Yusuf Abdullahi, who confirmed the incident said it happened in Ganjuwa LGA of the state involving three vehicles. He said the three vehicles are: a DAF trailer with registration number: KMC95YU, a Ford Galaxy Bus with registration number: NNG21MG, and a Saloon Opel Vectra also with registration number: BAU490AA. NSSF Auctions WeNaija Photography Competition’s Top Images Boko Haram Terrorists Strike On Borno, Abduct Policemen According to him, all of them are commercial vehicles adding that the names of the drivers are yet to be ascertained. He said the crash was caused by an obstruction on the road. Abdullahi said, “I am right there at the scene of the crash as I speak with you because you know the crash occurred late in the night along Bauchi-Ningi road. “What I was informed was that the trailer got spoiled on the road and it was while they were trying to fix it that the crash occurred. Although there was a caution sign on the trailer, there wasn’t on the ground some meters away to caution anyone coming that a car had broken down on the road. They said they were trying to put it when the incident happened. “The Opel ran into the trailer and the Ford Galaxy which was driving behind also came and hit it from behind, further pushing it under the trailer and that was why it was that bad. The time the trailer broke down and the time when the Opel ran into it was short. “The two damaged vehicles are still there and we are trying our best to clear the instructions. It is really very unfortunate. The Opel is a write-off while the Ford Galaxy was badly damaged at its front completely. POLL “We were called 10 minutes after the incident and our men arrived there 10 minutes after for a rescue operation. A total of 12 people, nine male adults, and three female adults were involved in the crash. “When our men got there, they rushed the victims to Kafin Madaki General Hospital for medical treatment and confirmation. There, a medical doctor confirmed eight people, five male adults and three female adults, dead. Four other people sustained various degrees of injuries.”