With most respect and humility, I, Tanwi Halder, like to intimate you that I feel proud to be present at this great meeting under the auspices of Sahitya Academy. Personally, as a Bengalee and also as a writer of West Bengal, I convey my homage and salutation to the Secretary, the entire chairperson, and all the writers on various languages from various states of India who have draped this meeting. Why do I write? This question has haunted me in various forms. Repeatedly I have got one and only one answer – I have no other alternative but to write. It is better to say it comes to me just like hunger and slumber. I am a very simple and ordinary person. I wanted to live a simple life. But the fate of my life helped me to grow to be a writer. I have written a story named ‘Bandhano Khatar Galpo’. In other words, the story of a Binding Exercise Book is about a little girl who composed poetry on the experiences she gained. In her life, that exercise book had an invaluable price, because before that she had no such exercise book. An aunt from her neighborhood gave it to her as a gift. But the girl was not poor. Her both parents have jobs. But they were infrequent skirmish over trivial matters and consequently the girl was their victim. They supposed her to be the embodiment of a load to them. She was so engrossed in thought about ‘when to eat and when to sleep’ that she could never persuade anybody to buy a binding exercise book for her. During her stay with her mother who had been always busy with her lover and her father who was intoxicated by wine every twenty-four hours. Just then the binding exercise book came to her hand as a gift. Her literature career started with the flow of a lot of poems. During summer vacation her mother would take her to her kith and kin’s house. The binding exercise book had also gone with her. They knew her passion for writing. They wanted to listen to her. The girl shared her ideas and feelings with great enthusiasm. Her maternal uncles and aunties always tease her, ‘Our Tutun will be a Kopi’. The mother also burst out laughing after hearing their comments. The girl did not know the meaning of the word ‘Kopi’. She realised it later i.e., ‘a monkey’. What APC Brings To Mind: Shame, Hypocrisy, Vain Glory, Disaster A Writer Should Guide The Society – Lagada-Abayomi If this story is true to my life, then why my life would have not shouldered me to write. My study or education was like the weather of the hill. Whenever my parents were on good terms, I passed the examination of my school with flying colours. But I would have a sorry figure when I was forced to be thrown away from court to court like a football. But I kept on writing. My first story was brought out in a Sundarban Magazine when I was in class seven. Gradually my world of realisation revealed. I started reacting sternly to every local incident. Had I been able to protest raising hue and cry. But I could not. My writing could do this. I wish to be the mother of new stories. I could not have done this always. Sometimes I would fail to conceive them at all. Some had been miscarried. Some faced premature death. And sometimes I was able to give birth to some of them successfully. Father passed away. I was then just the tennis ball at the hand of my mother. The lady threw the ball off the table whimsically. And she was returned to the table after being mishandled by so many people. I had to experience a lot of unwanted people. Now when I sit for writing, I am astonished, “What a fortune I am!” There were only a few houses with TV in our village. I had an infatuation with watching TV. We had a black and white set in our house. But I had no right to operate it. Many folks came to our house to watch Bengali and Hindi feature films. They all sat on a mat on the floor and me on the bed. For that period, I would think of myself as the happy princess. While enjoying the songs of films I was entirely possessed by the souls of the dancing heroines and the boys around me got the resemblance to the heroes. Having been mingled freely with love and emotion, a lot of green and trash stories were born. Yet I could not but write. Then I became so confident and cogent when I was politically trained by my English teacher. He awakened us about the non-existence of God. Dates of the death by hanging of Bhagat Singh, Kshudiram Bose, Independence Day, 26th January, and 23rd January were observed in a coaching class. Sir deliberated a fiery speech. Then we became emotionally charged and some of us began to weep. Down the memory, I recollect that my friend Papiya came to me regarding the news of the GATT Agreement and said – ‘They have sold our country’. We wept a lot sitting on our roof. Papiya went away, but I kept on weeping to grip the pillow on my bed. Mother thrashed me with shoes after having failed to know the reason for my odd manner. I wrote the episode of my country being sold. I don’t know had it been a story or not at all. But I glued to writing then. I once slapped a man who had used some filthy words towards a rickshaw puller. The rickshaw puller placed his tender hands on my head and I, in no time, felt my dead father. Coming home I would write. River Ichamati flows by our village. Rabindranath narrated the river’s calm and quiet one – just a painting on the canvas. The fascinating beauty of the river still beckons me frequently. The more I advance to touch the river, the more it goes away from me. The river yet remains untouchable to me. Various stories, novels of mine have been brought out from this perspective. The names Sarat Chandra, Rabindranath, Bibhutibhusan, Tarasankar, Manik, Buddhadev Guha, and many other writers crowded into my head. Their works impressed me so much that I always regretted not being able to write like them. Sometimes it seemed to me that I wanted to write just like that composition. I would finish it. This was nothing but inexpert writing of stories by an unskilled hand. Later on, Prafulla Roy, Ashapurna Devi, Ram Kumar Mukhopadhay, Sadhan Chattopadhya, Soharab Hossein, Subrata Mukhopadhya, Sachin Das and so on – whose name should be unuttered? Their creativity boosted me up to write more and more right now. Thus, life had been proceeding just as the Ichhamati flows. POLL Service, husband, and child – I had to manage all. How would I get time to ponder over the binding exercise book? In my office, there is an exchange of views among right or leftist leaders and thus began the political attachment. At that time an elder brother of that town gave me to read Chekav, Talastoy, Katharin, etc. translated into Bengali. Time and my age transformed me into a mature one. The more I became nearer to the leaders; the more I saw the hypocrisy in most of them. Even I had been in a position to lead in the association. I was also going to be an impostor. I kept aside my binding exercise book in safe custody. One day I was invited to the house of a leader who is an atheist on the occasion of the warship of Baba Loknath. I went there along with my daughter and Fatema, the governor of my daughter. Seeing some stagnant water in the yard of the leader, I anxiously said to the girl, “Fatema, take care of Sunu”. The leader and his wife came hurriedly and said, “Is the girl Muslim?” When the answer came as ‘yes’ their face turned pale and whispered, ‘Don’t take her to the alter. I bowed my head from a distance and said to the family, ‘Now, we have to go’. The leader and his wife sighed a relief. My daughter and Fatema said angrily, “There are so many foods. But why are you going away unfed?” I said to them, “Fie! Don’t you see the foods are uncovered? Come with me to a restaurant, we will eat chowmin today”. From that, all my efforts regarding writing perked me up again. I was being obsessed with it. But how many days would it take to come out? Ten months and ten days at best! Then the offspring must come out to get the light of the earth. I feel I needed a diary. Once I would gaze at the piles of diaries put into order in auntie’s house. At last, I persuaded for a copy. They laughed at me, “Why, Kopi i.e. Monkey, will you be a lady Rabindranath?” I shared my emotion with my husband. He immediately gave me an executive diary. It was more than I expected. It was gorgeous but decent looks strained the envious eyes, “Where have you got the diary from?” The massage of my glorious husband spread out in all directions. The invasion of Iraq by Bush, the death of Saddam in the jail of Bagdad, brutal and savage activities and detonations of the terrorists, and many other significant issues like the GATT Agreement impress me very much. At present, I know that there are so many sorrows and pains on earth. I have lived in so many districts of W.B. Different types of phenomena, folk attracted me. I am also attracted by different types of myths, history, and of course human beings. Now the place I live is very dry. My life teaches me truly that another name of the water is life. I can write ‘aay bristi jhepe’ i.e ‘come to the rain in cats and dogs.’ In that dry and hot weather, I feel my Ichamati. Yet I am committed to my society. I have found out Papiya to weep together. She burst out laughing and said keeping her son on her lap, “You have been remained unchanged”. Now I weep alone. I weep and I write. I can’t but write. My ‘Executive Diary’ is going to be full. So, I have decided this time to buy one dista white paper. But still now the girl of the ‘story of binding exercise book’ is a naked child who looks for her parents in her writings. I will write more and more. I want to be a writer bit by bit based on regular toil. I never want to touch the sky. Because I know the sky is a vacuum, limitless. I want to touch and feel your hearts, souls with my works standing on the soils of the earth.