Journalists For Christ (JFC) International Outreach has called for enduring solutions to the difficulties experienced by Internally displaced persons in Nigeria. The call was made at the one-day forum organised by JFC, which was part of its ‘Advancing the Rights and Welfare of IDPs through the Media’, being sponsored by the World Association for Christian Communication (WACC) and Brot fur die Welt. At the consultative meeting/media parley with IDP focal persons in Ogba, Lagos, journalists brainstormed on strategies to help this segment of the populace. Remembering God’s Generals Who Answered The Last Call In 2021 Focus On Productivity, Akinadewo Tells Christians Mr. Lekan Otufodunrin, JFC President, however, admonished journalists to chart a way forward for the IDP camps in Nigeria, according to Church Times report. Otufodunrin noted that there were several issues around IDPs, advising journalists to see it as a duty to project the situations in the camps so that government would take action on them. He, enjoined journalists to carry the burden of the internally displaced people, statin, “We should be their voice, their ear and give them good representation in our various media. “Journalists pay too much attention to what goes on in government to the detriment of the governed. This should not be. “While it is important we report the government, we should give some good space to human angle stories. POLL “Many things are going on in IDP camps across the country that we hardly report. This forum is going to chart a way forward. “The reason we are having this discussion is to come up with strategies whereby these camps can get adequate attention in the media.” Mrs. Adeyemi Adeyeye, Executive Director, Humanity Foundation for Peace and Development (HUFFPED), said the greatest challenge facing IDP camps was lack of basic education for children of school age. She advised that there should be a mechanism by which young people could benefit from western e “While the adults be trained in skills acquisition so that when they leave the camp, they will be well integrated into the larger society. God Also Guides Through Christian Movies, Literature – Oyedeji A Good Government Should Not Dismiss Criticisms – Odesola “The people in the camp need a source of livelihood when they leave the camp… People are being asked to leave the IDP camps and go back to their families and homes in some parts of the country. “The question is where are they going back to? What are they going to fall back on? Many of these people have lost track of reality. “Efforts should now be made to integrate them. One of the ways is for them to have a skill they can fall back on,” Adeyeye stated. Mr. John Ndukwe, Co-founder at Instasage Inc., shared his experience of travelling to many parts of Nigeria capturing the stories of IDPs using photographs, videography, and documentary film. He said that there was need for those who live on IDP camps to have a reorientation and psychotherapy before they could fit into the larger society. Chinagorom Okoro Communication Officer for Sessor Empowerment Foundation, and organisation that helps rehabilitate displaced women and children, stated, “Through our efforts, many women are being helped to stand on their own. We put them through entrepreneurship and also help them to start businesses.”