Arsenal have reportedly offered Fiorentina £60million plus Lucas Torreira in an attempt to persuade the Serie A club to part ways with Dusan Vlahovic. The 21-year-old is regarded as one of the best young strikers in Europe and has been tipped to leave Italy this month. The Gunners are in the hunt for a new frontman after boss Mikel Arteta stripped Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang of the captaincy and banished him from the team after a disciplinary issue last year. The Gabon international, who is currently in Cameroon at the Africa Cup of Nations, hasn’t played for Arsenal since the start of December when he came off the bench in a 2-1 defeat against Everton. Chinyere vs Ohakim: Absence Of Prosecution Counsel Stalls… Ukraine’s Former President Poroshenko Arrives In Kyiv To… France international Alexandre Lacazette has spearheaded his side’s attack in the absence of the former skipper. But the 30-year-old is out of contract in the summer and could be set to depart the club at the end of the season. Arsenal have been linked with Vlahovic for some time and, according to Corriere della Sera, they have now made a concrete offer for the player. Fiorentina apparently intend to sell Vlahovic immediately so they can maximise their return on the forward. If the club wait until the summer to sell their prized asset, his value could decrease as he will be entering the final year of his contract. POLL There is also a concern in Florence that he will run his contract down and then walk away for free. Last week, Fiorentina chief executive Joe Barone admitted his club are pushing the player to decide where his future lies and want him to make his stance clear. “We expect Dusan to make a decision on his future immediately, we need an answer if he stays or wants to leave,” Barone said. “We asked Dusan two days ago to decide and communicate his plan in public immediately.” Vlahovic has been in stellar form in Italy this season and has continued to rack-up the goals after scoring seven times during a pre-season friendly against Foligno last July. ‘CBN May Tighten Monetary Policy To Halt Reserves Depletion’ |… Oil Tankers Explode After Iran-backed Rebels Deploy ‘Kamikaze… The Serbia international has gone on to score 16 goals in 20 Serie A games this campaign and has also notched three times in the Coppa Italia. That means he is now just two goals shy of his tally from the whole of last season. Since making his first team debut in 2018, Vlahovic has scored 48 goals in 107 games for his club. He has also fired in seven strikes for his country in 14 appearances and helped them book their place at this year’s World Cup thanks to a string of outstanding performances in the autumn. Torreira, meanwhile, is currently on loan at Fiorentina and has been a regular in the starting line-up this season. By including the midfielder in their Vlahovic negotiations, the Gunners are hoping they can get a deal over the line.