EMMANUEL OBETA Stakeholders’ relations Stakeholders according to Corporate Finance Institute are individuals, groups and entities affected by the operation of your business. Futureview Advises Investors To Take Advantage Of Mutual Funds Standard Chartered Launches Agency Banking Stakeholders can also be defined as any person, group or organization who can place a claim on an organization’s attention, resources or output, or is affected by that output. Some of these stakeholders for the business include customers, communities, employees, owners, suppliers and partners, government agencies and regulators. Understanding the importance of stakeholders to a business will help you keep all of your relationships healthy and mutually beneficial. Stakeholders by the nature of their influence hold the key to the business and social environment in which an organization operates and therefore its subsequent financial and operating performance. The effective management of stakeholder relations should be an essential focus of organizational activity as it is key to resolving the different issues facing the organizations The aim of stakeholder relations management is to influence stakeholder attitudes, decisions, and actions for mutual benefit or they may not be sufficiently motivated to cooperate if the relationship is beneficial only to the organization. POLL A skillful approach is therefore required to balance as much as possible the interests of all parties involved through planning and a clear understanding of the interests of the stakeholders. An understanding of the viewpoints of the main stakeholders will help the organization in shaping or fashioning its projects right from the onset so as to ensure the cooperation and buy in of the stakeholders at the point of implementation. Gaining support from powerful stakeholders for the project will also ensure a smooth and hitch free take off and completion of the project since all the major objections of these stakeholders would have been taken care of and factored into the implementation of the project. Constant communication, interaction and involvement of these stakeholders at each of the critical stages of the project will not only save time but ensure the participation and ownership of the project by all the major stakeholders. There are six major steps in stakeholder relationship management which starts with identifying, prioritising the stakeholders and engaging with them. CHI Launched Festive Season With Special Edition Packs Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (12) 1. Identify Your Stakeholders The first step in managing the relationship between the various stakeholders is to identify those you’ll be building and managing relationships with. The process of arriving at these stakeholders to focus upon is to brainstorm, with your team about all the possible stakeholders who might be impacted (positively or negatively) by your project or who may have other interests in your project. Stakeholder identification according to Kim Harrison (2020) involves the listing of the people, groups or organizations who are affected by your project, who have influence or power over it, or have an interest in its successful or unsuccessful conclusion. The three main parameters for assessing stakeholders are influence, impact and alignment. 2. Map Your Stakeholders The second step is to map your stakeholders basically because they vary along different dimensions eg influence, interest and power. Mapping is therefore a process of categorizing your stakeholders after you’ve identified them based on the different indices that will be relevant and impactful to your project. Prioritising your stakeholders involves determining which of them are affected and can affect your projects and activities. Some of these may have the power either to block or advance your activities. Some may be interested in what you are doing; others may not care. Having identified your main stakeholders, you need to decide which of them are the most important and how to engage them based on the limited resources available. One popular stakeholder mapping canvas is Mendelow’s Power-Interest Matrix which helps you categorize stakeholders based upon their level of interest (high/low) and level of influence (high/low) on your organization or project. Knowing which stakeholders are in each category helps you understand how much resources should be put into engaging them, how much budget and time may be required and also enables you to choose specific engagement tactics to be deployed in managing each of the relationships. For example, the stakeholder in your high interest/high influence group would require more attention than the stakeholders in your low interest/low influence group. This is because the stakeholder with high interest and high influence are more likely to positively or negatively impact your project. In contrast, low interest and low influence stakeholders are less likely to impact; however, this doesn’t mean you won’t be building relationships with stakeholders in different categories; it just helps you and your team focus your plans. 3. Learn About Your Stakeholders That you have identified and mapped your stakeholders does not mean that you know or have all the required information about them that can help you manage them effectively. Consequently, the next step will be to learn and acquire all possible information about these stakeholders that will enable you relate with them. This information will give you an idea about their disposition towards your project which will give you a better idea on how to relate to them as well as how to organise your messaging so as to ensure that you are addressing topics that matter most to them, critical steps in building trust and stronger relationships. 4. Plan with Your Team on How to Strategically Proceed Once you know who your stakeholders are and what they care about, the next thing will be to plan on how to meet these peculiar interests and needs of your stakeholders since they may be as varied as the stakeholder groups. This will give you an idea of what resources will be required throughout this process. Planning for instance, will help you identify those whose interests are similar or overlapping and the kinds of resources that can be aggregated in meeting these needs. Part of resource allocation will also require putting together the requisite team based on expertise and competence that can best attend to the various stakeholder groups, the strategic messaging approach, communication tactics, and timelines for each of these actions. The planning also ensures everyone is on the same page and can work together more effectively towards building better relationships with your stakeholders. 5. Engagement with Your Stakeholders Having understood your stakeholders to a large extent with regards to their current dispositions, messaging needs as well as the best channel of communicating or reaching them as well as the regularity of such engagements the next phase will be to go ahead and implement your plan. The last stage is the engagement process which in itself requires a lot of planning like who are the leaders of these various stakeholders’ group, which one of them you can approach as an entry or introduction point to the entire group. What at are the interests and concerns of the group through which you can always seek to penetrate and gain their attention? The five different levels of participation: inform, consult, involve, collaborate and empower identified by the International Association for Public Participation provides a very valuable tool in guiding your engagement with the stakeholders especially the level and depth of such engagement. Stakeholder engagement can be overwhelming however when done respectfully, intentionally and consistently, you’ll build stakeholder trust and better relationships withyour stakeholders which will facilitate open conversations about their concerns. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com