Lucky Amiwero, the National President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licenced Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), in this interview with ANDREW UTULU, speaks on how Nigeria has signed into the safe framework agreement but not complying with the set standards. Excerpt: There are multiplicities of Customs Units and check points contrary to destination inspection. What is your take on various stop and search units mounted by the Nigeria Customs Service? I was a member of the Destination Inspection Committee which is no more relevant in the world order. What we are practicing today in the country is outdated and not in line with the Safe Framework. Safe Framework of Standards to secure global trade was design by World Customs Organization (WTO), under the Ministerial Committee is to fish out things like arms and ammunition, human trafficking, narcotics, weapon of mass destruction and very harmful chemicals. Losses Caused By APP Fraud In UK Soared By 71% – Report Why Global Economists Predicted Stagflation For Nigeria – Report One of the recommendations under safe frame work you have the jubilant, Customs to Customs, Customs to Government, then Customs to Business. Customs to business is what you are seeing today when you look at e-customs. Customs to business is customs to agents, to importers to shipping companies and all the rest. Customs to Customs is country to country, but Nigerian Customs has not complied with all the rules. For instance, you don’t have to close the border. Have you heard any country closing the border? But Nigeria closed its borders because they don’t understand the instruments. We have four instruments for mutual administrative assistance. This has to do with contracting documents in the form of agreement. Any transaction you do with the importing countries and exporting countries is to make sure that things like arms, ammunition, and contraband are not allowed. For instance, they’re supposed to be MOU between Togo and Nigeria, MOU between Chad and Nigeria, and that is what America do. America has 81 MOUs all over the world. You cannot load any American ship without their Knowledge and if America is not there, it makes sure that country’s government represents it to make sure that nothing that supposed not to be included is there. So, we are having a confused system that does not comply with any law. Destination Inspection is no more relevant. After 911, Destination Inspection was removed from the system and screening replaces it. America has four instruments. One is called Sea Pact, this is validation of contract and any transaction you do with the import and export countries. That is why America is not vulnerable because you cannot bring things anyhow to America. POLL The other is validation, you have the rules. Rule 12/2 called Importer Security Findings. With this, you don’t bring in anything into the country if it does not have those importers’ information. You have the manifest that must be supplied. The manifest must be supplied to that country before that time. So, those are two tools that informed protection in America. The container Security Initiative is the one you have customs all over. So, when you are talking about Destination Inspection, it is no more relevant. No one uses it again. We introduced it in 2001, it came into force in 2006. The 911 incident removed it, and Safe Frame Work came in. Nigeria is a contracting party, because it is not mandatory, but you do it for the security of your nation. We are party to the Safe Framework. It is not talking about revenue. Our Customs talk more on revenue. We do not talk more on the security aspect of it. In other countries, be it European countries, Asia, Ghana, most of them have to check before you load your consignment. What we have here is just a blind inspection. What law do you have? The pre-shipment Inspection Act. It is not Destination Inspection. Destination Inspection does not have any law. What we still have is pre-shipment inspection. What the Safe Frame Work is talking about is scanners which are electronically supplied information and transaction. In terms of delivery, all these things must be electronically supplied. Customs have that, but they still need to validate the Webb Fontaine Nigeria Limited thing. I was a member of the committee and I know what I am talking about. There are some tools that are not there that have to be incorporated. The world is no longer talking about revenue. The world is talking about security. In Nigeria, we are looking at revenue and ignoring security. We are operating negatively. There is nowhere in the world they discuss billions in terms of revenue. Those ones are not discussed internationally. A Look At FG’s Commitment To Retirees, Pensioners Nigeria’s Socio-economic Development Rests On ICT Adoption,… AreyousayingthatCustomsshoulddomore of security than revenue collection? I think we still need to talk to Customs about that. When you are talking about revenue and you kill your industries on revenue. Customs is not all about revenue, but all about managing the economy. There is nowhere in the world revenue is a bench. It is only Nigeria. The Safe Framework is talking about security and protection. So, when you talk about destination in There was a time when they were to collapse Shippers’ Council with NMA, and I took a lot of risks; I had to go to Kuru, Jos, when they wanted to harmonise all the agencies. The Council is concerned only with shippers’ interests, but over time, you notice that no interest has been protected, because they went to court on the issue of terminal operators. So far so good, I haven’t seen anything they have done as an organization. When Bello was there, it is either they are doing inland container which is not part of their purview; ICD which is not their thing but NPA’s, since they’re the ones that operate the ports. Inland Dry Port is supposed to be under NPA, not Shippers’ Council. But they took that, and even went further to CTN, which they lost out of. On the matter of port operating procedures, I don’t think anything is working out there. They have gone throughout without anybody benefiting from them. Under the new CEO, have people felt the impact of his leadership? How can you feel the impact of someone who is new to the industry? He’s very new and doesn’t understand the rudiments of the industry, even though he was under the export-free Zone. He’s going to learn, and Shippers’ Council will misdirect him until he has professionals to guide him. When Sarumi was there, what he did was to bring the trade advisory committee and the other commodity committee; they were the ones advising him even though he has been in the ports. Since Bello came in, it has been a government initiative, and when you look at the whole thing, nothing was working there. The Inland container depot, you don’t have the dry port; I told them. There’s no legislation for dry port for now, and you can’t declare one unless you have legislation. What we have in the Port Act is a navigational port. ThenewCEOhas spent sevenmonthsout of a four year term, are you saying you people have not felt any impact of his presence? I don’t know, even when other CEOs of Shippers’ Council were there, where was the presence? They just ran seminars while neglecting their core functions. Most of what they have done is not within their law. spection, one, understand they have brought in some scanners, but we are doubting, because I was a member of that committee. We have signed the safe framework agreement, but did we comply with them? It took this government many years. Some of those scanners you have in the ports are fixed scanners that needed to be repaired but I don’t know what happened. They are bringing in new ones. Are you sure they will not go the same way? May God help us because those scanners are not bad. The contract of those scanners is for Build Own Operate and Transfer, and there is a clause in that contract, which says 6 months after handover, the manufacturing company must stay behind and supply every missing parts of the scanners . There will be labour and maintenance, which was not done. The scanners supposed to be transferred to Customs new and functional. There were days of concession granted to importersandagentsduringtheoutbreakof COVID-19. What has the Nigerian Shippers’ Council done in helping you get refunds? Shippers’ Council has never in their life fought for anybody’s interest. What about economic regulatory function? It’s not by mouth; it should be by law, which is not provided for at the moment. The Presidency approved it during Jonathan’s regime, but where is the law to back it up? Bello spent eight years there and when he spoke about the law, I advised him to regulate a small portion of the ports, as it is done in South Africa. But you want to regulate railway and others, which is where you will have problems. What you have in South Africa is independent port operators, but they’re still under the government, as well as in Singapore and other parts of the world. You want to create National Transport Commission; how many countries are running that? Those are old, outdated systems, which have been breached, and other countries have reworked them to make them simpler. Then you have ports for ports, railway for railway and all the rest. But when you want to cover the whole place that is where you have problems because you cannot do that without doing away with a lot of laws. Because railway has their own laws and its subsidiaries, which you have to do away with if you want to regulate them. Same with NPA. And you just come up with Transport Commission and you expect the government to sign; it’s not going to be possible. Doesn’t that look confusing that he’s economic regulator without a law? A simple law in the country is supposed to be to regulate the ports, and as we who are experts, we advised them but they did not heed. Look all over the world; regulation is done on a principle. Once you’re doing a port concession (which we don’t have in this country; what we have is lease agreement), the first thing you’re supposed to do is create a law to protect the commercial interest. This is just manipulation all over the place. Gridlock, container mishaps and other similar things are what you’re going to see at the end of the day. Nigeria will be a transit camp in the next few years, whether we like it or not, unless we change the way we’re doing things by creating law to protect the commercial interest at the ports What I foretold has come to pass; a few years ago, I was talking about concession, which if we do without a law will lead to problems. Had it not come to pass? Let the man responsible come forward now and tell people that he did a very good job. That’s one of the worst things that has been done so far, and he was my friend, but we had to quarrel for three years. I don’t know who he has engaged, because I keep seeing conflict he’s getting into, which is what you have when you engage with mediocrity. As the conflict grows, our maritime sector deteriorates and things continue to go bad. People are leaving, and in the next two years, our country will be a transit camp. Have you approached the Shippers’ Council on the payment? Shippers’ Council is the main culprits. The Council is supposed to protect the Shippers’ interests, but they contravene; I can even give you the letters they have written. We have a country where the agents and importers are not protected. They are working for the interests of the shipping companies.