AWKA – Former chairman of Police Service Commission (PSC), Chief Simon Okeke, has traced agitations for self-determination in the South-East to what he described as the “abysmal exclusion of Ndigbo in the governance of Nigeria”. Okeke said that until the situation is remedied, there will be no peace in Nigeria as youths in the South-East have the right to revolt and they will always have the support of elders like the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Okeke spoke as Chairman of the launch of the book: “History of Igboland and Re-appraisal of the Origin of Onicha Ado N’Idu”. Gani Adams To Nigerians In Diaspora: Shun Negative News, Develop… Managing Insecurity, Greatest Nigeria’s Challenge  –… He said: “There is no gainsaying that the resurgence of these is the inevitable reaction to the naked and inescapable action arising from the abysmal marginalisation of the zone, the greatest being the denial of a Presidential slot, inequitable states allocation with its resultant negative impact on our youths unemployment, reduced federal finances accruing to the zone, the shortfall on diplomatic, ministerial and other accommodations in the allocation of the national cake.” To this end, Okeke said, Igbo have the right to protest. Okeke appealed to political parties to field only Igbos as their presidential candidates and also appealed to Igbo people to only vote Igbo candidates in the election. He, however, said any Igbo man or woman who failed to vote an Igbo man for President will have their head re-examined. The reviewer of the book, ProfessorJohncliff Nwadike praised Aduba for his courage and suggested that he pick an appointment in one of the universities to lecture History. POLL He described him as a “revisionist and reconstructive historian” and that his work is “superlative,  well researched and documented.” In his remarks, Aduba reiterated that he wrote the book to stimulate debate. He said he is confident that open-minded and unbiased people “will find the book quite informative and educating”. He said: “To some extent, Nigerians bear the blame for not presenting alternative narratives of colonialism and for allowing the British accounts to become the standard version of their history.” Governor Willie Obiano was represented at the occasion by the Information and Enlightenment Commissioner, Don Adinuba, who made glowing remarks about Adinuba. The chief launcher, Chief Chuck Nduka-Eze launched the book with N1million and promised to send copies to organisations that will spread the news#