Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbowei Cleric is the Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC). Cleric, also a Special Assistant (Political) to the Delta State governor, spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the emerging presidential contenders as the nation marches towards 3023 general elections. Excerpt: Former Lagos State governor and APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, recently declared that he wants to succeed President Muhammadu. How do you see this development? There is nothing new about Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu’s declaration to contest the 2023 presidential election. Of course, that is his civic right as provided by our constitution. The declaration in another sense, only put paid to the long rumour about his ambition to join the popularity contest in 2023. Every apprehension and insinuation has now been laid to rest. His supporters and those on the other divide, I am sure, know what is next. Power Is Taken Not Given – Odeh Osinbajo, Tinubu Taking APC By Storm Before Tinubu’s announcement, there were speculations that the APC might be considering former President Goodluck Jonathan for its presidential ticket. Would you say that this sounds possible considering that Jonathan is of the PDP? I don’t know the mind of former President Goodluck Jonathan to answer this question. He has repeatedly spoken through his media aide that he is not nursing any ambition in 2023. The issue of whether he is planning to defect to the APC or vice visa cannot occupy my thoughts because he has answered all the questions Nigerians were asking. Better still, the man has cleared all insinuations as far as his explanations are concerned. Whatever may happen tomorrow should be left for providence to decide. Let us accept the facts the way they are being presented for now. Tomorrow is always pregnant and I don’t think it is good enough to preempt what God has designed for humanity. It is also believed that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, want to run for president under the APC platform. Between Tinubu, Osinbajo and Fayemi, who among them do you think would make the best president? My prayer is that let only the one whom God has prepared for the country wins the next presidential election. Just that you and I may not know the right person. Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Gov. Kayode Fayemi and Sen. Ahmed Bola Tinubu are all eminently qualified to rule the country in terms of administrative acumen. However, I don’t think the person Nigerians want to rule the country in the next election is just someone with some features of leadership qualities, but a person who understands our unity in diversity, the plurality of our federal system, as well as our ethno-religious backgrounds. I am sure Nigerians will also assess the candidates with their political parties’ ideologies because most of the parties control and influence the policies and programmes of the rulers who use their tickets to secure the offices. A political party whose ideology seeks to polarise the country along ethno-religious lines or surreptitiously declare some Nigerians through its policies and programmes as second fiddle human beings to the others should not be considered to rule the country. We need a political party that has Nigeria in mind devoid of ethno-religious sentiments and not one that does the opposite. We have been taught a bitter lesson for the past seven years. We must not afford to repeat the same mistake. Governor Yahaya Belo of Kogi State has long indicated that he wants the APC presidential ticket. How realistic and possible do you think his aspiration could be? POLL I am not a member of the APC to discuss the prospect of his ambition. Before he made up his mind to throw his cap in the ring, I am sure he has sufficiently weighed his chances in both positive and negative light. If however he succeeds in flying the APC tickets, what should be considered about his chances of winning the general election is what I have just said above. I believe Nigerians would like to have a leader who will restore our lost glories for the past seven years. We cannot afford to enter another one chance bus of ethno-religious politics of nepotism and chauvinism. If Nigeria must survive the impending doom, we need a national figure with liberal mind to rescue the country from the wood. Right now, our country is miserably at the cliff. Nigeria was in the same condition in 1999 when Olusegun Obasanjo took over power. Obasanjo was able to rescue the country then. We need such national figures as former President Obasanjo to clinically operate and save the country from the precipice. In considering such a very important rescue move, the ranting of every Tom, Dick Harry should not distract us. We should not be influenced by political-cum ethno-religious sentiments to make our choice in 2023. It was the choice of ethno-religious sentiments and propaganda that brought us to this miserable end. How would you say that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s decision to run for the presidency would leave the South considering the unity and cooperation that are being built among Southern leaders in recent times? Southern Nigeria has not come together to adopt any particular candidate. I don’t think there will be any preferred candidate. All the aspirants have to test their popularity. This therefore means that Tinubu’s declaration to contest the 2023 election is not something that should occupy the centre stage of our discourse. He has many supporters and sympathisers across the country. In the same way, millions of Nigerians do not want him. The Southern Nigerian people, therefore, have no general or consensus feeling about Tinubu’s ambition. Like I said before, those for him will start to do the needful, while those on the other divide have to play their parts, too. At the end, only the popular candidate will emerge victoriously. Anyim Pius Anyim, former Senate President and Secretary of the Federal Government, has indicated interest to also run for president. Would you say that Anyim has the capacity to rule the nation? Yes, Anyim Pius Anyim has the democratic credentials to rule the country. Let him play his game very well. The decision lies solely on Nigerians. My only appeal is that ethnic and religious sentiments should not sway our choice of candidate in the next election. No region or ethnic group in this country has the monopoly of producing good leadership for the country. Let us give every ethnic group an equal right of participation in the affairs of our nation. That is a recipe for ethno-religious cohesion, political harmony and economic stability. Climate Change, Threat To Food Security – Obasi PVCs Issued In 2011 Still Valid – INEC How do you see the presidential aspiration of Mao Ohuabunwa, who is also of PDP stock and leader of the New Nigerian Movement? The answer is the same as above. One thing I advise aspirants to do is to consider their prospect of winning, so much so that if there is a need to sacrifice their ambition for the interest of their political parties, I think that is far better. Apart from Anyim and Ohuabunwa, would you say the PDP has other leaders who can stand against APC and win come 2023? The bell has not started ringing. PDP has more than enough qualified persons to turn the fortunes of our now comatose economy for good. The party has several tested leaders with proven technocrats to rule the country. By the time the political bell rings, you will see them in the race. Nigerians will judge them right at the polls. If you ask me, I will say PDP has the best alternatives to rescue the country from her present woes. What direction do you think South South will likely go as regards the 2023 presidency? I am not in a position to speak for the entire South South geo-political zone as the region has constituted authority to do that. In my capacity as a political analyst, I am sure the people will look at a candidate who will treat every Nigerian as an equal partner. We have a peculiar problem in the country and that is our agitation for egalitarian society, true fiscal federalism and resource ownership. In my thinking, I am sure the people will look at a candidate and his party that will consider the interest of the region. If however it is the wish of God to have a person from the region to rule the country, then that will be an added advantage.