LAGOS  – When the 33rd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations (AF­CON) kicks off on Sunday with a match between the hosts the Indomitable Li­ons of Cameroon and The Stallions of Burkina Faso, several world-class play­ers will be seen in action during the four-week-long tournament. African football fans will be able to see all the best action of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) on StarTimes’ World Football channel as Africa’s leading digital-TV operator will be showing the games live and in HD. Africa’s gain during that time is often Europe’s loss as clubs like Liverpool FC, Man­chester City, Paris Saint Ger­main (PSG), AC Milan, and Bayern Munich will be with­out some of their star players as they do duty for their respec­tive national teams. Alalade Relieves Form With Shooting Stars Ogunbote Talks About Remo’s Underdog Tag As a result, the competition has not been without its con­troversy, but all of that will be forgotten when the matches get underway. Although the tournament has been expanded to 24 teams for the first time in its long history, the pre-tournament favourites comprise the usual suspects. Cameroon have already won the showpiece of African football five times and as hosts are certainly in the running to add another title. Coached by former Por­tuguese international, Toni Conceição, the Indomitable Lions squad blends veteran players like goalkeeper André Onana, André-Frank Zambo Anguissa, Vincent Abouba­kar, and Eric Maxim Chou­po-Moting with youngsters like Bordeaux’s Jean Onana and Ignatius Ganago, who plays for Lens. The hosts have been paired in Group A with Burkina Faso, Cape Verde and Ethiopia. With the four best-placed third-ranked teams also advancing to the round of the last 16, it would be a huge surprise if the hosts do not make it into the knock-out stage. POLL The holders, the Desert Warriors of Algeria, potential­ly have a much tougher task. They are in Group E, together with Equatorial Guinea, Sier­ra Leone and the Elephants of Côte d’Ivoire, who have a for­midable squad, headlined by: Franck Kessié, Nicolas Pépé, Wilfried Zaha and Sébastien Haller. Three-time champions, the Super Eagles of Nigeria’s preparations were thrown into disarray when German coach Gernot Rohr was dismissed shortly before the start of the tournament. Jose Peseiro has been named as a replacement, but interim coach Augustine Eguavoen will be in charge at the Nations Cup, with the Portuguese coach acting as an observer. The Super Eagles face Guinea Bissau, Sudan, and Egypt in Group D, with the Pharaohs undoubtedly being the biggest threat to Nigeria’s hopes of topping the group. Other teams in the mix to land Africa’s greatest national team prize are the Black Stars of Ghana and the Teranga Lions of Senegal, who are coached by former national team player, Aliou Cissé, who captained Les Lions de la Téranga to the runner-up po­sition in 2002 and coached the side in 2019, when they lost 1-0 to Algeria in the final. Australian Open: Second Player Loses Visa Over Vaccine Status Pharaohs Not About Me Alone, Salah Replies Nigeria, Others Cissé can call on the likes of Sadio Mané, who is one of three Liverpool stars doing duty in Cameroon. Mané and team-mate Mo Salah scored for Liv­erpool in their 2-2 draw against Chelsea on the weekend, before jetting off to AFCON. Liverpool manager Jürgen Klopp has come to terms with missing three important play­ers. “We knew three would be qualified and be there and we knew that at least two of them will go pretty far in the tour­nament. “Can you be prepared for something like that, properly, perfectly? Like a one-for-one replacement for Sadio, a re­placement for Mo, one replace­ment for Naby [Keita]? That’s tricky in each situation,” he said.