The tollgate end of the Lagos – Abeokuta expressway in Sango Ota, Ogun state, known for its traffic bedlam and incessant road crashes was partially reopened on Thursday 16, December, following months of diversion of traffic to one lane, due to construction works carried out by Julius Berger. Realising the recalcitrant nature of motorists especially commercial drivers who are the major factor behind the negative traffic statistics at the old tollgate, traffic managers from the Nigeria Police, Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC and Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, TRACE, in charge of the axis carried out a joint operation on Friday (the week following the opening) to put measures in place to reduce the factors leading to the harrowing traffic situations experienced by road users in the past. Speaking on behalf of the Federal Road Safety Corps FRSC, A.I. Shammah, said: “The initial design allowing vehicles to do U-Turn at the junction of Ilo-Awela road is no longer in place and allowed, any vehicle that will turn will have to go to Amje bus stop in Lagos to do that. Year 2022: FG Will Consolidate On Completion Of Road Projects –… Govt, Crisis Of Articulated Vehicles In Nigeria “As you can see, this is a major expressway with a high volume of traffic that requires constant free flow of traffic. Equally, owing to the sloppy nature of the Ilo-Awela junction at the expressway, it is not structurally proper for vehicles to make a u-turn at this point. Any driver making a u-turn at this point will have his vehicle apprehended and the driver prosecuted.” Shammah said. “The warning given by the traffic managers, especially the one coming from the FRSC, gave the commercial operators a lot to worry about, owing to the fact that the same highway is where they make u-turn. “To find a way out they call on the government to come to their aid by creating a new u-turn that will be strategically located to stave off getting to the highway for turning”. Kolawole Soremekun, Branch Chairman, Tricycle Operators and Riders Association of Nigeria, TORAN, Tollgate, said: “We are aware of the immense danger associated with turning on the Lagos-Abeokuta highway, I recall the high number of accidents at the axis in the past, and we have started experiencing them even lately, so it is not in our desire to risk it to the highway before we enter the garage to load passengers. The turning is far away from the toll gate area, if any Marwa operator turns to enter garage from that distance, he will be violating the ‘driving against traffic rule’, so they will have to get to the highway before they can actually turn and we all know the potential danger, especially when confronted with an coming truck that has failed brake. “We therefore, appeal to the authorities to consider creating a space near the tollgate on the Ilo-Awela road that could be used by our operatives for turning to access the garage we are using to load passengers. POLL “Without the opening of the u-turn, our tricycles from all the way from Iyana-Iyesi, Oju-Ore and other places to the tollgate will have no convenient place to access their garage. That is why you find some of them parked by the road side to load passengers and afterwards will have to go to the highway to turn in order to carry their passengers to those designated routes.” Comrade Soremekun further said, the garage presently used by all transport operators at the tollgate cannot contain them conveniently hence the need for the expansion of the facility or the creation of an additional one. Another Tricycle rider who gave his name as Abiodun Akintola, said: “Our routes are mainly from Oju-Ore and Iyana-Iyesi to the tollgate and there is no other garage aside from this one here, but the garage is very small for us. We therefore need other garages to save us from the inherent danger faced while parking on the road shoulders. We also ask for a turning point some few metres away from the Lagos-Abeokuta highway to save us from the lurking danger associated with turning there.” The DAILY INDEPENDENT correspondent pointed to a virgin land on the other side (across the road) from where the present garage is located and asked who owned the land? Soremekun said the space was used as a material site by the company that constructed the Ilo-Awela road and had been abandoned since then. When asked if they had made any inquiry to acquire the land as an additional garage to the existing one that is said to be small, he responded to the contrary, but agreed that the space will be appropriate if the government can acquire the space for the union as a garage. Season Of Completion, Impact Continues As Buhari Commissions… Traffic Chaos Resumes As Ota Tollgate Is Partially Opened To… In his appeal, Salako Idris, chairman Articulate Motorcycle Riders Association of Nigeria, AMORAN, tollgate unit, said: ”Our riders coming from inward Ota, have no other turning point apart from Amje bus -stop in Lagos which is far away from here. “Now to get to that point, we have to ply the federal highway and Okadas have been barred from plying it, so there is huge risk in terms of safety, possible arrests and prosecution. “We ask those in charge of road construction or traffic management to visit this place to carry out an assessment in order to do the needful, by creating a U-Turn before getting to the highway. Also an assessment is necessary to ascertain if a u-turn will be convenient near the tollgate due to the sloppy nature of the Ilo Awela road as it terminates at the tollgate end, in addition to the high number of trucks plying the road daily. “As a result, extra bumps should be constructed near the proposed u-turn to forestall speeding trucks from colliding with okadas making u-turns.” Idris stressed. Due to the heavy concentration of Okada riders at the shoulder of the tollgate, impeding the free flow of traffic, it becomes necessary and obvious for them to be moved into a garage where they can load and offload passengers. Comrade Idris however said: “The existing garage here at the tollgate is not large enough to accommodate the various transport operators operating here. The garage is owned originally by bus operators, and it is not large enough to even contain their number, now we have tricycle operators and korope riders also managing the facility with them and it is choky.” “We appeal to the Ogun state government to look for alternative space and if it is possible, acquire another space for us at the tollgate that can be used for a garage and our operators will cooperate by moving off the road to use such a facility for their safety and all other road users”, he added. One of the Okada operators, who gave his name as Theophilus Kalu, also said he does not like the idea of standing by the highway to load passengers but there is no alternative, there is no garage that could contain us, moreover, all other operators are using the highway at the tollgate to load passengers too. “Turning on the highway is also very risky, but there is nothing we could do at the moment than to continue to risk our lives turning on the highway, any attempt to use the Lagos turning point at Amje, could land us in the net of the Lagos state Task force.” Kalu said. In his reaction, Engineer Gbenga Dairo, Honourable Commissioner for Transportation, Ogun state, made available through the Ministry’s Press Officer, he said, “Sango – Abeokuta Expressway is under construction presently. There used to be a turning point just before Ilo-Awela Junction, but it is now blocked. Consequent upon this, motorists coming from Lagos and needing to access Ilo-Awela Road will have to travel about 1km (around Dalemo Bus-stop opposite Zenith Bank) to make a U-turn. Abeokuta bound Vehicles coming from Ilo-Awela Road will have to travel to Alakuko in Lagos to make a u-turn. “There is a need to make an inquiry from Julius Berger on its plans for that section of road. A roundabout at Ilo-Awela Junction will also address the traffic infractions presently being noticed because of the vehicular volume. “On the issue of building a befitting garage at the said location, there’s already a garage at Sango. Lay-bys and bus stops will be constructed at the area in addition to introduction of formal BRT services inclusive terminals”,l he added.