ABUJA – Barrister Robinson Akpua ,Presidential Candidate of the National Democratic Liberation Party (NDLP) in the 2019 general elections has been appointed as the United Nations (UN) International Peace Council (UNIPC) High Commissioner. The appointment to the UN office, associates believe, marks an exciting climax to his policy advocacy for good governance, peaceful electioneering, global peace and security, project he has voluntarily canvassed for yeaes. Akpua was presented with his certificate as a UN High Commissioner. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… APC Drifting, Exposing Damaged Profile – Lukman Warns… The appointment and port-folio is equally a testament the fact that his many advocacy programmes for global peace and security has received global recognition and acclaim as he join his Nigerian compatriots who are still making waves in the global environment in delivering humanitarian services. Dr Robin Raomi Heni, Chairman of the Council while inducting Akpua observed that Barrister was deserving of the recognition. “It has often been said that a golden fish has no hiding place. This is synonymous to Barr. Robinson Akpua who has been at the forefront of policy advocacy for good governance, peaceful electioneering process, global peace and security, global practice of liberal democracy and crowned it with his numerous philanthropic dispositions and gestures. “As much as possible, Barr. Robinson Akpua has preferred to operate without much publicity as he is not used to blowing his own trumpet, but like a gold fish, the more he tries to hide from the beam light of his good works, the more they are announced to the ends of the earth.” “In recognition of his numerous humanitarian services and advocacy for global peace and security, on the 26th day of January 2020, the United Nations (UN) appointed Barr. Robinson Akpua as the High Commissioner, United Nations International Peace Council (UNIPC) (World Wide), the first of its kind in Africa. The event was attended by representatives of the United Nations, and other dignitaries both within and outside the shores of Nigeria.” POLL Speaking shortly after the induction held in Lagos, Akpua noted that task attendant to the office required total commitment and courage. “The challenges confronting us in the discharge of these noble duties enormous but by no means insurmountable. However, in order to effectively discharge our sacred mandate the spirit of volunteerism is essential if not indispensable. Each and every one of us is expected to employ uncommon love, patience and high level of courage in the discharge of the duties of our offices. We are expected to fully devote ourselves to the promotion of peace in the society without undue attachment to material benefits.” “In our interactions with authorities, agencies, communities, individuals and other critical stakeholders attitudes of neutrality and impartiality are of utmost importance In this way we can easily gain the confidence of all parties we encounter. And working side by side with them as brothers and sisters we can prevent, manage and transform crisis situations and entrench just systems for the overall development of our people. I congratulate all of you and wish you the joy that comes from doing God’s work” he added. Recall that Barr. Robinson Akpua was the presidential flag bearer of National Democratic Liberal Party (NDLP) during the 2019 presidential election and was among the presidential flag bearers that endorsed the Peace Accord before the 2019 presidential election in Nigeria. He is an advocate of peaceful electioneering process through a transparent, free and fair election before, during and after the 2019 general elections in Nigeria. My Aspirations Is To Champion Cause Of Youths In Nasarawa… Nyanya Bus Terminal: FCTA Summons Contractors, Others Despite the obvious flaws of process, Barr Akpua accepted the outcome for the sake of peace, and went ahead to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari who was declared the winner of the 2019 presidential election in Nigeria by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).