The year 2022 is here. And you are all welcome to it. I wish you my readers a happy and a prosperous New Year. The year 2021 is gone for good. It is now history. Even at that, what happened in 2021 will impact negatively or positively in the New Year. The New Year holds a lot for Nigerian sports. From football to basketball, table tennis, tennis, athletics, just name it. Twenty twenty-two is a loaded year as far as sport is concerned in Nigeria. Okay what are the major sporting events in the New Year. The year starts with the 33rd Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon in about a week time with Nigeria’s Super Eagles one of the 24 teams that will vie for the title. The World Championships in athletics is in tow in July/August with Nigeria also expected to take part in the championships. The Commonwealth Games in the UK begin just a week after the World Championships and as expected, Nigeria cannot afford not be part of the Games. A Christmas Without Christmas Never Out Of Mind Maryam Babangida (1948-2009) The biggest of them all is the FIFA World Cup in November/December in Qatar. Super Eagles will have to successfully navigate the last qualifying tournament in March for them to be part of the global football fiesta. There is the 2023 FIBA World Cup qualifying series for the D’Tigers. D’Tigers will play three qualifying tournaments in the year – February, June and August – with the last qualifying tournament holding in February 2023. The FIBA Women’s World Cup will hold in Australia in September/October this year with the qualifying series holding next month in Serbia (Belgrade), Osaka (Japan) and Washington (U.S.A). D’Tigress, triple African champions, will be in Serbia for the qualifiers. In between these tournaments are the numerous Table Tennis World championships and the African version of these tournaments. What of wrestling, weightlifting, handball and many other sports too numerous to mention here for the sake of space. From the above, it is clear that the year is a loaded with several international tournaments. The question is, how prepared are we for these tournaments? Expectedly, Nigerians expect the various national teams taking part in these tournaments to excel, not minding if the teams are adequately prepared or not. But should this be the case? Of course no. The tragedy, however, is that adequate preparation for major championships has become an exception and not the rule. This is so because sport administrators are not concerned about the country’s success but how to line their pockets. And it’s this nonchalant attitude of sports administrators that has to a great extent become sports albatross in the country. It may be trite, but for those in the know, this is the gospel truth and until the structure of sport administration in the country is overhauled, the country will continue to take a step forward and 10 backward. In the words Fela, the country sport is in reverse gear. POLL Few examples of such maladministration will bring home the point. During the qualifying tournament for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, one of the sports was to take part in a qualifying tournaments in Poland but because the concerned federation scribe was interested in travelling to the United States where there were other qualifying tournament, he scuttled the trip to Poland without considering the effect on the country. The country would have qualified for the event going by the quality of teams in Poland, but Nigeria failed to qualify for the events at the Tokyo Olympics. Even due to administrative lapses the concerned federation also failed to alert several athletes of the need to undertake the new anti-doping measures put in place. And what happened because of this lapse, several athletes were barred from taking part in Tokyo. Basketball is in the throes of another crisis over elections into the board of the NBBF for the same reason. Some secretariat staff were concerned about their personal interest and not the interest of the sport. And what did they do, they ganged up and ensured that the elections were botched. And what was the reason, several of them did not want Musa Kida to return because, according to many, he does not dispense sponsors’ funds they way they wanted it done. And what are some of the effects; D’Tigers and D’Tigress preparations were hampered. What of the Nigeria Professional Football League that just kicked off two week back when the league should have been half way through? Clubs representing the country in club championships have all crashed out due to inadequate preparations. All because the concern of sports administrators is how to make money. The clubs can go to hell. Football that is kicking off the year with a major tournament in Cameroon in a week’s time is also not spared. Sacking Gernot Rohr became a rocket science and naming a replacement became a tug of war. Why all the hullabaloo, because of personal interest. X-Raying The National Development Plan 2021-2025 Roosevelt The Scourge Of Abusive Judicial Review In The Country A Portuguese coach, Jose Peseiro, was named as Rohr’s replacement on Wednesday. But is he the type of coach that Super Eagles need at this critical time? To the Nigeria Football Federation, he has what it takes to take the team to the next level. But critics believe he does not merit the team, even with many likened his appointment to someone who sold a dog to buy a monkey. Peseiro in his 15-year career has coached clubs in Portugal, Spain, Saudi Arabia, Greece, Romania, United Arab Emirates and Egypt, winning two titles – the Egyptian Premier League with Al Ahly in 2016, and the Portuguese Cup with Braga in 2013. At the international level, Peseiro coached Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, but failed to qualify Saudi Arabia for the 2010 FIFA World Cup and was sacked after losing to Syria in the AFC Asian Cup. He failed to get Venezuela past the group stages of the 2021 Copa America, recording two draws and two losses. These are the credentials of a coach that NFF decided to hand over the reins of the Super Eagles to with the 2022 World Cup qualifier in March. The NFF through its 2nd Vice President, Shehu Dikko, believes that Peseiro’s experience gave him the edge over other candidates. “He has coached in Asia, in Europe, South America, in Africa,” Dikko said. “He has worked with big coaches like (Jose) Mourinho and (Carlos) Queiroz, coached at a big club like Real Madrid, coached big players and small players, coached in the World Cup qualifiers, UEFA Cup, UEFA Champions League and so on. He is also well educated, with a master’s degree in sports science. “He might not have won anything, but we believe he will bring value to our team.” Will our inadequate preparation, like before not be a factor in the year, only time will tell.