DAMATURU – Yusuf Ali, Media Officer at the National Headquarters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has criticized those against the Governor Mai Buni led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee over the planned national convention of the party. He spoke in a statement made available to Daily Independent in Damaturu today. According to him “Uptil now, the CECPC has not told anybody that it is not going to conduct the party’s national convention after it has successfully conducted Ward, Local and State Congresses as it said that it is only embarking on nationwide consultations with Party leaders and stakeholders to prepare the ground for a rancour-free National Convention. The CECPC is currently working to harmonise all interests to come out as one APC”. “It is very wrong for anybody to say that Governor Buni is holding on to the seat to score political goals. For the avoidance of doubt, Buni is a sitting governor that has his second term fully secured in 2023 if he decides to run. The people of Yobe state who overwhelmingly voted for him in 2019 are extremely happy and ready to return him to consolidate on the solid transformation of Yobe state as truly the pride of the Sahel”. JUST IN: APC Fixes National Convention For February 25th BREAKING: PDP Fixes Date To Hold National Convention “Let me say that this call for the sack of the Governor Buni led Caretaker Committee amounts to playing dirty politics, and it is cheap and irresponsible. In fact, Nothing can be more irresponsible and reckless, as such a statement. Nobody in his right senses will call for the sack of the focused and result-oriented Governor Buni led Caretaker Committee”. “The Governor Buni led CECPC was legally constituted by the 8th resumed of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress APC which constituted the Caretaker Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee in place of the dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. It has performed tremendously well in rebuilding and repositioning the party for greatness. No amount of hysterical calls for resignation will prevent it from carrying out its constitutional mandate. As a progressive governing party guided by its rules, the CECPC will continue to take the right steps and follow due process in carrying out its activities, in this case, the planned national convention is sacrosanct. The APC as a party for all will continue to act on its words”. He added that “Let it be known that the Governor Buni led CECPC is not in any way against the conduct of the all-important exercise as planned it only wanted a rancour-free national convention. If some of the pending issues related to the fallout of the Congresses in some states are not amicably resolved it will further polarise the party during and even after the convention. The focus remains that achieving and sustaining the APC Caretaker Committee’s peace and reconciliation core mandate wrapping up with credible national convention is all the more gratifying”. “Before the CECPC, the governing party is on the verge of collapse and disintegration. As the Chairman of the CECPC, Governor Buni has been a steady hand in troubled times, and that explains why leading the governing All Progressives Congress at a most turbulent period, he has managed the crisis to bring peace to the party and save it from disintegration, and even set it on a trajectory of success for the coming national convention and ahead of the 2023 general elections”. “For a large and governing party with so many crisis points and conflicting interests like the APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni has always toed the line of compromise, temperance and internal democracy as well as tackled internal squabbles when they have occurred as a family affair. He is a stabilising factor and voice that is generally accepted and has successfully forged a common ground among all the interests in the governing party”. POLL “Governor Buni is well-positioned to stabilize the party and ensure synergy between the party, members and the government. He has shown a capacity to steer the party to stability and remains a strategic political asset to the APC and government”. “Buni is not a dictator. As the Chairman APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC, because of his background, he has listened, engaged, accommodated and gave a sense of belonging to every member of our great party”. “As a principled leader, Buni has always exercised persuasive powers and negotiating skills in the execution of his responsibilities. It is this power of persuasion, tact and diplomacy that endeared him to his colleagues (Governors), and all the leaders of the party across the country”. “He has brought his natural abilities as a gentleman, peacemaker and a stabilizing voice to resolve many disagreements and Internal conflicts in the party”. “Hon. Mai Mala Buni has ensured that meetings of party organs under the CECPC are held regularly. It is only when the party’s leadership meet constantly that it will agree and disagree on issues and resolve matters in the interest of the party”. APCNationalConvention: 2 Dead, 3 Injured In Auto Crash As… PDPConventionPHC: Gov Emmanuel Meets With Gov Wike “Buni has used his position to ensure a strong and progressive party institution that will continue to make Nigeria great and will continue to bring the party together because he is focused and knows the issues”. “Hon Mai Mala Buni has written his name in gold as he takes on the bold steps in rebuilding and repositioning APC ahead of the national convention and the 2023 general elections”. “He has designed a medium, and long term development of our strategies and internal organization to support our public standing as well as our chances of electoral successes in all future elections”.