As the military and other security agencies continue to battle insurgency, terrorism, banditry and the issue of the unknown gunmen, many Nigerians are concerned that the problems are not abating as unknown gunmen rave southeast, especially Imo State. Some experts while proffering solutions explain why the problems may have to fester longer. ROLAND OGBONNAYA, ANOLU VINCENT write It has been intense and callous. Even efforts made by the com­bination of security agencies have not tamed the tide of kidnappings, senseless killings and incineration of public insti­tutions. In recent times, the ac­tivities of the unknown gunmen have become repugnant as they are condemnable. Before now it was the activities of Boko Haram in the Northeast and banditry in the Northwest. Then out of the blues and danger­ously too the issue of the unknown gunmen erupted in the southeast and since then the southeast has become a killing field. RED ALERT: New Ransomware Attacking Organisational Networks… I Endorsed Tinubu For Presidency In 2019, I Have Rejected Him… The highpoint of the brigand­age in the Southeast, especially in Imo State was the recent kidnap of a former governorship aspirant, Uche Nwosu in church premises. Though the police and the Imo State government came out to clarify the situation, many have begun to have the impression that the issue of the unknown gunmen is becoming the creation of the government and politicians. Former governor of Imo State created the impression too recent­ly after Uche Nwosu, the son-in-law was kidnapped by the police at­tached to the State governor’s office. “It appears as if the happenings in Imo State have some backing from Abuja. That’s what I could figure out. And there seems to be enmity between the people here and the presumed federal government of Nigeria just because of a commu­nication gap. “Most people have been wonder­ing about the mystery of unknown gunmen. But it appears to me now that unknown gunmen have final­ly been unraveled with the recent happenings. Unknown gunmen now is a set of policemen from Government House who, without the consent of the Commissioner of Police, the Inspector General of Po­lice, or the DIGs, but on their own on the instruction of the government of Imo State, led by Hope Uzodin­ma, and his CSO, Shaba, who give directives to arrest people at will and sometimes the whereabouts of these people are unknown. They get policemen from the Government House and go to execute unholy acts.” Before now a number of tradi­tional rulers have been abducted and later found dead. An example was Eze Edwin Azike of a commu­nity in Njaba Local Government Area of Imo State who was abduct­ed, killed and his cadaver dumped in a market square. “What is happening in Imo State is unfortunate. And not just Imo, but the entire nation and humanity,” Okorocha, the former governor of the state said. “Imo State is becom­ing a banana republic, where there is complete lawlessness and where people live in fear. There is no day that somebody is not being killed or harassed”. POLL This brigandage in the country and south-east, in particular, has been a thing of worry to governments as well as stakeholders in the region. Two developments which took place simultaneously in Enugu, capital of Enugu State and political headquar­ters of the South East, at the tail end of 2021, “underscored a novel resolve to stem the raging insanity and need­less bloodletting which have become recurring decimals in Igboland, over some months now.” First, the Nigeri­an Army launched a new military op­eration in the South East, codenamed ‘Exercise New Dawn.’ The operation, according to the Chief of Army Staff Lt. General Faruk Yahaya, was to curb rising cases of insecurity in the zone. It was to tackle insurgency, kid­napping and rising banditry, check wanton killings and incineration of public facilities in the zone. There has not been any clear change in the situ­ation of things. Chief Josiah Ubachukwu Unam­ba is a businessman and former gov­ernorship aspirant under the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 2019. He is agitated: “What has been happening in Imo State for the past one year is really unprecedented, regrettable and unfortunate. People now sleep with their eyes closed because they are afraid of their lives. “Every time, you hear of un­known gunmen and Eastern Secu­rity Network (ESN), there is killing, kidnapping, abduction, and attack on government installations among oth­er problems. I believe that the security agencies should gird their loins and keep a tab on what is happening in all the 637 communities, 27 LGAs and 305 electoral wards in the state.” He said that the traditional rulers should work hand in hand with the security agencies and the Police Com­munity Relations Committee (PCRC). He called on critical stakeholders in­cluding the religious leaders and the politicians who are either occupying positions of authority or are angling for one elective position or the other in the next election to stop seeing pol­itics as a do-or-die affair. They are the ones overheating the system. “Government should do all it can to engage the youths in meaningful ventures, provide a job for them. I be­lieve that peace can also be achieved when the political class stops playing politics of bitterness. We can also en­courage local vigilante groups in our localities and even involve the youths in governance. Politics Is Not A Love Affair – Aisha Yesufu Matawalle, Successfully Won War Against Insurgents Despite All… “I am not a prophet of doom except that I want to warn that if the ugly trend is not tackled now, our state will continue to suffer in growth and development. Investors will be scared from coming in while many people will become politically apathetic and might not come out to exercise their franchise in the next election for fear of being attacked or killed by hoodlums,” he said. Unemba warned Uzodimma who is in a serious political battle with his predecessors especially Senator Rochas Okorocha and former Gover­nor Emeka Ihedioha. He told them that nothing is permanent except change and “so let us believe that they will reconcile their differences before the next election. But as you know, the average Imo electorate is firm and resolute when it comes to election.” In his exclusive chat with Saturday INDEPENDENT in Owerri, Chief Urunwa Mbaegbu Onyedikachi, Southeast Zonal Chairman of the Young Progressive Party (YPP), said Imo has become a theatre of absurdi­ties and requires divine intervention. “Peace can only return when all embrace Jesus Christ as our Lord and personal Saviour. We, politicians, should not be desperate for power and must desist from seeing politics as a lucrative business. “The boys should not be used as thugs to cause trouble. It might not be out of place to organise workshops and seminars for them from time to time and also place them on monthly stipends by the government. Self-dis­cipline is the best discipline and we, parents/guardians have a role to play. The leaders should be mindful of their utterances and must desist from campaigns of calumny and character assassination against opponents. “The media should also desist from blowing issues out of propor­tion and adhere to their profession­al ethics. As you know, peace is an essential ingredient for meaningful living in any part of the clime. Should killings and attacks on government properties continue, then the state is finished because it will stagnate in development. “The havoc done is inestimable and cannot be quantified in money terms but we pray that God should comfort families who lost their be­loved ones as well as those who lost properties in the wake of the may­hem that descended on the state last year.” Nzeh Philip Onukwufor Ekeh, chieftain of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) told Sat­urday INDEPENDENT during the week that the “only way we can make a departure from what we witnessed last year in this state is to embark on welfare policy. “By this, I mean making sure that there is food for the people giving idle youths job, taking care of the pensioners by paying them as at and when due. In short, good governance is the solution. When people feel a sense of belonging in the scheme of things, they will lay down their arms. “Again, those at the corridors of power should shun ostentatious lifestyles so that those who are not sure of even a cup of garri a day do not take up arms against them. The havoc which emanated from bandit­ry, attack and destruction of public property, killings and gruesome mur­der are glaring but we cannot mea­sure it accurately,” the party chief reemphasised. In holistic security report, Dr. Iro Aghedo, a senior lecturer at the University of Benin, Edo State and Associate Consultant on security at Nextier SPD and Dr. Ndu Nwokolo, his counterpart and managing part­ner and chief executive at Nextier SPD—an independent peace and se­curity institute most states in Nige­ria including South-East, North-West and North-Central region, were lost to bandits in 2021. Both security experts in a doc­ument made available to Saturday INDEPENDENT said the massacre has continued in the New Year, as evidenced by the death of nearly 200 persons in Zamfara State on January 8, 2022, as bandits contin­ue to raid communities with im­punity, carting away anything of value: human and material. In 2021, thousands of people, especially stu­dents, were kidnapped, abused and those who survived the harrowing ordeal were later exchanged for huge ransoms. Schools were shut, businesses closed, and farms aban­doned as people were forced into internal displacement camps in these regions. “As it is in Northern and south-east Nigeria today, banditry was recurrent violence on the coast in the Ming Empire in China. In the fifteenth century Ming Empire, the bandits ‘destroyed sea dykes, flooding agricultural fields and houses, which left the area in great disorder’. However, the leadership deployed kinetic and non-kinetic approaches to mitigate the violence effectively and “turned bandits into good citizens. In contrast, the case of Nigeria has grown worse, and the phenomenon of armed bandit­ry appears to have been the most pervasive and, arguably, the most virulent in recent times.” Nwokolo and Aghedo in the weekly policy document examined why banditry remained intracta­ble in Nigeria. They said that the consistent emergence of new gangs has continued to fuel banditry. “In Zamfara State alone, over 120 gangs now exist, with over 10,000 armed bandits. More recently, the armed bandits began to deploy ter­rorist strategies, including raids on communities, arson, kidnapping for ransom, and massacre of inno­cent citizens. This catastrophic sit­uation has compounded the pover­ty level and further driven aground school enrolment in the area.” Why Bandits Are Intractable The institute deplored several reasons responsible for the grow­ing intractability of banditry in the country. While some of these expla­nations are context-specific to the regions, others emanate from the peculiar character of the Nigerian state and its security institutions. Such factors, they said, include resource constraints of security operatives, boomerang effect of anti-banditry policies, innovative adaptability of bandits, and the renegade character of vigilantes. “Nigeria’s military and other security agencies are not only too few to protect the country’s over 200 million populations, but they are also overstretched. They are deployed across numerous conflict theatres in the country, whether against secessionist agitators in the South-East, oil resource mili­tants in the South-South, jihadist terrorists in the North-East, or ma­rauding bandits in the North-West. “Security agents’ resource con­straints and corruption endanger their lives and those they are meant to protect and embolden the ban­dits and promote their intractabili­ty,” the weekly policy report further stated. Another reason for the intrac­tability is the potential for the renegade vigilantes, soldiers, and police engaging in anti-banditry operations have to rely on local vigilantes for support. Unknown gunmen, banditry and kidnapping, whether in Imo, Zamfara, or Katsina, the experts said the federal and state govern­ments and their partners need to address the factors hindering the victory in the war on banditry. To start this process, the stakeholders need to collaborate with research institutes, security consulting firms and think tanks on how the challenges can be effectively man­aged in 2022.