Taiye Kukoyi is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Boltol Unique Venture (Nigeria Limited), a company that is into production of cosmetic products like Boltol Bleach, Boltol Dish Washing Fluid, Ideraoluwa organic products and others. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, she speaks on the operations of the company, the cosmetic industry and other issues. Excerpts. What led you to establish the company? We discovered that most of the companies in the country that produce cosmetic products are not consistent in the quality of their products. They start by producing high-quality products and the quality drops after sometime. We want to provide consistent quality products to the consumers. How I Want To Train 100 Youths In Furniture Designing – Babasola FG Should Release List Of Beneficiaries Of SME Funding – Adebayo Going into the business is fulfillment of a calling on my life. It was to fill a gap in the cosmetic industry in the country. When did you start? The company was registered a long time ago but we started production recently. How has it fared? As you know, it is not easy to penetrate the market at the initial stage because some products are already leading in the sector and you ask yourself if your products can compete with theirs. At this stage, we are not competing with anybody; we are just providing high-quality products to the people and they will make the choice to buy what they want. We have received commendations from the people who have used our products and the products are gaining acceptance in the market and we intend to sustain the high standard that we have set for ourselves. We want to maintain the integrity of our market and gain the trust of the consumers. Indeed, our market share is growing because the people who have used the products are telling others about the quality of the products and the share is getting bigger and bigger by the day. POLL How do you compare the quality of your products to imported ones? The quality of what we produce is high and our mission is to make products that meet international standards. Our products compare favourably with foreign-made ones. How did you get funding to start? Did you access a loan from a bank? I started with my personal fund. Do you use local raw materials or do you import them? Last Year Was Difficult For Entrepreneurs – Iche Good Customer Service, Proper Planning Keys To Success In… We source our raw materials from the country, and we buy them in bulk. The issue is that the raw materials are now very expensive but we are not passing all the cost to the customers. We still intend to main the quality and integrity of our products. Why didn’t you approach a bank for funding? I will not advise anyone to start a business like this with a loan. It is always difficult to sustain a business because of pressure from the bank. You should borrow funds when you want to expand the business; not to start one. What is your advice to some Nigerians who prefer to buy foreign products despite their low quality? I want them to know that we have local products that are of high quality and they should patronise them; they should support their own. By supporting local manufacturers, they will help the economy to grow. It is a mindset they need to change. There are many products that have high quality and Nigerians should buy them. What is your assessment of the Nigerian business environment? It is harsh and not encouraging to entrepreneurs. The government should formulate and implement policies and programmes that will help entrepreneurs to grow; this will be to the betterment of the Nigerian economy. One has to be optimistic and prayerful when you are doing business in Nigeria. How has it been getting quality staff to work with you? It has not been easy to find competent and qualified persons to work with; but you need to treat them with considerateness and kindness. You should also provide them with the necessary tools to work with and a conducive environment. You should also show empathy with the realisation that they are human like you. Where do you see the company in the next five, six or seven years? In the next five, six or seven years, God’s willing, we would have become an international company with branches in different parts of the country and the world. What other things should government do to make the environment friendlier to entrepreneurs in the country? The government should fix infrastructure like power; many entrepreneurs power their operations with generators and diesel; the fund should otherwise be used to grow the company. The cost of diesel is telling on the cost of production of many companies. The government should fix the roads; vehicles and other equipment would have a longer lifespan. Government should also make sure that funds are accessible to entrepreneurs, especially to the ones that want to expand their operations. What is your advice to young people who want to become entrepreneurs? They should trust in God; be passionate and focus on what they want to do. They should start small and grow.