ABUJA – The Special Assistant to Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister on Youth Matters, Comrade Isaac David, has urged political actors in the nation’s capital to eschew violence as unity and peaceful coexistence of the entire FCT are not negotiable. David, who led an advocacy campaign in and around the six Area Councils of the FCT with the theme “Advocacy on Peaceful Co-existence During the Area Council Electioneering Period” noted that the minister of the FCT Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and the minister of state FCT Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu are both advocates of Peacefully Co-existence in the FCT project and would not tolerate one single loss of life or property in any of the FCT Area Council during the forthcoming elections in the territory. He, however, called for a united force in the forthcoming Area Council election in the FCT to ensure that the FCT as the nation’s capital serves as a good example to other states in terms of electioneering. Akpabio Urges Electorate To Re-elect Performing Officeholders 100 Shops Built On DSC Land Brought Down In Udu He emphasized the need to build bridges among the different ethnic groups in the Area Councils, noting that peace was a daunting task but achievable. According to the Minister’s Aide, the FCT youths will achieve more if elections participate under one united body He, however, called on the people of the indigenous and non indigenous in Bwari and Gwargwada Area Council to embrace peaceful nature in support of their candidate, adding that their lives are not worth wasting for any politician to achieve his or her political ambition. According to him, FCT Area Council is blessed with ingenious and competent hands. “Why will any politician ask our youths to enter back of the truck, as part an act of conveying them to campaign places. Let him, first of all, ask his or her children to take the lead by entering the back of a truck in the name of the campaign. It is time we the youths of the FCT use our heads and not allow anyone to be using our heads for their selfish interest or inordinate ambition. POLL “As it stands now Bwari Area Council and Gwargwada Area Council have recorded much youth violence in this electioneering campaign period and we are not happy about it. Our youths are very precious to us because they are the hope of tomorrow and not elections tools” David called on youths to use their numerical strength to vote massively for a visionary leader, in the forthcoming FCT Area Councils election. “There is nothing we can achieve without peace. FCT is blessed with ingenious and competent men and women. “FCT unity is not negotiable. It is not about a political party or ethnicity anymore, We must follow the government at the center to get the dividends of democracy to realise the FCT of our dream. We are stronger in unity. However, I know unity is a daunting task but achievable” he said. The Minister’s Aide, however, called on the FCT Commissioner of Police, and other security agents to deploy men on special duties to monitor and arrest youths who are found with drugs and weapons during the ongoing campaigns and during the elections. Alao-Akala To Be Buried On February 18 Otuokpoti: My Decision To Dethrone Paramount Ruler Is Final –… He also added that various candidates and politicians should fish out every drug addict in their campaign teams, saying that campaigning for votes is never a beer parlour.