The ongoing Africa Cup of Nations, not devoid of sur­prises as expected, came alive with the last Group C games on Tuesday night. Ever before the Group C last qualifying games, most teams were cautious, playing safe, not taking risks. However, when the die was cast in Group C, the four teams realizing that the outcome of the their match­es would affect their fortunes, threw caution to the wind, blasting from all cylinders. The desire to win produced nine goals. Morocco and Gabon played 2-2, while Ghana, one of the big teams on the continent, a four-time winner of the trophy, against all expectations, lost 2-3 to debutants, Comoros Is­lands. The loss kicked Ghana out of the tournament and for the first time in their history crashed out of AFCON without winning a match. Ghana placed fourth in the group with a point, having lost two games and drawing one. Eagles Had Sudan As Toads For Supper! A Nation And Her Heroes Past Comoros victory would go down as one of the biggest shocks in AF­CON history as the island country ranked 132nd did not only score at the finals for the first time, but went on to record their first victory. However, Comoros Islands, de­spite history making win, existed the tournament as they failed to be one of the four third placed losers. Morocco tie against Gabon pro­duced scintillating performance as attempts by Gabon to top the group was fiercely resisted by Morocco, who twice leveled the game to win the group with seven points while Gabon placed second on five points. Zimbabwe failed to make hay while the sun shone with their 2-1 defeat of Guinea in their last Group B game on Tuesday. While Guinea qualified for the knockout round, Zimbabwe headed back to Harare having placed last in their group with three points. One of the teams tipped to win the title, the Teranga Lions of Senegal, have failed to live up to their billings, though they led their group, but with five points and scoring only a goal in three games. The goal was a penalty awarded in their second group game. POLL Let us focus on the Super Eagles that qualified for the second round with a game to spare. Last Saturday, Coach Austin Eguavoen, the team’s interim coach, who Nigerians kicked off campaign for him to be named the substantive coach after a just a match at the AFCON, was the focus. Personally, I believe that Eguavoen deserved to be given the responsibil­ity of managing the Super Eagles on a permanent basis because if given half of the support that Gernot Rohr got, the sky would be his limit. And now that he has expressed his desire to continue as Super Ea­gles manager, the Nigeria Football Federation should seek ways to en­sure that he succeeds. And this can only be achieved if the coach is given a free reign on the job and not him being teleguided. I know if he is giv­en a free reign on the job and no that one breathes down his neck, he will make a success of it. Though, this is my personal opinion, though. While debating the veracity or otherwise of the capability of Eguavoen managing the Super Ea­gles and qualify the team for the World Cup and subsequently reach the quarter-finals in Qatar, if not sur­passing it, we need to ask ourselves, if he has restored the team’s fear factor on the continent as was the case when the team won its second AFCON title in 1994 and qualified for its ever first World Cup in the USA the same year. Yes, unlike when Gernot Rohr held sway, the team under him in Cameroon looks to different from what Nigerians had carried like ‘dead weight’ for six years under Rohr. After the team’s first two games against Egypt and Sudan, one can begin to talk about style, attitude, conviction and spirit. The Real Reason Buhari Vetoed Electoral Act Amendment Bill (3) COVID-19: Pushing For Economic Growth, National Development… Whether you agree with me or not, for the very first time in a very long while, the Super Eagles played against one of the strongest teams (Egypt) on the African continent and the hearts of 200 million Nigerians were not in their throats. Against Sudan, it was the same attitude dis­played by the team, rising into a 3-0 lead before the penalty that reduced the tally. At the AFCON, after two games, the Super Eagles looked a rejuvenat­ed side, solid in defence and quick in attack. This was reminiscent of the days when they were Africa’s top-ranked team and feared by sides on and outside the continent. However, under Rohr, Super Ea­gles were a mere shadow of them­selves. During the World Cup qualifi­ers at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos, 124th ranked Central African Republic shocked the team 1-0, while at the last AFCON in Egypt, Mozam­bique inflicted a 2-0 defeat in their opening group game. Under Rohr, the team threw away a four-goal lead against Sierra Leone in Benin, drawing 4-4. Even when Super Ea­gles won a game, they laboured to do so. They were never convincing. But in a short while under Eguavoen, all these have changed with the team commanding the confidence of Ni­gerians with their display in Cam­eroon. This is the reason why Austin Okocha believes that the team’s fear factor is back. Is it true? Yes one can say, if you listen to ex-Ghanaian in­ternational, Asamoah Gyan. To the Ghanaian, Super Eagles have played themselves into the po­sition of favourites in Cameroon “As of today Nigeria stands out as the team that has the will to conquer all opposition going by what has hap­pened in the matches so far,” Gyan told ESPN. “Every other potential winner of the tournament seems to be playing with too much caution and this ex­plains why most of the matches have not been impressive. “But when you look at Nigeria, they showed the character of a potential champion, considering the way they dominated Egypt all through the 90 minutes.” I don’t want to agree totally with this Ghanaian on the premise that its too early to jump to such a conclu­sion. The group stage of the tourna­ment just ended on Thursday. When the knockout games begin, and Su­per Eagles still maintain the same tempo and possibly win the title for the fourth time, then we can con­clude that the fear factor as was the case in the 1990s has returned. As for now, lets keep our fingers crossed.