MAKURDI – Less than two months to the airlift of Christians to the Holy land of Israel, the response of those that have indicated interest to embark on the pilgrimage from Benue State is virtually nonexistent. Daily Independent gathered that the situation may threaten the exercise in the state, where about 97 percent of pilgrims from the state in previous years have always been government-sponsored. We also learned that if the state government does not sponsor any intending pilgrim from the state in 2022, then the likelihood of pilgrims from the state making it to the Holy land may be near zero. Anyam Vows To Create Over 20,000 Sports- Related Jobs In Benue Linking Fulani Groups As Terrorist By Ortom Is Unfortunate… Equally, the rise in the cost of airfare to Israel and the new wave of the Covid-19 variant, Omicron which is partly responsible for the rise in cost has not helped matters either. Confirming the situation to Daily Independent in Makurdi, the Executive Secretary, Christians Pilgrims Welfare Board (CPWB), Dr. Mrs. Dorcas Otalu said that despite the fact that the pilgrimage would be in February, no one was yet to indicate interest to embark on the exercise. She explained that “We are tentatively going to take off for the pilgrimage in February. Plans were on the way to take off in December and January, but because of the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, which also shut down Israel in December 2021, therefore it (pilgrimage) was shifted to February. “We don’t have any intending pilgrims yet; we rarely have private sponsors, so we depend on whatever number government approves and the government is yet to give its approval. “The percentage of private sponsors is very negligible; let’s say out of a thousand pilgrims, we may get like two or three private sponsors. POLL “In 2019, we had about seven private sponsors that made the trip and it was because an institution sponsored five and the other two came as individuals. “So, in Benue state, not many come out to sponsor themselves, probably because it is a civil service state; everybody is looking up to the government, but it shouldn’t be so.” Dr. Otalu further advised that “Those who have the wherewithal, should be able to sponsor others; that’s what’s obtainable in other states, but they leave it solely to government; unlike our Muslim brothers, most of the private sponsorships are done by those that are more privileged. “But here, even those who have the wherewithal are still looking up to the government and once the state government is not able, it then means there will be no exercise in the state “But, it’s our candid hope that others will get the awareness and start thinking of assisting others.” Ortom To Buhari: APC Has Failed Nigeria, I’ll Never Shut… Akume On The Path Of Self-Destruction – PDP On some of the activities that would lead to the eventual takeoff, the CPWB boss said, “Normally, we will take a pre-departure test and on arrival, we will take another test in Israel and another on arrival in Jordan, and before we finally depart from Jordan, we take a pre-departure test, to know whether someone is positive or negative. “And when we finally arrive Nigeria, we take a post-arrival test and after our arrival, it is expected that we isolate for seven days on return to Nigeria and on the seventh day, we take another test to show whether we are still negative. “It is one of the reasons why it has increased the cost (of the pilgrimage) to what it is now”, she stated.