How should we play the market in the New Year, given the raging uncertainties? We must begin with the caveat that nobody has 100 percent control of the market dynamics. However, even in the midst of uncertainties in the market, there are always opportunities, hence the need to keep your eyes on the stock market, such that whatever you see, you should analyze it to see how you can benefit from any situation playing out. For example, as we gradually wind down trading for the year 2021, and enter a New Year, there is information that the Federal Government is likely to fully remove subsidy on petrol after so many years of back and forth movement, such that like diesel, Nigerians will begin to pay the market-determined price per litre, a situation that will enable government plough the money to be saved into infrastructure, and other areas of need. As an observer of developments in the market, a trader or analyst, your first reaction should be to see what impact that decision will have on the economy generally. What should ring a bell in your head automatically would be that there could be a spike in the inflation rate. And once this happens, every investment will be thrown into negative returns, and smart investors begin to seek outlets to hedge against inflation, which can only be in the equities segment of the financial market. In an inflationary environment, companies will likely increase the prices of their products and services, especially for those that are essential following which people continue to consume their goods and services, despite the price increase. This, automatically, will make a positive impact on the earnings of such companies, as well as better profit. It follows that with positive earnings, such companies are likely to pay good dividends, despite the rising inflation, which will be an attraction that will have a good impact on such companies that are into essential goods and services. FG Struggling To Invest In Infrastructure Despite Tight Economy… The Imperative Of Positive Nigerian Economy In 2022 It is not in doubt that once the price of petrol is raised, it will impact the price of everything in Nigeria, including food, and transportation, among others, which is why the government announced plans to pay 40 million poor people in the country N5,000 each to cushion the impact of the planned increase arising from the removal of petrol subsidy. That money paid to the 40 million most vulnerable in the country will, no doubt, increase the level of activities in the economy within the period. As an investor, your job is to analyze these developments as they unfold. For example, when the market was challenged in early 2020, owing to the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic and there was uncertainty across the globe, the index touched an 11-year low, a lot of investors became afraid and panicked out. But the smart ones took advantage of the situation to even down their cost within that period of early and mid-April. Such investors started making money as the market began to recover, but unfortunately, others had shaped out, selling their stocks at a deep loss, in a bid to protect their funds… Note that between April and June 2022, you should not exit positions that you are in entirely, but hold some cash to observe as things develop around you because cash is king. You cannot say because of subsidy removal, or there is another wave of COVID-19, you will not invest again. Instead, it is for you to see a way to take advantage of the situation to see how you make money from the development. It is about the need for you to prepare your mind, take advantage of the situation to make money… That is why we are sharing information at this town hall that will help us take advantage of every market situation. True, there is insecurity across the country, but the market is open and we are still making money. It may have affected some businesses across the country, but trading activities are going on and we are still making money. Some persons called me recently to say the price of NGX Group has dropped below what it was listed on the bourse, and my answer was: ‘this is when you should buy in.’ That is because you as an investor understand the business model of this NGX, more than any other thing. I tell you, in some matured markets like in the London Exchange, there has not been anything like the physical floor where trading activities take place. Everything happens online and traders are making money. In the same way, the NGX Group, whether there is COVID-19 or not, continues to make money and will declare good numbers and pay juicy dividends at the end of its financial year. In the same way, you should review the business models of most of these listed companies where you hope to take a position and ask yourself how the unfolding scenario is going to affect their business models and plans at the point of entry. That should guide you as you are entering into the investment. Prepare your mind to move your funds in and out of any position when the need arises. That is what we look at when we talk of the circular flow of funds, which is the reason why when some investors see that the yields in fixed-income instruments are low, they besiege the equity market because he is always on the lookout for where to get higher returns on investments at any particular time… There are no stereotypes, as to whether you must be here or there, just be open-minded and be guided as we continue sharing knowledge, and whatever you hear, interpret it and make a decision. I agree with you that in 2022, being a pre-election year, there will be up and down movements, and if they remove the subsidy, no problems at all. However, you must note that the economy is awash with cash during any pre-election year, because of preparations for the election. If the money is spent and some of it trickles down to the market, it is a plus for equity prices, which is why we must be well equipped to navigate the market during the period. POLL What is happening to Courtevile Business Solutions? There is news that the company is to be delisted from the market, which is why the price is oscillating between 34 and 45 kobo in recent weeks. With that news alone, you need to be guided and tread cautiously when playing that kind of stock, unless you are privy to the price at which the stock is to be delisted. If it is more than the price they are selling, you may…, if not you must be very careful. It is possible that after delisting from the NGX Exchange, the company may go to the over-the-counter trading platform of the NASD. I don’t advise anyone to buy in now, except you have an idea of the price they plan to buy out existing shareholders at the point of exit. Someone told me the exit price is about N1.00, but I doubt it very much because if it were true, compared to the market price at the time the announcement was made, it should be going up as people jump in, and not falling helplessly as it is doing now. The price touched 48 kobo and started dropping. For me, unless you want to continue holding the shares even when the company exits the Nigerian Exchange and list on the NASD OTC. If not, this is the time to pull out. For me, it is a stock that one can hold for long term because the company is into technology and Auto-Reg (electronic vehicle registration portal). Besides that, it is not because of the strong dividend at this time, but for the growth potential if you want to play long-term. ETI hasn’t paid dividends for years now, any possibility of a dividend this time? You would remember that I said some time ago that this stock is more for speculative purposes at this time, and already we are seeing strong numbers emanating from the bank. This N9.00 it is selling now is a good price and anything below it makes it more attractive for fresh entry. I see the stock touching N13 and even N14 each before the audited result will hit the market. But for investors looking for dividends, you may not enter fully at a go, so you will not be disappointed if the dividend does not come. But you can also take advantage of capital appreciation. But, I believe that the directors should pay dividends based on the numbers we have seen as of Q3. You must have noticed that the Ecobank Group is restructuring its operations in Nigeria (its biggest subsidiary), following the retirement of the current Managing Director and appointment of a replacement. In all, I expect that the group would pay dividends this time around, after six years of drought, especially based on the numbers released as of Q3, especially as other investors across Africa and elsewhere will have started also yearning for the dividend which is paid in US Dollars. Interswitch Offers Product Developers Access To Apis For… Why NIMASA Canvasses Full Devt. Of Northern Maritime Sector Which oil stocks can one position in at this time? I see a lot of potentials in that sector if what the government is planning matures in 2022. Don’t also forget that the numbers we saw from stocks in that sector at the end of Q3 showed some improvements in nearly all of the companies, which resulted partly from those adjustments we saw in the pump price of petrol (premium motor spirit) by the government during the year, and the fact that despite the increase, consumption remains high because of the importance of the product across the country. My belief is that a further adjustment in price will be of more benefit to the operators because most times these marketing companies have a lot of inventory already in their reserves before the price is raised. These products bought at the old price are then sold at the new pump price, before the companies would go to restock at the new rate, leaving them with higher margins for the volume of products in their inventory. Such inventory is always a form of a gap in terms of revenue, and being public companies these are reported for us to see. Don’t forget also that the improvement in the price of crude oil at the international market is going to impact consumption here also, such that if the products are imported at a high cost, it is going to affect the retail end too, even if government adjusts the price of petrol today due to crude oil price rising from US$86 to US$100 per barrel. My only fear for the sector is the possibility of crude oil price going south as a result of the spread of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, which will then slow down the zeal by the government to hike prices. But this fear is countered by the fact that several economies across the globe are not like to experience a lockdown arising from the spread of the Omicron variant. The solution will be that there is global economic recovery and prices stabilize. But, if government plans to really remove the subsidy for reasons relating to economic development, and then goes ahead with the implementation this year, nearly all the players in the oil sector will benefit. However, we have seen some of the operators that are more prudent than their peers before now. For example, the performance I’m seeing in Total Nigeria is going to be sustained by the end of the 2021 financial year. Looking at the forecast of the company for the 2022Q1, you would notice that the performance is not much different from what we saw in the same period in 2021, but because the board is more conservative and prudent, we would expect that investors should look its way. Added to that is its share in the issue of fewer than 400 million units, which will support the price at around N221.90 each, which may rebound eventually to N260 or even N280, thereby offering robust capital appreciation to any smart trader. And if the full-year earnings come and is the company is able to repeat what we saw in Q3, the price will likely surpass the N260 that it touched before slowing down. I, therefore see Total as one of the stocks to watch out for. For me, Oando Plc has a lot of potentials and is a speculative stock. But, with no information from the board and management that would guide investors in their decision-making, I will advise against exposing yourself too much to the stock, because it is too speculative and there is no information to serve as a guide. When information comes, however, the price might rally to as much as N10 each, but we don’t yet know when that time will come, because even now, since the company reconciled its differences with the regulator, we have not seen any move to make numbers available to investors, made worse by the conspiratorial silence of the regulators of the market. While you can take a position in Oando, do not expose yourself much in the absence of information that would ensure you take calculated risks. I posted some weeks ago that the speculative stocks to watch at this time in the market are Oando, ETI, FBN Holdings, and Honeywell Flour Mills. These are stocks that oscillate based on one information or the other. Hence, if you are in any of them, don’t panic out, and don’t further expose yourself to them, just stay there and watch. However, I see potentials in Total Nigeria, Eterna Plc… Oando has potentials, but for reasons I have given before now, including defensive trading, you may look the way of Seplat Energy. Seplat’s price has been up and down, but because of what is happening in the company (leading to the exit of the chairman and an independent director in recent weeks), investors may need reassurance about the direction of the company, going forward. That notwithstanding, however, for the fact that the price is fairly stable, and the price cannot fall to N200 each overnight, it is good for defence. Another is Conoil, which has been consistent in terms of dividend payment. This stock is not fantastic in terms of capital appreciation, but for dividends, just it is not in the category of stocks we can trade and make good money from. It is only during dividend payment that you see Conoil going up and down. It is unlike Eterna Plc that oscillates up and down, and as such already has a clear pattern. Some analysts think Ardova Plc (formerly Forte Oil) has potentials but judging by its numbers, it is yet unclear where the stock is headed for now. The price-performance we saw before the company was sold to the new core investors was driven at the time by the same Femi Otedola, the then chairman who has in recent times become associated with FBN Holdings. When the new board and management give us their first results, to show us where it is going, and we can see a trend in the price, we can then properly place it and add it to our watch-list. I need to see the full-year result because the recent news that it acquired a competitor is not enough to convince me of where it is headed yet. Judging by their charts, what is your advice on NASCON Allied and Livestock Feeds? Livestock Feeds has formed an oscillating pattern, which is why it is today one of those that can be tagged a trending stock that investors can buy low and sell high as you would observe from its chart. The price broke down from almost N2 it had been side-trending for a long time to as low as N1.80 per share, which should tell you that it has a very high probability of rebounding. You would notice that as of Friday on the daily chart, there is a reversal already and the candlestick is still bearish… Although, it has yet to recover all of the 10 percent it shed while falling from N2.00 to N1.80 each. On Friday, December 17, 2021, the stock closed at N1.91 per share, and the possibility of a full rebound is very high, depending on the full-year number that the board releases to the market. You would recall that the company’s full-year earnings turned positive in 2019, and since then it has not paid any dividend. But we noticed that the company has stayed positive for almost three years now, since then. Furthermore, its shareholding structure is very tight, with UAC of Nigeria Plc, its parent company having about 72 percent. Depending on the company’s dividend policy, I see the directors rewarding shareholders when the 2021 full-year score-card is released, given the numbers released so far with 14 kobo in Earnings Per Share as of Q3 ended September 30, 2021. For full-year, I see the EPS rising to 22 kobo, from which the directors can conveniently pay 10 kobo, which is capable of also supporting the price. However, don’t forget that the sector in which it operates is one that enjoys incentives from the country’s fiscal and monetary authorities, being one that drives the economy and accounts for a sizeable chunk of Nigeria’s economy. Such sentiments will support the stock to bounce back in no time. Meanwhile, the transaction volume of the stock is not bad, but also we notice that the Quarter-to-Quarter comparison for Q3 was not too attractive, as it recorded a slowdown. But in terms of the entire nine-month performance, it is capable of helping and sustaining the price rally. To confirm what the chart is saying, let us look at MACD. It is also telling you that the stock is set for a rebound. On the weekly chart, the stock is oscillating within the red candle, which I would call the support and resistance. The stock is resisting further decline, which is why when it touched a low of N1.80, it went back up, to show a positive trend for the stock, besides indicating that there is no cause for alarm. Livestock Feeds hit its 2021 peak in January when it touched N3.08 per share. It is a stock that has the potential to bounce back… you can see it has a trend and I told you before that what changed our January on the Exchange is the outpouring of unaudited fourth-quarter numbers that are now released. Livestock will also release its unaudited during the month to give you a glimpse of what to expect, and when it does come, the market will react to it, just like those of other companies. To stay ahead, you must take a position before these earnings start coming from the second week of January. In the case of NASCON, on a daily chart, it is not a trending stock, which is why as traders and investors, you need to master technical analysis. You would notice from the chart that the stock side-trends for a long time before making either an up or down movement, an indication that the only factor that drives the stock is earnings, earnings news, or season. But the good thing is that it has declined from almost N15 to N12 per share before the latest rebound. As of yesterday, we are already seeing the return of buying interests, which is not only in NASCON… go and check Dangote Cement… Dangote Sugar… That same day, all of them had some kind of buy interests, confirming what I told you at our last town hall on the need to position where the billionaires are. The time is around the corner. I tell you also that the way BUA Group is pushing the listing of its food subsidiary in early January, before the second week of the month… In stocks where these billionaires are, it is not the fundamentals of those companies that will drive their price ultimately. It is all about momentum investing and sentiments, but the change in shareholding structure as in the case of FBN Holdings. We do not imagine that any investors would pump over N50 billion in stock and not expect a share price appreciation. In the same way, other billionaires want to earn good dividends from their investment, even if they are not ranked among the billionaires. That is why they would be interested in the fact that good dividends are paid in companies where they have control or a significant measure of influence while increasing their value. For that reason, I see a lot of activities in companies where the billionaires are, which is why I urge people to stay where these classes of people is, because oftentimes. Going back to NASCON Allied, let us look at the support and resistance level, which are very key in technical analysis, as it will go a long way to guide you. You can see that the movement is not straight. You wait for the price to go up or come down. Because it is not too trendy, you may not look its way for capital appreciation, but you can also position on the strength of the consistency in dividend payout. You are a trader like me and want to make money with all these trends, that is why you are studying all these seasonality and market timings. What we have discussed are ways to time the market and know what is likely to happen. EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION is the transcript of the weekly question and answer session by Mr. Omordion, Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting Ltd, with select equity investors and traders on Zoom. For questions and clarifications: +23408028164085. email: ambrose.o@investdata.com.ng. 