SYLVESTER ENOGHASE; INNOCENT OWEH President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday said the Federal Govern­ment will support investors to set up businesses that will take advantage of huge reserves of resources in the country through value addition. This is as President Buhari boasted that Nigeria was now self-sufficient in cement production, such that it has also risen to become a net exporter of the product to other neighbouring countries. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… Tanker Explosion: Delta Will Take Steps To Avert Reoccurrence… Buhari also said this wouldn’t have been feasible if his administra­tion was not churning out eco­nomic diversification policies that enable entrepreneurs har­ness resources that are abun­dant in the country. He made these remarks in Sokoto on Thursday, while in­augurating a new three million metric tons per annum BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 factory. The president said he was pleased to identify with the success stories and investments that create employment oppor­tunities for citizens. “I always remind Nigerians that every region, indeed every state, in Nigeria sits on huge re­serves of resources. For exam­ple, in this area, Kebbi, Sokoto and Zamfara can boast of rice production, gold and other pre­cious metals development and of course, heavy industries like cement manufacturing. “As a government, we intro­duced policies and mechanisms to support such investments in a legal, ethical and inclusive manner,” the president stated. POLL While giving thumbs up to his administration, Buhari went down memory lane, say­ing the constitution of the Na­tional Food Security Council on food security matters has also led to rice sufficiency in the country, including other staple foods. Recall that Buhari recently launched a rice pyramid in Abuja, as an affirmation of Ni­geria’s self-sufficiency in rice production. Speaking further, the presi­dent noted that the Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Devel­opment Initiative has helped in no small means to regulate the local artisanal gold mining business, including health and safety implications for mining workers. “We remain prepared to support serious investors to set up businesses that will take ad­vantage of these opportunities through value addition to take advantage of the huge market here, as well as in the greater African region and the world at large”, he said. He also seized the commis­sioning ceremony to reassure Nigerians that more invest­ments were underway in terms of road and rail construction to ease movement of people, goods and services, including facil­itating trade while lowering logistics costs associated with the inefficiencies of bad roads and bridges. 2023: Tinubu Is Most Salable Candidate For President — Sanwo-Olu Buni Gets Buhari, APC Govs’ Nod To Preside Over Convention He said government poli­cies on economic diversifica­tion, job creation and creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive are work­ing effectively. The president also recount­ed that in 1985 as the then Head of State, he was at the same lo­cation to commission the 2nd line of the facility. “Today, almost thirty-seven years later, to commission the fourth line is a very special day for me personally. “As you all know, one of the key economic pillars of our ad­ministration has been to cre­ate an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. This is necessary for job creation and indeed, for our economy and national security. “In the past few weeks, I vis­ited Ogun and Kaduna states where I observed many private sector investments in action. And today, I am here in Sokoto to commission this multi-bil­lion naira project. “It is, therefore, very clear for all to see that our policies are working. Progress is gradually being made in all parts of the country,” he said. He lauded the founder of the firm, Abdul Samad Rabiu, and the entire team for the great work they are doing in support­ing the government’s economic diversification and job creation agenda. He noted the company, which has completed four new cement plants of similar capac­ity in the last five years in differ­ent parts of the country and is set to complete two more plants soon, had shown through these investments that they believe in Nigeria and its potential. Commending BUA and other entrepreneurs for mak­ing Nigeria self-sufficient in cement and a net exporter of the strategic product, the pres­ident said: “I am pleased that through these investments, BUA Cement has created em­ployment opportunities for our citizens. Today, BUA is the largest employer of labour in the North-West region.” Highlighting other efforts to bring even development to all parts of the country, the presi­dent expressed confidence that the Ajaokuta–Kaduna–Kano (AKK) gas project, when com­pleted, will bring gas for do­mestic and industrial purposes from the South-South region to the South-East, North-Central and North-West geopolitical zones. Meanwhile, Abdul Samad Rabiu, Chairman, BUA Ce­ment, who commended the president for creating the en­abling environment for busi­nesses to thrive, acknowledged the support of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and its gover­nor in setting up the gigantic project. He announced that ‘’so far, we have invested over a billion dollars in the past four years and we urge the CBN to con­tinue to support industries like ours that use locally sourced raw materials to add value.” He pledged that BUA would continue to invest more in the cement industry until Nigeria is self-sufficient and the com­modity is made available, ac­cessible, and affordable for all Nigerians. “In the past 6 years, we have completed 4 plants – two in Obu, Edo State and two in Sokoto (of which this Sokoto line 4 is the fourth) with BUA’s total produc­tion capacity now standing at 11.5million tons with the com­pletion of this plant. ‘’Next year, we intend to com­plete the construction of two new plants of 3 million metric tons each for which construc­tion is ongoing – one in Edo and the other, here in Sokoto.” He said he looked forward to President Buhari commis­sioning these plants next year which will bring total produc­tion capacity to 17.5 million metric tons.