Intrigues, restrategizing, and alignment which is the norm whenever a general election is near have started in different geographical regions of the country. This is as politicians from different political parties align themselves with the electorates and the kingmakers whom they perceive would enable them to achieve their ambition. As part of its advice to Nigerians, so as to choose the right person to lead the country, the Speaker of Arewa Youth Assembly Mohammed Salihu Danlami has pleaded with Nigerians, to this time around elect a successful private Sector Player. In a statement made available to Independent and signed by Speaker Mohammed Salihu Danlami, and National Clerk, Hon. Desmond Minakaro, the statement reads: “it is the norm, just a few months to the general elections on which the faith of producing the next president, and of course another set of new leaders is placed upon us, the drums of campaigns shall be beating to make the biggest music. Another election season and the whole country turns into an atmosphere of advertisement for different candidates from different political parties. “Fellow compatriots, for a better choice of a new leader, we need to trace back and understand our root as a country in other to avoid repeating mistakes made in the past. The Arewa Youth Assembly lamented that despite the different leaders who had had the opportunity to led this country after colonial rule, the country remains the same. “t was expected that things will get better, Nigeria was set to thrive on a peaceful ground, a safe breathing atmosphere with a lot of opportunities, promises and hopes for not only its masses but those of other African countries. “Unfortunately, Nigeria is still enslaved in the shackles of corruption, poor living conditions for its masses, even faced with a new set of challenges that were not found previously. What could be the problem? what have we done? where have we gotten it wrong? or are we just cursed as many Nigerians insinuate? POLL “None of these things are true or even real. The truth of the matter is we lack in our previous leaders a very important element that is key to the success of individuals amounting altogether to the success of any nation that is keen to succeed which is ENTREPRENEURSHIP. “Marrying leadership with entrepreneurship has been established as idiosyncratic, thus laying a solid foundation of competency, vision, skills for the firm and effective leadership. The knowledge and experience an entrepreneur acquires from business expose him to noting how government affects the private sector, which is the power source of economic growth that propels improvements in the living standards of citizens. “A country like Nigeria that has great and intelligent minds with positive reputations all over the world, the likes of Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo Iweala, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, Mr. Bode Augusto, Mr. Segun Agbaje, Mr. Fola Adeola, Alhaji Tunde Folawiyo, Mr. Atedo Peterside, Mr. Kola Adesina, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Mr Femi Otedola, Mr. Mike Adenuga, Mr. Akinwumi Adesina, Mr. Herbert Wigwe and Mr. Aig Imoukhuede who are boardroom Czars with a vast wealth of knowledge on entrepreneurship, why let Nigeria be run by others who lack such knowledge. An entrepreneur that can grow wealth, bear risk in such conditions found in Nigeria surely is suited to better the fortunes too of the nation. The group stated The AYA assured that “Nigeria will flourish under such a person, our economy will grow as he or she, is already an employer of labour, and will create employment on a level playing ground for businesses to grow. “Dear Nigerians, please this time around let it not be about rice, spaghetti, detergents, wrapper, or mere 1 thousand or 2 thousand handed out to you. The right person will make it possible for you to earn more than enough to buy these things, and much more, but also the sense of pride and dignity for being able to stand on your own and provide for yourself and family. “Let it not be empty promises or the usual polarisation along religious and ethnic lines. Hunger and poverty know not your tribe or faith. Let’s give the private sector and those that have shown true capacity to build something sustainable, that has impacted lives and communities a try..The group called on successful private Sector Player to join in the race.”We are calling and pleading with the successful private sector players to join the 2023 presidential race, they need to stand up and be counted. Nigeria has given you much, we ask now that you come and be the stewards of our nation, not just a business. Come and rescue Nigeria from the shackle of poor leadership.