Greg Obioha, a South Easterner and political Analyst has frowned at the declaration of the National leader of the All Progressive Congress, Ashiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to run for the seat of President. Daily Post reports that the political analyst insisted that any Igbo man who supports Tinubu deserves to be banished. He warned that it is sacrilegious for any Igbo man to support the APC national leader and also insisted that it amounts to huge insult and slight on the collective sensibilities of people of the Igbo race. Expert Blames Poor Academic Performance On NTDs Huspuppi Influenced Our Youths Into Fraud, Rituals –… He said, “To promote Ashiwaju for what? Whoever does it no matter his inalienable right to associate or support whoever he wishes is not a true Igbo person. “Why should we talk of Tinubu in Igbo land? Obasanjo displaced the foremost leader, Alex Ekwueme, and opened the post-military democratic rule of the present era between 1999 and 2007. A Yoruba man became the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives immediately after Obasanjo, I mean Dimeji Bankole. “In 2015, power returned to the northern part of the country through Buhari and naturally the Vice President should come from the south. What happened? Same southwest led by this very Tinubu insisted that it must be ceded to them and it happened? Professor Yemi Osibanjo was made the Vice President and by 2023, he would have spent eight years there”. “Again, shortly after the 2019 general election, while a Yoruba man in the person of Osinbajo was the vice President, same Yorubas of the southwest led by Tinubu insisted that the Speaker of House of Representatives be ceded to their region and that was how Gbajabiamila emerged. “At the Senate, the Deputy Senate President slot for the south was grabbed by Senator Omo Age from Delta State. When Obasanjo ceded power back to the north on completion of his tenure, he ceded the Vice President slot meant for the south to the south-south state of Bayelsa, through Jonathan who later became the President of Nigeria for six years. That implies that every slot that had been ceded to the south since 1999 return of southwest or southeast”. POLL Obioha submitted, “It is criminal, atrocious, repugnant for Tinubu to think of taking the presidential slot of 2023 that has been ceded to the southern part of the country. Any Igbo man that supports such criminality deserves to be banished”. 