Mr. Luqman Mamudu, the Managing Partner, Transtech Industrial Consulting and the former Acting Director-General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), in this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, talks on the automotive industry in Nigeria in 2021, and how the passage of the Finance Act 2020 by President Muhammadu Buhari negatively affected the sector in the past year, among others. Excerpts: A lot has been said about the automotive industry in the past year, especially since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. What is your assessment of the sector in 2021? On a scale of one to 10, I will score Nigeria five and I will explain. Rolls-Royce Delivers 5,586 Cars In 2021 Fixit45, CFAO Motors Partner On Auto Spare Parts Buying The Nigeria automotive industry until 2014 had less than 70,000 installed capacity for the assembly of cars and commercial vehicles including Completely Knocked Down (CKD)/Semi Knocked Down (SKD) capability, almost zero components and parts capacity. However, only about 1,600 units were assembled annually, largely dominated by Peugeot products. This was between PAN Nigeria (Peugeot), NTM, Kano (Sino-truck), Styre Bauchi (Agricultural Tractors), ANNAMCO Enugu (Mercedes Trucks), Leyland Ibadan (BUSAN Commercial Vehicles) and Innoson Motors Manufacturing (Buses, SUVs and Cars). There were considerable local activities in commercial vehicle body building, especially Tanks for lifting wet products and open Trailer Buckets for construction materials movement/general goods; then, very extensive capacity for wet cargo tanks. Companies like IPI (Lagos), Arewa Metals Kaduna, Gorgeous Metals (Kaduna), Proforce (armored), all other assembly plants active in Nigeria before then had completely shut down with equipment stripped in some cases. Once the National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) was launched in 2013/14, activities with new entrants gradually ramped up to about 500,000 installed capacity or 700 per cent jump, but capacity utilisation remained low at less than 4 per cent or 15,000 vehicles per annum. Meanwhile, Nigeria import averaged 400,000 vehicles annually from official customs statistics, but smuggling activities were prevalent. POLL All vehicles destined for Nigeria were shipped to Cotonou (Benin Republic) and neighbouring countries and gradually smuggled in. This remained the case between 2017 to 2020 as assembly activities and potential to increase capacity utilisation remained undermined by increased importation of used vehicles from scrap yards of Europe, North America and others. What major changes did you notice in the industry in the past year? There was hardly any positive change in 2021, except that some significant Global Motor Companies like Gilly, XCMG and new local brands joined the ranks of local assemblers. The industry suffered a significant setback with the passage of the 2020 Finance Act, which completely shutdown assembly activities in commercial vehicles assembly and vehicle body building. Don’t forget that Nigeria had already long established capacity for commercial vehicle body building. Hyundai, Kia Forecast 12% Sales Rise In 2022 Despite Chip… Tesla To Halt Games On Infotainment Screens In Moving Cars Section 38 of the 2020 Finance Act reduced the import duty on all fully built commercial vehicles including tankers and open body trailers from 35 per cent provided under NAIDP to protect the industry to 10 per cent, which is exactly the same as imported SKD meant to be assembled in Nigeria. Naturally, all assembly and body building activities ceased with critical personnel lay-offs. All assemblers simply resorted to outright importation of Fully Built Units (FBUs) as they were forced under NAIDP assembly anyway. It didn’t make commercial sense to continue. Suddenly, from a total import volume of 558,000 vehicles in 2019, this jumped to 849,756 vehicles during 2021 or well over 40 per cent increase. This statistics is available from the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The industry can be said to have been totally frustrated during the year. In your own view, what are the major issues responsible for this low ebb? There was clearly no attempt to neither find out nor resolve the factors constraining increased utilisation in Nigeria various assembly plants or were the assemblers consulted. Levies on car assembly were not spared. They were practically slashed to allow free importation of luxury vehicles, which was the disguised purpose for manipulating the tariff lines, especially for commercial vehicles. The whole idea was to give the impression that the plight of the masses was being addressed. The automotive policy bill has been shrouded in crisis since 2014, eight years later, what are the effects of this in the auto industry? President Muhammadu Buhari returned the bill unsigned because as is normal, he will seek opinion of relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) before consideration. He was advised not to sign because a certain clause in it conflicted with a provision of pioneer status in the Nigeria Investment Promotion Council (NIPC) Act. Ordinarily, this ought to have been quickly addressed and returned, but nothing happened. The global investment community already poised to increase investment in Nigeria shied away. There was no assurance either from any quarters that this will be addressed. The pipeline for automotive investment already established before 2020 with the entrance of NISSAN, FORD, KIA, SINO TRUCK, SHACKMAN, FORD, HYUNDAI, TATA, PEUGEOT, MAN TRUCKS and other Original Equipment from Manufacturers (OEMs) of no less status has remained frozen or cancelled. Other African countries are now being considered as possible automotive hubs for West Africa with the exclusion of Nigeria by African Association of Automotive Assemblers (AAAM), which is an umbrella organisation of global OEMs operating in Africa.