SYLVESTER ENOGHASE It’s evident that the efforts of the Federal Government to remove fuel subsidy will involve significant life disruptions to Nigerians and many industries, and these require levels of concerted dialogue between government, investors, Labour and civil society organisations (CSOs) on the impact the policy implementation will have on the nation’s economy. The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), having weighed the options of the negative impacts on Nigerians, has announced that it will hold a national protest on February 1, 2022, against Federal Government’s plan to remove fuel subsidy this year. What Is Your Full-Year Outlook For Fidson Healthcare Plc? Seven Ways Tech Can Help To Get You On Track With Your… It said that before the major protest, there would be rallies in 26 states of the federation on January 27, 2022 aimed at the same objective. The National Executive Council (NEC) of the Nigeria Labour Congress in a communique issued in Abuja and signed by NLC President, Mr Ayuba Wabba and General Secretary, Mr Emmanuel Ugboaja, after the NEC meeting, warned that removing the fuel subsidies would have negative economic effects for Nigerian workers and lead to hyperinflation. Part of the statement read: “The NEC, therefore, resolved to reject and resist the planned increase in the pump price of petrol by the Federal Government, as it is extremely insensitive to the acute hardship being experienced by Nigerian workers and people. ”Pursuant to its rejection and resistance of further increase in the price of petrol, to organise protest rallies in all the 36 States of the Federation on Jannuary 27, 2022. “This would culminate in the submission of protest letters to all the 36 State Governors. Subsequently, a National Protest will take place on Feb. 1, 2022, in Abuja. POLL “In case government decides to announce new petrol prices before the proposed protests, the protest will kick-off instantly and without any other further notice in every state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory.” NLC added that to boost local refining capacity, the FG needs to adopt effective economic policies to halt the trend of hyper-inflation in the prices of basic goods and services especially essential commodities, cooking gas and building materials, warning that inflation has not only affected the local worker but has scared of foreign investors. “Such plans will only exacerbate the prevailing hyper-inflation of essential goods especially food consumables, lead to decline in sales, job losses in the food sub-sector and increased hardship for ordinary Nigerians. “Plans for the privatisation of Nigeria’s railways, public healthcare facilities and concession of Nigeria’s major international airports. “The NEC, therefore, resolved that the executive arm of government at the federal level and the National Assembly should work together with Organized Labour and manufacturers in the sub-sector for a win-win solution. SMEs Workshop Will Bridge Participants’ Gaps On Production… FCMB’s FastCash Offers Up To N200,000 Support For School Fees,… “The NEC urges government and promoters of the privatisation and concession plans to learn from the misadventure of the power sector privatisation which instead of improving the lives of the ordinary Nigerian have increased the level of suffering and hardship faced by the Nigerian masses,” it added. It would be recalled that Zainab Ahmed, the minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning had stated that Federal Government plans to remove fuel subsidy in 2022 and that part of the revenue that would be saved from subsidy removal will be used to service millions of households via the Conditional Cash Transfer programme. Malam Nasir El-Rufai, the Governor of Kaduna State, has stated that Nigeria is losing N250 billion a month on petrol subsidies and that state governors are committed to supporting the Federal Government in ending the fuel subsidy regime. Malam Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, in his version added that the price of the product may range between N320 and N340 per litre after subsidy removal by 2022. The World Bank also stated that Nigeria spends $4.5 billion on fuel subsidies, indicative of 2% of GDP or 35% of oil and gas revenue. The global financial institution said Nigeria’s PMS subsidy imposes a massive and unsustainable fiscal burden. The cost of the PMS subsidy in 2020 rose from just 4 percent of the oil and gas revenues that are first transferred to the NNPC (US$0.3 billion) to a staggering 35% in 2021 (US$4.5 billion or roughly 2 percent of GDP) and that Nigeria’s average daily oil production fell from 2.0 million barrels per day (bpd) in 2019 to 1.8 million bpd in 2020 and less than 1.6 million bpd in the first nine months of 2021, its lowest level in two decades. Well, that question has been partially answered by State Governors under the aegis of Nigeria Governors’ Forum, NGF when they resolved to engage the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC and the organised labour on the proposed removal of fuel subsidy. According to the Governors, the meeting with the NLC on the issue has become imperative because as stakeholders, they must be involved in order to arrive at a conclusion of ensuring that Nigerians at the end of the day would not be at the receiving end. The Governors have also denied playing any role in the planned removal of subsidy, even as they said that the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC is now a private company and cannot be dictated to on how to carry out its activities. Dr. Kayode Fayemi Chairman of NGF and Ekiti State Governor, while addressing Journalists in the early after the meeting of the governors, said: “The forum also discussed the issue around petroleum subsidy and concluded to engage the leadership of the Nigerian labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) on how best to address this issue without causing any disaffection but with a view to salvaging the Nigerian economy for the Nigerian people at the end of the day. “So we shall be engaging the Nigerian labor Congress, as sub national leaders and with a view to ensuring that the outcome of our engagement will also be fed into the national discourse.” When asked on the input of the Governors on the proposed N302 per litre, Fayemi said: “To the best of my knowledge, the report we are talking about is not a report from the Governors’ Forum. “The National Economic Council, chaired by the vice president of Nigeria, has been dealing with this issue over time. And really, it is not up to sub nationals to decide on what happens to PMS prices. “It is an entirely exclusive responsibility of the federal government. However, there were critical stakeholders and there were members of the National Economic Council. So, we contributed to debates in the National Economic Council. Ultimately, whatever we contribute to it is a decision of the Economic Council. It’s not the decision of governments at all, especially in view of the passage of the petroleum industry Act that’s taken out of our hands completely.” On the position of the Governors’ Forum on subsidy removal, the NGF Chairman said: “Well, for us at the forum it is a matter that is a going concern. We don’t have a definitive issue because it is left to the petroleum industry Act. You heard me earlier. “It is not for us. NNPC is now a private company and the company should decide what he wants to do with the price of its products. It shouldn’t really be the business of governors.” When asked to speak on the Power Generating Assets, Fayemi said: “Well, the assets that we discussed are related to assets on the NIPP which belong to the federal, state and local governments. And our views, as expressed, are simply that you cannot dispose of the assets without the concurrent clearance of owners of the assets, joint owners of the assets. “And we are still on that because the joint owners at the level of states are making input to a committee that will be set up to review this matter and further engage the Niger Delta Power Holding Company that is the resident host of those assets and the Bureau of Public Enterprises, BPE.” Fayemi