The people of the Sarabubowei community, the Gbaramatu Kingdom in Warri Southwest Local Government Area of Delta State, have alleged invasion of their community by suspected gunmen from Ugborodo Community. The incident may be unconnected with claims by the Ugborodo community that Sarabubowei is not hosting to Chevron Nigeria Limited facilities, thereby conniving with CNL to deprive them.of host community benefits. A position the people of Sarabubowei have strongly resisted legally. In a statement signed by the Chairman of the community, Amb. Frederick Igere, said the suspected gunmen from the Ugborodo community came in their numbers on the 17th January 2022 at about 10pm with gunboats and started shooting sporadically. Tax Justice Network Flays Invasion Of CISLAC By DSS Private: BREAKING: Invasion Of Justice Odili’s Residence: 14… He noted in the statement that several buildings were destroyed including the Sarabubowei.deity shrine and innocent citizens of the community were injured and are receiving treatment in various hospitals in Delta State and beyond. According to the statement, the Ugborodo Community had been conniving with Chevron Nigeria Limited to forcefully take their land and relegate them to the background in areas of employment, award of contracts, scholarships awards and other necessary benefits which are the rights of the host community. They pointed out in the statement that it may be their outright rejection of the illegal acquisition of their land by CNL through Ugborodo that led to the shooting to scare them away from the land of their forefathers. “Sarabubowei is a peace-loving community and will not like to be taken for granted because of our peaceful nature. “But if we are pushed to the wall we will not hesitate to take necessary legal actions against our oppressors”, it added. The community, while appealing to members of the Ugborodo community to stop further attack on them, appealed to the Federal, State and Local governments to call the people of Ugborodo Community to order to stop further invasion of their community.