IBADAN – The International Psychometrics Center (IPCentre) Ibadan has released the maiden edition of its new magazine titled The Genius into newsstands to cover the last quarter of the year 2021. The magazine according to its Chairman/Editor-in-Chief, Otunba Abimbola Mosobalaje Davis, who doubles as the Chairman Governing Council of the IPCentre was designed as a snapshot of the various activities of the International Psychometrics Centre and will also serve the of reinforcing and allowing increased awareness, improved interaction and integration between the Centre and the readers. The all-gloss 90-page magazine was conceptualized to be 80 percent academic and designed to celebrate scholars in academia. “This piece explores constructive criticisms on educational issues; the focus on the educational sector is without prejudice to other sectors of the polity”. Ugandan Writer Charged Over Tweets Against Museveni, Son Gov Bello Felicitates Senate President, Lawan At 63 Also in the maiden magazine, two renowned professors are celebrated. Prof Toyin Falola who was picked as the genius of the month has introduced a redefinition of knowledge prioritization to business-minded people who plausibly see getting to the pick of educational cadre as a ruse and impoverishing. Also, Prof Kazeem Adebiyi, the Rector, the Polytechnics of Ibadan was celebrated at his inaugural lecture. He was described as a scholar per excellence who has been an illustrious partner with the IPCentre, Ibadan. The magazine also contains research of the month, featuring Professor John Rust’s Sociobiology and Psychometrics, with contributions from Igo Jacob, Manager Academics of IPC and Prof Benjamin Ehigie of the department of Psychology, the University of Ibadan which will give readers impeccable facts about Psychometrics studies. Some of the efforts of the executive secretary of the National Board of Technical Education (NBTE), Prof Idris Muhammad Bugaje was projected in the magazine in an article titled: ‘Idris Muhammad Bugaje and His Tour De Force’. The International Psychometric Centre (IPCentre) is a Strategic Research Network dedicated to research, teaching and product development in both pure and applied psychological assessment, setting up to research on cutting-edge developments in the theory and practice of psychological assessment with emphasis on the online environment, with vision is to impart practical knowledge of psychometrics in different disciplines.