*Commutes Death Sentences Of 15 Others To Life Imprisonment MAKURDI – Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has given respite to thirty-four prisoners that were on the death row and awaiting execution, as part of the prerogative of mercy. Fifteen others that were sentenced to death have had their sentences commuted to life imprisonment, while another convict had his 21-year jail term reduced to 15 years imprisonment. Democratic Principles Must Guide Democratic Choices –… Strike: We Are Consulting, May Take Next Step If… – ASUU Michael Gusa, State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice who disclosed this while speaking with newsmen in Makurdi on Friday said the decision was reached based on the recommendations of the Advisory Council on the Prerogative of Mercy. According to him, “Some of them (convicts) appealed their sentences, but their appeals have failed, but His Excellency in his compassionate way has decided to invoke the provisions of the Constitution to give these citizens of Nigeria; these citizens of Benue reprieve and granted them amnesty, so that they will be released and granted a second chance. “This is one of the humanitarian steps His Excellency has taken; he is committed to the rule of law, due process and because of the passion that he has for humanity and in compliance with Section 212 of the 1999 Constitution. “He signed a warrant to grant amnesty to some of the convicts who have been awaiting execution, because they have been sentenced to death and were transferred to Jos Correctional center. “We had a total of 50 convicts who are affected, some of them are indegenes of Benue state, some are other Nigerians who committed criminal activities; were arrested, tried and convicted here in Benue. POLL “Out of this number, 34 convicts who were sentenced to death and awaiting execution are now released. We also have 15 convicts who were actually sentenced to death, but now have their sentences commuted to life imprisonment. “And we have another convict who has his term reduced from 21 years to 15 years imprisonment. “So, in total 50 convicts are affected by this act of magnimity and act of compassion by His Excellency, the executive governor of Benue state.” The Attorney General further explained that the governor’s approval was based on the recommendations of the Advisory council on the prerogative of mercy and the Federal Government’s policy on the decongestion of correctional centers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said “The Governor’s approval is based on the recommendations that was made by the management of the correctional centers in Jos, Owerri and Sokoto, where you have these inmates. INEC Arraigns Prof. Ignatius Uduk For Electoral Fraud Akwa Ibom APC Crisis: Congress Committee Chair, Others Petition… “They made recommendations on the conduct of these convicts, while they served their jail terms and awaited execution. They testified to the effect that they (convicts) have changed from their bad ways and have become good citizens “And it’s based on these recommendations that the Advisory Council on the Prerogative of Mercy sat and considered individual cases and made recommendations to His Excellency who then gave the approval. “This (amnesty granted the convicts) is also in consonance with the federal government’s policy on decongesting the Correctional centers as a result of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. “It is the desire of the federal government that correctional centers should be decongested and it’s in consonance with this, that the Governor decided to exercise his powers under the Constitution to give a new lease of life to this convicts.”