INNOCENT OWEH; RAJI ADEBAYO ABUJA / IBADAN – President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heart­felt condolences to the gov­ernment and people of Oyo State, the royal family, the Ol­ubadan-in-council and the peo­ple of Ibadan on the passing of Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji. The 93-year-old royal father passed on at the University Col­lege Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, on Sunday, and was subsequently buried at his palace according to Islamic rights. Terrorists Mounting Roadblock Amounts To Two Sovereignties In… Ooni Tutors Politicians On Good Governance The president, through a statement by Femi Adesina, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, on Sunday affirmed that the late Kabiyesi was a visionary and compassionate leader, who used the spheres of his influence as a respected tra­ditional ruler and a lover of the creative industry to advance the progress of his people, encouraging and motivating them to give their best in their vocation and to the nation. While his demise under­standably leaves a huge void to fill, the president urged the people of Ibadan and Nigerians from different walks of life to honour the eternal memory of the deceased by imbibing the virtues he cherished so much: generosity, peace, tolerance and devotion to unity. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo on Sunday expressed shock at the passing on of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Saliu Ade­tunji, whom he described as an exemplar in royalty. Makinde said in a statement issued in Ibadan by Taiwo Adi­sa, his Chief Press Secretary, that the demise of the royal icon was painful despite his old age. He added that the wisdom and wealth of experience of the late first class traditional ruler would be sorely missed. POLL The governor expressed his condolences to the immediate family of the Olubadan, the Olubadan-in-Council and all Ibadan indigenes as well as the Oyo State Traditional Council. He said Oba Adetunji gave his all to ensure that Ibadan is developed and took its pride of place as one of the major cities in Africa. “The news of the death of our father, His Imperial Maj­esty, Oba Saliu Adetunji, (Aje Ogungunniso I), came as a shock. “Kabiyesi’s exit at this time is painful to say the least. His wealth of experience, his immense wisdom and his commitment to seeing a greater Ibadan and a better Oyo State are unrivalled. ­ “Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria and humanity at large will miss Kabiyesi who was ever ready to give his all to see a bet­ter society.” Olubadan Did Not Die Of COVID – Palace Olubadan: Oyetola Commiserates With Makinde, Oyo people Similarly, former gover­nors of Oyo, Senator Rashidi Ladoja and Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala; Deputy Gover­nor of the state, Engr. Rauf Olaniyan; Bada Balogun of Ibadanland, Oloye Adegboye­ga Adegoke were among the dignitaries that paid last re­spects to the late Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Ade­tunji Aje Ogunguniso I at his Popoyemoja Palace. Others that attended the fu­neral rite at Popoyemoja Palace included the deputy speaker of Oyo House of Assembly, Abiodun Fadeyi; members of the House of Assembly; Fuji maestro, King Wasiu Ayinde; Deputy Chief of Staff to Gov­ernor Seyi Makinde, Mojeed Mogbonjubola; Aare Musulu­mi of Yorubaland, Edo and Del­ta states, Alhaji Daud Makan­juola; Abass Oloko and other prominent Ibadan Indigenes that cut across all sectors. Others that earlier paid last respects to the late first class monarch through condolence messages are former Senate Leader, who is also Ayingun Olubadan, Senator Teslim Fo­larin; Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Chief Sunday Dare; Aare Onaka­kanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, among others. Speaking at the palace, the deputy governor, who repre­sented Oyo government, said Olubadan lived a fulfilled life despite his short period on the throne. According to him, “Oba Adetunji lived a fulfilled live despite his short period on the throne. During his time there was relative peace which at­tracted several development into the ancient city”. According to Bada Balogun, Oloye Adegboyega Adegoke, “Despite the good life spent by the first class monarch, his death is a great loss to people of Ibadan, Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole. “Oba Adetunji was known for his consistency in promot­ing peaceful and harmonious co-existence, had respect for re­ligions and diverse cultures in the state and country as whole. “Oba Adetunji had success­fully carried on with the lega­cies of his forefathers, dating back to the 16th century, with an intentional focus to uphold the beautiful traditions of hos­pitality, respect for authorities and communal development that has always defined the throne. “He was a wonderful, excel­lent king who stood by with tra­dition during his tenure. He did not allow anyone to torpedo the Ibadan hierarchical succession plan of ascending the throne”. The Ayingun Olubadan and lawmaker representing Oyo Central Senatorial Dis­trict, Oloye Teslim Folarin, ex­pressed sadness over the death of Oba Adetunji, describing him as the most peace-loving monarch Ibadan has ever had. According to him, “I re­ceived the news of the passing away of our highly revered royal father with shock. I am greatly saddened and devas­tated with his demise. “Baba’s contributions to unity of Yoruba nation, impact and positive influence in the country will be greatly missed. “He left indelible marks in Nigeria’s entertainment indus­try and also as an imperial king in Yorubaland. Baba was an honest, decent and forthright king”. The three-term senator stat­ed that Olubadan’s demise is a monumental loss to the people of Oyo State and the Nigeria’s traditional institution. Oloye Folarin while pray­ing for the eternal rest of the first-class king, commiserated with the Olubadan-in-Council, the Adetunji royal family, the people of Ibadan and Oyo State at large. In his message, Aare Onaka­kanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, also de­scribed the death of Olubadan as a huge loss, even as he said the demise of the first class monarch had robbed Nigeria and the entire Yoruba land of a mature and peaceful monarch. Aare Gani Adams, in a statement by his Special As­sistant on Media, Mr. Kehinde Aderemi, expressed shock at the news, saying the late Oba Saliu Adetunji was mostly loved by sons and daughters of Ibadanland, having the most peaceful reign in Ibadan in recent times. “I feel bad at the news of Kabiesi’s death, however, I am happy he died a hero. The late Oba Adetunji, in his life, brought immense development to Ibadan land. He was very ma­ture, pleasant and peaceful. “The late Olubadan was never controversial. He was among the prominent Obas that graced my installation ceremony as the Aare Onaka­kanfo of Yorubaland in Oyo, in January 2018. “And he had a robust rela­tionship with the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, throughout his reign. “Kabiesi’s mature and peaceful life was in display throughout his reign and it was evident that Ibadan land had peaceful and great moment in history during his reign.”