Ella Emmanuel , the Chief Executive Officer of Ella Daily Contribution Enterprises, a daily savings business, popularly called ‘Ajo’ or ‘Osusu’ in local parlance, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, talks about the impact of her services on small businesses and how the government can also create an enabling environment to help grow small businesses. Excerpts: Can you talk about Ella Daily Contribution? I am a graduate of business management and after working for some organisations for a couple years I thought I was going to be on my own, but the kind of capital that I needed to start a business of my choice was not readily available. Inflation Is Killing Businesses In Nigeria – Ogbuehi People Should Take Advantage Of Technology To Enhance Their… I went into a hairdressing business because I had some equipment and also acquired skill in that trade. I didn’t really have job satisfaction in that business and coupled with epileptic power supply. I had to quit the hairdressing business. I also worked in a micro finance company, Eagle Eye located in the Ikotun area of Alimosho. I had to leverage the experience that I had while working at the micro finance company to open my own company, Ella Daily Contribution Enterprises, after doing all the necessary registrations. How long have you been in this business? I actually started the business about last year after I left the Eagle Eye micro finance company. It is a very interesting business because it makes you bond with your customers. POLL Can you elaborate on your mode of operation? Like the name implies, we help to manage the money of our customers. We save money for them and also give them advice because most of our customers are small business owners. Some of them do not even know much about managing their finances. We try to inculcate in them the act of saving. You know that it will be absurd for someone to take N500 to the bank, probably pay N400 or more on transport to go and save, so what we do is to help them keep these small cash that they make from their sales. Some keep the money with us for a whole year before they can collect and plough back into their businesses while others collect on a monthly or quarterly basis to stock their shops. Planning Before Investing In Business Will Check Failure –… Govt Should Have Policies That Will Impact Positively On Event… You see yourself as a financial consultant and all that. You have a lot to do as a cash manager. A lot of them have actually come to appreciate us for helping them grow their businesses. Once they find out that you are duly registered they will want to patronise you. It is a mutual relationship of sorts. They help you make money and you also help them make money and organise their businesses. Is the business profitable? It is a profitable business. If it is not profitable I will not be doing it. It is profitable and more so it makes you bond with your customers as I said earlier and that gives you joy that you are helping somebody grow his or her business. You know that apart from saving the money for them we also give loans and this they pay with some little interest. You have commission for saving their money as well as interest for giving loans. I have not really started giving out loans now because I am still in the assessment stage; remember that I just told you that I am about one year old. At this stage I am assessing them to know the ones that can be qualified and how much each should get based on the size of business. I have a good number of customers that I am managing at the moment and I will conveniently say that the business is paying, although I will have done better but for the state of the economy. When you have experience and you have a good understanding of your business, you will always excel. Success in business requires good operational knowledge. I leverage on experience and contacts to excel in my business. The target that I set for myself is that once any customer signs on, I also try in one way to ensure that he or she has value added to his business. It could be by way of patronage or advice. I always refer customers to my clients for patronage because if they grow, I will also grow too. I always see myself as a partner in my clients’ businesses. I must confess to you that sometimes I do it unconsciously. In my former company, my clients must not default on paying their loans, I go all out to ensure that they don’t fail, maybe because you have to bear part of the liability should the customer default. It was the condition in that company. It automatically turns you into a business partner. Do you have challenges in the business? The economic situation in the country is affecting the business adversely. Businesses are having challenges these days and so it affects us in turn. If your customer doesn’t sell he or she will not save. Again some that used to save N2,000 per day may reduce it to N1,000 or even N500. When the economy was good you would see customers who save every day but these days you can see some saving every other day or three times a week. The challenge again that some of them have is with the issue of electricity power supply. The people who operate saloons are finding it difficult to save because their businesses have dropped tremendously. In fact I had to advise some of them to start plaiting hair or braiding attachment. It is all about the government not providing an enabling environment for business owners in the country. Another huge challenge is bad roads. You know that if a road is bad customers will stay away from that environment and the business will automatically shut down. I have such customers you could no longer save business they have shut down as a result of bad roads. I must appeal to the government to rehabilitate the roads, especially in the Ejigbo area. The government must attend to the issues of light and bad roads; they are the major requirement for the survival of businesses. If they cannot create jobs for Nigerians, let them build roads and provide electricity. Are you considering any expansion in the near future? I hope to operate as a micro finance company in a few years from now. I have started working towards that, in fact by next year I will open an outlet where I will start giving loans to customers. As soon as I complete all the necessary documents I will go fully into a form of micro finance business. How do you resolve the issue of collateral before giving out loans? No, we don’t normally collect collateral but the customer must produce two guarantors and must have a shop. You also remember that I said that I was doing an assessment to know the capacity of each customer. You have to know the capacity of the customers before you give loans. We start from N30,000 to N100,000, and most of the time they don’t default because you are also there to supervise. How do you intend to handle the issue of defaulters in loan repayment? We will revert to cease the goods or property of the business. We can also revert to the guarantors. In most cases you will be on ground and you will see signs and take appropriate action, which is why I said earlier that the officer managing the customer in my former office will also bear the liability, and because you don’t want to bear the liability you must ensure that the company doesn’t lose money.