AWKA – Governor-Elect, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo yesterday inaugurated the 80 member Transition Committee which will enable the incoming administration take – off smoothly with a clear understanding of current state of governance. The committee headed by the former Minister of Education, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili Daily Independent learnt consisted of members chosen from within and outside the state on the benchmark of knowledge, character, excellence, diversity, integrity, inclusiveness and professionalism. Inaugurating the committee at Golden Tulip Hotel Agulu,  Soludo outlined the terms of reference of the committee noting that he envisions an Anambra that will be more liveable and prosperous as the committee will see to a seamless transition and help the incoming administration take – off smoothly. B2B E-Commerce Makes Logistics Easier For Nigeria’s Informal… 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello He emphasized that having a peaceful, progressive and prosperous Anambra is the collective dream and collective responsibility of every ‘onye’ Anambra, and,  therefore, the need for everyone to own the growth and development of Anambra by contributing through selfless services. He emphasised that his election manifesto was a contract with the people containing implementable programmes. He thanked the committee members for accepting to serve Anambra and encouraged them to co-opt anyone that would add value to the project. Soludo who described the transition as a friendly one, expressed his gratitude to Governor Willie Obiano for his unflinching support. He reiterated his earlier resolve to hit the ground running from day one with the support of everyone and assured to run an open and accountable administration. POLL The state Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Mr Mark Okoye took the gathering through vision, mission and strategic objectives,  achievements, challenges and lesson learnt from the Obiano – led administration. The Committee Chairperson, Dr Oby Ezekwesili, while accepting the responsibility, thanked the Governor-Elect for the honour. She highlighted ground rules, agenda and terms of reference of the transition committee and emphasized that their mission is to boost the effectiveness of the Governor-Elect and the incoming government team in their quest to build a liveable and prosperous smart Anambra. Ezekwesili charged the committee members to be committed and dedicated to the task of building a great future for Ndi Anambra.