Mrs. Chioma Ononye, the Chief Executive Officer of Ranks West Africa Limited, an agricultural food processing company, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBGOGU, speaks of the impact of insecurity on availability of food, high cost of food across the country and why the government should provide security for farmers to boost food production. Excerpts: What do you do in Ranks West Africa Limited? We are into food processing and packaging. We turn grains and tubers into flour. Govt Should Reduce Import Duty On Health Related Products – Ukor Success In Business Requires Good Operational Knowledge –… Our brand name is De-Luxe Flour. How long have you been in the business? I started my business 16 years ago from one room in my house. We have increased our daily production capacity. My business has impacted society tremendously. Our activity helps to reduce post-harvest losses, thereby saving thousands of tons of fresh agro products that would have been wasted. We have engaged a huge number of youths by creating jobs for them. We have engaged youth corps members and students who are on industrial attachment; we have transformed the fortunes of a lot of women who serve as aggregators and suppliers of raw materials. POLL We don’t only buy from them but also train them on acceptable practises and how to earn money and support their families. Considering the high cost of food, how do you cope in this business? High cost of food in Nigeria is caused by insecurity, resulting in farmers abandoning their farms, thereby causing so much stress on the entire food value chain. We have been able to cope to a great extent in spite of these challenges because over the years we have built strong and lasting relationships with our aggregators and farmers. This has helped us to survive in the midst of the challenges, and to also get our raw materials on time. However, it is not like before. We have also resorted to the use of solar energy systems in some of our operations to reduce the cost of energy and to improve our environment. People Should Take Advantage Of Technology To Enhance Their… I Was The Fourth Woman To Go Into Uber/Bolt Business – Abiola In spite of the challenges that you just talked about, do you still meet the demands of your customers? Meeting the needs of our customers is difficult now because of instability in the prices, knowing also that the demand for food is higher at this time. Is your business still profitable in spite of these setbacks? Yes, the business is still profitable in spite of the challenges but our profit margin has reduced drastically. We are operating on low profit and there are also uncertainties. The banks are also more careful in releasing funds for their customers. Their lending rates are also not friendly or affordable. The profit has reduced and we need help to scale through the challenges. We need support from the government in the form of grants and loans, but not the type of commercial loans that the banks offer. We have remained in business, and even though our business is still profitable, the margin has reduced significantly. Considering the harsh business environment under which most businesses operate, what is the prospect for your business? I will say that the future of the business is still bright. The truth is obvious that there is no alternative to food and the population is also growing. I have also gained a lot of experience over the years, making it possible for me to be able to navigate all of these huddles. Like I said earlier, we need help in this country to sustain manufacturing and the earlier we get this help the better. I am optimistic that the future is bright if the government takes urgent steps to address insecurity in the country so that more people will go into the farm and give us enough raw materials to work with. In the area of energy, the solar system is still very expensive. If we can get assistance to be able to power our machines at reduced cost, it will go a long way in sustaining our businesses. Have you started exporting your products or you are considering exporting soon, at least to neighbouring African countries? We have not started exporting yet but we are considering that this year. It is our priority for this year because export is going to be a game changer for my business. We have already been trained by the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), we have gained enough knowledge, which was what I had waited for. This year is a major focus for us. We hope to start with African countries then we will go beyond Africa because the population of Nigerians in Diaspora is increasing on a daily basis, so we are sure to go into exportation this year. We have seen people go into businesses without prior knowledge of what it takes to operate such businesses and at the end some of them have lost so much money. So, what advice will you give to someone who wants to invest in your line of business? My advice to anyone who wants to go into agro processing business is to get training, first. I will tell them it is a good place to be, however they need to start by sourcing for information, going for training, and mentorship. Most times people step out without any prior experience, assuming that they know how to do it, and before long they would lose a huge sum of money. Some of them tend to start with trial and error and that will make them abandon the vision, waste their investments. It is true that it is a good business but they need the support of those who can provide them with training before they invest their funds so that they won’t waste their money. I would like you to speak on the way forward. A few days ago President Muhammadu Buhari launched a rice pyramid in Abuja, while some people faulted that, others applauded the initiative. Do you think that the programme will impact on your business, reduce food prices in the country, especially for your kind of business which depends on agro products for raw material? I may look at it as the government dispensing energy on growing what we eat, as we speak Nigeria is highly dependent on the import of food and that is draining our economy. The government is dispensing energy in the area of food production, but where security is not assured, nobody is ready to go into the farm. I have a farm somewhere and I have not visited that place for a long time. The initiative is a good step in the right direction to encourage the growing of food, but I will add that without security it is not possible to make people take the risk of going into the farm. If they don’t go into the farm, there won’t be enough food production. We have very few quantities of food in the market which everybody is scrabbling to get, which is the reason food is very expensive. I must commend the government for stopping the importation of rice, I will also want the government to extend that to wheat so that we can grow wheat locally and that way we will reduce the import of wheat and save foreign exchange. If we can grow rice, we can also grow wheat. For all the staple food, we need the government’s intervention but basically without providing security it will not be possible. Security and access roads to the farms are important. Motorbikes are used to transport a few bags of food from many kilometres, and the cost of bringing the items from the farms is highly expensive. The major cost goes into logistics because the farms are not accessible. Security agents should be mobilised to guard the farms so that people don’t feel unsafe in the farms. We have situations where farmers grow crops but can’t harvest because of insecurity.