Authorities say a man apparently took hostages Saturday during services at a synagogue near Fort Worth, Texas. The Colleyville Police Department tweeted Saturday afternoon that it was conducting SWAT operations at the address of Congregation Beth Israel. FBI Dallas spokeswoman Katie Chaumont said an FBI SWAT team was also at the scene and that crisis negotiators had been communicating with someone inside the synagogue. But she could not say whether the person was armed and she declined to describe what the person had said to authorities, citing operational sensitivity. Tsunami Hits Pacific Coast Of Japan After Volcanic Eruption In… Libyan Deputy Premier To Visit Russia On Sunday – Press… Police were first called to the synagogue around 11 a.m. and people were evacuated from the surrounding neighborhood soon after that, Chaumont said. There have been no reported injuries, Chaumont said, and authorities weren’t certain how many people were in the synagogue. “It’s an evolving situation, and we have a lot of law enforcement personnel on scene,” Chaumont said. We are currently conducting SWAT operations around the 6100 block of Pleasant Run Rd. All residents in the immediate area are being evacuated. Please avoid the area. — Colleyville Police (@ColleyvillePD) January 15, 2022 Law enforcement shut down access to the roads surrounding the synagogue Saturday afternoon. POLL The services were being livestreamed on the synagogue’s Facebook page for a time. The Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported that an angry man could be heard ranting and talking about religion at times during the livestream, which didn’t show what was happening inside the synagogue. Shortly before 2 p.m., the man said, “You got to do something. I don’t want to see this guy dead.” Moments later, the feed cut out. The man, who used profanities, repeatedly mentioned his sister, Islam and that he thought he was going to die, the Star-Telegram reported. Colleyville, a community of about 26,000 people, is about 15 miles (23 kilometers) northeast of Fort Worth.