LAGOS – Nigerians have been advised to work together and do every­thing humanly possible to pre­vent the outbreak of war in the country, as the nation can only strive in an atmosphere of peace and tranquility. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, La­gos State Governor, who was speaking through Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, his Depu­ty gave the advice on Friday while speaking at the year 2022 Armed Forces Remem­brance Day Celebration Ded­icated Jumat Service at the Secretariat Mosque, Alausa Ikeja. He urged those beating the drum of war in the country to desist from such and thread on the path of peace for the good of all Nigerians. Buhari Inaugurates NNPC Board, Outlines Guidelines For… NIA DG Never Failed Promotion Examination – ONSA While admonishing the citizens to be positive in their mindset, the governor empha­sised that the fall of the na­tion will affect everyone and “we all will suffer for it”. He said by calling for war, there would be no justification for the death of those people that fought for the country.” Speaking further, the gov­ernor advised that Nigerians should stop criticising the Armed Forces as they are making a lot of sacrifices for the unity of the country by protecting the citizens and fighting for her peace and unity. He, therefore, advised that, in the memory of those that have died, citizens should be nice to the country and con­sider how to make Nigeria a better nation in their indi­vidual spaces. He beseeched them to use the talent deposit­ed in them by Allah to ensure a greater nation. “I was watching a docu­mentary about a week ago, I don’t know if people saw it. They were showing a place in the State of Ohio, it was worse than Ajegunle, and I have lived in America for 11 years and I never knew such a place was there. They hid their problems but it is our problem that we raise, why? In memory of the people that have died, let us be nice to our country. Let us try as much as possible to see how we can make this country a better place. “Every citizen must use their personal uniqueness to collectively build our country for a better place of living.” POLL He thanked the Almighty Allah for preserving those alive to be able to celebrate the event. “We celebrate those who have fallen and those that have vouched to protect the country with their lives. We appreciate the soldier and pray that Almighty Allah pro­tects you and repose the souls of the departed,” he said.