IBADAN – Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams on Sunday described the death of Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji as a huge loss, even as he said the demise of the first class monarch had robbed Nigeria and the entire Yoruba land of a mature and peaceful monarch. Aare Gani Adams, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media,Mr. Kehinde Aderemi, expressed shock at the news,saying the late Oba Saliu  Adetunji was mostly loved by sons and daughters of Ibadanland,  having the most peaceful reign in Ibadan in recent times. “I feel bad at the news of  Kabiesi’s death, however, I am happy he died a hero. The late Oba Adetunji, in his life, brought immense development to Ibadanland. He was very mature, pleasant and peaceful.” Olubadan: Kolapo Kola-Daisi Commiserates With Ibadanland What Olubadan Told Me In 2019, NUJ Chairman Babalola Mourns Oba… “The late Olubadan was never controversial. He was among the prominent Obas that graced my installation ceremony as the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland in Oyo, in January 2018”, “And he had a robust relationship with the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, throughout his reign. “Kabiesi’s mature and peaceful life was in display throughout his reign and it was evident that Ibadanland had  peaceful and great moment in history during his reign. “Very Pleasant, the late Oba Saliu Adetunji was a brave man with distinct records of successes. Kabiesi’s five years reign was a milestone and we  can hardly forget his immense contributions to the ancient town of Ibadan as well as the traditional institutions. “With Kabiesi’s death, Yorubaland has lost a peaceful monarch and  symbol of humility. We have also lost one of our respected monarchs and a pillar of hope for our race. POLL “Olubadan’s death had also robbed us of a true ambassador, whose maturity and wealth of experience is next to none. “Kabiesi died at a deservedly old age, and his strength of character was very noticeable.His imprints in Ibadan and the entire southwest was remarkable”. Iba Adams, however, prayed for the repose of the monarchs soul, stressing that Ibadan and the entire southwest will sorely missed the monarch’s forthrightness, strong voice and exemplary character. “Olubadan’s death,though, shocking  brought to four, the numbers of prominent Yoruba monarchs that had  joined their ancestors in the last three weeks. The news of Oba Saliu Adetunji’s death broke out in the early hours of Sunday. Passage of Olubadan Shocking, Oyo Speaker Condoles People of… Ibadan Chief Mourns  Olubadan’s Demise At 93 The  93-years-old monarch was said to have died  at the University College Hospital (UCH) in Ibadan, Oyo state. The late Oba Adetunji was the 41st  Olubadan of Ibadan, following his coronation on March 4, 2016.