LAGOS  – The National President of the Cocoa Association of Nigeria (CAN), Moruf Abolarinwa, has said that in spite of the neglect of the industry and the myriad of challenges that stakeholders face in the subsector, Cocoa is still Nigeria’s number one non-crude oil foreign exchange earning commodity. Abolarinwa stated this while reacting to alleged ban of Nigeria cocoa beans by Europe. He said the contribution of the crop to the nation’s economy exceeds N400billion per annum from sale of cocoa beans and secondary products. Lagos APPEALS To Enhance Farmers Productivity With Production Of… Go For Intervention Funds Instead Of Foreign Loan, Expert Tells… “We have invested and continue to invest billions of naira in our businesses in order to contribute our quota to the economy and provide sustainable jobs for millions of women and youth, even as we support our host communities in the provision of social amenities in diverse ways. He said that there is no time that the country was in the reds list of any cocoa importing or consuming country, stressing that there is no such decision by EU countries or any country whatsoever. He reaffirmed that that there is no threat about banning Nigerian cocoa from any buyer, adding that as a practitioner in the industry, stakeholder’s livelihood is built on income from cocoa. Abolarinwa, who says as a members of the Council of the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO), which discusses, debates and agrees upon all international regulations for implementation on cocoa, stated that such issue has not come before the ICCO from Nigeria. “No such communication has also come to Cocoa Association of Nigeria which was established in 1986 as the umbrella body for all cocoa stakeholders, from research, through farming, input provision, trade, export, processing, manufacture and consumption. POLL “When issues surrounding maximum residue limits came up about 15 years ago, CAN championed the sensitisation of members, particularly the farmers, on the dangers of improper and inappropriate use of pesticides in cocoa production and we worked with Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN), Crop Life Nigeria, input importers and distributors, and development agencies in the cocoa space, as well as undertook practical demonstration throughout all the cocoa producing states in Nigeria. He said though the association cannot hide from the reality that there had been incidences of poor, adulterated and sometimes abused pesticides in cocoa production, but with regular interaction with farmers, increased training for exporters and capacity building among farmers on best agricultural practices in cocoa, things are rapidly improving. Speaking further, he said that spraying gangs had been trained and deployed by different groups within the industry that support farmers in application of approved agrochemicals for cocoa. “It is also noteworthy that CRIN has issued a regularly updated list of approved pesticides for cocoa, which is strictly and generally adhered to by our members. On top of this is the fact that most of our farmers have been captured in the global traceability net. A large number of our farms have been mapped and farmers are periodically trained on GAP and responsible pesticide usage. “This qualifies them for premium, which is paid in hundreds of millions of naira every year. Nigeria currently produces over 270,000 metric tonnes of cocoa and nearly 80 per cent is exported as beans. New National Rice Development Council To Save  $2bn For Nigeria… Boost In Food Production: Group Lauds CBN, Farmers Partnership He, however, said there are over 500,000 cocoa farmers in 14 major cocoa producing states, over 100,000 factors and licensed buying agents, nearly 50 major local cocoa exporters, over 20 foreign exporters all of who employ hundreds of thousands of Nigerians.