Salisu Mohd Lukman, Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum PGF has accused the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of working on a lie that will end up foisting the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) again on Nigerians in 2023. According to the APC chieftain, the APC leadership is working on the fallacy that anybody the party imposes on Nigerians during the party’s presidential primaries will sweep the poll in 2023, a proposition he says cannot stand. He said such a lie will only pave way for PDP’s return to power, adding that the ongoing plot to postpone the scheduled February convention of the party will spell doom for the ruling party. 2022: Don’t Expect Anything Better From APC, Ayu Cautions… OSUN 2022: APC Has Mortgaged State With Choking Debt Burden-… He also accused the CECPC of deliberately pushing for postponement, of the convention, working in accord with those he said are campaigning to have the election of the APC NWC and the presidential primary held on the same day. In either case, he alerted that the party is only working hard to launch the 2019 Zamfara State Election debacle at the national scale ahead of the 2023 General Election, noting that failure of the CECPC to give a definite date for the convention as well name the convention subcommittees has sustained the doubt among party stakeholders. “It is very difficult to excuse the CECPC from the campaign to postpone the February Convention. If the CECPC is not interested in the postponement of the Convention from the agreed February 2022 date, why is it difficult to make a formal announcement about the date and venue of the Convention? “Statutorily, by the requirement of the Electoral Act, the party is expected to serve at least 21 days’ notice of the Convention to INEC. Which basically means that if the Convention is to hold any day before February 28, 2021, the notice to INEC should be given on or before February 7, 2022” he pointed out. Lukman said the party and APC leaders appear not to have learned any lessons from the concluded Anambra State governorship election, believing “that agendas set in 2014 or 2019 are sufficient to respond to contemporary challenges, which post 2023 governance will be expected to respond to”. POLL A federal High Court presided over Justice Ekwo had recently declared that the party was a party to the Anambra State Election, haven failed to conduct a valid Governorship primary. While he observed that the CECPC has not deemed it necessary to review the said Anambra State election and take invaluable lessons, Lukman expressed concern that the APC leadership is working to impose a candidate on the party in 2023 and without the buy-in of stakeholders. He said :“It will be foolhardy to expect that the popularity of the APC will be sustained in 2023 without undertaking similar objective reviews. It would be such objective reviews that would assist the party to renegotiate and retain the support of Nigerians” he said, pointing to the internal unity that helped APC to ride the crest in 2015. “The burden of responsibility to strengthen the capacity of the APC to put itself on a vantage position to commence internal negotiation around all these issues is on the CECPC, especially, the Chairman, His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni. Inability to discharge this responsibility or avoid it by toying the path of a deceptive campaign for postponement of Convention can only spell doom for the APC and return Nigeria to the hands of those who laid the foundation for all the challenges facing the country. “By way of an appeal to APC leaders, as much as the question of who emerges as the candidate of the party is very important, it is not only who emerges as a candidate of the party that can win the election. But how united are party leaders behind the candidate will be a more determining factor. President Buhari, with all his mass support in the Northern part of the country, may not have won the election in 2015 without the unity of all APC leaders from every part of the country. All APC leaders must be reminded that there is no one political leader in the country that enjoys convincing mass support of any region of the country. BREAKING: Saraki Welcomes Lagos APC Faction To PDP BREAKING: Tinubu Begins Reconciliation Of Kwara APC Stakeholders “Therefore, the process of internal debates within the APC to enhance the confidence of party leaders from every part of the country and by extension Nigerians to support any potential candidate of the party should be oriented around an agreement on what needs to be done to address national challenges. ” In fact, the ability of the party to manage internal party contests for the emergence of presidential candidates for instance, will be dependent on the kind of confidence that would have emerged among party leaders during internal debates. “Party leaders and all members should try to see the bigger picture and work for stronger internal unity within the APC. The only reason why some leaders, perhaps including the members of CECPC, are attracted to campaign for postponement for the Convention is the deceptive belief that any candidate who emerged, whether elected or imposed on the party can win the 2023 elections. This is a big lie!”