LOKOJA – Khalifa Muhammad Sanusi ll, the President General Jam’iyyatu Ansariddeen (Attijaniyya), Nigeria, has advised eligible voters in Nigeria to register, get their voters’ card (PVC) and vote the best and competent candidates in all positions in the 2023 general elections. Sanusi made the call on Saturday in Lokoja at the last day of the three-day annual conference of the 4th Nigeria World Maulid Anniversary, in honour of the Holy Prophet Muhammad, with the theme: ‘The Prophetic Solutions To The Questions of Humanity’. The conference was organised by JAM’IYYATU ANSARIDDEEN (ATTIJANIYYA), under the leadership of His Spiritual Eminence, Sheikh Muhammad Mahi Ibrahim Niass, the Grand Khalifa Worldwide. Late Ogeh Was Intelligent Professional – Okowa Friends Celebrate Olusemire As Customs’ New Assist Comptroller… Sanusi, who was a former governor of the Central Bank urged the group to vote for the best person that is most competent in every position irrespective of political party or religious affiliations. ”If our youths get employed, the economy of the entire country will be improved. ”Most importantly, we are not a political party but we cannot fold our arms and ignore politics. ”Every member of Attijaniyya from 18 years old and above, male or female, go and get your voter card. ”Allah commands you that you should place trust in the hands of those people who are trustworthy. POLL ”Now, we are at that time where those who appoint leaders are the people, your vote is your power, you have a responsibility. ”I am not saying you must vote only for member of Attijaniyya, Muslim, or for any political party; you are to vote for every position the best person that is most competent,” he said. He added: ”If you don’t take this responsibility you have betrayed Islam. We must preserve the unity of this country to ensure self-reliance, education, peace and unity”. ” I urge you to continue to promote peace, pray and eschew extremism, no matter the difficult situation, Allah is able to see the country through