LAGOS – The Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria, has explained why it is yet to put the N5 billion worth firefighting simulator equipment it took delivery of about two years ago. Capt. Alkali Moddibo, the Rector of NCAT speaking with aviation correspondents over the weekend said that the machine, which is one of the best in the world, was still undergoing certification process from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). When completed, the equipment would be deployed for the training and current training of aviation technical personnel, while also curbing capital flight out of the country. Danbatta Pivots Nigeria’s Socio-Economic Development On ICT… Liberalisation Of Nigeria’s Forex Market Will Boost Productivity… According to him, NCAT was still in the second phase of the certification process, assuring that once this is done, the machine would be deployed for immediate use. Moddibo maintained that this would further increase the Internally Generated Revenues (IGRs) of the college. He said: “The equipment is an automated firefighting simulator, which gives room for simulating incident and accident activities that require fire. The firefighting simulator is undergoing process of certification; we are in stage two of the process and NCAA is responsible for issuing certification for the equipment and it cannot give you the certificate until you are through with all the processes, which we are working hard on to get. “As soon as the second phase is completed, the machine would be put to use.” The firefighting simulator equipment was acquired from Messrs Alpine Metal Tech. Company after the officials of the government, including Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, carried out the factory acceptance and pre-shipment inspection test of the equipment in 2019. POLL The pre-shipment test, which took place in the United Kingdom showcased the full complements of about 28 possible fire and non-fire scenarios carried out including; cabin fire simulation, cabin smoke, lavatory smoke and the likes.