LAGOS – Some prominent Nigerian politi­cians, especially in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), joined others in the last few days in an­nouncing their intention to contest for the nation’s topmost job next year, but a cross-section of the electorate who spoke to our correspondent stated that they were not at all impressed by the emerg­ing names; they needed to see new faces and hear some fresh messages. The announcement by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of his presiden­tial ambition at Aso Rock, Abuja, after briefing President Muhammadu Buhari last Monday was followed by a flurry of ac­tivities across the coun­try, culminating in more of such announcements. Among those who fol­lowed suit, although they had been mooting their interest in the position, are expectedly from the APC, Tinubu’s party, and the main opposition par­ty, the PDP. Leaders’ Honesty Will Check Security Challenges – Bishop Eichie IPOB Allays Fears Of Lockdown In South-East, Announces… From the APC, there is the Ebonyi State gover­nor, David Umeahi, and former Abia State gover­nor, Orji Uzor Kalu. More APC stalwarts are expected to make public their interests in the plum position soon. Under the PDP, there are former Senate Pres­ident and Secretary of the Government of the Federation (SGF), Any­im Pius Anyim, and Mao Ohuabunwa. More PDP members are expected to make pub­lic their interests soon. Reacting to these fren­zied announcements, Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi, Chairman, African Action Congress (AAC), Lagos State chapter, said: “Power is the lust of the ruling class; their road to immune looting. Tinubu rushed to declare once Osinbajo’s supporters did the same. And many others are coming to chal­lenge. POLL “What this means is that our rulers have come of age and now have many capable actors. “The democratic space is yet democratic as only the billionaires have been declaring. “It is obviously to rake in more billions while millions (of people) suf­fer. For us to have real de­mocracy, we must vote for those who have the ideals and have been standing with the masses; those who the people them­selves would sponsor. “ Rev Rexkennedy Salt­love, Executive Direc­tor, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CREMA Ini­tiative), in his reaction, noted that every citizen, including Tinubu, had the constitutional rights to vie for any political of­fice, including that of the president. He, however, did not classify those making announcements as con­testants, but contenders, even as those in other parties, but lacked strong structures as spoilers, who only want to use their announcements to divide votes or negotiate for ministerial positions. Many Presidential Contenders Create Many Options – Elebute New Ransomware Attacking Organisational Networks Discovered –… He also identified the protestants who, he said, also have no structures, but are angry against the system and the way things are run in the na­tion. Saltlove also identified the pretenders and ‘Also Ran’, who he said have neither structures nor political clout, but just want to have the title, ‘presidential aspirants’. He stressed: “The di­versity is good for the democratic system and gives citizens the oppor­tunity to make choices from the varieties avail­able. “But, the emergence of several other can­didates since Tinubu’s declaration is more like a wake-up call of sorts for the citizens to be very circumspect over who they choose this time around.” Chris O. Maduka, Pub­lic Affairs and Policy An­alyst/Entrepreneur, in his response to Tinubu’s announcement, retorted, “Let him come and try. Seeing is believing. “His aspiration is coming at a time Nige­ria is heavily divided and wounded, thanks to his unholy alliance that brought us to this night­mare. “Ironically, he has not uttered one comforting or unifying word to Ni­gerians since this na­tion has been thrown into what is essentially a man-made disaster he helped to orchestrate. “Now, he wants to be the prime beneficiary of the crises he midwived. He wants to purchase the leftover carcass and what is left of the dilapidated Nigeria from the auction block.” Also contributing, Comrade Gbenga Komo­lafe, General Secretary, Federation of Informal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON), stat­ed: “The Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu’s declaration of intent to contest for the presidency of Nigeria cannot be said to be a surprise. “For months now, there has been all manner of political maneouvres and gerrymandering over Tinubu’s ambition. “From the dramat­ic visit of some of the Northern politicians to him while he was under­going treatment over un­disclosed ailments in the UK, to the series of state­ments from his political minions culminating in the visit to PMB recently. “What is perhaps sur­prising is the array of other presidential con­tenders, or do we call them pretenders, that have also come out? “From Dele Momodu of the Ovation Maga­zine fame to Governor Umahi of Ebonyi State, there has been a motley of declarations. “It has also been re­ported that over 100 new political parties are rooting for registration as well. “The issue for most Ni­gerians is to dispassion­ately look at these people presenting themselves for leadership. “How do we sieve out serious minded people with a focus for inclu­sive, genuinely demo­cratic polity that focuses on mobilising Nigerians with the right kind of visions that can drive all round, equitable de­velopment’ that address the crises of mass youth unemployment beyond the present regime of tokenism (N-Power, MarketMoni etc), mas­sive looting of national resources, unrelenting bloodletting from thugs, bandits, terrorists and cultists armed by politi­cians, collapse of social services, dilapidated in­frastructure, deindustri­alization, etc. “How do we transform the leadership recruit­ment process imposed on us by the ruling APC and PDP in the last twen­ty years which has only bred criminals as lead­ers at all levels of gov­ernance? “The present prolifer­ation of political parties, platforms and candi­dates do not necessari­ly help to address these fundamental challeng­es, nor does it offer any hope of anything being done differently. “It is in this vein that the declaration of Bola Tinubu for the presiden­cy of this country should be viewed. “He clearly represents the worst face of our prebendal, clientelist politics with uncommon proclivity for controver­sy over the most basic, personal information. “Nigerians are natu­rally concerned about his age given the fact that we currently have a president that has been challenged with ailments most probably connected with old age, necessitating frequent medical tourism. “People have also raised serious issues about the kind of gov­ernance he fostered on Lagos State in the past 20 years; the dilapidated social infrastructure, the unprecedented scale of land theft and grabs by interests close to him, the thuggery and ex­tortion imposed on La­gosians through touts, especially in the trans­port sector, the state of indebtedness of Lagos State relative to poor investment in the pro­ductive sectors etc, etc. Is this the kind of lead­er Nigeria needs at this point? “As for the others that have also come out, none is really striking in terms of new ideas, progressive antecedence, and courageous stance on issues that affect the majority of Nigerians. “Where were these elements when Nigeri­ans rose up 10 years ago against the horrible mis­management of the oil and gas sector in the Oc­cupy Nigeria Movement? “Where were these el­ements when Nigerian youth stood up for an un­precedented two weeks to protest police violence and rogue governance? “If they could not stand up for truth at crit­ical periods, how can we possibly take them seri­ously now?”