Most Rev. Sunday Matilukuro, Primate of The First African Church Mission (the oldest church in Nigeria founded by indigenous Africans), formally called United Native African Church (UNE), speaks with CHINYERE ABIAZIEM on some challenges of the church. Excerpts: Could you tell us more about The First African Church? We belong to the Christian Council of Nigeria, a bloc of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). We have the same mode of worship with The Anglican Church because the founders of the church came mostly from Anglican Church and the first priest came from Methodist Episcopal Zion Church (UEZC), which was founded in America. C&S Addressing Long Hours Of Service – Apostle Gospel Artistes: Torn Between Evangelism And Entertainment What led to the establishment of the church was that the colonial masters came with their methodology and they believed that in church you do not shout ‘hallelujah’, you do not play drums, you have to be like a regimented soldier and humble yourself in a way higher than the angels themselves. Our people felt that if you come to God’s presence you should be joyous, so they said ‘no’ that they would start their own. Then they took those members to the court and when it got to the climax they cited Psalms 121 to prove their point that even as Africans they like singing and dancing. That was how they were allowed to go and the church was birthed in 1891. Despite the exploits being carried out by women, some churches are not willing to shift grounds in terms of permitting women on the altars as preachers or church heads. Is the First African Church different? Our women are allowed to preach, but not allowed that far into the third altar. You know we have like three altars, the first is the dedicated building itself, then the pew where the choristers stay, and the third altar which is the chancel. They are only allowed to be evangelists, as it was not so before. I thank God for the spirit given to our women. They are asking for it but are not pushing too far. Actually, I am not against women preaching on the altar. A woman can lead the church but not a divorce same applies to a man. In recent times, some churches have been involved in leadership tussles, with some going to court. How do you see this? I tell you it is still one of the signs of the end time. The church is supposed to be the court of morals but because of personal aggrandisement, power tussles even in the church more than the secular, people who feel they can go to any length to get what they desire. But, whatever be the case the scripture is clear about it that we are not as children of God to take ourselves to court, especially when it has to do with the church of God. It has happened in all churches, denominations. None is exempted which shows that until Christ comes back the ruler of this world is still the devil that is why our Lord Jesus taught us in that singular prayer that ‘let your kingdom come oh lord.’ Until He comes and takes over it is going to be like that. POLL The world has gone into the church and the church has gone into the world and the church has become the world, which is what is happening. The process of settling disputes is in the scriptures. When your brother or sister offends you, go to him or her for settlement, if he or she disagrees let an elder know. But if he or she still says no, take it to the next level and the elders of the church still come in and if he or she still says no the Bible says do not do anything further but leave that person as an unbeliever. It is because of individual interest, including pursuit of wealth and power, that people forget the essence of going to church, which is the salvation of our souls. We are charged to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all other things shall be added. Let us allow Jesus Christ to build His church as He did not say the Primate would build the First African Church. He did not say Adeboye would build RCCG, neither did He say Okoh (former Archbishop of Abuja Province and Primate of the Church of Nigeria in the Anglican Communion) would build the Anglican Church. If anyone stands as Christ in the Church, Chris disowns such a person. Churches have been accused of celebrating wealthy members, choosing not to probe the sources of their wealth. What do you think? It is not just probing the sources of their wealth but about what churches are preaching. Most churches are preaching prosperity and coining different languages to preach it. This shows they are too interested in money. What should be preached is righteousness. When you preach righteousness people would do things according to the will of God. When a man suddenly appears from the blues and becomes a multi billionaire and you cannot lay hold on what he is legally doing to earn such money, questions are supposed to be asked. But here people celebrate money rather than celebrate the personality or attributes of an individual. Anybody that does not earn his or her income is a thief and the church should not celebrate such. I have told members of the church that what God is interested in is not for a person to donate all the billions then dominates the church and determines what happens, that if every one of us are financially committed apart from the tithes and offerings and pay every month N1000 for development, if a church has up to 100,000, you would see the total amount that the church gets. With this you do not need any one somewhere that has stolen money or one NNPC guy that has carted away money and stored it within the midst of the poor, where nobody would suspect. I urge churches to be inquisitive and know the kind of money they collect. If the pastor suspects the source of a member’s money and does not speak when the member goes down, the pastor would as well go down.