KADUNA – Alhaji Umar Muttallab, the billionaire father of Farouk Muttallab, has expressed hope of seeing his son again, in his lifetime. In an interview monitored by pressmen, the billionaire businessman, aged 81, said he hoped to see his son again in his lifetime. Farouk Mutallab who is serving a life sentence in a US prison for terrorism act was born December 22, 1986, and at the age of 23 he attempted to detonate plastic explosives hidden in his underwear while on board Northwest Airlines Flight 253, en route Amster­dam to Detroit, Michigan, on Christmas Day, 2009.” Private: Aisha Buhari Facilitates Employment Of… Baale Of Ayegbe Petitions Ogun Governor, CP Over Offensive SWAT… During the interview which was monitored, Umaru Abdul Mutallab while answering a question on whether he was in touch with his son, said, “Yes, he phones us, sometimes two times, sometimes three times in a month.” He added, “We cannot phone him but he is the one who can phone us and we do speak. As a matter of fact, his mother, one of his brothers and one of his sisters were with him about two – three weeks ago. “They visited him…under very strict prison guidelines. But we would keep on praying to Almighty Allah. May be one day….May be before my life­time we would see him back. But it is a situation whereby he has three life sentences, plus 40years. It is a lot. “But only Almighty Allah will bring us into a situation of seeing him in this world, with his siblings here in Nigeria.” Commenting on the as­sertion on Trust TV that he was the 11th richest person in Nigeria, Abdul Mutallab who was the Chairman of the Jaiz Bank, the first Is­lamic bank in Nigeria, said, “I will not consider myself the richest man in Nigeria by any chance.” POLL “Alhamdulillah (thanks be to Allah) I am not a poor man…neither would I say I’m one of the richest persons in Nigeria… I thank God for what He has given me… I’m grateful to Him. But I will not consider myself the 11th richest man in Nigeria by any chance.” While talking about the state of insecurity in Nige­ria, the former Chairman of First Bank and UBA, recalled that hitherto, they travelled at night across Nigeria but now travelling, even in the day time is scary. He said although the gov­ernment is doing much to overcome the situation, they should please do more. Biographers said “Abdul Mutallab, born 15 December, 1939, is a Nigerian business­man and financier, who served under the military govern­ment of General Murtala Mohammed and Olusegun Obasanjo as minister. “ “He was described by The New York Times as “among Nigeria’s richest and most prominent men, by The Telegraph as being “one of Nigeria’s most prom­inent bankers,” and by The Guardian as being “one of the country’s most respected businessmen.”