Liverpool are closing in on a stunning late window move for Porto’s Luis Diaz, with the Reds preparing to shell out almost £50million to land his signature. January had promised to be another low-key window for the Reds, who also spent the summer watching their titles splash the cash with reckless abandon. But with just days before the deadline, it is understood Liverpool are set to welcome Diaz after putting an offer of £37.5m on the table, with a further £12.5m in additional payments tied to performance incentives. Jurgen Klopp’s swoop for the talented Colombian has come out of the blue after months of speculation linking him with other Premier League clubs. Manchester United had a reported interest, whilst Tottenham were hoping of completing a move in the next few days, only to be gazumped by title-chasing Liverpool. The winger has emerged as one of the hottest properties in world football after a stunning performance for his national side at last summer’s Copa America. Diaz finished as top scorer along with Lionel Messi, including a spectacular injury-time winner in the third place play-off against Peru. The 25-year-old is now set to compete with the likes of Mohamed Salah, Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane and Diogo Jota for one of the three starting berths in Liverpool’s attack. POLL And with Mane, Salah and Firmino’s contracts set to expire in 2023, there is an expectation that Liverpool’s front-line could be evolved in the coming months, having already seen Jota effectively replace Firmino in the central role. The arrival of Diaz is sure to give the Reds a huge boost as they chase an unprecedented quadruple, despite their chances of lifting the Premier League title appearing slim. It will also galvanise a fanbase, some of whom had grown frustrated at owners Fenway Sports Group’s lack of investment in recent windows. That excitement has been reflected by one supporter moving quickly to edit Diaz’s page to signal his imminent arrival. One eager Liverpool fan has already altered Diaz’s Wikipedia page in preparation of official confirmationOn the list of clubs he has played for, one user has already predicted his next move, including ‘the Mighty Reds’ under Barranquilla, Junior and FC Porto.