The former United Nations, UN, scribe Annan’s conclusion is damning and disconcerting. More so, because the current faulty electoral process in Nigeria which direct primaries could rectify is an archetype of what Annan was referring to. So, restoring confidence in the sanctity of our political parties’ process of electing candidates into public office is one sure way of curing the malaise of voter apathy which adoption of direct primaries amongst other provisions could have engendered thus conferring integrity on elections so that they would no longer give democracy a bad name as Kofi Annan queried. Unfortunately, the opportunity has been lost one more time on December 21, 2021. That is ostensibly due to some elements embodied in the bill deemed to be undemocratic by the powers that be. That includes the high cost of conducting direct primaries in an economy where authorities are struggling to pay civil servants salaries; and a country that is experiencing very disturbing levels of insecurity of lives and properties in most parts, making life look like hell on earth. Obasanjo’s Ingratitude To N-Delta Is Characteristic Insecurity: A Return To The Hobbesian ‘State Of Nature’ At least, the above is my understanding of the official reason given by Mr. President in his 21/12/21 memo to the NASS. Let us not forget that a similar chance to do the needful, (as the youths would put it)was also lost in 2018 patently because the passage of the bill according to Aso Rock demagogues was too close to the date of 2019 general elections. Although both reasons for bucking in 2018 and 2021 appear to be absurd to most Nigerians outside the orbit of Aso Rock Villa, the ball as the saying goes ends at the president’s table. I disagree with those likening it to a game of football where the clubs are allowed to choose how they select their players. If unlimited freedom is an efficacious system why is the principle of Federal Character enshrined in the 1999 constitution of Nigeria? Is it to manage diversity such that appointments into public offices is equitably distributed amongst multiple ethnic members of the federation, (a negation of which has pushed our beloved country to the precipice) and why is 2/3 majority of votes cast across the country a condition precedent to being declared the winner in presidential contests, and why are priests, particularly of the Catholic denomination denied the freedom to get married and have offsprings like every other mortal? The fact is that the referenced rules were made to guide against identified clogs that are potentially inimical to progress in the political arena, society at large and in faith based organisations. Clearly, Nigerians have identified indirect primaries as an impediment to the deepening of democracy in our country as it has been found to be perfidious and a turn-off for people of integrity who could have been actively participating in politics. The four hundred and seventy (470) members of the National Assembly, NASS that are the representatives of the masses acted based on the desire of the people of Nigeria who have expressed themselves for direct primaries. And it matters that the legislators who passed the bill are the true representatives of Nigerians. Since we are practising representative democracy in Nigeria, it is members of the National Assembly who are in touch with the grassroots and not the president, who have no such reach and therefore cannot claim to know what is better for Nigerians than their elected representatives. POLL If Nigeria were to be operating a monarchy, such a veto by, say, Ayatolla khomeni in lran, could have been understandable. Vox populi, vox dei is a latin wise crack which, translated into English language, is: the voice of the people is the voice of God. Mr President appears not to be a fan of that aphorism as he seems ready to shake off the flaks being generated by his decision not to harken to the voice of the people as dexterously as a duck would feel at home inside a lake. Otherwise, he may find himself looking like a fish out of water when the chips are down and he incurs the ire of the people via heightened activities of civil society advocacy groups currently urging the National Assembly, NASS to override the president by activating the relevant portions of the constitution that empowers it to so do. It is unsurprising that those that are disappointed by the decision of president Buhari to withhold assent to the bill, believe there is more to it than meets the eyes. Firstly, it is argued that the long term benefits of the decision to sign the bill into law for the purpose of deepening democracy far outweighs the short term benefits of yielding to the antics of those who want to maintain the status quo ante by wiping up fear and panic sentiments that might have tied the hands of president Buhari. On the issue of fear mongering, Mr. president might have been told that approving direct primaries which was incidentally the process applied during the party primaries that earned him the opportunity of being the APC flag bearer in 2015, would expose the party to the type of defeat which it suffered in recent elections in both Edo and Anambra states gubernatorial elections when technology was leveraged. Maximising 2022 Delta 2023: Between Calculated Risks And Political Suicide Secondly, the hawks around Mr. president might have also rationalised to him that in the event that the ruling party at the centre, APC suffers a loss to the main opposition party, PDP, in 2023, president Buhari may not have a restful retirement in his farm in Daura which he has stated multiple times in various fora that he is looking forward to. But, applying trend analysis in assessing the fear that might have been sown into the mind of president Buhari, the chances of Mr. President going to jail after he exits office in 2023 on account of his stewardship is near zero. Here is why: neither ex-presidents Olusegun Obasanjo nor Goodluck Jonathan (two of the surviving presidents since the return of multi-party democracy in 1999) are in jail. Also, Vice Presidents under the aforementioned presidents, Abubakar Atiku and Namadi Sambo are not in incarceration. Not even the Secretary to the Government of the Federation , SGF (Ufot Ekaete, Babagana Kingibe , Anyim Pius Anyim) during any of the listed administrations are in prison for what they did or did not do while serving in those roles/capacities . Yes, there is usually public opprobrium for poor performance in office. But there is also evidence that those who leave positive legacies end up having good footprints in the sands of time. In the realm of those who left positive legacies are the likes of Umaru Yar’Adua, who is currently being applauded for the electoral reforms that he introduced and which the current administration has been unable to build upon. Incidentally, president Buhari is a beneficiary of Yar’Adua’s positive legacy of reform introduced into the process of elections. That is simply because it would have been impossible for an opposition candidate to have won the presidency in 2015, were it not for the card reader machine, and biometric accreditation system introduced and used for that election. Furthermore, although the relationship between ex-presidents Obasanjo and Buhari is now frosty, the former is on record to have been the latter’s cheer leader during the 2015 presidential contest. What is more, ex-president Jonathan that lost power to the incumbent is now such a big deal to the current president to the extent that he and the party that kicked Jonathan out are being rumoured to be considering the former president as the next president when Buhari quits the stage in 2023. In light of the scenario above, it has been established that there is camaraderie amongst the past and present presidents of Nigeria. So, if anyone or group of people told president Buhari the lie that his freedom would be in jeopardy when he leaves office, so he should make it impossible for the ruling party to be defeated, (except he is caught with his fingers in the cookie jar and which is unlikely, as stealing is not one of his vices) he should figure out that they are doing so in pursuit of their personal or group agendas that are not necessarily in the best interest of our beloved country. And Nigeria is bigger than them. One clear fact that everybody should be cognizant of is that Nigeria is unlike South Africa where ex-president Jacob Zuma is currently in jail. So, contrary to the situation in South Africa, our past presidents appear to be protected and insulated from being sent to the penitentiary for the actions that they took or did not take while in office because there may be an unwritten pact to that effect: just like the rotation of presidency between the north and south hashed out during the 1994/5 Abacha convened constitutional conference. My guess is that the esprit de corps between present and past presidents not to jail each other after office might have been woven or hashed out during council of state meetings which features ex heads of government at the centre -the military and civilians alike. So, why should president Buhari be frightened, assuming one is correct in the notion that it is one of the underlying reasons for demurring from signing the bill as it was presented with direct primaries mandate contained in it? Once again, I would like to crave the indulgence of readers to allow me share my understanding of president Buhari’s expressed concerns about the electoral act amendment bill, 2021 in his now famous correspondence with the NASS one – by-one with the hope that it might create further illumination on the matter from president Buhari’s optics using the prism of a democracy enthusiast like me. On the fear of insecurity, my take is that if folks are expected to vote in the general elections, they can vote during direct primaries. So although the fear of disenfranchisement of people in the violence stricken areas is real, the challenge can be dealt with in the same manner it was handled during the 2019 general elections. Why is it suddenly an anathema to hold direct primaries in crisis prone areas and expect to hold general elections in the same place? On the high cost of conducting the elections, my take is that if the president can authorise the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN to commit estimated N1.3 trillion intervening in a variety of sectors of the economy, why not make similar investments towards reforming the electoral system which is the very foundation that a new Nigeria could be built as such reforms have the ability and capacity to shift our country from third to first world as was the case with Singapore when Lee kuan Yew carried out extensive reforms that literarily overhauled the country . In a worst case scenario, the present price tag of N305 billion annual budget of INEC could be doubled to accommodate direct primaries and it would still be less than the over one trillion naira that president Buhari through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC spends in subsidising fuel pump price year-on year. Most importantly, adopting electronic voting where it is feasible can drastically drive down the high cost of elections in our country. So also would volunteerism as l believe that there are many groups that are willing and able to offer their services to INEC free of charge. Many professional bodies ranging from accountants, medical doctors, teachers, engineers, secretaries etc, can offer their services. So also would outfits such as pirates and fraternities such as the one once led by the Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka. In the United States and elsewhere in the advanced society, volunteerism works. We should try it. To be continued Onyibe, an entrepreneur, Public Policy Analyst, author, Development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.