The Delta State government says it is working on a legislation that would empower it and private sectors to generate, transmit and distribute electricity to all parts of the state. Pastor Engr.Jonathan Ukodhiko, the Commissioner for Energy , who disclosed this at Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area of the state during the annual conference of the Isoko Development Union, IDU. He hinted that the state government has approved the establishment of three additional independent power plants to be established at Ozoro, Warri and Agbor in addition to the 8.5 Megawatts already in Asaba to boost electricity supply in the state. DisCos Not Overbilling Electricity Consumers – ANED Ondo Moves Against Connection Hitches, Threatens Legal Action… He said the government is putting that bill together to be presented by the governor,who will send it to the House of Assembly for passage into law. He added: “Let us try and encourage private individuals and companies that have the money to build power plants in various part of the state to generate, transmit and distribute to their area of operations. “Our amiable governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa has approved three more Independent Power Plants to be located in Ozoro, Warri and Owa Alero-Agbor.Presently, different companies have indicated interest. The government is not spending money to build those Plants,they will be built by private organizations and sell power to Government as the off takers. “In fact government doesn’t have a business in doing business. We are not going to spend any money in building these power plants. The only thing that we are going to do is to buy all the power that is going to be produced, that is, we are going to stand as a guarantor that the power they will generate will be off take from them , that if these people are unable to pay for the power, we will pay for it,”being an off takers of the power in order for them to recoup their investment. Ukodhiko said. He revealed that more than 10 companies have expressed readiness to develop the three newly approved power plants, adding that the state government would ensure that only companies with the right competence and capacity would be engaged. POLL “As I am talking to you, more than 10 companies have indicated interest to build each of those locations. It is now left for us to choose which of the companies have the capacity and wherewithal to build the plants. “Those are just only three places for now but we believe that as time goes on we should be able to spread it all over the state in order to support whatever the BEDC are doing to improve the light situations of the state because without adequate power we won’t be able to develop. This is to add the the smart agenda of our amiable Governor, Dr. Ifeayi Okowa.”