ABUJA – The Empowerment for Unemployed Youths Initiative, a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) has commended the collaborative efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly at ensuring youth development in the country. The Executive Director of the Organisation, Mr Richard Audu who gave the commendation yesterday at a news conference in Abuja, also commended the National Assembly for considering the NYSC Trust Fund Bill for second reading. He said that after a critical observation of events under the current administration, it is crystal clear that there is a synergy between the Executive and the Legislature on youth development. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… South East, South-South Professionals Hold AGM On Sunday “We have studied events critically, and we wish to state that the indices speak positively about the concerted efforts by both arms of government towards ensuring issues that bother of youth development seem to have been granted special attention by both arms of government. “We are elated with this development. We desire that this fruitful relationship will eventually yield the desired results in no distant time. “The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has consistently displayed an unalloyed commitment to addressing issues of national concern, not just youth development issues. “The National Assembly has, in like manner, complimented the efforts of the executive arm of government by ensuring that matters of national concern are without rancour. “The recent rejigging of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill is indeed a testament that both chambers of the National Assembly remain committed to the sustenance of our nascent democracy,” she said. POLL Audu also commended the parliament for its commitment to harnessing the potentials of the youths in the country. He said that deliberations on the floor of the House of Representatives at the second reading of the bill seeking to establish the National Youth Service Trust Fund were clear examples. He said that the green chamber was unanimous about the bill which gives hope to the aspirations of the Nigerian youths. “It indicates that the resolve to initiate policies and implement plans towards addressing youth unemployment in the country has a special place in the Executive and Legislative arms of government. “We are confident that the NYSC Trust Fund Bill, if passed into law, will undoubtedly take over 50million youths out of the unemployment market within the shortest period. Why Nigerian Women Wants Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 Rotation Of Governorship Has Engendered Peace In Delta – Omimi “We are calling on the relevant committees in the House of Representatives to continue to display the strength of character and the unity of purpose in ensuring the smooth passage of the NYSC Trust Fund bill in the overall interest of the unemployed youths in the country,” he said. Audu also said that when the bill is passed into law, it would serve as a vehicle for youths in the country to maximize their potential and enable them contribute their quota to the growth and development of the country. He said it would strengthen youth commitment to the sustenance of democracy, considering the invaluable role of the youths in national development. “We, therefore, call on Mr President and the President of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to ensure that the NYSC Trust Fund Bill becomes an Act for the good and wellbeing of the suffering Nigerian masses. “The multiplier effect on the value chain of an enterprising youthful population cannot be overemphasised. “The Empowerment for Unemployed Youths Initiative is using this occasion to drive home the potent point that the potential returns of capturing the opportunity to engage today’s young people in terms of food security, poverty reduction, employment generation, and peace political stability are enormous,” he added. He urged all Nigerians to support the bill stressing the need for all hands to be on deck to ensure that laudable initiative is given adequate consideration as exhibited by the lower chambers.