IBADAN – Ogbomosoland Consultative Council (OCC) has described the death of Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade III, Otunba Adebayo Alao Akala, Professor Alex Gboyega, Professor Taibat Danmole (Nee Oyewumi) as a collective loss which has phycological impact and otherwise on the people of Ogbomoso. The non-political body of prominent Ogbomoso Indigenes constituted by the late Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Oyewumi said this in a condolence message during a visit to the family of Otunba Adebayo Alao Akala. In a message read by Dr Saka Balogun one of the group’s coordinators, condoled with the families of the deceased and the entire Ogbomosoland prayed God to grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. Russia Says Expects Written US Response To Security Proposals… U.S., Russia Agree To Keep Talking After Meeting On Ukraine The non-political group while urging the deceased families to be courageous, promised to galvanize its strength unity and faith in Almighty to ensure the development and progress of the land. “Until his death, he was a member of the triumvirate at the leadership of the OCC. Other members of the leadership of the OCC are General Oladayo Popoola and Dr Saka Balogun.” “Ladies and gentlemen, over the last eight weeks (December 2021 to January 2022) Ogbomosoland experienced unprecedented developments signposted by the transition of our uncommon traditional ruler who joined his ancestors as well as the loss of some prominent personalities such as Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, Professor Alex Gboyega and Professor (Mrs) Taibat Bolanle Danmole (Nee- Oyewumi). This is our collective loss and the OCC commiserates with their families and the entire populace. May the Almighty God comfort us all. “The message we are sending to all our people, the traditional, religious, community leaders, women and the youths, therefore, is a message of hope, unity, peace, purposeful leadership and progress. POLL Still shocked on the death of Akala, OCC Public Relations Officer, Ambassador Akintola Oyateru said Akala still chaired a virtual meeting the Monday preceding his death where he assigned roles on the befitting funeral plans for the late Soun of Ogbomosoland. He identified the deceased as a man who was keen about Ogbomoso, in interest and perspectives, saying he was unashamedly passionately in love with his ancestral home, he has stood in the gap for coordination of affairs and consultation, while supporting the Palace Council of Chiefs, the royal family members and ensuring that the peace and security of the community is sustained. The OCC shall continue to play these roles in a most apolitical manner and in the best interest of Ogbomoso” While urging Ogbomoso people to always remain peaceful, law-abiding and vigilant, OCC reassures every Ogbomoso indigene that there will never be a vacuum in the protection of their interests. “We also urge our citizens to steadfastly pray for the safety, security and progress of Ogbomoso, the State and the nation. They should also pray for the success of all processes that will eventually produce the next Soun of Ogbomoso. God bless Ogbomosoland, keep us all safe and grant us good health. Amen”. The group were received by the widows of the late governor, Mrs Florence Ajimobi and Oluwakemi Akala and other members of the family. Syria: Prison Clashes Between ISIS And Kurdish, 25 Dead Arsenal Set To Offer Arteta New Contract Before End Of Season Son of the late former governor Olamiju Alao Akala appreciated OCC for their love and support