Senator Domingo Alaba Obende is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO, he speaks on several issues, including assessing the nation’s current political atmosphere, performance of the Edo state governor and the need to encourage the youths to contest elective offices. Excerpts: As a chieftain of the APC and former senator, how will you assess the nation’s current political atmosphere, especially as we are about entering the campaign year ahead of the 2023 general elections, beginning with Edo state? Now in Edo State, there is a revolution going on in APC, the party I belong. Congresses up to the state level have been conducted and everything looks okay, although there were little skirmishes but they were able to get results because for me, setting up party structures is like rearranging family for better behaviour. That was what happened in Edo State. So, APC members in Edo State are fully ready to go into any election in comparison to that of the PDP where leadership tussle is an issue. The old PDP members holding on to their structures, the new PDP members not been able to get themselves incorporated into the old PDP’s structure. For me, I think it is an issue. They ought to have come together and make sure they live a peaceful political life because God just gave them this governorship on a platter of gold and they should have embraced the governorship with all sincerity and bring the governor and his team on board and get them together, share whatever they need to share. But the way it is now, I do not think they are ready to go into any election for next year. Kwara APC: Can Adamu-led Committee Reconcile Lai Mohammed,… Osun 2023: Oyetola, APC Party To Beat – Senator Ajibola Are you saying the APC is more organised than the PDP in Edo State as at now? We in APC are fully organised now because we have done all our Ward Congresses, we have done the Local Government Congresses, we have done the state Congress in Edo State, so, what is left is only the Federal level which is the National Convention. What has happened right now is that the PDP have concluded theirs, they already have their structure but like I said earlier, it is just like a family arrangement, having structure and getting ready for election is different from when the primaries start. The primary is a contentious issue, we in APC, the way we have always done it, you can imagine what brought Oshiomhole on board is consensus. When Oshiomhole was our National chairman, he was never voted for, it was through consensus. He was taken as a National candidate and he came onboard as the National Chairman of the party. So I believe that that is the same arrangement we are going to have and we will go to the field wherever the venue might be to actuallise it and we will have our National Working Committee. I see it as a less cumbersome thing than having to do primaries when it comes to an election. So, we are taking our time because we want to get it right. If I may remind you that your party, APC which, you are describing as an organised party is having parallel executives in about 12 or 13 states. How can you describe that as an organised party? When you talk about parallel executives, there are things I need you to understand, like when we did our own Congress here in Edo State, the committee that came for the exercise went to the UNIBEN sports complex. INEC, Police, everybody was there, if anybody had organised anything outside Uniben sports complex that person cannot be assumed to be doing a parallel congress, that person is merely putting his group together to want to contend with what has been done. So, in all these ones that you mentioned, it does not mean that one of the group did not do the right thing, they did the right thing, so whosoever thought they are going to organize their own in order to have a contentious Congress that is the person’s own business. You can use Kano for example, they have gone to Court and Shekarau is the one against the governor’s seat. That is the way it is because the venue was where they used and the executive that went to conduct the Congresses were in that place and all the apparatus of INEC and the government were in that place too, that is the one you take. Presently there is this reconciliation committee going on headed by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the former governor of Nasarawa State and I think they are doing a good job, so far, it is the issue that is delaying what you see so far and by the time we are done, we are going to come out stronger. There is no family that will not have a disagreement the moment you are putting a structure of leadership in place. So, I do not consider that as what is going to deter a successful primaries or election for next year. Don’t you think that it is possible for the Edo PDP to come together to speak with one voice before next year election? POLL That is where the issues are. The old PDP members are saying they have done their congresses, even up to the zonal level, that, they have concluded before the new people came and basically something must be on the table for anybody that you want to be removed and if the person refuses you Know the person will go to Court and these are issues from either side. For me if two of them can embrace peace, it is not my party, I don’t even need them to come together I want them to be more scattered so that we can defeat them in coming elections and that is the truth but if they can come together so they will be able to have their way in whatever they do successfully good luck to them. But am I wanting them to come together the answer is no, they should not come together, we want to take the state back to APC. If they like let them come together, if they don’t like let them not come together but it is my desire that they don’t come together so that we can defeat them. Don’t you think there may be serious crisis at the national level of APC soon after the convention over which zone will produce the presidential candidate especially now that the North Central is also making a strong case for the position like the south? First and foremost, I am not going to mention any name but what I know is that there is this traditional norm that when you do 8 years in the South it goes to the North and when they finish, it comes to the South again, I don’t know when the North Central came out to demand for the position but all I can say is that the North Central is fighting their battle at their cost. North Central belongs to the northern region not the southern region, so when it is time for the North which is going to be in 8 years time they should go and battle for presidency in that corner and by the way, they have never been marginalized. In the last 4 years they occupied the Senate presidency, Saraki was there for 4 years, do you see that as maginalisation? For me I don’t think they are maginalised they should wait for their turn in 8 years, this time is not meant for any part of the North. The APC is a family party on that day we will finish our convention, the National Working Committee will be in place and primaries will be conducted and wherever it is zoned to, primary will be conducted in that manner. Do see the possibility of both APC and PDP fielding their presidential candidates from the South in next year election? Preserve Nigeria’s Unity, Cede Power to the South-East… No Candidate Better Placed To Succeed Buhari Than Osibanjo… I think I made this statement earlier that there is a traditional norm that if the North does 8 years it comes to the South and if the South does 8 years it goes back to the North. It is just a giving that we expect that by the magnanimity of that norm it will take it to the South. How will you describe Obaseki’s second term in office, in terms of performance? Don’t forget I am not in PDP but I supported Obaseki even up to the time he was pushed out of the party. Everybody knows he is my friend and today, the result of the crises is known to all and the election result is also history that will be a topic of research in the future. When it becomes and issue of State, no politician who wants and appreciates development in the State will castigate a governor that is doing well Obaseki is doing well and my prayer for him is that he continues to do well and thank God this is his last term, so, nobody is going to say because Obaseki did not do well this is why our party did not win and that is why I told you earlier that we are here to take over the government from them. But is he doing well, yes he is doing very well and I give him kudos for that.