IBADAN – As family, friends, political associates, and supporters continue to mourn the exit of the former governor of Oyo State, Chief Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala who died on Wednesday at his home town in Ogbomoso, Asiwaju Rotimi Ajanaku has described his passage as an exit of a leader who was an extremist in expressing compassion towards fellow human beings. Reacting to the news, Ajanaku said, “I never thought such an amazing and loving person, who did so many good things for his family, friends, colleagues, political associates, communities, town and state would pass away so soon. Alao-Akala had extreme love for humanity, great milk of human kindness.” “He left us too early before his time, it seems and now he’ll never have the chance to fulfill all those dreams and crucial assignment handed to him by his darling party”. ‘2023: Ethnic Conflict, Violence, Others Must Be Resolved For… Boko Haram Abduct Mobile Police Officers In Borno In a condolence Letter signed by Asiwaju Rotimi Ajanaku and made available to journalists in Ibadan, he expressed concern over the death of the Ogbomoso born politician.and other notable personalities that recently passed away. According to him, “Sudden death of Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala and his kinsman, Professor Alex Gboyega, which occurred same day is of great concern to me, I begin to wonder why our leaders, whom we supposed to run to in our days of adversity and benefit from their wealth of experiences are dying one after the other. “My last close contact with him was when I visited him at his Bodija residence after he was acquitted of corruption by the appeal court. He was very appreciative, very caring and politically inclined. We talked at length, he talked about peace within the party and reason why everyone should embrace peace to move the party forward. “He was my great leader, an unforgettable political leader. Akala brought a light so great to the political world that even after his departure the light remains. May his soul rest in peace,” Ajanaku prayed. Asiwaju also called on religious leaders to intervene by organising special prayers to seek God’s mercy over Oyo State, Yorubaland and Nigeria in general and pray to God to end sudden death in Oyo State. POLL Meanwhile, Ajanaku in his message to Chief (Mrs.) Oluwakemi Alao-Akala, wife of the late former governor shortly after the news was broken, prayed to God Almighty to grant her courage, strength and love to help her through this loss and comfort her and the entire family.