LAGOS – The National Inland waterways Authority (NIWA) has said that it would ensure total safety in the water transportation industry in Nigeria through stringent regulation. Dr. George Moghalu, the Managing Director, NIWA stated this on Tuesday in Lagos during the inspection of navigational buoys facilitated by the regulatory agency on brown water economy from Marina to Ikorodu. Moghalu further stated that safety on waterways as a major mandate of NIWA would be pursued with vigour under his watch as a process to engender confidence among water transportation operators and users, and also to attract local and foreign investments. Farmers Behead Herder Igniting Violence In Kaduna Community Restructuring Nigeria Before 2023 Elections Is Achievable –… The NIWA boss who said that the navigational equipment were the first phase of the exercise, added that the second phase would also commence from Marina, navigating Oworo to Badagry. Moghalu noted that the Lagos template, geared towards activating a national water transportation safety architecture, would further help in emergency rescue operations and provide distressed boats an anchor before help arrives, thereby eliminating incidences of crafts drifting on mid waters. Accompanied by Engr. Sarat Lara Braimah, the Lagos Area Manager of NIWA and Ganiyu Tarzan Balogun, the President, Association of Tourist Boat Operators and Water Transporters of Nigeria (ATBOWATON), Moghalu assured that NIWA would not fail in its responsibilities to enthrone enduring accident-free water transportation signature across littoral states in Nigeria. However, Balogun lauded the NIWA initiative, saying that moghalu has lived up to expectations and expressed that he would make water transportation safe and attractive for all end users. He said: “At the last stakeholders meeting last year in Lagos, Dr. Moghalu promised to ensure a navigable Lagos waterways through provision of buoys, which would not only serve as an anchor point for distressed boat operators, but will help provide access and geographical location to rescue efforts and today, we have seen that promised fulfilled and we say more grease to his elbows.”