LAGOS – As the agitation for President of South-East extraction continues, Ohaneze Ndigbo, a socio-political organisation of the South-East region has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to show concern about who succeeds him in 2023, stressing that no leader in history was ever indifferent about who would succeed him and the President will not be an exception. The group in a press statement on Wednesday, signed by Prof George Obiozor, President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, stated that the President must have a critical role in the emergence of his successor, pointing out that the President shouldn’t lose sight of political developments that may be injurious to national unity and corporate existence of the country. “It is the national expectation that Mr. President continues his policy of national healing and reconciliation to a logical conclusion. We should be mindful of those who want to pursue a politically motivated strategy that treats the South-East as a hostile territory which is a grossly wrong and unacceptable definition of the situation in the region. “Overwhelming majority of Ndigbo don’t believe in secession or separatism from Nigeria. An Igbo President will focus on what can be done, instead of arguing over what is impossible.  There is no doubt that in the history of Nigeria from Nnamdi Azikiwe to the present, Ndigbo demonstrated the highest virtues of patriotism and genuine nationalistic propensities,” the statement reads. It added, “By history and character, what defines Ndigbo is the friendliness and peaceful coexistence with others regardless of tribe, religion or race, Ndigbo are market people, travellers, entrepreneurs or businessmen. We know that the devil in Nigerian politics is power-sharing and an Igbo President will demonstrate to all Nigerians that power-sharing can be done peacefully, justifiably with equity and fairness to all and his willingness to take last. “The fear of Ndigbo by other ethnic groups is equally unjustified and fiction of the imagination of those who create distorted images of Ndigbo.  We seek a solution and not a blame game,” Ohaneze said. Meanwhile Ohaneze frowned at Fredrick Nwabufo’s article in January 23, 2022 page 15, Thisday, Sunday newspaper, where he implied that Ndigbo are not prepared, urging patriotic Nigerians at home and abroad who understand the fundamental issues in 2023 Presidency to understand the historic imperative of zoning the Presidency to the South-East, the last zone and only the zone left out in Southern Nigeria in the first round of the Presidency across the country.  The organisation maintained that Ndigbo were more prepared than the North when President Buhari was elected in 2015 when Boko Haram had threatened to overrun the North and the country, and the nation’s priority then was security and the issue of who would guarantee security to the country favoured Buhari, a former Head of State and a General, stressing that they also cooperated with South-West in order to heal and reconcile the nation over the post 1993 election crisis, when Segun Obasanjo emerged President in 1999. “Today, if the truth must be told, the imperative of zoning the Presidency to the South-East is an idea whose time has come. Certainly, Ndigbo are prepared and look forward to it as a national priority. It is also indeed reasonable and logical that before any other zone in the country goes for a second turn of occupying the office of the President, Ndigbo should at least have their first turn. “As Ayo Adebanjo, the leader of Afenifere, the apex Yoruba socio-cultural group said “you talk about unity, that is where you will know where sincerity lies. If you are keen on unity, will there be a unit of the country that will deprive you of the Presidency? What does that mean for unity? ” “We are talking about people who want Nigeria to stay together. How can anybody who loves this country talk of the Presidency coming to the South-West in 2023? Why should you exclude the South-East? Is the South-East not part of Nigeria? “South-West has had, South-South has had, the North has had, why exclude the South-East if you want them to be there?”