Says, I am fighting  for common man in Ekiti Frontline Governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator  Michael Bamidele Opeyemi (MOB) burst into tears in Iyin-Ekiti as he concluded his weeklong political rallies across the towns and villages in Ekiti. Addressing his kinsmen in an emotion-laden voice, Bamidele said certain powerful political forces within the community were not comfortable with his rising political profile, hence plotting to undermine him politically. JUST IN: Voting Ends In Ekiti PDP Governorship Primary PDP Primaries: Olujimi Pulls Out Of Ekiti Governorship Race The APC chieftain who thanked the people of Iyin for standing by him during his turbulent political periods in Ekiti also urged them to rally around him during today’s Governorship primaries. The former Lagos State Commissioner described his current political aspiration as a struggle for the liberation of the common man in the community in particular and Ekiti at large. The Senator representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District of Ekiti State, Opeyemi Bamidele, has warned the All Progressives Congress not to pander to hypocrisy by bringing up a weak candidate at the primary that would eventually lose the June 18 poll. The federal Parliamentarian, however,  lauded the APC Chairmen in Wards A and B in Iyin Ekiti for standing by him in spite of virulent threats against them by the powers that be, saying this signalled hallmark of leadership and integrity. He urged his kinsmen to stand firm with him despite the threats from some powerful APC stalwarts, who were resolute to truncate his ambition. POLL The Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, posited that he remains the best aspirant with a strong and acceptable network that could deliver for APC without herculean task among all the contenders. The Chairman, Southern Senators Forum, urged those plotting against his candidacy to think positive of the generality of Ekiti people, who are desirous of good governance, rather than pursuing selfish agenda. He said: “I have not offended anybody in this party and in APC. My issue in this town has always been that I am not from an influential background. They were always asking whose child is he in this town? “I know that by the grace of God, God almighty will take charge. Unless I have wished anybody bad. I am here to thank you for your support in the past and the one you will do in the coming primary. “Just look at the political history and the Geography of this state, Afao Ekiti, where former Governor Ayodele Fayose came from is not up to half of Iyin Ekiti,  it has produced Governor for eight years. ” Isan Ekiti, where Governor Kayode Fayemi came from, was a half ward and had produced Governor for eight years. It has also produced a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “How can someone now be blocking Iyin Ekiti from producing the governor twice?  What makes it wrong for Iyin Ekiti to produce another governor? Their plans will never work because we are determined and my supporters are standing by me”. “If APC fails to pick someone that can win in this election, I just pray for the party. But this election  should be about all of us thinking about Ekiti first” “I  didn’t offend them, I don’t also claim that they hate me, but I want you to speak with your votes on Thursday that you will never abandon me. “You have shown that you are for me in the past and you will demonstrate that now. Your university which I had ensured that its bill scaled the legislative hurdles is on the way. It is expecting presidential assent. “When the university comes, those selling water, yam and other commodities will become more economically stable. This is the type of development we want not morbid hatred. “I am just in the Senate where you sent me to, I have got jobs for some people, I have facilitated two universities to Ekiti, performed empowerments for youths, women, widows and unemployed people. “If I can do this as a Senator, I will make Iyin Ekiti a small London if I become governor. Wherever I go, Iyin Ekiti will always be number one on my list.”