Former member of the Delta State House of Assembly for Udu Constituency, Hon Dr Liege Lord Keston Okoro Mohammed Al-Amin has cautioned gubernatorial aspirants from the Urhobo nation both in APC and PDP not to do things capable of rocking the boat and spoil Urhobo chances for 2023 rather, they should demonstrate enough patriotism to embrace all and sundry so as to imbibe those factors that can enhance the victory of Urhobo come 2023. He spoke against the backdrop of the continued campaigns and consultations by those already screened out by the DC-23 Screening Committee, advising them to step down for the five which are currently undergoing further screening, stressing that no matter the qualifications, war chest and political experiences of the aspirants, only one person would be governor in 2023. He added that it is expected of the PDP aspirants to accept the outcome of the DC-23 screening exercise as the emergence of DC 23 was supported by the aspirants who took group photographs together and declared that the screening committee was set up so as to ensure Urhobo gets it right in the coming election. Tension In Ekiti As PDP Governorship Aspirants Reject Ward… Osun 2022: Oyetola Not Losing Sleep Over Three Osun APC… The National Coordinator of the National Democratic Assembly also advised Urhobos most especially the political and traditional leaders not to put their eggs into one basket as the APC gubernatorial aspirants like Senator Ovie Omo Agege, the Deputy Senate President has demonstrated his commitment to empowerment of Urhobo’s sons and daughters, sustainable and infrastructural development of not only Urhobo nation but across Delta State as such he deserves overwhelming support to become the Governor of the State when the chips are down. On the part of PDP, Hon Dr. Liege-Lord Keston Okoro Al-Amin noted that the way and manner some of the aspirants were going about their campaigns despite the outcome of the screening exercise was worrisome, adding that the idea behind the screening was strong enough to be adopted by all instead of allowing all qualified aspirants to hit the streets whereas all cannot win at the polls. Keston Okoro Al-Amin, who is also National President of Nollywood Artists Association Of Nigeria emphasized that without consideration for Urhobo interest, dignity and honour, the many aspirants would rob Urhobo of the chances of producing the next governor of Delta State, appealing to all the aspirants to think Urhobo first instead of the allure and magnificent of the office they seek. ‘’The truth is that all the aspirants cannot deny the fact that only one of them can be governor in 2023. This contest is not about the best candidate, it is not about academic qualification or size of one’s bank account. The man who will eventually emerge may not be the best man for the job, nor the richest or most educated. Where a man is deficient, grace can qualify him. This is akin to King David, the son of Jesse whom Grace exalted to become king of Israel. ‘’The man who will be the next governor may not have even indicated interest yet or most underrated. So those threatening to pull down the heavens over the DC-23 exercise should calm down and trust God for the best. POLL ‘’No man can force himself on the people. He who will win may not even be the most popular of them all. He may not be the most educated. We all saw what happened in 2015 when Nigerians chose to vote a President with questionable academic records in place of a Ph.D holder. Those flaunting their academic, business and political glory should not forget the place of God in the entire process. Whoever that emerge should be supported by all both from APC or PDP so Urhobo can move forward’’, he said. He maintained that the DC 23 screening panel should also appeal to the aspirants to learn to accommodate one another, strike accords to take care of those to be eliminated and seek a synergy for the glory of Urhobo and Delta State, ‘’while the APC elders, leaders, stakeholders and all should also put their house together and give unalloyed support to Obarisi Ovie Omo-Agege, the Deputy Senate President so that Urhobo can go into the election with two formidable sons of the land as candidates. In the end, either way, the pendulum swings, the Urhobos can be rest assured of her place of honour in the coming dispensation’’, he said. Hon Keston Okoro Al-Amin also warned that if the Urhobos fail to put their house in order, another ethnic group can grab the ticket and Urhobo will wait for many more years to be in the government house again. He, therefore, appealed to Urhobo leaders of thought to help talk to all the aspirants who are all boasting of being the favourite yet all cannot win at the same time.