Excitement rends the air on Sunday, January 16, 2022, as Engr. Anthony Akpokene opened his Flomat Books Ltd newest sales outlet at the Departure Hall of Asaba International Airport, Asaba, capital of Delta State. An important cultural landmark, the event was chaired by Engr. Joshua Egube. It would be recalled that Mr Akpokene, who started his Flomat Books chain in Warri years ago, opened another shop in highbrow Sheraton Hotel, Abuja, in May 2021 to much fanfare. Welcoming guests to the opening, Akpokene stressed the importance of books and the education they bring to a people in liberating their minds from primordial instincts that easily disrupt society and cause anarchy. Funke Akindele, Omoni Oboli, Others Celebrate With AY Over New… I Won’t Let People Talk Down On My Husband, Says Actress… “I am glad to welcome you to the opening ceremony of Flomat Books Ltd stand here at Asaba International Airport at the Departure Hall. Today, 16th January2022isaremarkableday and I want all of us to note this day in our diaries. It’s a remarkable day in this airport, the city of Asaba, and Delta State. Why isitremarkable? Iwillalwayssay thateducationiskeytothedevelopment of a people; they say if you want to hide anything from the black man put it in a book. Why? Because the treasure is in the book but the black man will not read it,” he said. Chairman of the event, Mr Egube, lauded the noble vision of Akpokene in setting up a bookshop at a vantage point like the Asaba airport. According to him, “Books are central to everything in our lives. Whatever book you want, Flomat Books can make available for you on request. He’s ready to import books and serve whoever needs them. Akpokene helped in setting up Scripture Union in Asaba and it’s doing very well.” Present at the event were Bishop Mogekwu, Bishop Mighty Okonkwo, Dr. (Mrs.) Augusta Ogbene and Dr. (Mrs.) Elohor Odiase. Flomat Books dedication will be performed by the Executive Assistant on Peace Building and Conflict Resolution to Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Rev. (Dr.) Godspower Agbuduta. Dr Ogaga Ifowodo, Mr Anote Ajeluorou, Mr Jerry Edo, Mr Tietie, Mr Maxwell Chiejina Ajufo were among many other dignitaries who were also present.