LAGOS – The Administrator of the Estate of late business mo­gul, Chief Sonny Odogwu, and other com­panies associated with the late Mogul have asked the Federal High court, La­gos, to decline jurisdiction on a suit filed by a bank, seeking to take over the late businessman’s Project Finance property over al­leged unpaid debt. The Administrator made the application in a prelim­inary objection filed by his Counsel, Anthony Idigbe (SAN) before the court pre­sided over by Justice Daniel Osiagor, in response to the suit filed against them by the bank. The Administrator, Ken­neth (Kenny) Odogwu, along­side late Odogwu’s compa­nies, Robert Dyson & Diket Limited and SIO Properties Limited, and The Registrar of Title, Federal Land Registry are the respondents/appli­cants in the suit filed against them by the bank and Siete Trading Limited. Barber Stabs Motorcyclist To Death In Bayelsa Novena University College Of Law Commences LL.B Degree… The bank has dragged the respondents before the court in a suit filed by its counsel, Mr. Kemi Balogun (SAN) and marked FHC/L/ CS/1955/2021, for an alleged N50 billion debt. The respondents/appli­cants in a motion on notice filed before the court are ask­ing for an order dismissing bank’s case or in the alterna­tive striking out the suit for want of Jurisdiction. The respondents/appli­cants said their objection to the suit was due to abuse of the court process and that the plaintiffs lack the locus standi to institute the Instant suit. They also stated that the plaintiffs’ suit did not dis­close any reasonable cause of action against them and that the court had b ecome functus officio in respect of the Judgement delivered in Suit No FHC/L/CS/156/2017 and lacks the jurisdiction to entertain the instant suit seeking to set aside the judge­ment of a Court of coordinate jurisdiction. The respondents/appli­cants also stated that the en­tire plaintiffs’ suit is frivolous, vexatious, malicious, tanta­mount to abuse of the judicial process, as it is an attempt to use the Court to perfect fraud. POLL He added that no leave of Court was obtained before the filing of the suit seeking to set aside a consent judgement. They also stated that the action was commenced through a wrong procedure, as the subject matter of the suit island, which is outside the jurisdiction of the Fed­eral High Court. And that there was no proper service of the originating processes on them. Meanwhile, Justice Osiagor has fixed February 4, 2022, for a hearing of all applications and the substan­tive suit.