Telecoms services provider, Globacom, on Thursday hosted the final prize presentation event of its Joy Unlimited Extravaganza promo. The promo, which was launched last year, has gone round the country spreading joy among subscribers of the network, 15 of whom won brand new cars, while 500,000 others won television sets, refrigerators, power generators and Glo freebies. Lagos-based cab driver, Japhet Egbede, who won the 15th and final car of the promo at the event, said “Globacom has empowered me. I now have a brand new car for my cab business and would no longer need to rent and pay for a car to use on weekly basis. I am grateful to Globacom, the caring network, taking care of Nigerians.” Expert Blames Poor Academic Performance On NTDs 2023 Election: Any Igbo man who supports Tinubu Should Be… A commercial officer with Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), who won a refrigerator, Taiwo Kekereowo, said, “A big thank you to Globacom. This is the first time I am winning a prize in a promo. More blessings to the ever-giving network.” On her own, a television winner, Maria Abidakun, a cleric with Celestial Church of Christ in Ikorodu, who promised to donate it to the children’s section of the church, said, “God bless Globacom. They will continue to grow and excel.” Also another refrigerator winner, 39-year-old Kehinde Oyewole, a Lagos-based business woman, said, “I have been on the Glo network since 2003, and I don’t have any regret till today. It has been a good network, providing good services and helping Nigerians. This is very kind of them.” Speaking at the event, member of Lagos State House of Assembly representing Oshodi-Isolo Constituency 1, Hon Jude Emeka Idimogu, commended Globacom for taking care of Nigerians all the time. In his response, Globacom’s Regional Sales Manager, Lagos, Olumide Oguntimehin, said the company was glad to have kept faith with the promise it made at the start of the promo last October. POLL “From Lagos to Enugu, Port Harcourt to Kaduna, Abuja to Jos, Benin to Warri, Ibadan to Ilorin, and Onitsha to other cities, we held prize-presentation ceremonies to hand over the items won to the winners and put smiles on the faces of our subscribers and their families. “We congratulate the winners and urge them to continue to make use of their Glo lines for endless opportunities.”