LAGOS – As the Nigerian oil and gas industry set for total deregulation in the coming months, in accordance with the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), NIPCO Plc has positioned its workforce for improved service delivery this year. Mr. Suresh Kumar, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of NIPCO, who in his New Year message, appreciated the company’s employees’ resilience over the years, emphasised that the new year offers a lot of opportunities which must be optimised by the fuel marketing company. The NIPCO CEO said the company would continue to take its pride of place within the context of the emerging downstream sector under the PIA. Why Fixit45, CFAO Motors Collaborate On Spare Parts Business Jaiz Bank Celebrates 10 Years Of Operation In Nigeria He, however, urged the employees to brace up for the challenges ahead, affirming that their dedication and commitment had contributed immensely to the company’s resilience over the years. “The entire workforce of the company needs to develop more synergy towards sustaining the company’s milestones and moving it to a higher level of efficiency for her to continue to occupy its pride of place within the context of the emerging downstream sector under the PIA. “Our collective contributions in the outgoing year towards achieving milestones set by the promoters are commendable; nevertheless this is not to suggest that there is no room for improvement. I want you to note that with the enactment of the PIA, we all should be on our toes in order to improve our bottom line”, he said He assured of his continued commitment to put in the right welfare for the workforce to enable them put in their best without sacrificing merit in the scheme of things. “I am honoured to lead a highly resourceful and competent crop of workers of your calibre, even as I urge that we continue to work hard as we usher in a new year. POLL “My charge to you all is that you should be ready for more challenges and responsibilities in the year 2022 as such is the sure pathway to our success in the New Year and even beyond,” Kumar stated.