Captain Tunji Shelle (rtd), a former Lagos state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on his expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari in 2022, Electoral Act bill and developments in Lagos state under the All Progressives Congress (APC). Excerpts: What are your expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari this year? I don’t expect anything new more so when this is a year prelude to the general election. The last six years plus has given us an idea of the limited capabilities of the present administration. It is an administration that is controlled by crisis instead of the other way round. Direct Primaries Is Prone To Manipulation – Ezenwune JUST IN: How Buhari Reacted To My 2023 Presidential Ambition… Many Nigerians are disenchanted with the performance of the APC-led Federal Government saying they have failed their promises. Are you expecting anything different this year? The government of the day has not been able to fulfill its core promises of improving the economy and providing security for its citizenry. It is a shame that the economic indices of job creation and food security cannot be met,rather inflation and exchange rates regime of the Naira to the dollar have skyrocketed. The most disturbing is the issue of tackling corruption which has now become endemic with leakages in every sector of the economy up to the Central Bank. For example, how can one explain not having new Naira notes from the banks and yet you find them being sold at social parties? This is ridiculous and unacceptable. In the area of security, banditry and kidnapping have been added to terrorism. Unfortunately, it took the federal government a while to gazette the court verdict that Boko Haram is a terrorist act. This is highly unacceptable and it is advised that the federal government should declare total war on bandits and terrorists and name their sponsors for the purpose of prosecution. The use of drones to gather intelligence and track the terrorists is now necessary if we are really serious in fighting terrorism. This will definitely pave the way for the Tucano fighter jets to drop and inflict the desired damages on the terrorists enclave. Do you think the foreign loans and borrowings by the current administration is justified? POLL Continued foreign loans is highly injurious to the economy and the National Assembly should stop approving further loans for Mr. President more so when the cost of servicing the loans is choking and not sustainable. We really need a functional economic team in place to advise the government on this serious issue so that the nation does not become bankrupt suddenly. The National Assembly approved the Direct Primaries for all political parties in the recent bill passed but President Muhammadu Buhari failed to assent to it. What do you think is the way out? The way out is simple if there is no hidden agenda behind the actions of the President and the National Assembly. My take is that the national Assembly should amend the Electoral bill by deleting the Direct or indirect primary clause as nothing is wrong with leaving the political parties to determine their various modes of primaries as contained in the constitution and INEC guidelines. The most important aspect of the bill as far as I’m concerned is the Electronic Transfer of elections results. This is important as it guarantees free, fair and credible elections to a large extent. I am seriously appealing to INEC and all security agencies that underage voting should be discouraged and appropriate measures put in place to prevent same during the next general elections. How will you describe the level of development in Lagos State under APC ? The level of development in Lagos state under APC government is barely average considering the amount of resources available to the state. Virtually all the projects are overpriced. With trillions of Naira accruing to the covers of the government since 1999, one would have expected that Lagos state would have been transformed far beyond what we presently have on ground. Duplication of jetties without commensurate number of boats to service them is a waste of tax payers money. The construction of light rail from Okokomaiko to Marina is another example of a project in crisis, the delivery date of which was to be 2013. This project could have been handled in phases and made functional long before now. It’s a pity this is one of the areas the Chinese company handling the project will hold the state to ransom due to accumulated debt on the project. Posterity Will Be Kind To Buni For Repositioning APC –… Nigerians Can’t Wait For Tinubu’s Open Declaration… The overall debt burden of Lagos state under APC is another case in point. Yet there is not much to show for it. With what you have said, do you think Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu deserve a second term? No! Babajide Sanwo-Olu doesn’t deserve a second term. His party cannot even be that generous to him more so when they realise that PDP is out to win in the 2023 elections in Lagos state. So far Sanwo-Olu has not been able to manage the crisis and resources of the people of Lagos state very well. He is too much overwhelmed and distracted by his godfather and members of the Governor’s Advisory Council and this has adversely affected his performance in office.It will be very difficult for Sanwo-Olu to deliver on the Blue line rail project before his exit from office as the handling of the project has been faulty and corruption laden from the onset. While the handling of the ENDSARS protest will continue to haunt him even after leaving office, Sanwo-Olu is seriously advised to hands off the Obaship and Chieftaincy controversies in the state for Lagos to continue to enjoy its relative peace. Your tenure as Lagos PDP Chairman was rated thebestsofarasyourpartywoneight seats in the state House of Assembly and also some seats national level. Why do you think that achievement was not leveraged upon after you left office? It takes a lot of hard work, dexterity and sacrifice to run a political party. One needs a lot of patience and prayers to be able to deal with leaders and the followers alike. The most important thing is to be able to give everyone a sense of belonging and treat all with fairness and respect. I was particularly focused and determined to win the 2015 elections and l marked out the strategies as such with the full support of my team. We did our best and gave APC a good fight for their money despite their manipulations. My prayer is that certain staff of INEC and the security agencies will give all political parties a level playing field in future elections. There were reports that after the victory recorded by PDP, the APC leadership did everything to woo you into their party but you refused. How true is that? I am too principled and disciplined to be wooed by a political party that is not out to serve the interests of the people. APC is like a cult and I don’t think l will ever fit into their club. To be sincere, nobody ever approached me to join APC probably on moral grounds. There are insinuations that you are no longer on the same page with Chief Olabode GeorgeoverthemanagementofLagosPDP affairs. How true is that? It is true that l am presently not on the same page with Chief Bode George on the management of the affairs of PDP in Lagos but this has not diminished my respect and love for him. I still hold him in high esteem for his compassion and good deeds. My position is based on principles and l believe that the whole issue will be resolved as we journey towards winning Lagos for PDP together during the next election. My advice to all is to avoid rumours and gossips as these twosome evils can ruin and kill good relationships. Do you think Nigerians needs someone like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as President in 2023? Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has a lot of baggage to contend with which could be detrimental to the wellbeing of any society. He is old enough to appreciate this fact and my advice is for him to leave the stage for the younger generations to grow. Nigeria cannot afford another setback at this critical time of our history. What can PDP do to win Lagos state? We just need to work together as a team and strategise accordingly to ensure that APC does not manipulate and compromise the election results. The tide is very much in our favour. Where do you think the PDP should pick its presidential candidate from and what type ofpersoncanwintheelectionfortheparty? PDP will not disappoint Nigerians in their choice of candidate for the Presidential election. The party is working towards presenting a credible, knowledgeable and acceptable candidate that will help restore the image and dignity of the country. Nigeria needs to be reunited and repositioned and PDP will not fail in achieving this goal given another opportunity.