LAGOS  – The forthcoming International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP) Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) slated for the first quarter of 2022 is not same as Annexes 9 and 17 of the international body, Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), has said. ICAO Annex 9 is on facilitation and requires that the civil aviation community comply with laws governing the inspection of aircraft, cargo and passengers by authorities concerned with customs, immigration, agriculture and public health, while Annex 17 contains Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) concerned with the security of international air transport and is amended regularly to address the evolving threat. But, the USOAP audit is an activity during which ICAO assesses the effective implementation of the critical elements (CEs) of a safety oversight system and conducts a systematic and objective review of a State’s safety oversight system to verify the status of a its compliance with the provisions of ICAO Convention. FG Restates Ban On Export Of Donkey Hide New National Rice Development Council To Save  $2bn For Nigeria… Speaking on phone with our correspondent yesterday, Nuhu insisted that the safety audit had nothing to do with either facilitation or security audit, but admitted that some teething challenges needed to be addressed in the country’s aviation industry. Nuhu explained that security had its own separate audit, stressing that Nigeria performed well in the last security audit conducted in the sector by ICAO. Nuhu recalled that in the last ICAO Security Audit (USOAP-CMA) of Nigeria – the Effective Implementation (EI), Nigeria Scored 96.4 per cent and the country received ICAO Council President Award Certificate for its performance, challenging stakeholders in the sector not to mislead the public. Nuhu explained further that the USOAP-CMA Audit (security audit) is now scheduled for the third quarter of 2022, stressing that NCAA’s aspirational Effective Implementation (EI) score for the USOAP-CMA Audit is 90 per cent. He insisted that all hands are on deck to ensure this becomes a reality. He said: ‘NCAA will step up its oversight function and collaboration with all relevant stakeholders to ensure continued improvement in aviation security and facilitation. Security Audit is different from safety audit. What we are doing now is quite different from security audit and it’s not related to facilitation. I understand facilitation is good for passengers, but, it has nothing to do with the current audit. POLL “The last security audit we had, Nigeria scored 96.4 per cent and because of this performance, Nigeria received ICAO Council President Award Certificate for its performance. Yes, I accept we have challenge in the industry just like the in the other countries around the world. However, to say Nigeria is not ready for audit is a misnomer. People should not mislead the public. Someone is saying we are not ready for two issues that are not part of the forthcoming audit. I think that is wrong.” Nuhu had declared last week at the League of Airport and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC) annual training at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria that the country was full prepared for the audit.