LAGOS – Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Deputy Director-General (DG) of Ali Modu Sheriff Campaign and former vice national chairman, (South-South) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that it is because of his integrity that the PDP invited  Senator Ali-Modu Sheriff to become the chairman of its party..Ojougboh who spoke on Arise Television on Monday said that it was the integrity and excellent character, which PDP saw in Sheriff that made them invite him to be their national chairman, stressing that no other Nigerian has ever received such invitation. He said, “Sheriff was sitting down in his palour when five PDP governors approached him. He did not show interest. They said that they had looked at his antecedents, that he won senatorial elections three times, and that he has been a governor two times in Borno State and has been a minority leader at the Senate and they would like him to come and help them to build the party. “Sheriff made consultations across his political family and they gave him the support to go ahead and help them. When he got there, what he saw wasn’t the way parties should be run. He told them that if they wanted him to help them, they must listen to him. He is not a chameleon, he is a firm man. He is a soldier of truth. The APC needs him now. While stating the need for the ruling party to have the former governor as its next national chairman, Ojougboh said that the APC leaders believe across board that for APC to do well, complete its reconciliatory mission, the man that the job suits is Ali Modu Sheriff. Acting CJN Tanko Mohammed Swears-In 250 Elections Tribunals… “He is very stable, faithful and very thorough in doing things which is why the APC needs him. The President is not going to be in the ballot paper in the next election, the APC needs a man who can drive the boat and pilot it properly. Who else can do that? This is a family contest and all the candidates are friends, and they all know that if there is a man who can do the job, it is Ali Modu Sheriff. On the issue of alleged link with Boko Haram, the campaign DG said that if there is any person in Nigeria who has been a victim of Boko Haram, it is Ali Modu Sheriff. “Five members of his immediate family have been killed in the Boko Haram incident. He narrowly escaped death, because he hadn’t gotten to the point where a bomb was planted to kill him before it exploded. In politics, people carry a lot of rumours that they know nothing about. “A man who has won a senatorial seat three times and has been a governor two times is bound to have a lot of enemies. This is because any time that you defeat somebody in an election in Nigeria; the person becomes your enemy. They cooked up stories to bring the man down. How can anybody in his right senses accuse Ali Amodu Sheriff of a link with Boko Haram? Security agencies in the country have investigated him and they have found out that he is innocent. Of course, the sponsors of Boko Haram are known and the Department of State Services (DSS), defense intelligence agencies have investigated Sheriff,” he said. Ojougboh added, “If I have any iota of doubt that Sheriff has anything to do with Boko Haram, I will not support him or even talk to him. This rumour has been on the ground before the governors of PDP came to invite him to become their national chairman. If Sheriff was to have a link with Boko Haram, PDP would not have invited him.”