Hon. Dennis Idahosa, a member representing Ovia Federal Constituency of Edo State on Wednesday called on governments at all levels to make youth employment their priorities to dissuade them from acts contrary to laws. Idahosa stated this when he presented car gifts (Toyota Corolla) to selected youths from his Ovia Federal Constituency. He noted that the challenges of insecurity in the country today could be traced to unemployment. Security Of Lives, Property Should Be Priority In 2022, Says Obi Abiru Harps On Youth Employment He stressed that when a substantial population of youths are productively engaged, the challenges of insecurity would have been half solved. “It is true that government alone cannot provide the needed employment to the teeming unemployed youths, however, they can provide the conducive environment for this to happen. “By government, I am not just talking about the federal government, State, as well as the local governments, also have roles to play,” he stated. Meanwhile, the lawmaker has urged the beneficiaries to deploy the vehicles for commercial purposes to reduce the level of unemployment in the area. According to him, “This is one of my commitments to the people of Ovia. There is a lot of unemployment rate in my constituency and the country at large. POLL “The only way I can start reducing it is to get the youths involved in private business. “I have got this for Ovia youths so that they will be able to go into transportation business and be able to sustain their families and I hope to increase the number as the year progresses. We have a lot of plans for them and this is one of them. “The youths are critical stakeholders in the country because in terms of demographics, they are about 70 per cent of the population if not more so we must continue to engage them and I have been pursuing this since I came into office about two years ago. “That is why we have been providing educational facilities for Ovia youths especially primary and secondary schools and we have built at least 30 schools so far. “With these numbers, we will continue to do more and if I am encouraged by what these beneficiaries will do, I will be encouraged to do more for others. Give Priority To Education, ASUU Tells FG, Newly-Elected Leaders Give Priority To Access To Safe Water, UNICEF Tells FG “There are no conditions attached apart from giving glory and honour to God almighty, it is for them 100 per cent. “This is not from any budgetary provision; it is my personal resources that I used to honour some youths. Responding on behalf of the beneficiaries, Friday Aghedo said: “I am grateful to God for this new year and what He has used my boss to do for me. “It is like telling me to do it and I tell him that our loyalty is 100 per cent and we will continue to do our best to make sure he succeeds.