BAUCHI – The Coalition of Arewa Youths Progressive Forum (CAYPF) has commended the North East Development Commission (NEDC) for its laudable intervention initiatives introduced in the North-East region. The Forum gave the commendation in a statement titled “Arewa Youths are Happy with NEDC successes in 2021” and signed by National Chairman of the Alhaji Salihu Magaji, which was available to newsmen in Bauchi. According to the Youth Forum, the institution of the NEDC is one of the Pillars and successes of the present administration under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that as a result of its laudable achievements, it has proven that the country is being led in the right direction. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… The youths said that the commission has fulfilled its mandate in the area of rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads, houses and business premises of victims of insurgency as well as tackling the menace of poverty, illiteracy, ecological problems and any other related environmental and development challenges. “The NEDC under the leadership of its chairman, Alhaji Goni Mohammed Alkali has continued to carry out the mandate assigned to it by the Federal Government.bWhen one considers the decay in infrastructures across the country and the bureaucracies that hinder the smooth operations of many government agencies, one will marvel at all the successes recorded by NEDC in such a short of one year” “Since the appointment of the Managing Director of the North East Development Commission (NEDC) Alhaji Mohammed Goni Alkali, he has succeeded in coordinating, harmonizing, overseeing many interventions and initiatives in the Northeastern states through effective managerial skills” “NEDC under Alkali is a leading horse in different rescue missions and initiatives of the Federal Government when it comes to changing the narratives of the people of North-East that have been bedevilled by a lot of challenges ranging from Insurgency, banditry and kidnappings, which has caused untold hardship on the people.NEDC has recorded progress by bringing relief and peace to the region” “The Commission is also building 3,500 housing units in the region, which consists of four blocks of well-furnished two-bedroom detachable flats with verandas and a courtyard in a cluster arrangement. In addition to the housing units, it has provided other essential amenities such as solar-powered street lights and boreholes, a police station and a motor park in the area. POLL “The commission has also empowered many farmers by providing them with agricultural machinery and equipment, seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals, extension services and other logistics given annually under a programme tagged; Integrated Agriculture Programme (IAP). Its programme covers the whole 112 LGAs in the Northeast,” the statement read.