Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, and Head of Transparency International (Nigeria), Auwal Musa (Rafsanjani), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE and ISAAC ASABOR, speaks on Nigeria’s rising debt profile ,its implications as well as widening leakages in government’s tax revenue generation. Excerpts: The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), has been averse to soaring foreign debt been borrowed by the Federal Government. According to the 2022 Appropriation Bill, the government is looking at increasing its debt portfolio by another N6 trillion this year to finance the 2022 budget of which it hopes to spend N3.9 trillion in servicing its outstanding obligations both locally and externally from the N17.13 trillion budget. What is your take on this rising debt profile? Our position remains the same on Nigeria’s rising debt profile. Like you rightly mentioned, we are averse to the indiscriminate loan requests being sent to the National Assembly by the Executive arm of government despite failure by ministries and agencies of government (MDAs) to account for their annual budgetary allocations. We Should Have Female President Based On Competence – Stella… Drug Abuse, A Public Health Challenge Not Criminal Offence… As worried as we are, you would recall that we had for the umpteenth time warned that the frequent borrowings might further plunge the nation’s staggering economy into another circle of recession. To ensure that the trend of borrowing is nipped in the bud, we had urged the National Assembly to rise up to the occasion by declining approval of new loan request from the executive arm of government in order to protect the future of the next generations, unfortunately it is obvious that our advice which is sincere and patriotic in nature has not being heeded to. Now that 2022 has started counting, do you have any plan in place to ensure that CISLAC’s advice concerning mounting debt is heeded to? Yes. We will continue to intensify efforts in advocacy towards that direction. You are equally averse to leakages in taxes, how about that? POLL Yes, that is true. We are equal to the task in terms of advocacy. In the last quarter of last year, 2021, we made the disclosure that Nigeria loses about US$2.9 billion yearly to tax waivers granted to multinational companies. In fact, it is not just about Nigeria, Africa had lost US$1 trillion in illicit financial flows (IFFs), out of which US$50 billion is lost annually over the last 50 years. In spite of the huge loss to tax waivers, the government increased value-added taxes (VAT), which affected the poor more from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. What is your take on the socioeconomic implications of these anomalies in governance? First and foremost, particularly from the perspective of the piling debt, concerns have been raised by Finance, energy and tax experts, and they had at different occasions urged the government to harness existing opportunities in the country before resorting to borrowing. Why Esan Should Produce Next Edo Governor – Ibadin Soludo Must Deepen Culture Of Financial Prudence –Okoli-Akirika The situation is so bad that even the oil companies operating in Nigeria last year were discovered to have owed the country. In fact, the stakeholders are worried about widening budget deficits, and they have been warning that the nation may have normalised the template for loans acquisition, which easily receive approvals of the National Assembly. The appalling situation, no doubt, has attracted comments from international observers, like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank that have at different times expressed concerns over the likely sharp increase in inequality and poverty arising from the looting of Nigeria’s treasury. For instance, the global bank warned that 42.1 per cent of the sub-region, with particular on Nigeria, will be pushed into extreme poverty. The Bank indicated that the poverty increase could take more than a decade to reverse, erasing all hopes of countries meeting their national development plan targets to reduce poverty and inequality by 2030. Since Friday last week that the President signed the 2022 Appropriation Bill into law at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, crisis have been brewing between the Presidency and the National Assembly over what was described as ‘worrisome changes’ and inclusion of new provisions totaling N36.59 billion in the budget by the lawmakers. What is your take? What are your expectations in this 2022, particularly from the perspective of last year, 2021, which has come and gone? The year, no doubt, means different things to different people, either for better or worse. It was the year in which the country struggled to recover from the devastating effects of COVID-19 pandemic. The government rolled out many intervention programmes to uplift many Nigerians who were pushed to poverty by the virus. In spite of these, majority of Nigerians are yet to recover. In fact, the New Year should serve as a period of retrospection and introspection by our policy makers. There is the need for more mediatory programmes to fix the economy. Government’s plan to remove fuel subsidy this year is untimely. It is a wrong time particularly when the country is grappling with hyperinflation with prices of goods and services beyond the reach of the poor man. Though the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, has assured Nigerians on transportation that subsidy which will see 40 million people benefit from N5000 cash transfer. In fact, any hike in the price of petroleum will worsen the living condition of the people. In view of the negative effect of subsidy removal, our policy makers should shelve the plan. If the government insists or eventually removes fuel subsidy, it should ensure an effective price control system is put in place in the country. What suggestion do you have for the government towards the improvement of food supplying chain, particularly from the perspective of the COVID-19 pandemic? To answer your question, let me start by saying that for a country like Nigeria with a huge physical infrastructure deficit and a very large informal economy that the current realities serve as a learning curve, and that the country must be sure that it manages the pandemic, particularly the one that is now called the third wave, with minimal dislocation to daily lives, businesses, supply chains, logistics and other service flows that could cripple domestic productivity and employment. The government should use the opportunity of the COVID-19 challenge to strengthen local supply chains. The challenge should not be seen as an opportunity for a productivity and production holiday. The critical message of the period is for the country to fashion out strong disaster recovery initiatives that ensure that the country’s economy is structured with the resilience to continue running within a healthy framework that does not stop livelihoods and employment. What can be done to make procurement law workable in Nigeria? We have on many occasions given advice to the obvious. For any law to be effective, you must follow the content to the letter. If the law says appoint a Director General, appoint one, and if it says establish a council, do the same to give it life. The crafter of the Procurement law like other laws of the land, and elsewhere in the world have reasons for certain provisions inserted to help checkmate excesses. So the law can only be effective if the provisions of the Act are implemented to the letter. Mark you that this is not working in Nigeria because of interest, and the primary focus of the PPA is to reduce corruption.  