ABUJA – Honourable Richard Olufemi Bamisile, member representing Ekiti South 2 in the green chamber and an All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Aspirant in the June 2022 Governorship Election in Ekiti has expressed confidence that the controversial Direct Primary clause will be passed by the lawmakers, alluding to a possible override of President Mohammadu Buhari veto of the Electoral Act Amendment bill. Honourable Bamisile, who returned his forms to the APC national Secretariat Wednesday, signifying his intentions to contest the Ekiti guber poll, declared unequivocally that Direct Primary will be passed in the amended Electoral Act, saying that what has happened thus far was a deliberate waste of time. He noted that much as the delay may deny Ekiti State the opportunity of using direct primary to choose the party’s candidate, Hon Bamisile maintained that the lawmakers on returning to legislative duties on January 18, 2022, will take a proactive step to ensure that the clause is captured and used for the 2023 general election. Pepco CEO Andy Bond To Step Down Due To Health Reasons Carabao Cup: Chelsea Ease Past Lacklustre Tottenham To Put One… He noted that raising the issue of funding as a reason for the failure to give assent was diversionary especially because the political parties shoulder the responsibility. “There are so many issues that came up on that and I want to challenge anybody, the issue about funding, who fund the process and I want to equally make it clear here, the funding of a direct primary is not unto government. It is unto the political parties. “So these are just mere excuses on not wanting to assent to the bill. But it doesn’t really matter. You see, governance, what it takes is the process and we are not where we are today just by a flick of a finger. “We have been like this since 1999 and things are being improved on a daily basis and I can assure as things go by, even if you go into this primaries, there is going to be direct primaries, I make bold to say that because there are so many pending issues that are there that are hung on the party as we speak. Nobody wants to go into an election and loss at the end of the day at the judiciary. “So I’m certain there is going to be direct primaries. No matter what issues are bound on the issue of not signing the direct primaries, these things should be overcome. We are going back to the House on the 18 of January, it might be too late for Ekiti primaries but as I said, there is 65% assurance that there would be direct primaries.” POLL Bamisile also dismissed the claim that the outgoing Governor, Kayode Fayemi has anointed a candidate, stating categorically that he is so involved by Ekiti people to be bothered about such anointed candidate. “I just told you I’m a seasoned politician and I have worked my way through politics from the grassroots up to where I am today. I really sincerely don’t believe in such. I’m too locked with the people of Ekiti State that anointing a particular candidate would not go far. “It is the wishes of the people, the will of God and what the people again want as simply defined in democracy, the government of people by the people and for the people.”