LAGOS – Pastor Lazarus Muoka, General Overseer of the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministries (TLCCRM), has assured victory for Nigerians and other citizens of the world. Muoka gave the assurance towards the conclusion of the annual Mgbidi International Crusade, themed, ‘What God Has Determined Shall Be Done’, which for the first time, held in Lagos State, January 6 to 9, hence the tag, ‘Lagos Experience’. The visioner of the 10 billion soul mandate said there was no cause for individuals to fret as long as they sought God’s presence, walked in holiness and focused on making heaven. 2022: Year Of Crown Of Glory But Pray Against Enemy’s… ‘Over 39.65m MSMEs Operate In Nigeria’ He noted while delivering the sermon, that there was no limit to what God can do, unlike humans who are limited in all ways and cannot confidently tell what can happen the next minute or day. “I am assuring you victory is definite, no cause to fear or worry. What I am assuring you is that God will see you through. He is seeing you. God will finish the work He Has started. As long as you join God, you will be unlimited. As long as God is with us, this year, we shall succeed. Whatever you are looking for, the Lord will give to you. “We need His presence always; He is the only one that knows our future. This year, we shall not walk in darkness. As you walk in light, I am assuring that victory is definite. I do not know what you are looking for. God is equal to the task. He is the only one that can do and undo. “What man cannot do, God will do for you. Remember, He visited Sarah at the appointed time and Isaac was born. Your own Isaac is on the way…We are moving on to victory and heaven at last,” Muoka stated, while offering prayers for individuals and reiterating that 2022 marks the year of dominion, favour, blessings and miracles. Meanwhile, there were song ministrations by the Ukraine choir of the church, likewise USA choir, the Voice of the Cross singer and other choirs. Also, several striking testimonies were shared, including that of preachers from other churches. POLL There was testimony from Samson Obinali who shared how he got genuinely saved and returned N4.5million which he obtained through internet fraud from an American man. A deaf and dumb for 29 years was testified to be healed, likewise the healing of three years madness and 11 years paralysis. On his part, Douye Diri, Bayelsa State governor, a day before the grand finale of the crusade, testified how God used Muoka to change his story for good. He recalled how Muoka was instrumental to his emergence as the governor of Bayelsa State and how he was granted victory in court. Diri stated: “I bring you greetings from the people and government of Bayelsa State. It is recorded and sung by all of us, ‘I was glad when they said let us go to the house of the Lord.’ We are happy to come this time, Mgbidi in Lagos. God has kept all of us, this multitude of us in the beginning of a New Year to worship him. “The people of Bayelsa, government of Bayelsa, are proud of the Lord’s Chosen Church. We are happy to be identified with the Lord’s Chosen Church and with Our Daddy, Lazarus Muoka. RCCG Prince Of Peace MEGA Parish Holds Fire Confab Shun Internet Fraud, Other Evils, Cleric Tells Youths “I was there last year and a lot of you heard my testimony. The Lord of Chosen heard my testimony. We cannot do anything else. We cannot worship any other thing, but Him (God) alone. I’m not laying down here to acknowledge cheers from you. I am laying down here to keep a promise as a way of worshipping Him who turned everything around in my life and in my state, Bayelsa. Daddy was one of the instruments that was (were) used in that great turnaround. “I have come to represent the state of Bayelsa, the government of Bayelsa, to say a very big ‘Thank you’ to Daddy. To appreciate you; to appreciate the church. Thank you all. May God bless all of us, keep us through this year in 2002 and we will all gather like this in 2023, He will meet our heart desires in Jesus name.” On the feedback concerning the crusade, some members based in Lagos said they were grateful the crusade was a success.