LAGOS The Northern El­ders’ Forum (NEF) has affirmed that the region will only vote for a competent pres­ident regardless of where he comes from in the 2023 presidential election. The NEF vowed that it would not repeat the same mistake of voting for just any candidate as done to President Muhammadu Bu­hari in 2015 based on senti­ments. The Forum expressed disappointment at the lead­ership style of President Bu­hari, not only in the North, but the entire country. Leaders’ Honesty Will Check Security Challenges – Bishop Eichie IPOB Allays Fears Of Lockdown In South-East, Announces… The NEF’s Director of Publicity and Advocacy, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, stat­ed this in an interview with newsmen on the sideline of the meeting of Northern Leaders of Thought and Groups held at the Arewa House, Kaduna, on Satur­day. According to the NEF’s spokesman, a northerner and his southern counter­part have equal rights to vie for the nation’s exalted office in the 2023 presidential race. He, however, said that the north would vote for a com­petent president in 2023, whether from the north or south, adding that the region would go for a competent ‘Ni­gerian president’ only. Baba-Ahmed maintained that no northern presiden­tial candidate should take the region for granted in the 2023 race, pointing out that that was how the region end­ed up with what he described as the “Buhari mistake”. He said the north was deceived into voting in Bu­hari, believing that the coun­try would be better off and lamented that the reverse was the case today as the north and the entire country was worse off than when Bu­hari took over in 2015. POLL Baba-Ahmed, a former Independent National Elec­toral Commission’s secre­tary, said, “a Northerner and a Southerner have equal rights to contest, but Northerners should be very careful of who they vote for in 2023. “No northerner should take us for granted. That’s how we ended up with Pres­ident Buhari. We don’t want to repeat the same mistake. “If you must be a north­erner who’s better than all the candidates; for us, that’s the bottom line. It’s not enough to be a north­erner; you have to be the best. You have to be the best for the North and you have to be the best for the rest of Nigeria. “We are looking for a Ni­gerian President. If it comes from the North, fine but he must be voted for by Nige­rians and he must be good and he must be better than all the others. That’s what we are looking for.” He scored the Buhari’s regime low in all spheres of governance from wors­ening security, corrup­tion to the sorry state of the nation’s economy and summed him up as a “dis­appointment.”