As much as the max­im “Customer is king” is widely used among brands, mar­keters and consumers; only a handful of brands truly walk the talk. Nigerian customers are usually accorded a king status in words and not fully in deed. Ideally, brands should pri­oritise the proliferation of products and services that are designed to meet the so­cio-economic reality of the customers and their general welfare. But, in the face of eco­nomic difficulties occasioned by the pandemic, most brands have compromised a custom­er-centric approach for busi­ness survival. However, amid the paucity of worthy models of custom­er-centricity, MultiChoice Nigeria has continued to demonstrate its commitment to providing customer-driven products and services to all of its customers, both active and inactive. 100 Shops Built On DSC Land Brought Down In Udu Alao-Akala To Be Buried On February 18 Despite the odds, Mul­tiChoice Nigeria recently reintroduced its Step-Up pro­mo offer which affords both DStv and GOtv customers the opportunity to pay less for ac­cess to more content offerings on their decoders. This offer comes on the backdrop of a festive promo offer that gave discounts on GOtv and DStv decoders for new customers as well as a wide range of content offer­ings to provide the best holi­day experience for all viewers. It is common knowledge that Nigerians consider the month of January as the peri­od of financial difficulty. This has led many to suggest that the first month of the year has uniquely prolonged days when compared to others. However, through the Step-Up offer, MultiChoice Nigeria is offering DStv and GOtv customers who choose to upgrade or reconnect to a higher package a chance to be rewarded with a further boost to an even higher pack­age within 48 hours at no ad­ditional cost. What this means is that in a month where most Nigerians are usually frugal after the holiday spending of Decem­ber, MultiChoice is providing double value for money by ensuring that the average cus­tomer gets access to premium content beyond their regular package subscription without having to pay extra. POLL As a result, football fans will get unparalleled access to widely watched leagues and football tournaments. These include matches from the first leg of the UEFA Champions League set to be televised in February, the oldest football competition in England, the FA Cup, the Spanish Copa Del Rey, among others. There is no gainsaying that Nigeria is a football-loving na­tion, it is a common language for Nigerians regardless of age, tribe, religion, socioeco­nomic status or political affil­iations. These matches also provide an avenue for social interactions and engagements. The value provided by the upgrade is not limited to sports. Additionally, custom­ers will get a wider access to entertainment, kids, docu­mentary, news and current affairs content, which are available on higher DStv and GOtv packages. While it is common for cus­tomers to have complaints in the course of using a product or service, prompt resolution of such complaints is uncom­mon. With the self-service op­tions available for DStv and GOtv customers, complaints are attended to and resolved promptly. Customers can download the MyDStv and MyGOtv apps to take control of their subscription, clear error codes, check account balanc­es, change packages and up­date their details, thereby re­ducing the need to physically visit MultiChoice offices. 2023: PDP Women Vow To Mobilise 45 Million To Support Folks Murdered OAU MBA Student To Be Buried Today In Home Town This goes without saying that the typical Nigerian dreads making complaints because of an established pattern of poor service deliv­ery among Nigerian brands. But, the GOtv and DStv apps, the USSD code, *288#, among other self-service options, fast-track the process of complaint resolution and keep the cus­tomers happy and satisfied. Without a doubt, Multi­Choice Nigeria has taken upon itself, the role of a vanguard for the Nigerian customers. As such, it is no surprise that the Pay TV gi­ant has continued to boost its brand patronage and remains a household name in the con­tent industry. Oche, a SDGs and Consumer Protection Advocate writes from Lagos