Eze (Sir) Mike Elechi, the MD/CEO of Vintage Farms and Products who was elected in November as the President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, PHACCIMA, in this interview with DANIEL ABIA, speaks on his desire to unite and drive the Chamber for maximum productivity. Excerpts: Having emerged as the new President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, what are your plans to take the Chamber to a new height? My plans for the Chamber is to add value by building on what has been done here before I came in. Moreover, I am aiming at bringing members of the Chamber together as one big family. Fun Seekers Call On FG To Diversify From Oil Economy To Tourism Maritime Policing: Nigerian Navy Deploying Tech, Modern… When I checked the records, I realised that we have more than a thousand members, but was surprised that in the last AGM, only about fifty people came for the AGM. It means that there is a low level of participation which is what has brought the business level of participation very low. This is because business people are not participating in the organised private sector meetings. I have come to unite and to bring every person on board. We have inaugurated all trade group Chairmen. Each group will run its own trade focus which is how the Chamber is run. POLL My aim also is to bring all members together to be more active in the activities of the Chamber. We intend to transform the organised private sector and revive some moribund companies in Rivers state. You are known to be a man with a knack for agro-business; are you going to direct the focus of the Chamber towards promoting agriculture in Rivers state? As a President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, I will rather focus on making sure that all sectors of the Chamber are driven towards proper participation and that includes agriculture. I am an entrepreneur not only on agriculture. I produce concrete blocks; I have water industry among others. I am into so many things. I just glamorised agriculture. Agriculture is one profession that is so subsistent that it does not attract so many persons. Part of that glamorisation is the annual fishing festival where I bring in who is who in the state to participate and to see that there is fun in agriculture. PHACCIMA President Marks Annual Fishing Festival, Speaks On Need… Rivers Govt Bans Cart Pushing, Indiscriminate Posting Of Advert I am even doing that in a lake. Our brothers in the riverine area can also do this by activating part of the seashore to form an aquarium in that sector. Senator George Sekibo is currently doing that to his credit. When I see some flooding ponds lying waste, I feel like buying them and turn same into a lake for fishing. As a President of the chamber, I will make sure that every sector of the chamber and the trade groups are well driven. Every business sector is headed by somebody who is doing well in that area of business. Rivers state is known for oil and gas; how will you make agriculture attractive to young graduate so that they see it as one lucrative business sector they can proudly earn a living from? Thank you for the question. I have told you already my intention to glamorise agriculture. If you don’t glamorise agriculture, there is nothing you can do to attract young graduates even if they read agriculture in the University. They will rather take that certificate to the bank to seek for employment. We are in the era of non-oil economy. My last farm manager (Vintage Farms) was working in a bank in Lagos. He is a Yoruba man. He did his youth service in Rivers state and he was always frequenting the farm. He got employed there. I was not paying him anything bigger than what they were paying him in the bank. But, he found the leisure he found in Lagos in the Vintage Farm. I have provided internet, swimming pool, lawn tennis court, football pitch and security to make life in the farm a comfortable one. We provide our own light 24-hours. It is expensive to maintain, though. But everything sacrifice is worth it. Vintage Farm settlement is about the biggest private farm in this region; what exactly is the cost value of the Farm? Laughter! I have told you I am an entrepreneur. When you don’t have funding coming from anywhere, you must have to start to think out of the box. This is so that if one unit of business is not doing well, the other one can support. The buildings in the settlement are given to corporate entities to occupy. You get rent from there which is part of the value you are talking about. One thing about Vintage Farm is that all the cottage industries there: the block industry, water industry, the hospitality unit which is well-built and tastefully furnished are all properties of Vintage Farm. If you cannot pay salaries, you can get money from the rent to pay salaries. The staffs of the water industry are living in the houses in Vintage Farm. In agriculture, you cannot actually put a value cost. Products there can appreciate and depreciate at any time. You may have thirty thousand birds, for instance, but during the time for sale, it comes down to about ten thousand or so. You may have mature fish but before the time for harvest birds perched eat them up. That reduces the cost price and it can affect the business adversely. What in your opinion is the effect of artisanal refining and illegal bunkering to the economy of Rivers state? It is so bad to the economy of the state because a lot of things are affected. If I am sick, for instance as a result of black soot and I go to the hospital for treatment, I am going to spend money. That will affect my business. I entered a shop to buy a POP, it was so black. That alone reduces the value of that product and the seller knows that. Now I have to give money to somebody to go to Lagos to buy. That will attract additional cost and it will go a long way to affect my business negatively. It will be more expensive doing that. Just walk into your toilet and you will discover that it everywhere is black. As it affects you as an individual, it also affects your business. This is bad. No two ways about it. There are a lot of natural beaches in Rivers state capable of diversifying the state economy from monolithic oil dependency to tourism, there is this Atlantic Beach at Andoni LGA. What can this Chamber do to develop such potential to yield revenue for the state? Rivers state the way it is, if you harness both the beaches and the estuary that runs round Port Harcourt, there shouldn’t be flooding anywhere. Developing the beaches is not something the Chamber can do. But we can get a trade group in charge of that sector to open discussion on it. We don’t go into business as a chamber, but we encourage our members to think outside the box. They can look for those interested in developing tourism and get it going. You should know that every government has its focus on what to do. But we are here to promote and act as catalyst to see how far we can push that across by developing business memos and follow it up. Some days ago, the University of Science and Technology came here with some item they developed that is patented to them. The patent they have will expire after twenty years and I told them that they came at the right time and to the right place. It is our place to introduce them to the right people who could help within the chamber. We link up to those who can do that. In the Chamber, we network. There is ICT, power, tourism trade groups and many more in the chamber. So, we can only link you with the tourism trade group within the chamber and they will direct and guide you appropriately as regards developing that tourism potential. By extension, this will go a long way to boost both the state and the national economy. In that case, the host local government area will definitely be the first beneficiary.