LAGOS  – The people of Enugu Akwu Achi in Oji River Local Government area of Enugu State have commended the kind gesture by one of their illustrious sons, Mr. Victor Anyaegbudike, a staff of Chevron Nigeria Limited, who on recently donated bags of rice and cartons of noodles to over 150 indigent widows from the four components of the community. Mr. Christian Iloma, the Town Union President, extoled the humanitarian attributes of the donor and thanked him for consistently supporting the socio-economic development of the community through the various programmes he had sponsored in recent past. He recalled that in December 2020, to early 2021, the donor initiated and implemented the grading of a hitherto abandoned 5-kilometer road from Obodo ukwu, Enugu Akwu community to the neighbouring Inyi community, both in Oji River Local Government Area. “That the people can commute from our village to Nkwo Inyi market through that road is because of the donor, Mr. Anyaegbudike,” he stated. Nigerian Breweries Plc/Heineken Africa Foundation Donate N48m… MTN Cheers The Super Eagles To Victory At AFCON 2022 “That is in addition to several other activities he had supported in the town including the Obodo ukwu electricity project, the furnishing of the Enugu Akwu health centre, water project, donations to sick people, educational grants, among others,” he remarked. Hon. Nonso Chijioke, the Councilor in charge of Enugu Akwu Ward 2 in the Oji River Local Government Council, thanked the donor for the kind gesture. He confirmed that the road project, which he helped oversee, was initiated, and funded by the donor adding that the community is eagerly waiting for government’s intervention in terms of tarring the road and implementing erosion control on the road. He described the donor as an unassuming young man with undoubted passion for community development, high leadership propensity and altruism, adding that the gesture to the widows showcases his humane disposition. He implored others to emulate the kind gestures of Mr. Anyaegbudike and contribute to societal development to leave an enduring legacy in the sands of time. Most of the recipients of the donation thanked the donor for what they referred to as, “his large heart and golden spirit.” They emphasised that the donation would go a long way to ameliorate the suffering of the indigent widows and their children. POLL According to them, Mr. Anyaegbudike has always stepped in to help the community when the need arises in different ways including in health, education, economic empowerment, and social infrastructure development. They prayed God to continue to empower the donor so that he will do more.