BAUCHI – North-East lawmakers elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday passed a vote of confidence on the leadership of the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Convention Committee. This development came shortly after a communique was issued at the end of a meeting of the Conference of Nigeria States Legislatures, Northeast zone held at the Hazibal hotel in Bauchi. The communique which was jointly signed by the Speaker of Bauchi State House of Assembly, Abubakar Y. Suleiman, and Kogi State Assembly Speaker Matthew Kolawole, noted that Buni has positively repositioned the great party, the APC. Democratic Principles Must Guide Democratic Choices –… PDP National Chair Leads 11 Governors, Fmr Senate President,… They observed that the Buni-led committee has performed exceptionally by uniting the APC a united as reflected through the number of state governors, legislators, and other personalities who have joined the party. The lawmakers agitated that the position of the president be zoned to the Northcentral, stressing it is a position that had hitherto been deprived since Nigeria became independent in 1960. “That the State Assembly Legislators of the Northeast zone pass a vote of confidence in the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for its positively aggressive repositioning of our great party, the All Progressives Congress.” The communique read They thanked the committee for its purposeful leadership which has attracted men and women of goodwill into the party. The members further urged the committee to do more. The State Assembly Legislators who endorsed the candidacy of Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello for President come 2023 said he has, against all odds, decided to take the bull by the horn, for joining the race among other notable politicians. POLL The members thanked him for leading the clarion call for the Presidency of Nigeria to come to the Northcentral zone, even as they urged him to have no fear or doubt in his race for the exalted office as members of the Northeast zone are solidly behind him. “That the State Assembly Legislators of the Northeast, who were elected by the people of the six (6) States that make up the geo-political zone hereby state that they agree to support our colleagues in the Northcentral to contest for the position of the president of Nigeria in 2023 – which is a position that the zone had hitherto been deprived of since Nigeria became independent in 1960. “The State Assembly Legislators of the Northeast zone pass a vote of confidence in the President of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GFCR), for his sterling and cohesive leadership of Nigeria through thick and thin and urge him to be relentless in ensuring that he leaves Nigeria in 2023 a better place.” “The meeting also agreed to call on the leadership of our great party, APC to zone the presidency to the Northern Region of the country. This is because the North will rule for 10 years at the end of President Buhari’s tenure, while the Southern region has ruled for 14 years,” the communique further read