MAKURDI – Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has signed into law the State Open Grazing Prohibi­tion and Ranches Establishment (anti-open grazing law) Amend­ment Bill 2017. The law as amended now stipulates that persons herding livestock within or across urban centres, rural settlements or any part of the state would be fined the sum of N500,000. It further states that while first time offenders are fined N500,000, anyone subsequently arrested committing the same offence would be liable to pay a fine of N1 million. Ohanaeze Commends Court Judgement In Favor Of Nnamdi Kanu Electoral Bill: Govs Laud Senate For Removing Contentious… Signing the Bill into law at the Banquet Hall of Government House, Makurdi, on Thursday, Governor Ortom explained that the fines were reviewed upwards based on current realities. ­ In view of this, the old fine for confiscated animal which prescribed N2,000 per cow was reviewed to N50,000, bearing in mind the cost of bringing in the cattle and caring for them at the quarantine centres in the state. Furthermore, the law stipulates a 14-year jail term with an option of N5 million fine for anyone who engages the services of under-aged children in open grazing. Other fines for confiscat­ed livestock include N50,000 fine per cow, N10,000 per pig, N5,000 per goat and N1,000 per poultry bird. The governor explained that “if the owners (of a confiscated livestock) don’t come to collect same day of confiscation, they will have to pay an additional N20,000 for each cow. If you don’t pay within seven days, the law permits us to auction it.” POLL The state governor had sought for the review of the law on grounds that the principal law had some lacu­na which needed an amend­ment so as to deter those who flagrantly disrespect the law. The Bill was passed by the Benue State House of Assembly (BNHA) last Tues­day having passed through the Standing Committee on Agriculture and Natural Re­sources during plenary. Daily Independent also learnt that other portions of the anti-open grazing law remains the same.