OSOGBO – To give it a befitting look and to enhance maximum productivity in the field of sports, the Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has given approval for a complete renovation of Osogbo Township Stadium, Osogbo, with immediate effect. Commissioner for Youths and Sports in Osun state, Yemi Lawal, disclosed this in Osogbo, the state capital, during a get-together organized for the state female football team, Osun Babes. The Commissioner, who told the female footballers and their male counterparts, Osun United, to be up and doing in their performances, re-emphasized that the welfare of the players and their officials will remain one of the top priorities of his ministry for optimum performance of the two teams in the 2022 football year. Ondo Partners FG To Provide Grants For MSMEs RED ALERT: New Ransomware Attacking Organisational Networks… The Commissioner stated this against the backdrop of the recent superlative performance of Osun Babes FC at a football encounter that took place in Ile-ogbo, Osun State. While congratulating the team on behalf of the State governor, Lawal, who was also visibly happy with the performance of the star-studded Osun Babes FC, disclosed that he will do everything humanly possible to ensure that the team enjoys the full support of the state government at all times in order to enable them to project the name of the State to an enviable height in their subsequent football encounters. The Commissioner, who was supported by the top officials of his Ministry at the grand reception party, noted that Governor Oyetola, in line with his known friendly disposition to sporting activities, will not expect anything less than the best from them at all times. While assuring the team of the review of their monthly salaries and allowances to encourage them to put in their best all the time, he also called on the newly signed players of Osun Babes to quickly complete their contract signing agreement with the State Government in order to partake in the many largesse awaiting them in Osun. Lawal further pledged a resolve to get new buses for the two State-owned football teams, Osun United and Osun Babes. POLL He, however, sought the love and support of the two teams towards the actualisation of the huge investment of Governor Oyetola on them, stressing that to whom much is given much is expected.