LAGOS – Data from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and made available to Daily Independent by Bisi Kazeem, Corps Public Education Officer, reveals that a total of 11672 road traffic crashes occurred between January and November, 2021, with the highest number recorded in Ogun State with a total of 1113 crashes. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) followed with 1003 cases while Bayelsa recorded the fewest crashes with just 39 RTCs recorded within the period under consideration. Kazeem said FRSC has a policy this year to continue with the comprehensive digitalisation of its operations through deployment of body and vehicle cameras and improvement of equipment of the monitoring rooms at the National Headquarters. FRSC Condemns Recycled Old Video Of Encounter With Tricycle… Ogun: Photographers, Others Make Brisk Business As Students… The Corp’s Public Education Officer said the corps would exterminate all incidences of corruption and abuse of our personnel as the entire operational front would be fully monitored. He said, “The Corps policy will also include ensuring that fleet owners/operators particularly in haulage industry, as critical stakeholders who have tremendous investment in the road transport sector would comply with all safety standards, paramount of which include total compliance to safety standards, vehicles safety standards, operators safety standards and drivers safety standards. “They must ensure round the clock commitment to the Safe-To-Load and Speed Limiting Device installation programmes and cooperate fully with the FRSC in its enforcement.” He added, “The corps will make the installation of tracking devices in fleets to monitor drivers in transit a priority, ensure proper registration of all vehicles in fleet, the proper placement of number plates and resist number plate swapping; ensure that drivers subject themselves to road traffic regulations and directives of traffic law enforcers as well as desist from killing and assaulting of law enforcement agents. “We shall also intensify advocacies to compel them to invest more in drivers training and re-training and ensure that consideration is given to the establishment of articulated vehicle drivers training institute and ensure the fixing of mandatory inflammable signs and retro-reflective tapes on all trucks, among others. POLL “Our patrol operations have been beefed up with additional operational tools including more vehicles in our fleet. “This is to ensure quality delivery of services. We have also digitalised the National Traffic Radio for wider reach on enlightenment programmes that will change bad road culture, including mobile application for live streaming and so on.” Meanwhile, the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) through Babatunde Akinbiyi, its spokesperson at a press conference last week, in Abeokuta, said, Ogun recorded 831 road accidents in 2021, with 228 deaths. He said 713 vehicles and 118 motorcycles were involved in the accidents. He added that 1311 people were injured in the various accidents comprising 931 males and 380 females. NDLEA Nabs Grandpa, Fake Security Agent Over Imported Drug… Passengers Stranded As Cargo Train Derails In Minna The spokesperson further stated that out of the 228 deaths