ABEOKUTA – The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, has told the former President Olusegun Obasanjo that though he (Obasanjo) has retired from partisan politics, partisan politics will not retire from Obasanjo as he remains an emeritus member of the Party. The National Chairman of the Party, Iyorchia Ayu said this on Saturday when he led members of the National Working Committee of the Party and other party leaders in a courtesy call on the former President at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library. Ayu, while responding to the comment of Obasanjo that nothing will drag him back to partisan politics said in as much politics is about the welfare and well-being of the people, partisan politics will remain with Obasanjo. Lagos4Lagos: PDP Needs 8 Years Of Planning Plus Hard Work To Win… Ekiti 2022: Ward Congress Places Moral Burden On PDP –… Both Obasanjo and Ayu had addressed the media and other party members after emerging from a closed-door meeting that lasted more than two hours. The team led by Ayu had arrived the Pent House residence of Obasanjo, located within the Library in the company of the PDP Vice Presidential candidate in the 2019 election, Peter Obi; former Governors, Sule Lamido (Jigawa), Olusegun Mimiko (Ondo), Liyel Imoke (Cross River) and Donald Duke (Cross River). The Deputy National Chairman of the Party (South), Taofeek Arapaja and other party officials were part of the entourage. The Chairman of the opposition party, described Obasanjo’s administration as the golden era of PDP and Nigeria, lamenting that “Nigeria has now falls short of leadership that Nigeria deserves.” He also described Obasanjo as an African leader who has no equal after Nelson Mandela of South Africa, recalling how the former President has retired to ensure peace in the whole of Africa. POLL Speaking on Obasanjo’s retirement from politics, Ayu said, “Even though you (Obasanjo) retired from partisan politics, partisan politics will never retire from your blood, because you want the right thing done and since you want the right thing done, for life you will remain the emeritus member of the PDP. “You cannot build a house and leave it to collapse. You throw a challenge to me that if I have been there from the beginning why have I not done anything, maybe I was doing something, but it was not good enough, we will continue to contribute our own quota, we will continue to come to you, so, I want to plead with you, please, don’t be tired of us as we come knocking asking for your advice asking for wisdom because the words of elders are the word of wisdom and there is no leader here in this country than president Olusegun Obasanjo.” Likening Ayu’s responsibility to what a de facto military dictator of Uganda, Idi Amin told him about African leadership, the former President said the fate of the Party and that of the Country rests on the soldiers of the Chairman. He however said no amount of persuasion from Nigerians, especially from the founding fathers of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would bring him back into partisan politics. The former President insisted that he had left party politics for good, but he would continue to contribute his quota to the development of Nigeria as an elder statesman. Armed Forces Remembrance Day: Occasion For Sober Reflection,… Tension In Ekiti As PDP Governorship Aspirants Reject Ward… The former President recalled how members of his ward led by the then ward Chairman, Surajudeen Oladunjoye, tore his PDP membership card some years ago, saying that he remained retired from politics since then. He however admitted that the PDP played an important role in his life having run as President for two terms under the umbrella of the Party. Obasanjo said, “I have been with the party right from inception. Whatever I do in my own life, because I became President on the platform of PDP, PDP will continue to be part of the history of my life, but having said that, the day that my ward decided to tear my PDP card was the day I ceased to be a member of PDP. “And that day, I vowed that I will not be a member of any political party again, but I will remain a statesman in Nigeria, in West Africa, in Africa and indeed in the world. “I retired 14 years ago and I remain retired and I will remain retired by the grace of God. “Bear in mind and I want to emphasise that, I’m no longer in partisan politics and there is nothing that will bring me back to partisan politics, but I will always be interested in what is good for Nigeria and anybody who wants to have my advice, I will distinctively give it in the best interest of Nigeria and in the best interest of Africa. “But if I retired from partisan politics if politics is the welfare of the people, I must not retire from the welfare and well-being of people whether in my own community, in my own State, in my own country, anywhere in Africa or indeed anywhere in the world. “And that is why I have the type of responsibility that I now have in the Horn of Africa which is not an easy responsibility, but it has to be done, but I will say that your (Ayu) own responsibility is not an easy one either, but it has to be done. “Iyorchia, you have PDP load with Nigeria load and it is only God that can help you to carry this load which of course, I believe if God gives you a responsibility, he will also give you the wherewithal to be able to carry that responsibility,” Obasanjo said.