Sir Muftau Oyegunle is the President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), and Chairman, Insurance Industry Consultative Council (IICC). In this interaction with CHRIS EBONG, he speaks on several issues bordering on the insurance industry, the CIIN, and the economy. Excerpt: How would you rate insurance industry performance in 2021 vis-a vis a total premium income of N520bn underwritten this year? In terms of premium income, you would notice that there was an increase in gross premium income and that is commendable knowing that many industries did not do well because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the lockdown and related activities. But, that does not mean we are there yet. We are not there yet until we are able to get insurance into every household in this country. Until we get governments to support us to enforce compulsory insurances. For example, the health insurance is very, very basic. All Nigerians should be covered. I was reading a report that the government is planning health insurance cover for all the elderly, for those of us who are above 60 years of age, fine, but we are years behind. The industry, yes, we are making progress but we can do better than this if the environment is enabling enough. And as I said, now that we seem to be having the support of the federal government and the National Assembly has promised that the new Insurance Law will come out early next year, we believe that 2022 will be a better year for the industry than 2021. How Should We Play The Equity Market In This New Year, Given The… The Imperative Of Positive Nigerian Economy In 2022 The review of the Insurance Act 2003 has taken so much time, what is responsible? Yes, you are right but probably we did not get our axe right early enough. What has always been the tradition is NAICOM pushing this thing it is just of recent the whole industry as a body particularly the NIA takes upon itself in form of putting pressure on where we should be going. So, the coordination is better now. And you would notice that when Hon. Nwokocha is talking he keeps on assuring us that they would do their best to make sure that the law is passed. The president mentioned that once it gets to his table he will attend to it fast. So, how soon do we expect it to come out? It’s the government. If you asked me this question by September I would say before the end of this year. Now the year is gone. So let us just hope that before half of next year we will see the light in the day, the way government works is another thing entirely. POLL Won’t you back out when your tenure is over? No by half of next year I must have completed my tenure. The IICC conference comes up in June. Ostensibly that is the end of my tenure effectively. But because it comes up in Abuja, and taking annual general meeting of the institute to Abuja is not convenient for many people that is the only reason we will come back and do AGM in Lagos for me to handover to the incoming after that conference. How are you going to ensure that the bill is passed before you exit? By the grace of God, we are all talking about it on daily basis. It’s the assembly and we are putting pressure every here and there. You can put pressure and you also need to watch and pray for it to come to happen. But Nwokocha keeps on assuring us that they will do what is the needful early enough. So let us believe and trust him. Recently, the NAICOM charged directors of insurance companies to ensure that claims were paid promptly, as a director in many companies, what is your take on this? Interswitch Offers Product Developers Access To Apis For… Why NIMASA Canvasses Full Devt. Of Northern Maritime Sector To be honest with you, I’m proud to say payment of claims in insurance companies has improved tremendously. You are a journalist you can check this out. About two, three or five companies are the problems that we have now, very, very few and NAICOM is aware. How to resolve the problem is the challenge NAICOM has. But generally speaking claims payment in insurance industry has improved tremendously. I don’t want to mention names; you know the companies. If get any complaint outside those companies, please let me know. When the SARS claims happened somebody sent a letter to CIIN that one company refused to pay that claim. So I called the company and said you can’t do that the industry has agreed that all claims related to that must be settled and it was settled. I sit on the board of Prestige Assurance and I know that we don’t have problems about claims payment and same thing with other companies there is no problem about claims payment outside those companies we are talking about. The claims payment has improved tremendously and I’m happy about. Even others are putting pressure on the NAICOM to do something about those companies. We all know them but it is only NAICOM that can take action. But don’t forget, NAICOM too has its own limitation. NAICOM cannot withdraw the licence of any insurance company it’s only the minister that withdraw the licence. The federal government has presented the 2022 budget of over N16trillion, how do you view this? Our budget has always been an informed estimate because at the end of the year, even with what happened so far, government deficit always over run the budget which is a big challenge that government is still borrowing money. But give it to this government, one thing they are struggling to do despite all the challenges – in fact, if you ask me, I think the security is the major issue they have – because despite how tight the economy is, they are struggling to invest in infrastructure. Either by borrowing or one way or another, they are investing in infrastructure. They still construct roads, they are doing railways and expanding the ports. So, I give it to them. Ordinary, if they’ve folded their arms and watch it and say there is no money we would find ourselves in a worse situation. So, they are investing in infrastructure and I believe next year they will deliver the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. So, looking at the budget with infrastructure, infrastructure in itself will move the economy forward on its own. If the government can put basic infrastructure in place, then the economy itself will grow and if the economy grows, insurance naturally will grow. So, I think the only aspect now for the government to pay attention to is government itself. The vice president is heading the one stop shop for registration of companies that are doing business in Nigeria for ease of doing business. I don’t think we are there yet. People still have problems with all arms of government. So, let them do more about that, put infrastructures in place. Once the economy grows insurance itself will gro. It is a natural sequence. It’s like you are trying to justify the spate of borrowing by the federal government because you mention the revolution in infrastructural development, can you expatiate on the impact of this? Even as individual, there is nothing wrong borrowing in itself. There is hardly a business that does not borrow money. What is wrong is when you borrow one; you don’t use the money for the purpose you borrowed for or you borrow for wrong reasons. If you borrow to do railway, can you imagine tits impact on the economy? Just imagine if you can take all those trailers off the roads you imagine its impact on the economy. So, there is nothing wrong in government borrowing, let’s agree on that. It is only when you borrow and you don’t use for the purpose you are borrowing, even when they use the money for the purpose, the problem somewhere along the line. What do have to say about a situation where money is borrowed to fund recurrent expenditures rather than capital expenditures that would in turn regenerate returns? Most of their borrowings are tied to projects, check it out. I think it makes sense and I would do that. Fear of the people is that you are paying from the income, you are not tying the repayment to the projects that you are investing in. but that’s a question of time. If the power project they doing in Mambila of course, it is going to take three or four years before getting anything from there, so it may not be possible to tie repayment directly to that project. But the good thing about this is that subsequent governments, if they are serious, repayment would not be a problem. So, there is nothing wrong in borrowing. No. Let them borrow but where people are afraid is when they take the money and get it embezzled. But in fairness we can see what they are doing. People ride train now from Lagos to Ibadan, it is an experience. Let us also look at the industry in 2022, what should we expect? I expect that the industry will grow. CIIN as an institute will continue to intensify the need for professionals in the industry, and I am happy that all other arms of the industry are now working together…because the world economy has gotten to a level of a knowledge economy. You need to go with knowledge and IT skills. That’s all it takes now. The business has gone beyond what we were doing 30 years ago. So, it is our own responsibility to keep on providing that knowledge, to make sure that even the people that are certified, the professionals are continuously being updated to keep them in tune with the world of today. Insurance industry will continue to grow; we need to provide the professionals that will man it to make sure we go to the next level. And as you know insurance is just starting in this country we are not there yet. The penetration is just 0.3per cent. Until we get to 10, 15per cent we are talking about four, five times of what we are witnessing now. So, we have a bright future ahead for us. Insurance industry will continue to grow; we need to provide the professionals that will man it to make sure we go to the next level. And as you know insurance is just starting in this country we are not there yet. The penetration is just 0.3per cent. Until we get to 10, 15per cent we are talking about four, five times of what we are witnessing now. So, we have a bright future ahead for us.