ENUGU  – A 36-year-old Millicent Amadigwe whose three children were allegedly killed by her husband in Enugu State has cried out for justice. “I want justice for my three children as I can’t forget my last memory with them. I ate breakfast with my children before leaving for the market on 4th of January 2022, only to get back in the evening and meet their dead bodies. “I pray someone wakes me up from this dream because I can’t still believe that any right thinking man can engage in such evil act,” Millicent said sobbing Abia Chief Judge Releases 14 Prison Inmates Minister’s Aide Warns Youths Against Thuggery, Violence… This is the agony of Millicent, a mother of four who lost her three children to the cold hand of death as her husband whom she has lived together with for eight years allegedly murdered the children and kept them in the Freezer. Police in Enugu had arrested 52 year old, Ifeanyi Amadikwa, who hailed from Imo State for allegedly killing his two biological daughters and a step daughter. Amadikwa who resides at at 74 Nkwubor Road, Emene, Enugu.with his wife and four children has been detained in the state CID after his wife reported the case to the police Two of the children are his biological children while the remaining two are step children. The three girls murdered are Chidalum Amadikwa aged 11 (who is his step-daughter), Amarachi Amadikwa aged 8 and EbubechukwuAmadikwaaged 4. But the 4th child was lucky to be alive because he followed her mother to the market on the day the incident happened. Narrating her ordeal to Daily Independent, Millicent said she regretted leaving her three children with her husband saying, “4th of January will forever remain a bad memory for me as no one ran to welcome me when I came back from market as they usually do, the death of this children is heart breaking and devastating. POLL “This heartbreaking story all started on 4th of January when I went to market with my son and asked my eldest Daughter to prepare lunch and dinner for the siblings as well as wash their dirty clothes but by the time I came back the house was empty and the house chore I gave to her was not done. “I became worried when I didn’t see or hear their voices. I called the attention of my husband who told me he didn’t see them; then I became more worried and went from house to house in our street to look for them.