TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI It was double honour for a member of the House of Representatives, representing Ikeja Federal Constituency, Hon. James Abiodun Faleke, last Friday as he was conferred with the title of Atunlushe-Akorede of Ikejaland and also received an ‘Award of Excellence’ from the Association of Lagos Artisans and Technicians (ASLAT) Ikeja branch. Faleke during a ceremony attended by prominent personalities, politicians, religious and traditional leaders, captains of industries and community leaders, among others from within and outside Lagos, was bestowed with the Atunlushe-Akorede of Ikejaland while his wife, Esther, was also conferred with the Yeye Atunlushe-Akorede of Ikejaland title. Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… Senate Postpones Action On Electoral Act The titles were jointly conferred on the couple by the three traditional rulers monarchs in Ikeja –Alaguda of Aguda, Oba Hakeem Agbaosi Saibu (Ewe-Obaja I); Awise of Onigbongbo, Oba Oluwasegun Adeyemi Ajasa (Olaside I) and Oloregun of Oregun, Oba Olukunmi Olusesan Akingbola (Ikudoro I). While Faleke and his wife were been celebrated by the people of Ikeja, with the chieftaincy titles, the federal lawmaker was surprised by artisans and technicians in Lagos as the Association of Lagos Artisans and Technicians (ASLAT), Ikeja branch, presented Award of Excellence to him. The award was presented to the lawmaker in recognition of his extraordinary and exceptional Passion and Support to Ikeja Artisans and Technicians Those who presented the award said Faleke, a former chairman of Ojodu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) and one-time Deputy Governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State, is a man that has contributed immensely to support artisans and technicians in Lagos State and Ikeja in particular.. An elated Faleke said the double honours showed that the his constituents in Ikeja appreciated all he has been doing for them, especially since he has been representing them in the House of Representatives. While assuring his constituents that he will not relent in his efforts to serve the people of Ikeja Federal Constituency passionately, he also assured them that the honours bestowed on him by the traditional rulers and ASLAT will be a wake-up call for him to do more for his people for the rest of his life. POLL Speaking at the event, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who was accompanied by his wife, Salamotu, described Faleke as a reliable man who deserved the double honour. “Hon. Faleke deserves this title. He has a proven track record, and the people can attest to this fact. I am proud of him, and wish him goodness in all his endeavours. He is a good representative of the people, as evidenced in today’s outing, and we can only pray for him to go higher and higher,” he said. Speaking on the award his association gave to Faleke, the National Coordinator of the Association of Nigerian Artisans and Technicians (ASNAT), Mr. Shina Akinyemi, said: “Hon. James Abiodun Faleke deserves all accolades and encomium he is getting everywhere now. He did not just get here in one day or used money as many normally do to get all these honours, he worked for it. “In our own case, the Artisans and Technicians in Ikeja Local Government Area, Faleke has been our life support’ for more than 15yrs; assisting us with so many things in kind and cash just to uplift and boost our trades and business. Did you see the last mega empowerment he did, 100 mini busses, 200 tricycles, thousand of working tools and equipment were giving to about 15,000 Artisans and Technicians across Ikeja LGA. “My brother it has never happened before – Koseleri! No one, I repeat no one has ever done so much for Artisans and Technicians in Lagos State as Hon Faleke has done in the last 15 years. No wonder that title Atunluse (the one who upgrades the city) Akorede (one who brings goodness) combined with our own Award of Excellence fits him and his adorable wife perfectly. We will continue to remain loyal and support him in all his endeavors and aspirations.”