ENUGU – The Diana Foundation International (DFI), a non-governmental organisation, has donated psychiatric drugs and other items worth over N500,000 to psychiatric patients in ESUTH Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Emene, Enugu. The other items are cartons of surgical gloves, disinfectants, toiletries as well as some bags of rice, beans and carton tin tomatoes. The items also included cooked food, confectionaries and soft drinks. Presenting the items to the patients on Sunday, the Founder of the foundation, Ijeoma Ede, said that the foundation was moved by compassion to see that psychiatric patients were given a sense of belonging and love this season. Wike Bags Chieftaincy Title In Enugu, Describes Ugwuanyi As… Police Arrest 120 Criminal Suspects In Enugu, Caution Against… According to her, the NGO was focused on supporting people living with disabilities and downtrodden in their daily lives, helping to improve their daily economic engagements and providing materials to aid their lives generally. She said that the foundation had done similar donations in Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, New Haven, Enugu and Primary Health Centre, Ugwogo-Nike near Enugu recently. “I thank God for using my foundation to touch lives, especially patients here in this hospital. “You can see they are happy seeing people come close and associate with them and not stigmatising or looking at them as lesser humans. “I urged other Nigerians to give to better the society and create that bond of love among all Nigerians irrespective of socio-economic or societal status,” she said. POLL Responding, a Senior Social Worker at the hospital, Mrs Ruth Okechukwu, who received the items on behalf of the patients and hospital, thanked the foundation for its large heart and commitment to better the lots of the downtrodden. Okechukwu, who represented the medical director of the hospital, said: “We are overwhelmed by this manifest show of love to our patients and the hospital in general”. “We are grateful and pray that God will continue to sustain the foundation and its founder as well as reward the founder and members of the foundation bountifully,” she said.