Former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha’s spokesperson Sam Onwuemeodo, has come down heavily on the administration of the incumbent governor of the state, Hope Uzodinma. In a statement, Onwuemeodo asked Uzodinma to stop politicising matters bordering on the security of the state. The statement read, “Governor Hope Uzodinma had ended his much-orchestrated stakeholders’ meeting on Tuesday, January 4, 2022(today), and at the end of the day, he failed or refused to name the sponsors of insecurity in the state, after much noise to that effect before the meeting. NSCDC Averts Clash Between Hausa, Yoruba in Kwara NAF Appoints New Branch Chiefs, Air Officers Commanding, Other… “The governor was quoted to have said that he would “allow security agencies to investigate the culprits and bring them to book”. “However, the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Oguwuike Nwachukwu, had, before the stakeholders’ meeting, named some people in his press release as the sponsors of insecurity in the state, including Senator Rochas Okorocha and Ugwumba Uche Nwosu. “The CPS was not conscious of contradicting his principal. And that was what happened. “That is to say, on Monday, January 3, 2022, the governor, through his Press Secretary, had mentioned some names as sponsors of insecurity in the state. “And a day after, precisely on Tuesday, January 4, 2022, the same governor said he won’t mention the sponsors of insecurity in Imo again and said he “would allow security agencies to investigate the culprits and bring them to book”. POLL “Yet, we won’t fail to ask, whose report or account do we believe? Governor Uzodinma’s account or that of his Chief Press Secretary? “The government has made Imo State a laughing stock. The government has become a nightmare to itself. And an embarrassment to Imo State and her people. “Otherwise, there is no reason a CPS could not have waited for the man who engaged him to have his stakeholders meeting and then take off from there. “For us, since Governor Uzodinma had failed or refused to mention the alleged sponsors of insecurity in the state , at the stakeholders meeting, we leave it at that.”