***Says Obaseki Has Improved LG Governance BENIN – The forum of Association of Heads of Local Government Administration in Edo has stated that the allegations by the National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) against Governor Godwin Obaseki of perpetrating corruption and illegality at the Councils as mischievous and crass display of ignorance of working at the grass root by the body. The body rather noted that Gov. Godwin Obaseki’s ingenuity has brought imcrease in the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and thus mprove governance at the Councils. APC: Court Strikes Out Suit Challenging Legality Of Buni-led… Chief Ezeonwuka Urges Soludo To Make Adequate Provision For… In a statement jointly endorsed by the Chairman of the Forum, Desmond Imonike, (Etsako East) Local Government, Ahonsi Mathias, (Ovia North East) and Shaibu Ekha Ademola, (Owan East), condemned the statement by the state NULGE chairman, Mr Lazarus Adorolo and noted that it is not a reflection of governance in the LGA’s. The forum noted that with the improvement in the IGR of the Councils through some measures by the State government, they have been up to date with wage bill obligations as well as carrying out some development projects. They also affirmed that the State government has not introduce any extraneous factor in the sharing of the federal allocation and other sources of revenue to the 18 Councils outside what is permitted by law. Contrary to Adorolo’s position that the Councils were not involved in revenue sharing, the administrators maintained that they participate fully in the Pre Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC) and the actual JAAC. According to the forum, “We have read the press statement made by the State President of NULGE and wish to state without equivocation that the statement was made in ignorance without knowing the workings of Government. POLL “First and foremost, we the helmsmen at the 18 local governments participate fully in both the pre JAAC and actual JAAC meetings where the proceeds of the Federation Accounts due to the 18 local governments are shared amongst us. “At such meetings, there is always a robust debate before decisions are reached and the money distributed accordingly. “The State Government does not introduce any extraneous factor in the sharing outside what is permitted by law. “On the issue of ten percent internal revenue generated by the state government being added to sharing, it is strange because subsequent Governors from Igbinedion to Oshiomhole has never shared such among Councils. “We are baffled and cannot explain why the state president of NULGE would single out the Obaseki administration as a culprit, this beats our imagination. 2023: APC To Retain Power At Centre, Overtake PDP In Rivers,… Otaru Of Auchi To Confer Customary Title On Prince Agba “Since April 2021 and due to the Obaseki Administration efforts at repositioning the Councils, salaries are regular and efforts are on top gear to settle the backlogs,” the statement declared. While noting the decline in revenue accruing to the Councils from the federation due to present economic crunch, the forum called on Adorolo to mobilise his members for revenue drive to improve IGR. “Due to the present economic crunch, payment of levies at the local levels have dwindled and in addition, the price of crude oil has fallen the resultant effect is the reduction available to the local governments nationwide and Edo State is not an exception. “So what one would expect from the State President is first and foremost to express his gratitude to the State Governor for saving the councils from total collapse and mobilise his members for revenue drive instead of this kind of vituperation which would do no one any good,” it stated.