AKURE – Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Ondo State Commandant, Dr Hammed Abodunrin, has called for the training of school pupils on security to check to kidnap cases in schools. He stated this known at the official presentation of officers of the Corps’ Female Special Squad to Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Princess Oladunni Odu, in Akure, the state capital. Speaking further on the need for everyone to be more security conscious, Abodunrin advised parents and guardians to be more vigilant and make their wards to be security conscious. Bayelsa Assembly Wants Probe Of Moribund State-Owned Motel Soludo’s Selection Of Technocrats Shows Futuristic Agenda… He disclosed that the special female squad established by the formation’s commander-general, Dr Ahmed Audi, in line with the UN 2001 Security Sector Reforms, would attend to a security issue in schools in the state. According to the NSCDC boss, ”We should see it beyond policing them 24/7 because there is the need to teach children to be conscious of their environment. “On our part, we are going to give the children tips so that they will know how to also handle their own security. ”We are not saying that they should start pursuing armed robbers or bandits but to know something about personal security. “As we are teaching our students moral lessons in classes, we should also teach them about security and vigilance, because schools and children have become a critical national asset, while human resources are great assets. POLL “If anything happens on the street of London or New York, within one or two minutes, operatives will get to the roots, not because of technology alone but because they have conscious population. “That is what we are trying to build upon our population.” Describing the establishment of the squad as a welcome development, Princess Odu called for more women participation in the development of society. She said: “Women are passionate to contribute their quota to whatever the men are doing. “We are not saying that we want to overtake the men. What we are saying is: just carry us along so that we too can be part of everything you are doing.” 2023: Your Children’s WAEC Fees Will Be Paid If I’m… Buhari Writes Senate, Seeks Passage Of Bills Needed To Fight… The SSG promised the government continuous support for security agencies in the state, adding that “Everybody knows that Ondo State is peaceful; this is because all the security agencies are doing well by ensuring that people go to bed and sleep with their two eyes closed.”