MAGNUS ONYIBE So, as Mr president is currently insisting that the three options of direct, indirect and consensus options must be applied in political party primaries for the sake of upholding the tenets of democracy, is it not curious that rather than accepting that a referendum which is a fundamental component of democracy should be conducted, lPOB was proscribed and thousands of lgbo youths involved in the struggle have been sent to their early graves by government security forces and their leader, Nnamdi Kanu is languishing in jail? Ditto for Sunday lgboho, another crusader for the creation of Oduduwa nation exclusively for the Yoruba ethnic nationality? A Nation In Search Of Its Soul COVID-19: Pushing For Economic Growth, National Development… For the umpteenth time, let me restate that l don’t subscribe to the splitting up of our beloved country which is the mission of Nnamdi Kanu and Sunday Igboho. And l can even go further to wager a bet that if a referendum on Biafra or Oduduwa nations were to be allowed to be conducted, voters on the side of Nigeria remaining one indivisible country, would prevail. That is simply because the lgbo, Yoruba and the Hausa/Fulani that need to have a huge market to sell their wares are aware that it is in their best intrest to remain in one Nigeria. I mean it is a settled belief amongst globalists that the bigger a country, the better the opportunities for the citizens. China and India, the two biggest countries, population wise are good reference points. And in the case of the place of lgbos in Nigeria which is peculiar because they have literally been in the cold since they were defeated in a civil war that ended in 1970, they need to be given a sense of belonging by offering them the chance to take a shot at the presidency as was the case in 1999 when both Olusegun Obasanjo of PDP and Olu Falae of APP both of whom are of Yoruba origin were allowed, with the exclusion of other nationalities to contest for the presidency. It is needless restating the fact that the gesture assuaged the pain of Yoruba nation arising from the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election acclaimed to have been won by the amiable and popular philanthropist and business mogul turned politician, MKO Abiola who also lost his life in the ensuing struggle to claim his mandate. And with respect to the Yoruba quest for Oduduwa nation, as l understand it, lgboho is fighting inequality in the polity bordering on hegemony by a particular ethnic group over other members of the Nigerian union and he is also aiming to secure Yoruba forests from being taken over by bandits, violent herdsmen and other criminal elements that have taken over similar forests in the northern parts of our country. POLL On the challenge of finding suitable presidential candidates, and in a situation where there is an apparent dearth of ideal ‘presidential material’ of lgbo extraction, based on some universal minimum requirements, l had proposed for the main opposition party, PDP a hybrid or a short cut pathway to the presidency for the lgbo via a unique partnership with former Vice President Abubakar Atiku, Turaki Adamawa, who has the political clout and financial muscle, (a successful businessman/politician that has vied for the presidency up to four times and in nearly three decades) therefore has the momentum to build upon to breast the tape ahead of his competitors in the presidential race in 2023. Unfortunately, that formula -Atiku presidency with lgbo Vice President-is currently facing headwinds as PDP governors are said to be in quandary as to weather or not to adjust their position in the light of the prevailing political dynamics in the country which compels the return of presidential power from the north to the south. The good news is that politicians on both northern and southern divides appear to be poised to return power to the south , and president Buhari’s body language tends to suggest that he would like to hand over to someone from the south east. In my assessment, that person is unlikely to be a professional politician or a core lgbo person. That is all l can say for now as other details would unfold during the much delayed APC convention, if it is held next month or in weeks and months ahead. Bolaji Akinyemi: Fountain Of Ideas Embrace Challenges Meanwhile, Nigerians are holding their breath as politics takes the center stage, and governance recedes beginning from now to May 29, 2023. Onyibe, an entrepreneur, Public Policy Analyst, author, development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.