Managing Director/Regional Executive, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, has described the recently launched Pan-African Payment and Settlement System (PAPSS) as a critical enabler for intra Africa trade. Akinwuntan who spoke on Arise TV on the launch of the payment settlement system regulatory framework, emphasised that the new payment method will serve as a backbone through which all the countries in Africa are able to actualise transactions done within the free trade area, adding that it will also create employment, wealth, and deliver values to exporters on the continent. “This common payment platform will enable Africa to move intra trade from the current 16%, representing $70 billion to the range of 50-55% in the next two to three years. APC: Court Strikes Out Suit Challenging Legality Of Buni-led… Osinbajo Pays Condolence Visit To Olubadan Family, Describes… “This is huge because we could be talking about $300 billion dollars intra African trade close to 15% of Africa GDP. Besides, PAPSS will also eliminate payment delays, third party currencies as well as benefit households, small businesses, and financial institutions. “This is positive developments for intra Africa trade. It is a step in the right direction. It will promote cross border trade for African exporters, liberalise payments and will deliver payment that delivers value. Africa is here for real business. Africa is ready. Let’s go for it,” he said. Mr. Akinwuntan also disclosed that, “Ecobank is a supporter of this initiative. Today, we can reach up to 35 countries because we already have a Pan African switch, and we are already connected to PAPSS. “I call for collaboration of all stakeholders to achieve the desired objectives; we have the key industry sectors that deals on Pan African trade. We need to go through with them, helping them to see the practical possibilities. We have a responsibility to take this message to them that if they want to do any transaction across Africa, they don’t need to look for an international bank. PAPSS will work the same way NIBSS works in Nigeria.” PAPSS, developed by Afreximbank, is expected to boost intra-African trade by transforming and facilitating payment, clearing and settlement for cross-border trade across Africa. At the launch, Prof. Benedict Oramah, the President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Afreximbank, said: “we are eager to build upon AfCFTA’s creation of a single market throughout Africa.