ABAKALIKI – The youth wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide has called on all ethnic nationalities in Nigeria to support and rally round the South-East zone to produce the next President of the country in the interest of equity, fairness and justice. The national youth leader of the group, Engr Damian Okafor, who made the call in a statement on Monday in Abakaliki,Ebonyi State,said the mirage of challenges facing Nigeria as a nation would be tackled squarely if Nigerian President of Igbo extraction is elected in 2023, adding that Ndigbo is naturally endowed to do the magic. “Ohanaeze youth wing,therefore, call on all the zones in Nigeria to throw their support collectively behind South-East zone to produce the next president as such would enthrone peaceful coexistence, harmony, love, equity and dwarf the agitation for secession.” PDP Nullifies Ekiti Ward Congresses Integrity Made PDP Invite Ali-Modu Sheriff To Be National… Okafor further called on all political parties in Nigeria to zone their presidential tickets to the South-East region ahead of the 2023 general elections, insisting that Ndigbo have paid their dues for the growth and stability of Nigeria in all ramifications and deserved to be supported to produce the next president of the country. “We make this bold call having recalled what happened in 1999 where two major political parties, Alliance for Democracy and the People’s Democratic Party picked their presidential candidates, namely, Chief Olu Falaye and Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, respectively, from the South West to assuage the feelings of marginalization, and agitations from the people of the region. “In view of the current genuine agitations in the South-East arising from the marginalization of the region in the nation Nigeria, it is only right, just and fair for other regions to support the South-East to produce next president of the country.” He also debunked the insinuation in some quarters that if an Igbo man is elected president of Nigeria, he will divide the country, saying “those concocting this trash are the enemies of Ndigbo but they will fail.” “How could an Igbo man think of dividing Nigeria when we have investments scattered all over the country. And millions of our people are living in other regions of the country doing their businesses. Who will lose if that happens? Certainly, Ndigbo will be the one to lose. So, such fear should be disregarded in its entirety,” Okafor said. POLL He further urged politicians from other regions who have presidential ambition to drop their ambition and support Ndigbo to produce the next president of Nigeria