Last Saturday the kernel of this column was if Super Ea­gles fear factor had returned? The question became imper­ative given Nigerians’ reaction to the team’s unexpected group stage per­formance at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Note my words, I said unexpect­ed performance. It was an unex­pected performance, because before the tournament kicked off, we can counted Nigerians on the fingers of one hand, who would bet on the team qualifying for the knockout stage, not to mention defeating Egypt. And Nigerians’ lack of confidence in the team was not without reason. It was not out of hatred or malice, but due to the team’s lacklustre, if you like, unimpressive performance during the Africa Cup of Nations and the World Cup qualifying series. What Went Wrong With Eguavoen And His Eagles? Menace Of Toxic Dust On Orlu-Owerri Road During the qualifying series, the Super Eagles struggled against teams they were expected to over­run, even on home soil. In Benin, against Sierra Leone, Eagles threw away a four-goal lead in the first half to draw 4-4. Against Equatorial Guin­ea, ranked 114 by FIFA at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, the Super Eagles lost 1-0. Aside the unimpressive perfor­mances, the team generally played as one under a curse. The hearts of the 200 million Nigerians were always in their mouth anytime the team was playing. But this was not the case at the AFCON, as Coach Austin Eguavoen seemed to have turned the team around to the delight of Nigerians, who have always craved for beautiful football. After not only beating Egypt but dominated the Pharaohs from start to finish, Nigerians’ hope in the team was rekindled due to what was described as a dream start. But at the AFCON in Garuoa, the team that soared sky high with three wins from three games and scoring six goals conceding one, “suddenly came crashing back to earth in a shuddering thump,” said Chief Se­gun Odegbami (MON). The players have all returned to their bases, tails tucked between their legs, the dream aborted by an unexpected and shocking defeat by a team-Tunisia- that was decimated by Covid-19, and had been so weak at the start of the championship they only managed to qualify for the round of 16 as third-best in their group. POLL The question naturally is what went wrong, why did the Super Ea­gles capitulate so suddenly and so easily? Was it the absence of some key players such as Victor Osimhen, Leon Balogun, Paul Onuachu and Odion Ighalo? Or was it that the con­sortium of indigenous coach led by Austin Eguavoen did not have what it takes to prosecute the AFCON? This was a team that pundits touted as a possible winner of the tournament after its opening game against Egypt that they dominated from start to finish. Unfortunately, I can’t provide an­swer to any of the above questions because I was not on ground in Ga­roua and neither have I interacted with any member of the team with the insider knowledge of what hap­pened in Garoua. Even at that as Odegbami asked during the week, I also want to ask. After the crash, what next for Nige­ria as the ‘Ides of March’ approaches, an even bigger challenge just ahead against a formidable opposition, the country’s fiercest rivals and ‘Neme­sis’ several times in the past – the Black Stars of Ghana? I mean the 2022 World Cup quali­fier where the five African represen­tatives would be decided. At the draw held last Saturday in Cameroon, Nigeria was drawn against Ghana, while Egypt will play Senegal. Cam­eroon has Algeria to contend with while DR Congo plays Morocco and Mali drawn against Tunisia. The five winners will represent Africa in Qatar. Of Ambition And National Interest David Umahi Vying For Presidency: Genius Or Blunder? Of the 10 teams, four (Nigeria, Ghana, Algeria and Mali) have ex­isted the AFCON with five (Senegal, Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco and Cam­eroon) left while DR Congo- did not qualify for the tournament. The issue today is not on the performances of African teams ex­pected to represent the continent in Qatar, but what lies ahead of Nigeria in March. Nigeria, please beware of the ‘Ides of March’ against a wounded Ghana Black Stars. We all know what hap­pened to the Black Stars. The team crashed out in the group stage and the coach was immediately sacked. With uncertainty hovering over which coach will manage the Eagles in the qualifiers, taking a decision now so as to avoid ‘had I know’ will do us a lot of good than harm. I want to remind Amaju Pinn­ick, president of the Nigeria Foot­ball Federation, the fate that befell Alhaji Ibrahim Galadima, the then chairman of the Nigeria Football Association, after the country failed to qualify for the 2006 World Cup in Germany. He never survived the backlash that followed and Pinnick should not believe that he is immune to such catastrophe if Eagles fail to qualify. He should know that Nige­rians want to see the team compete at the highest level of football, the World Cup. So, whoever superin­tends the team’s failure to reach the World Cup should not just bow out gracefully, but know that he would not be forgiven. Despite Nigerians wanting Eagles in Qatar, one issue after the AFCON debacle is that they are still divid­ed over the indigenous and foreign coach controversy. Even with the second round loss that has done a lot of damage to canvassers of in­digenous coaches for the team, many still believe that Eguavoen should be allowed to manage it. But how do you ask a coach, who came into a game without a Plan B, in a knockout stage of a tournament to continue? Or how to do you allow a manager who could not tweak his tactics on realising that his opponent had decoded his game plan or on realizing that his plan was not working? The import of this is that we need a coach adept at tactical flexibility. But on the flip side, Eguavoen never had time to train the team where he could have imposed his ideas. His first session was in Garuoa, no friendly game for him to assess the players. Should he be condemned for failing? But what of Jose Peseiro, the Por­tuguese, who is expected to take over after the AFCON. Will he be able to tinker the team and qualify for the World Cup? My guess is as good as yours. Just as Afolabi Gambari noted on his Facebook page on Tuesday, “Just a few weeks ago, some people said: We have had more than enough of Gernot Rohr. After five years as Super Eagles’ coach, he has shown that he has nothing to offer. In fact, he can’t take the Eagles anywhere. He is a very poor coach and he can no longer give what he doesn’t have. He must go.” Just 24 hours ago, some people said: “Augustine Eguavoen’s tactical knowledge of football is suspect. He has shown that he can’t coach at this level. There is something about the local coaches, they always fall short especially when least expected and they end up destroying the people’s emotion. That is why the foreign coaches are always preferred. Let Jose Peseiro take over the Super Ea­gles immediately if we are serious of going to the World Cup.” Honestly, I pity Pinnick for the first time, since he has to take a de­cision that could make or break his administrative acumen. I just want to warn that he should beware of the ‘Ides of March’.