LAGOS – Former spokesman of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organisation in the 2019 elections, Kassim Afegbua has advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), not to consider the former Vice President for its presidential ticket. Afegbua, a former Edo State Commissioner for Information, in a statement titled: “2023: Atiku and the Age of Methuselah Politics”, also urged the opposition party to cede its Presidential ticket to the South. According to him, “With the abysmal performance of President Muhammadu Buhari on account of age, incompetence and lack of capacity and political will to take deliberate and sustained action to bail out the country from all manner of challenges, it will be immoral for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to continue to express interest in seeking election in the 2023 presidential election having attained the retirement age. Stop Inflicting Hardship On Nigerians, NDYCN Cautions FG Foreign Group To Renovate Olumirin Water Fall To Boost Osun… “He cannot assume the role of a perpetual candidate or professional aspirant year in, year out, of the party as though the party was established for him alone. It defeats all sense of logic for such an old man to attempt another round of political contestation at a time the general feeling and mood in the country supports a younger Nigerian from the Southern extraction of the country. “For me, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar should quit his quest for the presidency and support a southern Nigerian candidate in the spirit of fairness, equity and justice that will assuage the feelings of stakeholders from the Southern part of Nigeria. It will be against the run of play and natural justice for any aspirant of Northern extraction to show interest in the 2023 presidential election within the Peoples’ Democratic Party threshold. It will offend national sentiments, emotions and logic for anyone from the North to show such interest given our diversities and heterogeneous political configurations.” He explained that given PDP’s doctrine of political power balancing and fairness, it will be against its own unwritten rule to cede the ticket to any Northern aspirant least of all Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Afegbua alleged that after the 2019 presidential election, “Atiku abandoned all of us in Nigeria and sought refuge in faraway Dubai, thus exposing us to the intimidations, harassment and threats posed by the desperate APC’s power oligarchs. “It was a case of a General abandoning his troops on the battlefield. Rather than draw strength from his presence, his absence exposed us to all manner of challenges. He was in Dubai and left us to our fate. When it mattered most for us to reach out to our candidate for motivation and necessary encouragement, AlhajiAtikuAbubakarvanishedintothethinair.”