World Bank has said that more than half of all low-income countries are already in debt distress or at high risk of it. The multilateral institution also warned that growing public debt of low income countries remains difficult to pin down either because data continue to be incompletely reported in official statistics or are hidden through confidentiality clauses. “Three facts in particular ought to make us all sit up and pay attention. First, 40 per cent of low-income countries have not published any sovereign debt data for more than two years; and many of those that have published data tend to limit the information to central-government debt and standard debt instruments such as loans and securities. Second, huge discrepancies exist today in publicly available estimates of debt in low-income economies: the difference between what’s reported by national debt authorities on their websites and what’s reported by multilateral development banks can be as much as 30 per cent of GDP in some instances. Third, 15 low-income countries today have debt that is collateralised by natural resources, yet none provide details on the collateral arrangements. Monetary, Fiscal Authorities Stimulus Programmes Boosted… Why FG Expands Tax Net, Introduce 6% Tax On e-Commerce Outlets “Uncertainty on that scale should not be acceptable in today’s environment. More than half of all low-income countries are already in debt distress or at high risk of it. Debt in low-and middle-income economies has climbed to levels without precedents in modern times” stating that “significant investment will be needed to sustain economic growth in the aftermath of COVID-19”,it said . “The evidence” it said, “is clear greater debt transparency allows governments to make informed decisions about future borrowing and reduces its cost in the long run. Accurate and comprehensive debt records also benefit creditors. “It allows them to fully assess whether a country’s debt is sustainable. It enables them to price debt instruments more accurately. If facilitates faster and more efficient debt restructurings faster. Debt transparency also makes it easier for citizens to hold governments accountable for the debt they take on”. On debt transparency, it maintained is not merely about data. It also entails transparency of borrowing operations; data may exist, but they may reflect opaque, illegitimate, or unreasonably costly borrowing practices.