ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has hinted that it will soon begin enforcing the legislation against noise pollution by hotels , restaurants, nightclubs and bars by conducting night patrols to verify compliance. The Coordinator,Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Tpl Umar  Shuaibu gave this hint in Abuja on Thursday during a meeting with owners of nightclubs, restaurants , nightclubs and bars, while assuring them that if they follow the rules , they have nothing to fear. He stated that, their goal was not to victimize anyone, but rather to protect public sanity, safety, and security, and that everyone had rights. According to him; “You have right in this city, but your right ends where somebody’s right is infringed. That is factual. We have to be our neighbours’ keepers and helpers, not becoming a nuisance to our neighbours. “Even if you operate a restaurant and not a nightclub, but the activities constitute a nuisance to others, then it is an offense in the FCT law. In Abuja Master Plan, we made our land-use plan the way things are needed for the residents. “Where schools, hotels, markets, and other things need to be in Abuja, they have been planned that way for them to be in the appropriate places. Our concern is how the hotels and nightclubs operate without disturbing other people. “We must respect our rights. If you know that you are disturbing your neighbours and do not change from it, tomorrow you also will be disturbed. We must make sure that we secure the rights of our neighbours. Security matters are very important in Nigeria presently,” he said. POLL Speaking also, the Director of Development Control, Muktar Galadima, added that people must respect the Abuja Master plan and standard, saying, the rules and regulations guiding development in the FCT are sacrosanct. His words; “We are building this city, not for ourselves but generations unborn. We recognized the fact that you are part of the development of the city, but your development should not be to the detriment of the people. If any of your clubs is found wanting, we will seal up the place. “Noise pollution is an offense. The law states that anybody that plays music and it constitutes noise to others is an offense. We want investors in the city, but your businesses must be done in a way that does not constitute a nuisance to other people. “Being in business should be in a location that is defined for such purposes, not for anybody to go and secure a residential property and turn it into nightclubs or hotels. It is unacceptable,” he added. Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah, , however, warned operators of restaurants and bars to resist the temptation to block the roads they operate on, that if they do not take correction, they will have no option but to seal up the place Saying, “Mostly at Wuse 2, people that patronize restaurants and clubs always block the roads with their vehicles and make the road inaccessible. That is not good and it is unacceptable” .