Retired Commissioner of Police, Friday Ibadin is a global security icon. He was among the 11 officers seconded to the United Nations Mission in Kosovo and was an operation officer at the regional headquarters. He attended various security courses in Egypt, Malaysia, France, and the USA. He is also a member of the African Centre for Crime Prevention Research, Cairo, Egypt. Ibadin retired voluntarily after 35 years of meritorious service. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Philosophy and in Law. He was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2007. He is into full time legal practice and is managing partner of Radiant Law Firm, Magodo, Lagos. He has since moved into the forefront of Esan struggle to clinch the next governorship position in Edo State in 2024. He spoke on this and other issues in this interview with TIM OKOJIE-AVE. Excerpt: As chairman of the much celebrat­ed Esan Leadership Summit held in Ewohimi in 2021, how would you describe the event, and what was it all about? The summit was designed by the organisers, the publishers of National Chronicle magazine,to set in motion an agenda to make Esan prosperous, politically vi­brant, culturally dynamic, and be at peace with itself – because af­ter the saturation of rhoterics, the volume of academic discourse, lip service and downright deceit of politics and politicking, the time has come for concrete steps to be taken to tackle the multitude of problems facing the Esan nation. Specifically, our plan of action, after the event, is to lift from the dust heaps of all valuable mate­rials, reports and proposals for immediate implementation to physically improve the lot of the people of Esan. How New Gender Law In Kwara Will Lift State’s GDP By 2025 Expanding Family Planning Services By Community Pharmacists,… The summit was about the develop­ment and unity of Esan land towards the 2024 governorship in Edo State, why do you think Esan deserves the seat this time? If you look at the history of Esan land, you will realise we are warriors, an average Esan man or woman has great potential embedded within him or her: if you can still recall that it was a son of Esan land, Chief Anthony Enahoro who moved the much celebrated motion for Nigeria’s independence. And indeed, that move brought Nigeria out of the shackles of dependence and ser­vitude. We have very illustrious and hardworking Esan sons and daughters everywhere who are more than qualified and are ready to take the bull by the horn, and lead the state. Having said that, for the development that we seek to come quickly, the easiest way is to ensure that we all come togeth­er to say with one voice that the time has come for power in Edo State to shift to Esan land, in Edo Central. By allowing the zone to pro­duce the next governor of Edo State which, indeed, is our right, because having seen Edo South and Edo North produce the gover­nor for eight years each, it is only imperative that the third part of the tripod, which is the Central, be allowed to produce the next governor. Since the return to democrat­ic rule in 1999, Esanland has not produced the Governor of Edo State. If people are talking about Prof Oserheimen Osunbor, they are wrong because in the face of the law, as a lawyer, Prof Osunbor was never a governor and more so, he only ruled for 18 months, before his ouster by the court. We have supported the Binis and the Afemais, our bigger brothers and it is just fair and for equity sake for them to support us in 2024, to produce the governor who will succeed Governor Godwin Obase­ki, and what part of Esan land that man or woman comes from doesn’t matter provided he or she is an Esan man or woman. POLL What role do you expect the youths to play in the Esan agita­tion in producing the next gover­nor. The youths deserve a say in the affairs of governance or who governs them, but I am not say­ing that old politicians are not important or relevant. We need the synergy of the young, middle or the old poli­ticians to move Esan land for­ward. All hands must be on deck. Things are falling apart and this is not the time for the blame game or shift responsibilities. What we need now is unity, togetherness and to speak with one loud voice so that we can be where we want to be in 2024. However, the youths in Esan land should know that they are leaders of tomorrow and they should start preparing to take leadership positions be­cause if they are not active and participating in politics, they will be surprised to have uninformed people lord it over them with poor representation. They should un­derstand that the old politicians will soon leave the centre stage and it will be their turn to take over from them and if they fail to start preparing for that responsi­bility now, there may be a leader­ship vacuum which is not good for us as Esan people. As for the Esan agenda in 2024, the youths have a special role to play for the agitations to become a reality. The bones of the youths are still very strong, they can go to any of the nooks and crannies of Esan land to educate the peo­ple why Esan should produce the next governor, they should also tell the people the need to participate in the ongoing vot­er’s registration, they should tell them that their voter’s cards are the most important tool in the 2024 Esan agenda. They should embark on aggressive mobilisa­tion and by doing that; they are helping in the propagation of the Esan Agenda. Is there absence of unity in Esan­land? N1.6bn Budget For NABDA Grossly Inadequate – Prof. Mustapha Nigerian Leaders Should Rule With Fear Of God – Muoka Yes, it’s true that there is a semblance of disunity among our people, but this is not limited to Esan land alone. But, we need unity to be able to move forward, politically, economically or oth­erwise. Look at the state of our roads? They are increasingly be­coming impassable by vehicles; there is a high level of insecurity in Esan land. Our farmers cannot go to their farms to cultivate their crops, our hunters cannot go to the bush to hunt for animals, all is not well with us and there is no need denying that fact. These are the challenges that should occupy our minds and this is why unity among our people is very im­portant and to achieve peace and progress in Esan land all hands must be on deck which is pivotal to achieve our desired goal. What do you think about people in Esan land who may not share the Esan agenda? Yes, it is possible that every­body cannot be on the same tem­plate, because in every 12 disci­ples there must always be a Judas, but I know those who are in sup­port of an Esan man or woman becoming the governor of Edo State in 2024 are in the majority. If we suspect any Judas among us, we will identify them and see how we can let them see reasons why the governor of 2024 should come to Esan land. Nevertheless, we know that those who want Esan to produce the next governor of Edo are more than those who may trade these agitations for a pot of pottage if at all. What does the absences of some Esan leaders at the summit in Ewohimi mean to the Eesan agenda 2024? I don’t think it means much… Some were unavoidably absent that is understandable. For those who chose not to come might not be unconnected with their selfish interests. However, I know that as soon as the agitations gather more momentum, they will fall in line because if they don’t they will be seen as the enemies of the Esan nation. Don’t you think it will be difficult to get a consensus governorship can­didate for the Esan in 2024? It is too early to talk about that now. When we get to the bridge, we shall cross it. But, be assured that the candidate that will rep­resent Esan in 2024 will be a per­son that is marketable across the three senatorial districts of Edo State and must be popular and loved by all in the state. How would you rate the per­formance of Governor Godwin Obaseki? The governor is doing well with the little resources at his dis­posal and he is more a technocrat than a politician, as such most politicians will not be well dis­posed to his style of governance. But, he is a man who knows what he is doing and we should give it to him. However, we expect him to do more work on insecurity in the state before Edo State becomes another Kastina or Zamfara be­cause as we speak now people in most parts of Edo State are pretty finding it difficult to go to their respective farms for fear of being kidnapped or killed by the Fulani herders. Nevertheless, the governor is working round the clock to nip the insecurity in the bud in Esan land. You may recall that he had a meeting with the Esan securi­ty network Chairman Board of Trustee, Air Vice Marshal Antho­ny Okpere (rtd), on the Esan secu­rity model, Atanakpa, where he endorsed and pledged his support on the initiative and promised a robust training, logistics and ad­ministrative assistant to the body. The battle for president in 2023 has started amidst a myriad of unre­solved crises in the county. What type of leader should Nigeria go for this time around? To answer you straight, we need a transformational leader like Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore who brought his nation at the brink of collapse to the pinnacle of success. A transformational leader whose success has demon­strated once again that leader­ship matters in everything. He invested heavily in research and development, he prioritised edu­cation and had zero tolerance for indiscipline and corruption, he led by example. Therefore, if we must pull Nigeria out of the brink like Lee Kuan did, we should go for a selfless leader with a vi­sion to see through the cracks; rise above ethnic bigotry and inspire the entire nation, young and old,men and women, of all faiths and all backgrounds, with personal example of hard work and with transparent disposition. He should not be distracted by pe­rennial nay-sayers, or partisan critics because he has the eyes on the ball of national interest and development. He should go for the necessary restructuring of the economy and the country, investment in human develop­ment and above all and should not favour his tribe than the oth­ers, that is the idea president we want in 2023