ENUGU – The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Enugu State Command has arrested 114 suspects in different drug related offenses. This was disclosed by state Commander of NDLEA, Anietie Bassey while addressing a press conference in his office in Enugu on Thursday. He said the suspects which are 102 male and 12 female were arrested from January to December 2022. NGO Donates Drugs, Items Worth N500,000 To Psychiatric Patients… Wike Bags Chieftaincy Title In Enugu, Describes Ugwuanyi As… Bassey also disclosed that 50 suspects were convicted while 1,359.166kg drugs and 13 capsules of Rohypnol were seized Drug seized according to the Commander includes 1,328.174 kilograms of Cannabis Sativa, 222.67 Grammes of Cocaine, 592.11 grammes of Methamphetamine, 29.920 kilogrames of Psychotropic Substances and 258.07 grammes of Tramadol. Bassey said the success recorded in the arrest of the suspects and drug seizure was made possible through the collaboration effort of other security agencies. He also said that the Command recorded drug demand reduction from January to December 2021 adding that 40 male clients were admitted while 29 male clients were counseled and discharged while 11 male clients are under rehabilitation. POLL He said “However the incidence of clandestine laboratory raises its ugly head again during the year under review. Why the Agency is particularly worried about clandestine laboratory is that their Methamphetamines (crystal meth or mkpulu-miri) products are worse than any of the category A drugs and their being manufactured locally make them readily available for abuse by our teeming youth. “Methamphetamine dependent persons have slimmer chances of recovering compared to user of other drugs. Cladestine laboratory also poses grave threat to the locality of its operation, as it pollutes sources of water and even air. It is therefore not enough that one does not abuse the deadly substance but one must ensure that he or she does not live in places where this clandestine activity goes on,” he said. On drug demand reduction, Bassey said regular session were held with the clients in the state commands rehabilitation Centre from January to December 2021 noting “the command had the support of some professional collaborators and service providers in the field of drug treatment from the department of psychological medicine, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital in Enugu state. He thereby commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for donating 4 Sienna buses to the command for operational purposes. Police Arrest 120 Criminal Suspects In Enugu, Caution Against… 2023: Youth Stakeholders Insist On Returning Of Governorship… Speaking with one of the drug suspects, 52 years old Joseph Ugwuoke said frustration and poverty pushed to engaged in such evil acts. Ugwuoke, a father of 5 regretted his action saying “I was jobless and felt bad living in abject poverty with my kids and wife but I promise never to sell drug anymore,” he said