The Nigerian Alliance (TNA ), a Political Action Committee has unveiled 29 young Nigerian aspirants vying for various legislative offices both at the state and federal levels with the aim to support and fund their political campaigns and logistics. The group said it would be supporting the aspirants in the area of campaigns, nomination forms, transport, logistics, publicity and media, branding, capacity development and campaign management. The Executive Director of TNA, Simi Olusola while speaking at the formal presentation of the aspirants on Saturday in Abuja said the group would also work round the clock for the aspirants at the national, state, Local Government and ward levels to ensure that they realise their political ambitions. 2023 Presidency: Plateau Group Drums Support For Fayemi FG Pledges Support To Manufacturers She said the alliance would do everything to get as many as possible out of the  29 into the ballots and into the offices. According to her ”  We are to here to support young progressive candidates to run for office and to identify people who can stay committed and make those tough decisions and stand in the face of opposition. ” People who have the right capacity and competent enough to make our laws. So we are looking for those young people to run for state and national legislative offices and we are going to support them. ” The support goes for logistics, transport, nomination forms, branding and publicity. We are going to take them through the process. We started recruiting them last year and today we just unveil our 29 candidates we are going to be supporting. ” To the aspirants, TNA is not doing you a favour, you’re not doing TNA a favour and neither party is doing Nigeria a favour. We’re all coming together to play our parts in rebuilding our nation. I urge each person to do this with everything they have. Keep the faith in this alliance in everything and at all times. POLL ” Remember that the alliance is not us, the alliance is the Nigerians who are counting on us to do right. We have a hard and long battle ahead of us “ She said the group would ensure that all candidates scale through the hurdles of party primaries and make it to different offices. She said the group would raise funds through  Nigerians who have a passion for good governance, accountability and transparency. One of the aspirants, Joyce Daniel who is running for Edo State House of Assembly said having young people in politics would help in bringing back the lost values in all areas of our lives. According to Joyce ” We have been described sleeping giant and we have to wake up and to that we need everybody. We need men and women because we all see things differently and it is that difference when put together that gives us more power.So we need all of us to wake up together.