OSOGBO – Two people have been arrested by men of The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Osun Command, parading themselves as herbalists to defraud unsuspecting people of their valuables. The suspects would call peoples’ phone numbers and allegedly pretend to be herbalists to defraud them. Mr Emmanuel Ocheja, the Osun NSCDC Commandant, during the parade of suspects in Osogbo, explained that the suspects, Adeyemo Mufutau, 26, and Oladiji Hezekiah, 27, would call members of the public and later compel them to send money. 863 Terrorists, Families Surrender To Troops In Two Weeks… Three Bag 17 Years Imprisonment N60,000 Robbery “on Monday, officers of NSCDC at Ile-Ife arrested two suspects who indulge in the illicit business of calling members of the public on the telephone, pretending as old men/herbalist to defraud them. “They will send fake recharge cards to people, then call the receiver that the person should help return the card, and afterwards introduce one baba/herbalist as the person intending to send the recharge card to his son. “They will say the baba wants to specially thank anybody who send the recharge card back to them and in the process introduce themselves as an old man/herbalist who will like reciprocate their kind gesture, by offering to help them solve their problems.” he said The NSCDC commandant added that the suspects had confessed to the crime and would be charged to court. Similarly, Ocheja said two suspects were also arrested on Monday, at a mining site at Ita Obi Community of Ilesa, for mining illegally while three other persons, on Wednesday, were arrested for illegal dealing in petroleum products. POLL He said one Zainab Afeez (f) was also arrested for allegedly abusing and pouring hot water on her 11 year old biological daughter , while one Abdulrahman Ibrahim was arrested in connection to a Toyota Camry, 1999 model, that was stolen in Osogbo but recoverd in Kano. Ocheja said all the suspects would be charged to court after completion of investigation on their matters.