Nollywood actress, Victoria Inyama has reacted to a sermon by female preacher, Funke Adejumo of Agape Christian Ministries, stating that almost all her ‘attacks’ are directed at women. In a clip that is circulating on social media, Adejumo urged her married female congregation to cover up their husband’s nakedness, stating that there is no perfect husband anywhere. “Stop celebrating your husband’s failures. Is it because people are not telling you their stories? Do you know what people have gone through and are going through? You talk about your husband everywhere you go in the neighbourhood. E Ibadan Poly Alumni Association Charges Buhari On HND/BSc… Actor, Enyinna Nwigwe Conferred With Chieftaincy Title Nollywood actress, Victoria Inyama has reacted to a sermon by female preacher, Funke Adejumo of Agape Christian Ministries, stating that almost all her ‘attacks’ are directed at women. In a clip that is circulating on social media, Adejumo urged her married female congregation to cover up their husband’s nakedness, stating that there is no perfect husband anywhere. “Stop celebrating your husband’s failures. Is it because people are not telling you their stories? Do you know what people have gone through and are going through? You talk about your husband everywhere you go in the neighbourhood. Everybody knows your story. It’s not right,” she said. Reacting to the sermon, Inyama in response said the pastor’s messages had always been revolving around women, stating that Pastor Adejumo seems to be giving men an excuse to be irresponsible while women were the ones to work out the union. She wrote; “Madam Preacher, almost all your attacks are on women. The fact that you wear the trousers in your marriage doesn’t mean you should keep attacking women. You only talk about what the woman should or should not do….always… I can’t even place your husband’s face….Are you home long enough to do all you preach? Cause I see you in different countries most times. POLL “Marriage is a union between ‘2’ people….there’s no ‘Perfect ‘. I would love to hear your husband preach about you… if he ever does. And stop Enabling Abuse…only bad behaviour needs to be hidden.” Inyama further said that she looks forward to the day when some preachers will prepare their sermons and read it through before delivering. verybody knows your story. It’s not right,” she said. Reacting to the sermon, Inyama in response said the pastor’s messages had always been revolving around women, stating that Pastor Adejumo seems to be giving men an excuse to be irresponsible while women were the ones to work out the union. She wrote; “Madam Preacher, almost all your attacks are on women. The fact that you wear the trousers in your marriage doesn’t mean you should keep attacking women. You only talk about what the woman should or should not do….always… I can’t even place your husband’s face….Are you home long enough to do all you preach? Cause I see you in different countries most times. Jada Pinkett Smith Opens Up On Struggle With Hair Loss ‘It Hurts So Badly’, Kalanne Fubara Remembers Late Brother “Marriage is a union between ‘2’ people….there’s no ‘Perfect ‘. I would love to hear your husband preach about you… if he ever does. And stop Enabling Abuse…only bad behaviour needs to be hidden.” Inyama further said that she looks forward to the day when some preachers will prepare their sermons and read it through before delivering.