LAGOS – Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has insisted that the 1999 con­stitution and structure of Ni­geria are flawed and lopsided, insisting on restructuring of the country. The forum, in a communi­que on Thursday restated its demand for the fundamental restructuring of the country by enacting a new Constitu­tion that would enthrone eq­uity, fairness and justice. The group stated that the northern part of the country would have fully enjoyed the office of the presidency of the country for the full statutory period of eight years by 2023, hence, the presidency should rotate to the South. RED ALERT: New Ransomware Attacking Organisational Networks… I Endorsed Tinubu For Presidency In 2019, I Have Rejected Him… In attendance at the meet­ing were delegations from the four regional socio-cul­tural organisations, namely: Afenifere for the South West, Ohanaeze Ndigbo for the South East, Pan Niger Del­ta Forum (PANDEF) for the South-South and the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) for the Middle Belt. The delegations were led by Chief Ayo Adebanjo, leader of Afenifere, Profes­sor George Obiozor, Presi­dent-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, Pres­ident of the Middle Belt Fo­rum and Senator Emmanuel Ibok Essien, FNSE, National Chairman of Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF. The meeting was also at­tended by former Governors, Ministers, federal and state legislators, top politicians and professionals from the Southern and Middle Belt regions, including His Ex­cellency, Obong Victor At­tah, former Governor of Akwa Ibom, Chief Emman­uel Iwuanyanwu, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo, Sena­tor Femi Okurounmu, Nze Ozichukwu Chukwu, Simon N. Okeke, OFR, Chief Supo Shonibare, Akin Fapohun­da, Amb. Okey Emuchay, MFR, Senator Bassey Ewa Henshaw, Others were Prof. G. G. Darah, Solomon Asemota, SAN, Dr. Alex Ogbonna, Mr. Mac Emakpore, Chief Douyi Douglas-Naingba, Mrs. Nella Andem-Rabana, SAN, Prof. Mrs. Chinwe Obaji, Maj. Gen. Henry Ayoola (Rtd), Engr. Ben Akaakar, Dr. Ebun Sonaiya, Comrade Jare Ajayi and Ken Robinson. The meeting extensively discussed various issues on the State of Affairs in the country, particularly, the secu­rity situation, restructuring, preparations for the 2023 Gen­eral Elections and Zoning.