Following the closure of submission of entries for the WeNaija Photography Contest and the selection of the Top 100 images through public voting, the Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund (NSSF) has announced plans for the auction and exhibition of the selected images. According to the organisers, funds generated through the competition and other activities will be used to upskill the Nigerian youth as a means of enhancing recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. Tunde Folawiyo, Chairman, NSSF Board, revealed that the photographs are already on Bonham’s website for preview and open bidding ahead of the auction. Vimbai Beats COVID Amidst Exclusive Breastfeeding Omoni Oboli Remembers Mother-In-Law One Year After Bonhams Auction, a leading online auction vendor in the UK, with affiliations in major cities across the world is a partner of NSSF on the WENAIJA Photography contest tagged Visions of Nigeria. Organisers say that the auction-cum-exhibition will be a two-day event; a virtual auction of the top 20 images on January 18, 2022, by 6:30 PM, and a photography exhibition on January 19, 2022. According to Folawiyo, “The funds raised from the auction would be channeled into empowering the youths through the upskilling of at least 500 young Nigerians in life-changing vocations for the betterment of the Nigerian society in furtherance of efforts to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Each photograph tells a COVID-19 story that everyone of us can relate with.” Also speaking, Dr Fejiro Chinye-Nwoko, General Manager, NSSF, stated that the auction will offer a rare opportunity for Nigerians, friends of Nigeria, organisations and institutions in and outside Nigerians to partner with NSSF by acquiring one of these unique photographs which captures significant moments of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. She explained that most of these images were taken by non-professional photographers, yet the images were so creative and poetic. All images captured symbolic moments that demonstrated how Nigerians had been adapting to and are indeed working to overcome the economic, health, education, and social impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. She further stated that the program also serves as a call to Nigerians to take personal responsibility to protecting themselves and their loved ones from COVID-19.