AWKA  –The Anambra Gov­ernor-Elect, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo has said that Gover­nor Willie Obiano never at­tached any string to support his governorship ambition and emerge victorious in the election. Soludo spoke at Agul­eri, Anambra East Local Council Area, the country home of Obiano on Sunday when he led a delegation of Old Aguata Union (OAU) to thank Obiano for assisting him to emerge victorious in the Election. He said: “Governor Obia­no had no interest in insisting on any conditions and I nev­er discussed such with him, during and after primaries or the elections”. Jonathan Pays Tribute To Late Olubadan It Will Be Inaccurate For Delta South To Aspire For 2023… “Governor Obiano’s in­terest is to project Anambra high. His obsession is to en­sure that I continue with the good works he has done in the state. “My Deputy and I will work hard, every minute of the day to make him and make Anambra proud”. While expressing grati­tude to Governor Obiano, Soludo said: “I say thanks a billion times for your sup­port. There could have been a dozen and one reason to walk away from me, but you stayed resolute. Your expectations to make Anambra proud must be met. “Some believe that APGA will die under his administra­tion, but God intervened.’’ The Catholic Bishop of Awka Most Rev. Paulinus Ezeokafor who also in atten­dance urged Prof. Soludo to ensure that Anambra would continue to sustain the tem­po of development it had en­sured throughout Governor Obiano administration. POLL Bishop Ezeokafor, who is also a member of the OAU, called for maximum collab­oration between Governor Obiano and Soludo. The traditional ruler of Enugwu Umuonyia Com­munity, Igwe Nnebechukwu Ezeamama, who also dou­bles as the Chairman, OAU Traditional Rulers Council, commended the Governor for choosing the best candidate from OAU. The wife of former Vice-President of Nigeria, Dr Ifeoma Ekwueme thanked God for the victory of APGA at the polls, despite politi­cal violence the opposition planned to distort the elec­tions. The Member who repre­sented Orumba North and South at the National As­sembly, Hon. Ben Nwankwo reviewed all activities in all the towns in OAU, stood down and was suspended because of the visit. Nwankwo while thanking God, Governor and his wife, Dr Ebelechukwu Obiano for their support, recalled that the Governorship dream and aspirations of OAU started in 1991, but were never achieved until Governor Obiano’s ad­ministration. ‘Delta To Complete Ongoing Projects In 2022’ Mgbidi Crusade Will Address Nigeria’s Challenges –Muoka The National Vice-Presi­dent, Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief Damian Okeke Ogene said the election and victory of Soludo had raised the pride of Igbos globally. Okeke Ogene while de­scribing Obiano as a giant achiever, said he (Obiano) had completed lofty proj­ects in the state, such as the Anambra Airport, the Sta­dium and the International Convention Centre, (ICC), to be completed before the end of his tenure.