ABEOKUTA – A legal practitioner, A.D. Sosanwo, has demanded N10million damages from the Nigeria Police, Ijebu Ode Area Command, Ogun State, for alleged unlawful detention of three of his clients over Governor Dapo Abiodun’s Christmas rice and N500, 000 gift to Ijebu North Local Govern­ment Area of the state. Sosanwo, in a petition written to the Ijebu Ode Area Command, which was copied to the Inspec­tor General of Police and the Ogun State Police Commissioner of Police, explained that his clients were arrested on January 2 and 3, 2022 and detained beyond the specific consti­tutional period. The lawyer gave the names of the arrested as Morufu Idowu, Adebayo Rabiu and Wasiu Raji, adding that they were arrested on the order of the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Tokunbo Talabi. 2023: Sanusi Urges Nigerians To Get Voters Card, Elect Competent… BREAKING: Diesel Tanker Tumbles, Spills Content According to the peti­tion, a copy of which was obtained by Sunday IN­DEPENDENT, they were arrested by police officers in Ago-Iwoye and trans­ferred to Ijebu Ode Area Command after being ac­cused of taking some bags of rice meant to be distrib­uted. The law firm explained that the Area Commander demanded that the bags of rice be returned after which the matter be re­solved amicably between the complainant and the arrested persons. It was further alleged that after the bags of rice were returned the follow­ing day by a party chair­man, the trio of Idowu, Adebayo and Raji request­ed they be released on bail, the matter charged to court or resolved. It was, however, alleged that rather than releasing those arrested or charged to court, the police de­manded to see the former Deputy Speaker of Ogun State House of Assembly and member represent­ing Ijebu North II State Constituency, Hon Dare Kadiri, before they could be released. The accused persons were reported to have said that Hon Kadiri, popularly called Maba, could not be reached over the circumstance of their detention. POLL When contacted on phone, the former Dep­uty Speaker explained that the misunderstand­ing started when the SSG monopolised the bags of rice for his group in the local government with the exclusion of others. Kadiri further accused the SSG of withholding till date N11 million given to party members for the 2020 Christmas and Ileya celebrations, adding that the bags of rice given to him were not distributed until after six months, when they had gone bad. He explained that when the rice and money was released from the state again, the SSG gave the gift to a factional chair­man who had been exclud­ing several members from the largesse. He further revealed that some youths came to him in protest and that he called the man in whose custody were the bags of rice to take the same to the APC chairman in the local government for even distribution. He further examined that he drove to the frac­tional Chairman’s House to retrieve 10 bags of rice meant for his ward and handed it over to the Ward Chairman of APC when the custodian of the lar­gesse refused to listen to the youths. Selection Of Och’Idoma V: Moro Appeals For Restraint Lawan Consoles Victims Of Nguru Market Fire Both the SSG and the former Deputy Speaker have been at loggerhead over the control of the Par­ty in the local government. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oy­eyemi, said he was not aware of the case, prom­ising to find out from Ijebu Igbo DPO. The SSG neither picked nor returned calls put across to his mobile num­ber, and did not respond to text messages sent to the same number.