ABUJA – Aliyu Audu, Convener of APC Rebirth Group has commended the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), and especially its Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni and the Secretary, Senator John Akpanudodehe for heeding the call by stakeholders of the party for the national convention to hold in February. Audu said the news has been long-awaited as it will create the right atmosphere for the party to refocus and concentrate on more urgent matters such as the 2023 general election. He said that with the announcement of the February 26th date, suspicions and speculations surrounding the true intent of the CECPC has been rested. B2B E-Commerce Makes Logistics Easier For Nigeria’s Informal… 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello “While we may have been critical of the leadership of the party, the ultimate goal is to ensure the safeguard of the fortunes and stability of the party, especially as we head towards the 2023 general elections. “The decision to hold the convention on February 26, therefore, suggests to us that the CECPC share in the same goal and they must be commended for listening to the voice of reason. We sincerely appreciate Governor Mai Mala Buni for his leadership thus far and beseech him to conclude his stewardship as the party’s interim Chairman on a good note by delivering a transparent, free and fair Convention” Audu charged. With the date of the Convention settled, APC Rebirth Group said the CECPC should begin to “reappraise the all-important issue of inclusion and reward system within the party. We believe this would further give every member a sense of belonging and encourage greater dedication and commitment to the interests and ideals of the APC as a political institution.” He said the convention planning committee should as an urgency reflect the issue of reward for party members across the country by ensuring that the committees and sub-committees for the convention are as representative and encompassing as possible. “All party members must be made to have a renewed sense of belonging with their engagement to participate in party activities. This is the tradition that we hope the caretaker committee will bequest to the National Working Committee that would be elected at the convention. POLL “We plead that the agitation of young people who constitute the greater percentage of the party’s footsoldiers be looked into. The youth of the party have consistently yearned for the opportunity to take part in party activities, the impending convention, therefore, presents a perfect chance to take on board as many of them as possible”. “We recommend that at least 50% of the membership of all committees and sub-committees for the Convention be reserved for party members of both gender who are 50 years and below”. Ahead of the Convention, APC Rebirth Group warned against any form of imposition under the guise, expressing hopethat the forthcoming Convention would be above board in this regard.