Antonio Conte has confirmed Tottenham defender Eric Dier will miss Sunday’s north London derby with an injury. Spurs host Arsenal with both sides in the midst of a battle with COVID-19 positives and injury setbacks, with key players out of the battle. Conte has confirmed Dier and Heung-min Son are definitely out and also hinted there may be more positive coronavirus results ahead of the derby clash. Haaland Double As Dortmund Put 5 Past Freiburg AFCON: Gabon’s Late Strike Earns Draw Against Ghana In… The Italian told the media on Friday: “About Eric Dier, he’s suffering a little problem. A little muscular problem. “He’s not fit for the game against Arsenal. It’s a pity, I repeat. Now it’s important for us to play these three games before the international break and then to recover important players. “For us, much more than other teams it’s very, very important to recover all the important players. Yeah, it’s life for us to recover these players. “As you know very well, we have many, many injuries. And then there is always the COVID situation every day, that you have to check. Sometimes you find a surprise. “But we are preparing the game against Arsenal. I think in this moment, all the teams are suffering injury problems, COVID situation, and international competition. And Tottenham the same. POLL “You know very well, you have seen the bench, our bench during the game against Chelsea. I can understand that we are in a moment where we have to try to recover very soon the players that are injured.” Meanwhile, Cristian Romero, Steven Bergwijn and Sergio Reguilon are all battling to be fit ahead of the derby. Tanguy Ndombele is available but his future at the club is in question, having been dropped by Conte for the Carabao Cup second leg defeat to Chelsea in midweek after storming down the tunnel during the victory over Morecambe in the FA Cup last weekend. Arsenal also have big absentees of their own. They will be without Granit Xhaka, who will be suspended after sending off vs Liverpool in the Carabao Cup semi-finals on Thursday. Migrant Dies, 30 Others Rescued In English Channel By French… US Researchers Share COVID-19 Vaccine With The World Cedric Soares and Bukayo Saka are also injury doubts after limping off at Anfield, while Emile Smith Rowe, Martin Odegaard and Takehiro Tomiyasu could miss out again too with manager Mikel Arteta potentially missing up to 12 players. After his side’s 0-0 draw with Liverpool on Thursday, Arteta admitted Sunday’s north London derby could be in doubt due to a number of absences. The Spaniard said: “It is a possibility in every game. “From our side, from the opponent’s side, because of the amount of issues everyone is having and because it is happening every week. “We try to prepare games thinking we are going to play. “If something happens along the way, it is what it is.”