OSOGBO –The gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Osun State,Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi has hinted that he has no plan to strike deal with Senator Ademola Adeleke, another governorship aspirant. Ogunbiyi in a statement issued on Sunday denied the rumour making a wave that he is considering stepping down for Senator Adeleke and also ready to sink the party should the said deal fail. While describing the claims as conflicting and baseless, Ogunbiyi maintained that the gimmick will not hold water. FG Inaugurates Nigeria Digital Centre In Osun Fulfill Your Electoral Promises To Us, Ifon-Orolu Community… The statement was signed by the Head of Strategy of Ogunbiyi’s Idera De Movement, Mr. Kunle Omolere, a copy of which was made available to newsmen. The release reads in part, “our attention has been drawn to a false claim linking Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi with a none existing deal with senator Ademola Adeleke. This, coming at a time when all serious-minded aspirants are busy reaching out to the delegates ahead of the primaries scheduled for March, goes further to confirm our belief that the people behind the fabricated statement are as unlearned as their leader. “We would have ignored this unwarranted media attack but catching a glimpse of an increase in such subtle attacks against our principal in the last two weeks and because we do not want our supporters and critical stakeholders to be misled, necessitate this rejoinder. “To set the record straight, the issues of Deputy Governor and SSG alongside other positions were part of the agreements brokered by Senator Olusola Saraki to resolve Osun PDP post-primary crisis of 2018. This is the same Abuja accord that was defied by Senator Ademola Adeleke group. Bringing up the long forgotten issues to the public again and re-presenting the same with serious lies and distortion is below the belt and deplorable. “The same unschooled people behind the false claims sponsored three petitions against Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi at the just concluded PDP governorship screening and went haywire peddling lies about his Ph.D title recently but ours is not to lament but to glorify God for great things He has done and will continue to do. POLL “Furthermore, it is imperative to add that the unprovoked attack on Ogunbiyi cannot and will not diminish his credibility, and the great people of Osun are sophisticated and know the difference between gold and rubber. It only indicates that Dr. Ogunbiyi is the credible aspirant to beat in the forthcoming primaries. However, it is worth mentioning that no group has a monopoly of warfare. “For the umpteenth time, we hereby affirm that there is no negotiation between the Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi campaign organization or sharing of positions with Senator Ademola Adeleke group. It is a sheer ineptitude to claim that the Ogunbiyi group told Adeleke that they will destroy a party upon whose platform the business tycoon hopes to contest the governorship election. “We call for an end to this awful guessing and completely align with the idea of uniting the party but have no intention to strike any deal with individuals who perpetually lie to stay relevant and do not share our philosophy of good governance and merit-based leadership. “Finally, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi has put the events of 2018 behind completely and is genuinely passionate and prepared to lead the PDP to victory in 2022, by the grace of God.”