LAGOS  – The year 2021 witnessed many building collapses across the country with several losses of lives. The most devastating was the 21 storey building under construction which collapsed on November 1, 2021 at Gerrard Road in Highbrow Ikoyi where about 45 people were confirmed dead. The building was owned by Mr.Femi Osibona who was also one of the victims of the collapse. It was curious that such a construction in the elite’s vicinity could go down expectedly, the Lagos State Government had since set up a committee to determine the root causes of the collapse and a White Paper is being expected. LSDPC Delivers Mass Housing For Lagosians Expired Provisional Planning Permits: LASG Demands Applications… The incidences of building collapse nationwide have over the years; become a source of concern to professionals and stakeholders alike in the built environment. This worrisome development prompted Daily Independent to seek the views of professionals and some stakeholders in the construction industry on how to ameliorate this ugly development in 2022. In an interview, the President of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV) Esv.Emmanues Okas Wike, said pointedly that the issue of building collapse may likely persist in the nascent year if “we continue to do the same thing while expecting a different result. According to him, now is the time to take the bull by the horn. He was quick to add, that the most important thing to do in order to stem the tide, is we should expedite action on the speedy passage of the National Building Code (NBC). His words: “Unless the National Assembly gives the NBC legal teeth, I am afraid, the construction process would continue to be an all-comers affair. We should endeavour to engage the services of genuine professionals in the construction process in order to bring out the best product”. POLL Wike said that the seven professional bodies in the built environment in the last four years or so, had intensified efforts at seeing that the NBC see the light of day all to no avail. He was however, optimistic, that it would hopefully be passed into law thus; year so that we could gave seamless construction process. Engr.Afolabi Adedeji, a facility maintenance expert, in his contribution, noted that for us to witness less building collapse incidences in 2022,all hands must be on deck to ensure that we (professionals and developers) adhere strictly construction ethics. According to him, in order to reduce the issue of building collapse in the New Year, every concerned professional and stakeholder in the built environment must stop cutting corners all in a bid to maximise profit. His words: “Once the issue of corruption is eliminated, the issue of greed is equally eliminated; we have reduced drastically the tendency for a shoddy job to vary out”. Ogun Gives Waiver To Landed Property Owners Under Government… Excitement As Ocean City Lagos Takes Premium Living Standards To… Adedeji said that the construction process needed to be strengthened by all stakeholders in order to reduce the embarrassing situation where” we have found ourselves today as a result of incessant building collapse being witnessed in the country, especially the most unfortunate one that happened at Gerrard Road, Ikoyi last year. Surv.Kolade Kasim ,the newly elected Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Surveyors (NIS),Lagos State Branch, said that it was very embarrassing and unfortunate that buildings were collapsing like pack of cards, adding that thus is unacceptable and the earlier it was nipped in the bud, the better for everybody. Kasim regretted a situation where buildThanksere collapsing even with all the stringent measures being put in place to avoid such occurrences. According to him, the absence of the NBC was telling negatively on the construction process. He was quick to add that the National Building Code would serve as a working document for both professionals and stakeholders alike in ensuring that the right is done in the construction process. He expressed optimism that the New Year would usher in professionalism in the construction process. A Chartered Builder, Mr. Godwin Asonye pointed out, that the absence of a stiffer sanction gas continued to encourage some developers to continue to cut corners thereby endangering the lives of innocent Nigerians. He said what we have as a form sanction now, “is just a slap on the wrist”, adding that unless defeaters are meted very stiff sanction, we would just be scratching the surface in our quest to address the issue if incessant building collapse being witnessed in the country. Asonye said that the New Year promises to be free from incessant building collapse, noting that thus could only be achieved by concerted efforts by all and sundry. He said that the general consensus is that the National Building Code should come on stream this year so as to ensure that the right thing is done when buildings are being constructed so that the issue if building collapse could be reduced to the barest minimum. The Chartered Builder said that a stakeholders meeting should be convened by all the seven Presidents of the professional bodies in the built environment with a view to funding a lasting solution to this” ugly and worrisome development if incessant building collapse in 2022”. The Chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Lagos State Chapter,Arc.David Majekodunmi said the absence of the National Building Code was the major reason why we would continue to witness building collapse across the country. According to him, there are no two ways to the issue of building unless and until the NBC sees the light of day. Hus words: “ I have said it at several fora, let the NBC be given a legal backing, then, we would see less and less of building collapse in the country.