It is the duty of every political State with a functioning government in place to provide for the security and welfare of her citizens. That much is amply confirmed by the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria which boldly proclaims that the “security and welfare of the citizens shall be the primary responsibility of government”. If that proclamation remains true, why then is the Nigerian State and its constitutional institutions appearing incapable of providing for the security and welfare of the citizens in the wake of the incessant mayhem and routine vandalism being visited on the people by an assortment of anarchists, political intimidation, treasury looting, insurgents and, lately, ubiquitous bands of invading forces variously described as “Fulani herdsmen”? The only reason humankind established the political State and endowed it with sovereign powers was to save themselves from the “State of Nature” where life was “nasty, brutish and short;” where everyone was for himself without a designated authority to provide for the public welfare and personal security. Why is the Nigerian State seemingly unable to fulfil this primary purpose of governance? Is it that Nigerians have withdrawn the initial powers they collectively ceded to the State or the State itself has functionally abdicated its responsibilities? What then is the Nigerian State manned by a glut of their “Excellencies,” “Distinguished”, “Honourable” and their “Lordships” unable or unwilling to carry out its corresponding responsibilities to the citizens for their expected allegiance? Is that not power without responsibilities which is nothing but banditry? At an age when responsible governments everywhere are ensuring that their citizens enjoy maximum freedom and safety of movement nationwide 24/7, it was sadly remarkable that as far back as 2009 former President Obasanjo advised citizens who are supposed to be under his protection 24/7, to “avoid night travels” due to the untamable insecurity on our highways which his government failed to make conveniently and safely motorable. That a person who swore to protect the life and property of citizens at any time and at any place within the country would make such an abdicative statement is an undignified repudiation of the fundamental duty of the government to the people, a lamentable throwback to the Hobbesian state. Needless to say, that as bad as OBJ’s abdicative “advice” was then, things have since gone for the worse as the nation has been left rather rudderless with no “leader” in sight or in action. People are anxiously watching out for inscrutable body languages instead! Politics 2023: Algorithm Of Complex Calculations Maximising 2022 It all started with the initial failure of the nation’s post-colonial constitutional architecture to appropriately structure the security apparati in a balanced and coherent manner that sufficiently reflects the variegated nature of the Nigerian polity. Even today, we are still debating the desirability or otherwise of the various governing levels of the federation having their own distinct police/ security institutions with which to undertake their peculiar security challenges within the 3-tiered federal structure, thus creating avoidable chasm which is being evilly exploited by anarchists to create scary insecurity atmosphere across the country. The already declining capacity of State’s institutions to maintain peace and security within their jurisdictions was weakened further by the Civil War because so many military-type assault weapons suddenly found their ways into the wrong hands. As a result of the haphazard nature of the post-civil war demobilisation efforts, Nigeria witnessed a horrendous spike in armed robberies and other heinous crimes. Rather than undertake a deep-rooted sociological and socio-economic diagnoses of the terrifying phenomenon, the military governments at the time resorted to the quick-fix draconian anti-robbery Decrees which, instead of curbing the menace, it only escalated the brutality with which robberies were thereafter committed. In the name of security, the government ineptly created an ineffectual road-blocking ‘Police State’ culture largely for the protection of the privileged elite at great inconvenience and undue hazard for innocent road users and this antediluvian approach, sadly, has remained the most visible form of “security” in the country today. “All these leadership degenerations tendencies coincided with the oil boom era which created in the minds of the short-sighted military juntas an unusual hedonism that was definitely anti-creativity and anti-productivity as “Money was no longer the problem but how to spend it”, not knowing it was their historical opportunity to invest the stupendous dollar “bonanzas” for the future development of the country. While Dubai and other similarly endowed oil-rich nations were investing their petrol-dollars in the development of both their human and material resources, building infrastructures with the goal of permanently lifting their societies from poverty, those who ruled Nigeria opted for a ridiculous brand of hedonism and profligacy which in turn promoted uncommon poverty, dehumanisation and bitter resentment amongst the populace. A major by-product of this wholesale dependency on oil was the emergence of the hydra-headed demon of corruption which eventually destroyed the limb and soul of the nation and the capacity to think productively. The subsequent arrogant display of ill-gotten wealth and luxurious living by those who had improper access to the nation’s treasury created enormous social dislocations wherein the gap between the few haves and the many have-nots degenerated into an inevitable class war which pitted the so-called rich against the hapless poor, an ironic situation in which Phil Collins famous song, “Both Sides of the Story”, found a perfect justification as the impoverished soon found their backs pushed against the wall and had to bring out their guns to demand for what they needed to survive, a form of jungle socialism. This was how the social order that was built around law and order started to crumble all across the nation, including inside religious institutions that suddenly found greater faith in crass materialism than in almighty God. POLL When the military finally handed over power to their civilian acolytes and former colleagues who have since donned the agbada, a new burst of negative energy was breathed into the already bludgeoning anarchism in Nigeria. Just like their erstwhile uniformed bosses who did not see the necessity to obey even simple traffic regulations as they anarchically bulldozed their siren-blasting vehicular convoys across the nation without much of let or hindrance, they too launched into the state-promoted anarchy by feverishly outdoing them in every conceivable evil way, especially in corruption. In no time, other segments of the society joined in the tempting rat race for illegitimate wealth. In no time, robbery, kidnapping, treasury looting, and other vices over-took the norms of the society and many other anti-social behaviours crept in.” First, it was drug trafficking, then the Internet and its enormous possibilities for criminality; they took the world by storm through the fraudulent 419 industry. Just as that industry went into decline, political thuggery and sectional mischief became the new cash cow, especially after the inauguration of the fourth (?) Republic. Suddenly, the political class saw the promotion of sectional agitations as a short cut around the dysfunctional federal system to the nation’s treasury, a development that gave birth to several agitative groups waving dissonant rebellious flags sometimes with AK47s in tow. Euphemisms like “restructure,” “indigenous nationalism” like IPOB and Islamic insurgents blossomed, and the rally phrase “true federalism” were re-invented to forcefully highlight the fragile nature of our federalism. Nothing better illustrates the miseries of Nigerians than the fact that people who ventured to travel during this Yuletide have to fearfully gather in convoys to pray against attacks from bandits before embarking on their journeys. Sadly, that still didn’t help much as they were waylaid either by, first the Police that extorted money from them and, next, the bandits who robbed and kidnapped them. This is state failure par excellence, and it is 2022!