CHIOMA UMEHA Medical experts have stressed on the need for improved early infant diagnosis services to curb HIV infections among Nigerian children, just as they called urged every Nigerian women to know their HIV status before conception to help them plan their pregnancy. Giving the advice, Dr Ijaodola Olugbenga, Assistant Director, Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMTCT) team, National AIDS and STIs Control Programme, decried the low pediatric HIV case identification rate and lack of comprehensive data reporting on cases in the country. Invest In Quality Health Services, Nutrition To Meet SDGs,… Kidney Stones Speaking recently at a three-day workshop to reinvigorate and produce a work plan for journalists in Calabar, Olugbenga said that it is important to develop a state specific realistic approach to improve Antenatal Clinic (ANC) Testing and PMTCT coverage Development. The journalists are members of the Journalist’s Alliance for the Prevention of Mother-To- Child Transmission of HIV and AIDS (JAPiN). The workshop was organised by the Child Rights Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture in collaboration with UNICEF. The Assistant Director who was worried that many babies are born HIV positive, said that the reason is because their mothers had no access to care and were not on treatment before the babies were born. Insisting that positive pregnant women must be placed on treatment, Olugbenga said encouraging them to deliver in health facilities will ensure that positive babies are identified on time and treated. POLL “HIV/AIDS intervention cannot stand on its own, it needs the collaboration of every implementing partner. So irrespective of challenges in our health system, we say pregnant women must have access to testing and those who turn out positive must be placed on treatment and encouraged to deliver in health facilities for early infant diagnosis services. Olugbenga, however, says the goal of the government is to ensure 95 percent antenatal coverage, 95 percent HIV testing and PMTCT coverage. To achieve this, he said every key stakeholder in the maternal and child health sector at the state, local government, facility level as well as implementing partners are on board to ensure that every pregnant woman is reached. The health expert who also blamed low antenatal uptake and low health facility delivery by mothers as reasons for HIV in infants, said three in four pregnant women in Nigeria are not captured in antenatal care, while 63 percent of HIV positive women do not access PMTCT services. He explained, “In 2020, only 28 percent of HIV exposed infants had access to early infant diagnosis while mothers who become positive during breastfeeding pass the virus to their babies who were originally born negative.” HubCare Uses Smart Technology To Provide Cheap Healthcare For… FG Says 3,598 Cholera Deaths In 2021 Unacceptable However, he noted that a new guideline is in the works by the federal government to see that newborns are tested at birth to avoid missing those who are positive. “The gateway to PMTCT is to ensure that every pregnant woman is tested, we start this new drive with new test kits that can test two diseases, HIV/ AIDs and Syphilis, using a single drop of blood. We believe this will improve our testing coverage across the board.” “There is more work to be done to ensure more women visit health facilities and stakeholders know this,” he added. He also frowned at the inability of state governments to respond to the provision of adequate funding for HIV programmes, especially the Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission, PMTCT, in their domains. According to him, the WHO elimination of Mother to Child Transmission (MTCT) target (“yellow book”) said the country has 95 per cent ANC coverage, 95 per cent testing coverage for pregnant women with 95 per cent PMTCT coverage. “Poor access to the formal public health sector, PMTCT services at present reaches only about a third of pregnant women in Nigeria and many states are yet to respond to the provision of adequate funding for HIV programmatic activities, including PMTCT,” he said. He further said that there was an urgent need for a clear community strategy to reach the unreached, recognise the importance of working with all actors, private providers, Traditional Birth Attendance (TBAs), community leaders and networks of People Living with HIV. The PMTCT boss also called for the establishment and empowerment of the Local Government Areas (LGAs) team to address data, sample logging, commodities and other relevant HIV services. He said that there was a need to organise all facilities (Public and Private) and other service delivery points of HIV services for pregnant women using a ‘Hub and Spoke’ model. He stressed, “We need to strengthen data reporting and use based on the hub and spoke approach and with engagement of the LGA team.” “There is the need to develop a state specific realistic approach to improve Antenatal Clinic (ANC), ANC Testing and PMTCT coverage Development. “Others are, endorsement and implementation of the state level framework for elimination of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV and Syphilis,” Olugbenga noted.