Oyo State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps NSCDC, CC. Adaralewa Micheal has joined well-meaning Nigerians in commiserating with the immediate family, the good people of Ibadaland both home and abroad and the state government over the sudden exit of Oba Saliu Adetunji Ajeoguguluso 1. Commandant Adaralewa in a statement issued and signed by the state Corps Public Relations Officer, Chief Superintendent of Corps, CSC Olusegun Oluwole described the late monarch as someone that contributed greatly to ensure a safer society. Adaralewa through the statement stressed that the monarch will surely be missed for his supports in fighting crimes and criminalities in the country. A copy of the statement made available to INDEPENDENT stated as thus; the State Commandant of NSCDC Oyo State Command CC Adaralewa Michael Akintayo commiserates with the entire immediate family of the Olubadan, the Olubadan-in-Council and all Ibadan indigenes over the demise of “His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, the Aje Ogunguniso 1” who passed on at the age of 93, today Sunday, 2nd January 2022. The statement affirmed that Adaralewa made this known today at the State Command Headquarters Agodi Ibadan while addressing the officers and men deployed to the Popoyemoja, Ibadan because of the calibre of people that will throng the palace to pay their last respect. He further stated that the late monarch would particularly be missed for the support given to security agencies in fighting crime and criminality especially Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, he promoted the unity of Nigeria, the values, ethos and culture of not just Ibadanland but the entire Yorubaland. Commandant Adaralewa wishes to assure the general public that adequate security measures have been put in place in Ibadan Metropolis and Palace area in collaboration with other sister security agencies. He urged the good people of Ibadanland to be law-abiding and guide against any acts that can lead to the breakdown of law and order. He prayed for the repose of the soul of the Olubadan and for Allah to grant him the best abode in Al-Jannah Firdaous.