ABUJA – All Progressives Congress (APC) leading Chairmanship aspirant and former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulazeez Yari has asked stakeholders of the party to ignore Alhaji Abdullahi Shinkafi whom he described as a Political Prostitute and a jobber out to cause confusion. The former All Progressives Congress (APC) and Aspirant for APC National Chairman had during his visit to the APC National Secretariat on Wednesday declared that Yari is not qualified to run for APC National Chairman since he failed to validate his membership card during the last nationwide Membership Registration and Validation exercise conducted by the party. He also claimed that Yari could not be aspiring to lead a party he is not a member, hence he, Shinkafi, stepped in to represent his state. 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello Approval Of Rail Line Project: Buhari Scores Another Milestone… However Engr. Abdullahi Abdulkarim Tsare , Chief Of Staff to the former governor said Shinkafi s nothing but an errand boy, and is only carrying out the errands of his pay masters, dismissing him as a nuisance and hired hand. “Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi is nothing but a nuisance and a witch hunting Dog and there was never a time Abdulaziz was a friend to this errand boy of some disgruntled elements. Therefore, his pay masters should come out so that His Excellency, can face them one on one. “Where was Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi, when Abdulaziz contested elections from a State Party Secretary to the exalted Office of a Governor, a two (2) term Governor for that matter” Engr Tsare said Yari has never been a friend of Abdullahi Shinkafi noting that the former APGA scribe was trying to import into the APC the confusion he caused while in APGA for 16 years and warned Mai Mala Buni led APC Caretaker Committee to be circumspect about the kind of people that join the party. Yari said that the fact that Shinkafi was doing a yoman’s job cannot be questioned .and explains the fact that a foundation members of APC and a financier of the party should be declared missing, insiting that he (Yari ) despite odds remain a bonafide member of the APC. POLL “We urge the public to ignore a chanting of an errand boy who will stop at nothing than to cause confusion in the public, simply to mislead the teaming Supporters of His Excellency Abdulaziz Yari, and to further attract large sum from his pay masters. He is not serious in the race of being the National Chairman of our great Part APC. “Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi, was in APGA throughout the 16 years period of PDP rule; for that period, he was just a nuisance in APGA because he caused a lot of trouble and I believed the APGA as a party is in a better position to give detailed account of what Sani Shinkafi represent. “If not, why should anybody explain to the public that someone who was a Governor did not have a membership registration of the party he worked so tirelessly to form, and during that period, Shinkafi was in APGA. It was when Matawalle defected that he Sani cross carpeted to join his pay masters. For the avoidance of doubt, His Excellency Abdulaziz Yari is a party man to the core with the following qualifications at his disposal: “He is a registered member of the APC with his membership Card obtained by him. “He is the Only known Chairmanship Aspirant coming from Zamfara in particular and the North West geo-political zone; the party and general public should disregard any Noise maker claiming to be an Aspirant under the Umbrella of APC”.