JOS – Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial aspirant, Honourable Alfred Dapal, has declared his interest in contesting the 2023 governorship election. Dapal, a geologist and oil guru who hails from Mangu Local Government Area (LGA) made his intention known when he stormed Jos PDP Secretariat with his campaign team to meet with his party executives. Dapal promised to unite citizens of Plateau state, saying unity is a foundation for meaningful development in any given state. Bode George Sues PDP Chieftain, Pearse For N500m Over Alleged… #EndSARS Massacre: Panel Report Confirms APC As Murderous Party… Dapal lamented that the lingering insecurity in the state and called for urgent solutions for the development of the state. According to him, it will be difficult for a State governor to succeed without the unity and security of the people. “There is nothing you can do without unity, we must put our heads together as citizens of Plateau state and take our destiny in our hands to stay united as When we are United, it becomes easy for us to achieve whatever goal we set for ourselves,” Dapal stressed. He noted that the people of Plateau are facing challenges in every sector of their lives, stressing that these challenges can be resolved with unity. “You notice that under this regime, people are leaving Plateau state because of lingering security challenges, Hence I decided to contest with the aim to rescue Plateau and make it viable and safe for everyone. POLL According to him, while the world is going digital, Plateau remains analogue. He wondered why the people are talking of Covid-19, the state cannot initiate a home-grown solution. He hinted that as a leader, he has to come out of his comfort zone and work for the people. According to him, he is out to provide solutions to security challenges in the state, assuring that with experience, the prevailing economic downturn on the Plateau would be resolved if he becomes the next governor of Plateau state. Dapal stressed “The agricultural drive that is not working well, you have to be there. Our medical care is in shamble, you have to get it right. Plateau has to be a medical tourist destination in this country,” Dapal stressed.