BAUCHI – Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said that it will be difficult for God to forgive the People Democratic Party (PDP) if the party makes the mistake of not listening to the cry of Nigerians who are desperately looking for a leadership that will salvage it from its woes. Governor Wike who stated this when he paid Governor Bala Mohammed a visit in Bauchi, to mark the new year, said that PDP is the only party that can salvage the country from its predicaments as the party has what it takes to do so. The Governor said that he decided to visit Bauchi State to mark the new year because he shared a very close relationship with Governor Bala Mohammed and to keep the bond of unity that is prevalent in the party. 2022: House Of Reps Hopeful, Akinwole Akinwale, Tasks Nigerians… Attack On PDP Congress In Zamfara State An Assault On Democracy… He lamented on the spate of insecurity ravaging some parts of the country, saying that, this is not the kind of country that Nigerians want, but are helpless because of the kind of leadership in the country. “This is not the kind of Nigeria we want, you wake up every morning, you will hear that 40 People have been killed, tomorrow another 30 persons killed. “There is no day that people are not dying in Nigeria, they are not dying because of their own mistakes, they are not dying because they caused their own deaths. You are going to the market, you will die, you are going to the office, you will still die, so Nigerians are dying because of the inability of the government in power to protect lives and property, once that is not achieved, .there is no longer governance” “People must be allowed to use the roads, People must be allowed to use the health facilities, people must be allowed to schools and their farms, but there is no more farming because people cannot go to their farms. They are afraid when they go to farms, they will be taken, is that the kind of Nigeria we bargained for? I am sure if you have another opportunity to go back to the moon, you will not want to come back here because of what is happening, but we will continue to pray that this kind of mistake does not repeat itself again” he said Governor Wike said that what Nigeria requires is strong leadership that can make good decisions for the betterment of the country, stressing unless there is good leadership, Nigerians will continue to suffer. POLL Speaking earlier, the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed thanked Governor Nelson Wike for the visit, saying that he has always remained one of the strongest pillars of the party who has the interest of the country at heart. According to Governor Mohammed, he shares a bond with Governor Wike as they are connected by two things which is the unity and progress of the nation.