Before a man’s sperm can fertilise a woman’s egg, the head of the sperm must attach to the outside of the egg. Once attached, the sperm pushes through the outer layer to the inside of the egg (cytoplasm), where fertilization takes place. Sometimes the sperm cannot penetrate the outer layer, for a variety of reasons. The egg’s outer layer may be thick or hard to penetrate or the sperm may be unable to swim. In these cases, a procedure called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) can be done along with in vitro fertilisation (IVF) to help fertilise the egg. During ICSI, a single sperm is injected directly into the cytoplasm the egg. The ICSI procedure can help you achieve IVF pregnancy success even when male infertility problems are an issue. If your male partner has experienced any of the following problems, talk to your doctor about ICSI: Third Dose Of AstraZeneca COVID-19 Vaccine Helps Against Delta… Stroke Absence of sperm in the semen, possibly caused by a blockage. äLow sperm count, poor sperm quality and/or abnormal sperm shape and movement. äSperm unable to penetrate through the outer layer of your egg or production of antisperm antibodies. Have you tried IVF without success? If so, ask your doctor about ICSI and IVF success rates. Side effects POLL Unfortunately problems can occur during ICSI procedures. Here are some potential issues that could arise during the process: Your eggs may become damaged.The embryo might fail to grow after the fertilisation. Some people speculate that the ICSI process might lead to higher rates of genetic defects compared to other fertility treatments. But, the birth defects most commonly associated with ICSI can usually be fixed with surgery. ICSI and vasectomy reversal If your partner has had a vasectomy, the ICSI procedure may help you conceive.This may be especially helpful if your partner tried to have a vasectomy reversal that was unsuccessful, or if he doesn’t want to have the vasectomy reversed. During a vasectomy reversal or in a quick office procedure, a surgeon is often able to remove your partner’s sperm from his testes. These sperm can be frozen for later use with IVF and ICSI.ICSI is a major advance. It is quite amazing that doctors and scientists have made such amazing breakthroughs with assisted reproductive technology fertility treatments. It is fascinating that we now have the ability to fertilise an egg with just one sperm, helping many infertile couples get pregnant. COVID-19: Experts Task Pregnant Women On Vaccination To Protect… Pharmacists Consultant Cadre: PSN Seeks National Council For… Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI), an extension to conventional in vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment, can be applied in cases where there is low sperm number, motility or morphology, or a combination of these parameters. ICSI can also be used in cases where sperm have been retrieved surgically from the epididymis or testicular tissue and in cases where the polyspermy rate from IVF has been unexpectedly and unacceptably high. Although the injection of motile and morphologically normal sperm is the most common route (following immotilisation), immotile sperm can also be used where no motile sperm is seen in a sperm sample but where viability of the sperm can be confirmed.