***Donates N50m To Victims Of Armed Bandits’ Attacks MINNA – Ahead of the 2023 Presidential election, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger state has subtly endorsed the candidature of former Lagos state Governor and National leader of the, All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, assuring him that Nigerians await his coming on board and transforming the country the way he transformed Lagos. Governor Bello made the declaration when he played host to the APC Chieftain in government house, Minna yesterday, describing Tinubu as the only candidate that fits the needs and aspirations of the present day Nigeria. 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello Approval Of Rail Line Project: Buhari Scores Another Milestone… “Lagos is a country within a country, we saw the foundation you laid there, we are looking forward to seeing you replicate it for Nigeria”, Governor Bello said as he appreciates the former Lagos state Governor for empathising with the government and people of Niger state. Bello lamented security situation in the country generally, adding that no where is safe and recounted how some villagers in Mashegu Local Government Area were murdered in cold blood by the armed bandits inside the mosque while observing their early morning prayers. Where are we safe in this country? The Governor rhetorically asked adding that, “In a place of worship, people have been killed. We are not dealing with normal human beings, but people whose heart has been cemented for evil and no amount of talking or dialogue can change them”. “Only recently, they went to a village while they were observing their early morning prayers, locked the door and started shooting indiscriminately, killing 18 people and only those that forced the door open survived and few days later they did same in another village”. Governor Bello said the time has come for Nigeria to change its approach to the ongoing was against armed banditry, terrorism and other forms of criminalities from the conventional warfare to a technological driven for expected results. POLL “Since we are not fighting conventional warfare, let’s use technology even though it is expensive, the trend can be checked. The era of sending solidiers into forests when we can deploy drones to monitor movements of bandits and hit targets effortlessly should have been over”. Senator Bola Ahmed Tinibu, had earlier enjoined Nigerians not to see the ongoing security breaches as a hopeless situation noting that, with self belief, prayers and determination the situation can be remedied. In as much as Nigerians have hope that they can turn the seeming impossible situation around for good by winning the war against criminal elements threatening the peace of the country as no government wants strife to derail her. “We share in your grief as a people and government. I am here for the people of Niger state, hearing and reading of disasters, armed bandat attacks and cattle rustling every day, just like what happened on Wednesday again”, Tinibu said and announced a donation of N50 million to those affected by the rampaging bandatry attacks in the state. Tinubu who also visited former Military Head of State, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida was accompanied by Senator Abu Fari from Katsina state, Hon Ibrahim Abdullahi, a member House of Representatives, representing Niger state and Hon James Falake representing Ikeja Federal constituency, Lagos state.