LAGOS – Nigerian Society of Engineers, NSE, Ikeja branch and Getjob.com, organised a job and Career Fair on Saturday 15, January, for the unemployed, having about 1000 job seekers, with some physically attending at the venue, while many hooked online via zoom, facebook and other social platforms, seeking recruitments to fill up existing vacancies in the participating companies. The Fair had about 12 blue chip companies supporting it with scores of vacancy openings and HR personnel to rightly advise the applicants on what to do in securing jobs from such organisations. In his opening remarks, Engineer Bamidele Idris, facilitator and President of Getjobs.com, said, “The job fair is our modest contribution to reducing unemployment in the country which is 33% from available data. If you critically consider this, you will agree this is massive compared to the past which is less than 20%.” Pension Review: Kebbi Pensioners Give Government Ultimatum NDE Trains 50 Unemployed Persons On Agricultural Extension… The notion of applicants is that there are no jobs out there, but the fact remains that there are jobs but most don’t know how to access those jobs, owing to lack of knowledge of what is required or lacked the value that will match the vacancies available, which the Fair is about to address.” He added. According to Engineer Tosin Ogunmola, Chairman, NSE, Ikeja Branch, “This job Fair is very important to us and that is why it is the first in the year 2022, and strategically hosted early in the year so we can get into the year on a promising note.One of the things the branch set out to do is to serve as a center of value for its members. That is why we put up an event like this not only for members of our profession alone, but we expanded the scope of the event to cover other disciplines.” In his lecture, Mr. Abayomi Alli, Manufacturing Director, Unilever PLC, said, “How many of us have what is referred to as differentiating competencies that sets us apart from other people, making an employer look at you and say I want to have this person? “You got to have a peculiar value you are bringing into the organisation to enable them reckon with you rather than waiting for them to evaluate you to know what you can deliver.” Mrs. Taiwo Dayo Abatan, Group Head, Human Capital Development, Primeral African Finance Company, asked, why are many applicants turned down despite attending many job Fairs, having knowledge of how to properly present themselves to job interviewers and after several groomings? POLL She then explained, “The world of work has changed. What you might have being taught in the past are no longer working, you also need to understand your value, know what the employer out there needs and lastly you have to change your mindset that jobs are not available. “Jobs are available but there is a drought of what the companies require and what is available.” She added. Bimbo Oloyede, CEO, Strictly Speaking, said instead of endlessly waiting for employment the applicants can turn their passions into a purpose and it will become their profession in accordance to what Gabrielle Viestam, an American motivational speaker and author said. Two of the participants were given slots for paid internships with Fruta Juice, with 26 vacancy openings announced from Primeral and Coca-Cola.