Residents Lament As Commercial Activities Remain Paralysed ENUGU – There was tension in Enugu as gunmen enforcing sit-at-home men attacked the Enugu South local government office of the All Progressives Congress (APC} during their meeting and shot dead the State Youth leader of the party, Mr. Kelvin Ezeoha and one other member. This is coming as sitting at home enters the third day in Enugu, thereby paralyzing activities in the state. Sit-At-Home: Gunmen Attack Traders, Burn Vehicle In Enugu Gunmen Abduct Another Traditional Ruler In Plateau State The sit-at-home which commenced on Monday despite the cancelation by IPOB has kept residents of the state to stay home for safety It was gathered that the members of the party from ward III Obeagu Awkunanaw, Enugu South Local Government Area were having a reconciliation meeting at the party office located in their ward when the armed numbering over seven stormed the venue killing the two-party members instantly while whisking away one other person. A Chieftain of the party who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity said “some gunmen invaded the Enugu South LGA APC meeting this evening while their meeting was in progress, opened fire on the party members. He said “They killed the immediate past Enugu South local government Chairman of the party, now the incumbent state youth leader, Mr. Kelvin Ezeoha and one other person, while a party member was kidnapped. “ it is not yet clear if the killing was s a case of political Assassination or handiwork of suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB, who have been unleashing terror on innocent citizens of South East in the name of enforcing the sit – at home order. POLL Meanwhile, the streets of Enugu metropolis is ad continue to remain deserters at banks, shops, markets, offices and schools remain closed A resident of Obiagu in Enugu metropolis, Godwin Egbo is who spoke to our correspondent described the sit at home as an act of wickedness He said “ the issue is getting out of hand, the government must take drastic action to stop this nonsense, does it mean the hoodlums are more powerful than the government? How could they keep people in the house for one week? Something must be done urgently to stop the evil,” he said Efforts to speak with the state police public relations officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe proved abortive as his phone was not reachable and he did he reply to the message sent to him.