The Strategic Engage­ment tour of Osun Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Thursday, hits Ila Federal Constituency of the State where he was warmly received by teeming party loy­alists and residents of the area. In his usual style, the Gov­ernor visited the palaces of the traditional rulers within the Constituency. They are the Orangun of Ila, Oba Ab­dul-Wahab Oyedotun; Owa of Otan-Ayegbaju, Oba Lukman Adesola Ojo Fadipe; Oluresi of Iresi, Oba Sikiru Adeseun Ibiloye and Orangun of Oke- Ila, Oba Omoniyi Adedokun Abolarinwa. The monarchs who could not hide their feelings and enthusiasm while receiving Oyetola, lauded his leadership style and sterling performance in office, saying that he had done creditably well to earn another term in office. They also expressed confidence in the governor’s capability to lead Osun to the Promised Land. 100 Shops Built On DSC Land Brought Down In Udu Alao-Akala To Be Buried On February 18 The royal fathers, therefore, urged their subjects, home and in the diaspora, to reciprocate the good works done by the Governor in the last three years by voting for him mas­sively in the July governorship election. Speaking at his palace, the Orangun of Ila, Oba Oyedo­tun, who applauded the good works of the Governor, said his achievements in the last three years were enough testimonies for him to be reelected. He said with the support of God and people of the State, Oyetola will triumph over his detractors. Orangun further expressed gratitude to the Governor for prioritising the ancient town in the scheme of things as man­ifested in the good things that have come to the town such as the recently approved universi­ty sited in Ila-Orangun, among other developments that the town has witnessed since the inception of the present admin­istration. He assured the Governor of the maximum support of his subjects, adding that the entire Ila Federal Constituency would be delivered overwhelmingly for the ruling party. POLL “We are ready to do every­thing humanly possible to en­sure your victory, we are going to support you, we are going to ensure your victory and I am confident that my people will vote for you overwhelmingly,” Orangun assured. Similarly, Owa of Otan-Ayegbaju, Oba Lukman Adesola Ojo-Fadipe, said in the last three years, the Governor had not left anyone in doubt of his capacity to redefine and transform the State. Corroborating this, the Oluresi of Iresi, Oba Sikiru Adeseun Ibiloye and Orangun of Oke-Ila, Oba Omoniyi Ade­dokun Abolarinwa, declared their support for the Governor saying “to whom much is given, much is expected.” In his response, Governor Oyetola appreciated the mon­archs for their prayers and support for him and his admin­istration. He assured that his admin­istration would continue to pri­oritise the welfare of people of the State.