Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has defended the Traditional and Chieftain­cy Bill he signed into law recently, declaring that the law is in line with modern reality. For Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, holding inter-faith obsequies in honour of de­parted royal fathers was a welcome development. Abiodun had signed into law a bill, which sought to re­define the traditional institu­tion and allow family mem­bers of the late monarch to take part in the planning and burial rites. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference Speaking at the interde­nominational/inter-faith service held in honour of the late Olowu of Owu Kingdom, Oba Adegboyega Dosunmu, held at the Oba Adeleye Park, Abeokuta, on Saturday, the governor noted that the law did not stop tra­ditionalists from performing their rites. He said the Ogun was blessed with traditional rul­ers of high repute, adding that the late Olowu was a self-driven, self-made and diligent monarch who devel­oped himself in his youthful days to be able to face the fu­ture. Abiodun added that Oba Dosumu was a renowned playwright and TV drama producer. “He was one of the few Africans at that time who created The Village Headmaster, one of the most successful television series in the country,” he said. The governor further de­scribed the late monarch as a man of many parts who as the Chairman of Abeokuta Local Government Area, helped in developing infra­structure in the capital city and put smiles on the faces of the people he met during his life time. He added that the late traditional ruler, a UNES­CO awardee, was a devoted Christian, a loving husband and father who gave his all to serve his kingdom, state and country. POLL Abiodun urged his chil­dren, members of his family and the people of the state to imbibe the good virtues Oba Dosunmu left behind. Speaking earlier, for­mer President Olusegun Obasanjo called on the chil­dren to continue building on the legacies of their father which was not only notice­able in Owu, Abeokuta and the state, but the nation as a whole. The former president, who is also the Balogun of Owu Kingdom, while appre­ciating Governor Abiodun for always identifying with the people of Owu, lauded him for the transformation­al development going on in the state.