ABAKALIKI – The All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State branch, has raised an alarm that provocative utterances and actions of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi State can cause troubles and heat up the polity. The party alleged that the opposition party, PDP was fanning the embers of war, supporting undemocratic tendencies being exhibited by some of its members. The APC Chairman, Ebonyi State, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, stated this while reacting to a press statement: PDP Faults Ebonyi Govt. On Declaration Of Ex-Reps Member Wanted. FIRS Exceeds Target, Announces Over 100% Performance As 2021… ICPC, CoDA Sign Pact On Recovery Of Stolen Assets Emegha noted that the State Governor, Engr. David Umahi only directed the police and other security agencies to declare him wanted for the alleged malicious social media publication he made which is suspected to have led to the loss of life among other properties in the Ikwo Local government Area of the State. “Remember that state Governors are the Chief Security Officers of their various States. On this premise, it is incumbent on them to devise lawful means in a very proactive and reasonable manner to ensure that the oath of securing the lives and property of their citizens he took is not in anyway jeopardised. “When the former member who represented OHANIVO Federal constituency between 2011 and 2019 at the National Assembly, Mr Linus Okorie made an inciting Facebook publication which constituted a security breach that led to the loss of life among other valuables despite his supposedly enlightened position in the society. Do you expect the Governor to fold his arms and watch crisis engulf the state? Your guess is as good as mine in this scenario. “The dying PDP should go and learn how to be in opposition, rather pose itself as a threat to our democracy which has endured. They should also understand that no one, no matter how highly placed, has immunity against violence. When it erupts, it consumes everything along its paths. They shouldn’t throw caution to the wind.” The State APC Chairman who is also the Special Security Consultant to Ebonyi State Government, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha reiterated the fact that fake news and hate speeches are worse than the unknown gunmen as they infuriate and spark up people to go into war against themselves for no justifiable reason. POLL He noted that the Ebonyi State Cybercrime law 2021 will not be a toothless bulldog while unscrupulous elements are on rampage causing innocent and law-abiding citizens unnecessary inconveniences under the present administration led by Governor David Umahi. “I, therefore, charge the ranting PDP to stay put and watch the law take its full course on the matter. No one should be afraid of the law because its implementation is aimed at bringing sanity to the entire society by assuaging defamatory publications.”