Rafael Benitez has bemoaned injuries and lack of financial backing during his spell at Everton, insisting that things would have improved had he not been sacked on Sunday afternoon. The Spaniard was appointed at the end of June and made a bright start to the season, but things went off the rails and his side really struggled over the last three months. The Toffees have lost nine of their last 12 Premier League games, winning just one and their defeat to Norwich City on Saturday proved to be Benitez’s last chance to prove himself. Real Madrid Beat Athletic Bilbao To Win 12th Super Cup Title Chelsea Join Arsenal, Tottenham In Ivan Perisic Chase The 61-year-old was unfortunate that his squad struggled with injuries this season, he was handed little cash in the summer and that he had to battle to win over Everton fans as a former Liverpool boss. He feels that these things have conspired against him, but given more time and he and his staff would have turned things around. Benitez wrote on his website: ‘We knew it wouldn’t be easy, and that it was a big challenge, both emotionally and in terms of sport. ‘My love for this city, for Merseyside and its people, made me accept this challenge, but it is only when you are inside that you realise the magnitude of the task. ‘From the very first day, my staff and myself worked as we always do, with commitment and full dedication, we didn’t only have to get results, but we also had to win over people’s hearts. POLL ‘However, the financial situation and then the injuries that followed made things even harder. I am convinced that we would have been better once the injured players were back and with the arrival of the new signings. ‘The road to success isn’t easy and sadly, nowadays in football there is a search for immediate results and there is always less and less patience; unfortunately circumstances have determined the results and it won’t be possible to continue this project. ‘In any case, thank you to the Board, to the staff, to the players, and to those fans who have supported us during this time. ‘My best wishes for EFC. Rafa Benítez.’ A replacement is yet to be announced, but the likes of Wayne Rooney and Roberto Martinez are considered contenders. Duncan Ferguson is expected to take temporary charge and could be handed the permanent role if he impresses.