ISEGHE AJAYI With the year 2021 ending with so many celebrations, ushering us into a New Year, so many resolutions have been made by several individuals especially on how to enhance their financial and spiritual lifestyles. In fact, this is the norms of so many individuals every New Year. But after a while, some of them disregard their New Year resolutions by going back to those old habits that were not beneficial to them in the previous year. The Need To Adhere To Your Christmas Budget Making The Most Of Your Money This Christmas There is no doubt that 2021 was a unique and tough one, but despite that, the populace particularly the common folks pulled through and the ones that were wise tried as much as possible to reach some of their set goals. Now that the period of merriments is over, what are your plans for the year 2022? It is very crucial as an individual to commence restrategising on how to move forward in every aspect of your life because ‘time waits for nobody’. It is a New Year with so many obligations to fulfill and bills that must be taken care of despite the high cost of living. Hence, the need to have a budgetary plan to help you manage your finances, track down your expenses and reach your financial set goals. That is why personal budgeting is very vital and can be very rigorous, so overwhelming that only a small number of Nigerian families have a working monthly budget. But the question remains, “Is having personal budget worthwhile?” The answer is “Yes.” Developing a budget that can be sustained over a long period has been undeniably connected to building wealth, while at the same time helping the budget planner to get out of debts and reduce expenses. POLL Most people seem not to bother about implementing personal budget plan for themselves. The mistake many of them make is that they so much rely on the fact that they know approximately how much money they make annually, and against the backdrop, had never broken down their expenses by category to figure out what they could afford on a recurring basis, or how much money they could regularly invest. Indeed, they desire to spend money on the things they needed and wanted without determining first whether they could truly afford them. However, some appeared to have realised that after overdrawing their accounts, and had on that note become indebted to friends, colleagues and their offices, there is need to draw a budget plan. But how can a first timer decide to get real and begin a budget? If you are a first-time budgeter, the following tips will help to create a personal budget without stress: How To Beat Financial Pressure This Christmas How To Rectify Past Financial Errors Make Up Your Mind To Create A Budget If you are reading this article, chances are that you have already made the decision to begin a working budget. Congratulations! For many people, this is the hardest part. Determine Your Financial Worth If you have a well serviced savings account, investment accounts, or any other financial instrument, you will want to know how much money is in each account as well as the interest rates and expenses of each one. Make note of this information as it would become important in determining your net worth and the best use of your capital in the future. Know How Much You Earn For some people, this is easier than others. Those on a salaried pay scale can easily find their monthly income. For hourly employees or those who work in a business where income may rise and fall unpredictably, this can be much more difficult. The most important consideration, regardless of how you earn your monthly income, is to determine the average monthly amount of income that you receive. Identify Your Financial Priority Determining your monthly recurring debt payments should be your next step. This should be fairly simple to do, as long as you have stopped incurring additional debts in the short term. If you have not been able to break your dependence on credit cards, that is acceptable, as building a budget will act as a first step for your next financial priority which should be getting out of high interest consumer debt. To find out what your monthly recurring debt payments are, calculate the total amount owed on each debt account as well as the minimum monthly payment. Verify Your Net Worth Once you know how much money you have and how much you owe, you can easily determine your net worth. Just subtract what you owe from what you have, and you will derive a number. This number will tell you the value of your financial resources. Establish Your Average Recurring Monthly Expenses This can be the hard part for many people. The best way to determine your monthly expenses is to make a stack of household expenses for a month. Keep your receipts, your utility bills, and any other expense that arises during a one month period, and divide these bills into categories. The categories can be as general or as specific as you want them to be. You may decide to keep the categories extremely general (automotive/household), whereas you may prefer specific itemised categories such as (car wash/ electric bill). Either way works well as long as you determine an average amount of expenses for each category. Track, Monitor, and Be Disciplined Keeping track of your budget takes an hour or so a week. But this will save you a lot of time in the long run. Once you have an established budget, you will want to keep it in check. The discipline and associated knowledge that you are making good long term and short term financial choices will provide you with a great deal of comfort, and will take you from living pay cheque to being able to see the long term results of your disciplined savings and financial planning. Make Adjustments Accordingly If the base line of your budget proved that you are overspending your monthly income, you will come to the most difficult step that is, making cuts to your monthly expenses. There are available resources, particularly online, that will teach you to be smarter with the income you have, help you cut your recurring monthly expenses, and establish your financial boundaries for personal budget planning. Adjust Categories Based On Reality Life is full of surprises. Food, transportation fare, and rent gets more expensive, and other services subscribed to can get hiked when you least expect it. Each time you notice inflation creeping up on your expense categories, get a raise at work and begin to earn more money. You must adjust your categorical expenses based on the realities of the world around you. Pay Yourself First Depending where you are in your budget, based on your bottomline (over/under spending), you may want to put in a few extra line items to your monthly expenses. Moving money into savings and treating it like a recurring expense will permit you to slowly build up your savings without feeling like you must make these deposits from what is left at the end of the month. Ultimate Word If you do not have a budget, now is the right time to create one. By following the above tips you will certainly be on your way to financial freedom and creating wealth for the future. Happy New Year!