Ralf Rangnick has told Edinson Cavani he will not be allowed to leave Manchester United this month. Speculation over Cavani’s future has resurfaced in recent weeks but United downplayed spurious reports linking the striker with a move to Barcelona, who completed the signing of forward Ferran Torres from Manchester City this week. Cavani, 34, has only started three times for United this season and is out of contract in June but he could get more playing time in Rangnick’s 4-2-2-2 formation alongside Cristiano Ronaldo. Steven Gerrard Confirms Aston Villa Line-Up Vs Brentford Confirmed Everton Team Vs Brighton United have scored three goals in the two matches Cavani and Ronaldo have started together and Rangnick has refused to entertain the prospect of Cavani going when Anthony Martial has already requested a transfer. “We had quite a few conversations in the last couple of weeks – probably the player with whom I have spoken most,” Rangnick said. “I told him from the very first day, for me he is a highly important player. He is probably the only one who can play as a striker back to goal and face to goal. “And his professionalism, his work ethic is just amazing and I told him I desperately want him to stay until the end of the season. He knows that and knows how highly I rate him and how highly I respect him, and that was also the reason why I played him from the beginning today together with Cristiano.” Rangnick confirmed Martial is not the only player who has asked to leave this month but United are reluctant to trim their bloated squad mid-season amid soaring Covid-19 rates in England. Martial has been omitted from the last two matchday squads since he informed Rangnick personally of his wish to leave United. Sevilla have already had a loan offer rejected for Martial as United are demanding a loan fee and the buying club pays Martial’s wages paid in full. POLL “Yes, it depends (on outgoings), and I think you understand I don’t want to speak about individual players in public,” Rangnick added. “I know from some players that they want to leave. We spoke about Edi and he knows I definitely will not let him go. “For me, he is a highly important player for the rest of the season, still playing in three competitions, so we will definitely need Edi. I would rather have another Edi on top of that. But for me, it’s clear Edi has to stay. “With regards to the other players, yes, our squad is maybe a little bit too big with regards to numbers but we still have Covid, we have three competitions, as I said, and we could do with a bigger squad than in times without Covid. “He (Martial) made it very clear that he wants to leave and, in a way, I can understand his wish to leave and to try to play more regularly somewhere else. “But again, it’s a question not only of what he wants to do but also a question of which kind of clubs are interested in him and the demands of the club. We have to wait and see. Confirmed Lineups: Getafe Vs Real Madrid PSG’s Messi, Three Others Test Positive For COVID-19 “He is not injured currently so I decided to go with this group of players that were in the squad today, so it had nothing to do with injuries.”