Say PDP Can’t Win Ekiti Governorship Poll Aggrieved delegates in the just concluded primary election of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the Iyorchia Ayu led Appeal Committee as insensitive and clueless that lacked the capacity to unravel the conspiracy theory that is going on between the Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, and former Governor of the State, Ayo Fayose. The group said the party cannot win the forthcoming governorship election in the state with the anointed candidate of Fayose, allegedly planted to help the candidate of incumbent Governor of APC to win the guber election. Gov Emmanuel Wants Former Aspirants To Support Ekiti PDP… 2023: Fayemi’s Wife Denies Senatorial Ambition In a statement jointly signed by Banji Dada on behalf of Ekiti Political Intervention Coalition (EPIC) and Abayomi Olowomeye for Concerned Delegates and Party Members –  Ward 5, Ado-Ekiti on Friday said devil cannot cast out a devil. The group said the chances of the PDP winning election in the state was slim with the emergence of its candidate sponsored by the ruling party. The statement said the exercise witnessed the mutilation and exclusion of delegates’ names from the register and therefore deliberately disenfranchised many automatic delegates who were accredited but denied tags and prevented from voting. The statement read ” We wish to make it abundantly clear to Chairman Iyorchia Ayu and his National Working Committee to expect their first defeat because the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) cannot win Ekiti on June 18, 2022. The winner of the primaries that you contrived to favor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, is a makeshift candidate planted by the former governor to help the candidate of incumbent Gov Kayode Fayemi of the APC to win the guber election. POLL ” The Ayu-led leadership is insensitive, clueless, and lacks the intelligence to unravel an open secrete that Fayemi and Minister Niyi Adebayo of the APC are financiers of Fayose to produce Bisi Kolawole. ” It is common knowledge that devil cannot cast out devil; therefore, how do you expect a candidate planted by Fayose through funding from the APC to win Ekiti for the PDP? There is no chance in hell for Ayu and his co-travelers in the PDP to win Ekiti. ” The unthoughtful threat by Ayu to expel Sen. Biodun Olujimi from the party over the pending suits instituted by the repositioning group will not stop the defeat of the PDP in Ekiti and the impending doom of the new NWC. ” We shall encourage Sen. Olujimi to drag the suits until after the PDP Presidential convention to teach the party a lifetime lesson. ” Same Fayose they are supporting once connived with Uche Secondus and planted surrogates to stop the national convention that produced the new NWC; If the PDP could reward his compromised aspirant with a ticket, then Olujimi has a good reason to continue. Ekiti: PDP Dismisses Post-Primary Crisis Over 5,000 ADC Members Pledge Support For Makinde’s… ” APC doe not fool around when they look for power, which was evident in how they treated Gov Fayose in 2018. But pictures have surfaced showing Fayose with Fayemi and Gov Udom Emmanuel in a mood that betrayed PDP party members’ confidence, and it was a show of shame. ” The people cannot understand why the national leadership of the PDP repeatedly forced Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State on the Ekiti PDP process after making a mess of the ad-hoc delegates’ election. Why must it be Udom? ” The PDP NWC carried their insensitivity too far by initiating an opaque process that was rushed to favor a particular aspirant without allowing other aspirants the opportunity to verify the delegate lists and raise objections to the process. ” The exercise witnessed the mutilation and exclusion of delegates’ names from the register, the deliberate disenfranchisement of many automatic delegates who were accredited but denied tags and prevented from voting. Governor Udom overreached himself when his security aides harassed a female complainant and threatened to arrest and lock up all the disenfranchised delegates if they moved close to the hall in his desperate bid to please Fayose. ” It was an open show of shame as the Chairman of the Governorship Primary Committee compromised voting secrecy and deliberately allowed Fayose to sit in a vantage position to verify delegates and intimidate them into voting for Bisi Kolawole, contrary to the earlier pronounced rules. ” The Akwa Ibom governor also diminished his leadership by allowing the aides of Fayose to sit in the hall purposely to monitor and intimidate delegates. “The Ekiti PDP Governorship primary was a charade, and it fell short of a free and fair process”