LAGOS – Ambassador Mpakaboari LongJohn, Founder of the Mpakaboari Longjohn Foundation (MLJ Foundation), has commended the Super Eagles for an impressive start at the ongoing 33rd Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Mpakaboari, a Nigerian business tycoon and renowned philanthropist gave the commendation after the Super Eagles team defeated a formidable opponent, Egypt 1-0, in their group stage encounter. He praised the Super Eagles for their resilience and show of quality, stating that he was proud of the team, adding that he strongly believes, like millions of football-loving Nigerians, that the spectacular first match in Cameroon is a foretaste of what to expect as they square up against other opponents in the tournament. AFCON: Gabon’s Late Strike Earns Draw Against Ghana In… AFCON: Nigeria’s Next Round Target Against Sudan Live On DStv,… He urged the Austin Eguavoen-led team and the coaching staff to remain good ambassadors on and off the field, and give loyal fans and Nigerians more exciting moments to celebrate. The president of MLJ Marine Oil and Gas said he was proud of the Eagles, and encouraged them to soar like eagles to write another chapter in the annals of Nigeria’s rich football history. Mpakaboari, a Nigerian entrepreneur and philanthropist, is most popular amongst his people for his selfless acts of service and genuine interest in the development of his society through his foundation. He has been widely recognised because of his humanitarian assistance to several communities in his hometown and to many individuals in Kalabari land, Rivers State and Nigeria at large. MLJ as he is fondly called, has funded so many NGO projects. POLL This is evident in his relentless efforts towards raising and elevating people who are impoverished as well as providing empowerment, financial and material support to the less privileged within his community. He is the founder of the Mpakaboari Longjohn Foundation (MLJ Foundation), a reputable Non-governmental Organization (NGO) in Nigeria, touching lives, empowering minds and transforming the lives of the less privileged for the betterment of the community and nation at large.