AWKA – A human rights group, Interna­tional Society For Human Rights and the Rule of Law (Inter­society) based in Onitsha, Anambra State, has alleged that soldiers killed at least 1,400 defenseless citizens between October 2020 and December 2021, a period of 14 months. In its report which it said is based on extensive investigation, the group led by Comrade Emeka Umeag­balasi said that in addition over 4,800 civilians were arrested, while another 1,000 went missing. These are mostly Christians, the report said. In all, 100 Igbo communi­ties were invaded, and 1,000 homes attacked leading to a loss of property worth N40 billion. Expert Says FCTA Can Revamp Revenue, Reduce Cost Of Governance FCT-IRS Launches Aggressive Tax Drive To Meet N200bn Target In its calculations, the killings represented month­ly average of 85 deaths and daily average of three which may be more given that there were 1000 missing cit­izens that are yet to be ac­counted for. They may have been killed. This is because they were abducted by security forces and taken into custody out­side the knowledge of their families and lawyers and have been missing till date, the report said. “This is more so when strong evidence abounds showing no traces of loca­tion and securing the re­lease of citizens abducted by soldiers of the Nigerian Army in Eastern Nigeria since January 2021. “There was also hardly handover or transfer of those arrested or abduct­ed to the police. From our investigation, most, if not all those abducted by them since January 2021 have nev­er been located by families or seen alive till date”. The report further cred­ited to soldiers of the Nige­rian Army at least 70% of the abductions and disap­pearances while DSS, NPF, Nigerian Navy and Nigeri­an Air Force are separately and jointly responsible for the remaining 30%. POLL On the other hand, the report alleged that Fulani herdsmen protected by fed­eral forces were responsible for hacking to death in 2021 alone of at least 270 Igbo Christians. These killings took place mainly in Ebonyi, Enugu, Anambra, Imo, Abia and Igbo parts of Delta, Edo (Obiaruku and Igbo-Akiri), Benue and Kogi states. “The killings by Jihad­ist Fulani herdsmen have brought the total number of defenseless citizens trace­ably killed in Eastern Nige­ria in the past 14 months to at least 1,400. “This is when added to 1,150 defenseless civilian deaths perpetrated by secu­rity forces”, it said.