Kia Nigeria, has partnered with Fixit45 to offer customers genuine spare parts and exceptional aftersales service. Olawale Olawale, Marketing Manager, Kia Nigeria in a statement said that the commitment to provide the very best aftersales service delivery and customer experience to thousands of customers nationwide was at the core of this partnership. The statement hinted that the two companies are raising the bar in offering Kia Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEMs) auto parts, quality repairs, and best-in-class service delivery to provide amazing value-added service to all Kia customers. Jaguar Land Rover Sales Drop 1% In 2021 On Weaker Brand Demand As Renault Sales Slip Nearly 5% In 2021 The statement hinted that the shifting consumer interests and the need to meet their expectations with exceptional service delivery has propelled Kia Nigeria to extend its reach by signing a new partnership agreement with Fixit45 to continue to offer genuine spare parts and the delivery of cutting-edge services in the country. The partnership, he said was aimed at keeping pace with consumers’ evolving wants and needs in order to remain competitive. He explained that from inception, the vision of KIA Nigeria was to bring world-class facilities closer to customers and offer quality service delivery that exceeds customers’ expectations, stressing that the partnership with Fixit45 was to further expand the auto company’s market reach and ease of access to teeming customers in the country. “Customer-centricity is at the epicenter of everything we do at Kia and our partnership with Fixit45, is aimed at giving optimum value to customers to ensure that they have access to the value-oriented service and genuine spare parts. “Our goal is to make quality Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEMs) auto parts accessible and affordable to our teeming customers to ensure they have an exceptional ownership experience with our Kia vehicles”, said Sanjay Tatpati, Chief Operating Officer, Kia Nigeria. POLL Justus Obaoye, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Co-Founder, Fixit45 said: “At Fixit45, we are firm believers in the power of mobility to not only enable socio-economic development and inspire ideas but also facilitate value-creating interactions that make society better. Convenience and curating a service experience that is best-in-class is what we are all about. “This partnership is a testament to our collaborating ethos and our passion to move the automotive aftermarket industry forward. “We are excited to have found a synergistic partner in Kia as we continue to drive and deliver quality services and automotive products to end-users. We share the same ideals of providing solutions that help people and organizations move and we are excited at the transformative opportunities that this relationship will produce.” Jimoh said that the joint venture with Fixit45 was an important step in its our expansion plans for the Nigerian market. Jimoh pointed out that finding the right partners to work with, in satisfying its customers was very vital to Kia Nigeria and expressed delighted to work with the experienced team of Fixit45.