SIFAX Group of Companies, a conglomerate with investment in maritime, aviation, oil & gas, haulage, logistics, financial services and hospitality sectors has explained why it is bidding for any of the four airports slated for concession by the Federal Government. Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, the Chairman, SIFAX Group in an exclusive interview with Daily Independent, said that the company is vying for the airports in a bid to improve its infrastructure, enhance the nation’s economy and its image, adding that it also wanted to deepen its investment in the Nigerian aviation sector. SIFAX Group of Companies had acquired the former Skypower Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL) in 2009 during the privatization exercise. Sanctions: France, Senegal, CIV Cancel Flights To Mali Trending Video Isn’t New, Incident Occurred In Aug. 2017 – NIS The company was later renamed Skyway Aviation Handling Company immediately after acquisition and became a Public Limited Company (PLC) in 2020 when it was enlisted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGX). Afolabi was however, silent on the company’s preferred airport out of the four slated for concession, but confirmed that the organisation submitted its bid through the appropriate authorities and expressed hope that it would be shortlisted. The airports slated for concession in the first phase of the exercise according to Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation are the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja, Aminu Kano International Airport (AKIA), Kano and Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA). He said: “SIFAX Group is interested in deepening our investment in the aviation industry and that’s why we have submitted a bid for the airport concession. Nigeria is our country and everything that will make it great and improve its economy and image is of utmost concern to us. “We have submitted our bid and we are waiting for the government to announce successful bidders and we are optimistic we are going to be successful. The image of any country starts from its airport. So, we believe that we will be able to turn things around and put in all our efforts to do it the way it should be done.” POLL On the plan of the ground handling company, Afolabi explained that the company would consistently acquire more ultra-modern equipment, invest in human capital and infrastructural developments in order to remain competitive in the sub-sector. Besides, he emphasised that the company had put in place succession plan to replace the aging workforce. “Our strategic plan revolves around our vision of being the leading ground handling company in sub-Sahara Africa and this comes with a huge responsibility in terms of efficient service delivery, acquisition of needed equipment, infrastructural development and human capital development. Technology for us is also very key. We are going to be investing in technology that makes our service delivery more efficient. “Succession plan is an area of interest to us. We are looking at how to achieve a mixture of experience and vibrancy in our workforce, especially at the management level. We have started a management trainee programme to identify and groom vibrant, young, intelligent and energetic staff who will add energy and drive to our business,” he said.