ABUJA – The Federal Government through the implementation of the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan 2021-2025(FCSSIP 25) would save N120bn. Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, who stated this on Thursday at the 43rd Meeting of the National Council on Establishments in Abuja, said about N120 billion would be saved from cleaning the human resource data on Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System(IPPIS). Yemi-Esan while reeling out the expected gains from the implementation of FCSSIP 25, said the Federal Government would also save N4.5 billion annually from digitising content in all Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs). Make Beneficial Research Studies Available To States, LGs… China’s Top Legislature To Inspect Implementation Of Infectious… Other benefits of the implementation of the Strategy Plan, according to her, include the improvement of transparency and the administration of human resources. She said: “It is expected that we will have about N120 billion savings from cleaning the human resource data on IPPIS. “And also it will improve overall transparency and the administration of human resources. “It is also expected that we will have about N4.5 billion annual savings, just from digitising content in all MDAs and it will also result in improved content sharing. “On training, it is expected that about 64,000 civil servants will be trained through the revamped core modules of smart P, resulting in improved skills and competencies. POLL “The 64,000 means that every civil servant at the Federal level would have been trained. “We’re also working on the development of 500 civil servants as future leaders through the Lead P programme. “Also, there wi’ll be a performance management system, which would have been institutionalised in 42 ministries and the extra ministerial departments.” The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation also listed the six priority areas of the new plan, which include accelerating capacity building and talent management, the institutionalisation of performance management, improvement of the integrated personnel and payroll information system, especially the human resource Moodle. Other priority areas, she said, include the institutionalisation of innovation in the public service, digitalisation of public service and staff welfare. Ogun Anti- Land Grabbing Law: Community Leaders Call For Total… It would be recalled that the Federal Executive Council on December 15th, 2021, approved the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan 2021- 2025, the successor plan to the first plan which ran from 2017-2020. Also speaking, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Muhammad Bello, said the government has relied on the civil service for guidance and implementation of policies in line with the rules and regulations of the civil service. Bello, while commending the public and civil servants, said the civil servants in the Federal Capital Territory have worked assiduously to develop the Territory. He, therefore, urged them as the engine room of government to continue to work in the implementation of government policies.