As part of its commitment to inspire young minds, STEM METS Resources has partnered with A.G. Leventis to impact the next generation through Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Robotics workshop for schools in Apapa LGA. The partnership is a long-term commitment to educate, empower and elevate young minds while also ensuring accountability through measurable outputs. STEM METS Resources Limited, a social enterprise dedicated to enriching young minds is an indigenous company geared towards providing World-Class services that are skillfully designed to equip Nigerian children and youth with the necessary skills set to compete and succeed in the global space. Pension Industry Recapitalisation’ll Generate More Employment,… Allow BDCs Compete For $20bn FX Inflow, ABCON Tells CBN Jadesola Adedeji, CEO STEM METS , while commenting on the partnership, said: “Technology is an integral part of a nation’s accelerated growth and stabilized economy which then make STEM education a top priority in educational system. “Exposing these young minds to it at an early age is a guaranteed way to build a generation of innovators and thinkers who will sustain and strengthen the evolving position of Nigeria and Africa at large.” Adedeji said in the modern global economy, STEM is closely linked with a country’s economic prosperity. Developed countries who have become global leaders have relied heavily on the hard work and innovations of scientists and engineers. ”To ensure the consistent economic prosperity, it is necessary for developing countries such as Nigeria to focus on STEM education. Now more than ever, there is a need for Nigeria and Africa to expand the capacity and diversity of the STEM workforce pipeline to equip the younger generation with requisite skills for jobs of the future. Also, with the pandemic outbreak in 2020, a lot has changed in the workforce. The resolve to work and learn remotely introduced global cross-functional teams. This has reinforced the need to educate the next generation to help them compete on a levelled playing field against their international contemporaries in the global job market. POLL Ms Seun Oni, Group MD of A. G Leventis in her remarks, said: “The future is digital, and we believe that strategic partnerships such as this will provide a conducive learning environment around STEM and ensure a ready pipeline of skills for young minds.