It was a WhatsApp message from Mr. Raph Nwamu that reminded me on Wednesday January 13, 2022 morning that it was a year since Prof Nick Idoko’s death. Nick was a friend and a brother. We walked the pathways of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), laughing, chatting, discussing, arguing, planning for the great tasks we wanted to accomplish. We were enthusiastic and confident, sure and defiant as only the young could be. Those were four delightful years. Between November 7, 2020 and December 19, I was in Lagos and Nicked visited me in a hotel and we reconnected after several years. And Nick was still Nick – effervescent. In a jiffy, we were our old selves, solving Nigeria’s problems, discussing everything under the sun; Chuba Okadigbo’s death, etc, etc. Nick was with Okadigbo on the night Okadigbo resigned as Senate President and he told Okadigbo: “This is just the beginning; they will kill you. You must replan and re-strategize if you want to stay alive”. 2023: Where Are The Masquerades? Cerezo Not Peseiro Should Be Super Eagles Coach Okadigbo refused to even hear Nick out. A few years later, he was lowered into the grave. Being Nick, he wanted us to write a book…as we had dreamed of doing while we were young undergraduates. As he began to explain the project, I told him to take his time, get home, detail it out and e-mail it to me because “writing maketh the exact man”. Then, I would reply and we would meet again and flesh out things. I knew that Nick’s writing was masterly. He had a way with words, and I really told him so that evening. He laughed some more when I reminded him of our undergraduate club; “Zenith 4 Zetetic”. The number stood for the four rights of man. The name came from Nick! When I finished the newspaper column I was writing, he asked that we go out for a drink. He wanted to welcome me to Lagos in a special way. I refused, reminding him that Covid-19 infection had not abated. A while later, after a few chuckles and offerings of Nick’s distinctive full-throated laughter, and hundreds of “chai” (Nick’s way of saying “oh”), he was ready to leave. But I delayed his exit. He asked after “Soulmate”, my wife, who, at the Abuja Law School, was a roommate to Lilian who later became Nick’s wife. Now you know how husband and wife met. Actually, Nick had come to Abuja to see “The Wild One”, a girl he was sending money to while he was in Germany where he got his PhD. She wanted to go her wild way and I invited them to my house for the night to patch up things, but all was in vain; she had met some hard drug types who were unlike the gentlemanly Nick. I shouldn’t have bothered to save that relationship; a wild dog must always obey the call of the wild, so we left the wild one well alone. POLL Chai followed after chai as we discussed our friends, those alive and those who have died. I can never forget the long-drawn-out chai that came from somewhere deep within the altar of the chapel of the cathedral of Nick’s soul; mournful, heavy with a deep sense of grief, when I told him of Jake Ohioma’s death and that Henry Chike Okolo was seriously sick and we didn’t have his phone number; (Chike died on 20th December 2020). But Nick cheered up as we discussed J. C. Nwosu (“J…u….n….o”, Nick cried out with joy) and his characteristic smile gathered force from somewhere and exploded in a loud laughter. “Juno, Juno”, he said again and again and we mentioned friends, acquaintances or Z4Z members; Obele, Kunle Bamgboshe, Ada Ukachukwu, Echika Ezuka, Andy Ohioma, Humphrey Bekaren (he’s in the mortuary now and will be buried Feb 5th) Cordelia, Ursula Nzeshi, Oboh Moses, and many others. Yes, he asked after my best friend at UNN, Bola Olowo. (Nick used to pronounce the o in Bola as “oh” instead of “ur”. He toed that same line that day). That was when it hit me that he knew more of English Department students than I knew of Mass Comm ones, and I blotted that out. I reminded him that he attended my department’s party in 1981 and complained that the DJ failed to play any music from Letta Mbulu, the South African. “Why didn’t you invite me to yours?” Nick laughed some more!!! We discussed Kingsley Kubeyenji (who later represented NAN at Harare, Zimbabwe) and how Prof Ikenna Nzimoro took the Mass Comm students’ newspaper, THE RECORD, to court for libel. Kingsley was Editor then. Kingsley’s reaction: “You know, I used to believe that every Professor was greatly intelligent, but this one isn’t. The Prof has sued me in court demanding for N4m. Had he sued for a few hundreds of Naira, I would have been really afraid that the court could seize my books, clothes and cassette tape recorder. If he sued for a few thousands of Naira, I would have been afraid that he could take possession of the Department’s vehicles. But suing for N4m? Tell me Old Tony, if he sells me, Kingsley, he can’t even realize N4m. The Mass Comm Department’s building may not fetch N4m if he were to sell it. Which court will grant him that outrageous request? N4m!!! How much is the entire budget of this (Anambra) state?” After a lengthy laughter from each of us, Nick said that we just laughed at tragedy…because that showed the ‘80s high value of the Naira unlike today’s worthless Naira. He was right; by then N60,000 could build you a four-room bungalow and N200, 000, a duplex. A brand-new Peugeot 504 cost about N5,000 and a gleaming Mercedes 280; N24, 000. A tin of Peak milk; 10 kobo. You could buy a pair of fine shoes for N10. A meal in the university cafeteria cost 50 kobo. We did a quick check on the internet and found that Nigeria’s entire budget for 1966-7 was as follows: Eastern Region, £29.5m; West, £21.0m; North, £37.3m, Mid-West, £8.Om. The National Government estimated revenue for 1966-7 amounted to £260.Om from which £185.Om was budgeted for Federal Expenditure and £15 .Om as grants to provincial governments. The National budget was £99.Om excluding capital expenditure. During this period the Nigerian currency was interchangeable at par with British pound sterling. Nick and I were at UNN from 1978 to 1982. To answer Kubeyenji’s question, the Old Anambra state government’s budget in 1981 was N4,850 million and N6,570 million for capital and recurrent expenditures. Please, do not be unduly surprised because Precisely in May, 1977 the exchange rate of the Naira to the US Dollar was NI .00 to $1 .5314. In fact, in 1960, Nigeria’s first national budget as an independent nation was £3m, and it did wonders. A Word For APC Presidential Aspirants 2023 Elections: The Leadership Qualities Nigerians Deserve It was clear that Nigeria has been in decline for decades. A truly agitated Nick then added “And if you are still the DEFIANT TONY I knew at UNN, you should put aside any distractions and let’s write this book. We have a message for both the young and the old, and we will state that message in the most rigorous of terms. Man, let’s rustle some feathers, prick some over bloated egos with sharp pins, explode some myths and do a service to Mother Nigeria. Let’s tell the youths that there was a country called Nigeria that was experiencing a renaissance, until a wondrous dream was killed”. The atmosphere was getting charged and I had to diffuse it; “no, it wasn’t just a dream. Nigeria was “sailing, riding on the crest of a dream, all we need is the breeze, some help from the wind”. Nick remembered and joined me in humming Kim Carnes’ 1976 monster hit record; Sailin’. Particularly, we loved this part and we used to sing it with Nigeria in mind: “I’ve been all over the ocean, I’ve traveled through a million years, Every face I see, Brings it home to me, That I all ever loved is here”. Ah, Nick and I wasted money recording music on cassettes. A while later, I walked him to his car, a Mercedes Benz, red, very, very red. That was our last meeting. We shook hands; the last handshake. We embraced; the last embrace. Then as he entered his car, we waved bye-bye; the last farewell. He never even sent the details of that proposed book. Everything happened terribly fast; less than a month after our meeting, Prof Nick Idoko of Christopher University, Mowe, was lifeless. So? I was restless, emotionally drained and in distress on Jan. 13, 2022. At UNN, Nick and I were as close as any brothers that you could think of. We were ready for adventures and in a hurry to get out of the university and embark on the true journey of life. All through January 13, I thought hard on our dreams while some lines from the American musician, Meatloaf ’s musical hit record, Objects in the Rear View Mirror May Appear Closer Than They Are remained on my mind: But it was long ago, and it was far away, Oh God, it seems so very far, And if life is just a highway, then the soul is just a car, And objects in the rear view mirror may appear closer than they are”. And, I still owe Nick a debt; that book. Continue to rest in peace, friend of my heart. I‘ll ever remember your surpassing love for Lilian, Journalism and Nigeria. Most of all, I’ll never forget the challenge you lobbed at me!