YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has narrated his political journey with his predecessor, Senator Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa West), describing the latter as a political strategist. Diri spoke when he received the Senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District in his hometown, Sampou, in Kolokuma/ Opokuma Local Government Area of the state, on Monday. The governor, in a statement on Tuesday issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, recalled how both of them began their political journey serving in past civilian administrations in the state except one. Ugwuanyi Mourns Anthony Obi FCT State Minister Orders Clean Up Of Abuja Satellite Towns He noted that their long-standing relationship was of a mutual brotherly bond. Diri emphasised that his predecessor had always been instrumental in his political successes and recalled that his first elected position as member of the National Assembly was achieved under the leadership of Dickson. He also narrated how his smooth transition from the House of Reps to the Senate and now governor of the state became possible because Dickson believed in his capacity to consolidate on the legacies laid for the state. He said, “Dickson and I have known each other long before the creation of Bayelsa State (in 1996). We had been involved in Ijaw activism in Port Harcourt (Rivers State) and later served in other administrations in the state. “The kind of relationship we share is cherished by both of us. I recall when we were looking for who to contest the House of Reps seat for our party. While I was busy looking for the right person outside, he was in his office doing same thing. Finally, he decided and told me that those around him have pointed to my direction to represent Yenagoa/ Kolokuma/ Opokuma Federal Constituency. That was how I started the journey to the National Assembly. POLL “Initially, our intention was for me to go to the Senate. But being the political strategist that he is, he told me that the powers that be then would be an obstacle. So the House of Reps was the best option at that time. “I decided to go down this memory lane because a lot of things are happening just to underscore the relationship that I have enjoyed with my brother, friend, compatriot and leader till now that I’m governor.” He also advised his supporters and political associates to ensure that their structure remains intact ahead of the next elections. Dickson said as part of the yuletide festivities, he came to pay homage and solidarity to the number one citizen of the state as a mark of respect as well as reciprocate the earlier gesture of the governor when he visited him at his country home in Toru-Orua community. He asserted that Diri is his friend, brother, colleague and ally whose relationship is treasured beyond party affiliation.