ABUJA – A group of civil society organisa­tions (CSOs) and professionals has urged the Federal Govern­ment to speedily remove the subsidy on premium motor spirit (PMS) to allow for the implementation of the N17.13 trillion 2022 na­tional budget. The group with member­ship cut across the country said that the subsidy re­gime has been fraught with lack of transparency and accountability, regretting that it caused the country N250 billion monthly. In a communiqué after a one day national town hall meeting on “removal of fuel subsidy”, in Abu­ja, the non-governmental group observed that “the monthly payment of over N250 billion has done se­rious damage to the econ­omy and for decades, the financial burden has re­tarded the growth and de­velopment of the country and if the trend is not re­versed, it would continue to degenerate the nation’s revenue until the economy would have been irrevoca­bly damaged.” Gunmen Enforcing Sit-At-Home Kill Two, Burn Vehicles In Enugu,… FA Cup: Man Utd Ride Luck Against Aston Villa To Reach 4th Round “The regime was partly responsible for the econom­ic woes of the country,” the communiqué signed by the national chairman of the group, Isah Abubakar; sec­retary, Joe Moses, and two other officials noted that the subsidy was respon­sible for fuel smuggling across the borders, argu­ing that if it is ended, the smuggling challenge would reduce, adding that the sub­sidy should be completely removed to allow fresh breath in the country. “The national town hall meeting on removal of petroleum subsidy has ob­served that the petroleum subsidy regime which has existed for decades has been without transparen­cy, credibility and account­ability in the process lead­ing to payments of claims to the so-called beneficia­ries of the arrangement. “The town hall meeting observed that the monthly payment of over N250 bil­lion has done serious dam­age to the economy and for decades, the financial burden has retarded the growth and development of the country and if the trend is not reversed, it would continue to degenerate the nation’s revenue until the economy would have been irrevocably damaged”, the communiqué read. “That the town hall meeting observed that the petroleum subsidy was responsible for fuel smug­gling across the neigh­bouring countries, such as Benin Republic, Niger, Chad and Cameroon. The situation would abate to a large extent, if the fuel sub­sidy regime is abolished and would also strengthen availability of fuel in the downstream sector of the economy. “That the town hall meeting supports absolute removal of fuel subsidy and the funds in the tune of N250 billion be chan­neled into development of infrastructure across the country. POLL “The meeting also noted and commended the Nige­rian National Petroleum Company Limited for the construction of 28 federal roads across the federa­tion”, it said. It added that roads are critical infrastructure, hence, if the ongoing roads are completed, the NNPC should as a matter of poli­cy continue to plough funds into reconstruction and rehabilitation of category ‘A’ roads so as to enhance economic development of the country. While it commended the NNPC management for the implementation of the Pe­troleum Industry Act, 2021, the group urged the contin­uous reforms to reposition the oil and gas industry as one of the best in the world. They urged the Feder­al Government to ensure maintenance and rehabil­itation of the government refineries in order to meet the local fuel consumption in the country. “The town hall meeting throw its weight behind the management of the Nigerian National Petro­leum Company Limited under the leadership of the Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, for the system­atic implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). It further called for continuous reforms that would see the upstream and downstream petro­leum sector being the best in the world. Iraq Takes Back 111 ISIS-Linked Families From Syria Democrats Urge Biden To Grant Deportation Relief To At Least 2… “The meeting further re­solved that the refineries in Port Harcourt and Kaduna be reactivated and upgrad­ed to be able to refine fuel at an optimum operations for local consumption and given that the country heavily depends on the oil as its monolithic economic mainstay, the NNPC should continue to roll out policies that would keep the petro­leum sector streaming.” On the palliative, the group tasked the Feder­al Government to ensure payment to citizens, say­ing that it will cushion the effect of the subsidy removal, while they also urged the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) not to em­bark on industrial strike, but to allow dialogue. “That the planned palli­ative by the Federal Gov­ernment to the citizens in the circumstance that the fuel subsidy regime is fully scrapped is a noble idea, as it would mitigate hardships occasioned by the removal of subsidy that may probably trigger difficulties in the cost of transportation, even as it was further identified that the NNPC should ensure availability of fuel across sales stations and effective fuel price control mecha­nisms until the shock is curtailed. “The town hall meeting also urged the organised labour to shelve the in­tended mass protest in the event that the subsidy is removed, given that the na­tion stands to benefit rath­er than some oil cartels that have been benefitting from the regime for several years now. Instead, the NLC and other allied labour or­ganisations should engage in objective dialogue with the Federal Government. “That the Group Manag­ing Director of NNPC, Mr. Mele Kyari, be commend­ed for the courage in the reformation of the NNPC which has seen the country survive the economic melt­down occasioned by the COVID-19 global pandem­ic and other factors militat­ing against the wellbeing of the country”.