LAGOS – The 71-year old rival­ry between Nigeria and Ghana on the football field will hit a combustible point in March when the Super Eagles and the Black Stars battle for a single ticket to the FIFA World Cup finals in Qatar. According to the draw for the Qatar 2022 African series play-off draw held in Yaounde on Saturday evening, four–time Afri­can champions Ghana will host the first leg with the reverse encounter in Nige­ria, both to hold between March 24 and 29. The draw was conducted by Samson Adamu, CAF’s Director of Competitions and African football leg­ends El Hadj Diouf and Emmanuel Adebayor. AFCON: X-Raying The Task Against Tunisia … “33” Export Lager Charges Team After Exciting World Cup Draw The Super Eagles emerged from a group comprising themselves, Liberia, Cape Verde and Central African Republic (CAR) to be eligible for the play-offs, while the Black Stars prevailed over South Africa 1-0 on the final day in an explosive and contro­versial duel in Cape Coast. Ethiopia and Zimbabwe were the other teams in the pool. Nigeria have played against Ghana more than any other country in the world in football, with a total of 57 senior matches between both countries in 71 years. Ghana have won 19 of those clashes with Nigeria winning 16, and 19 drawn. Ghana have been bun­dled out of the ongoing 33rd Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), earning only one point in three match­es and losing to Morocco and Comoros, while scor­ing only three goals and conceding five. Nigeria is the only coun­try to make a clean sweep of the stakes in the group phase, winning all three matches, scoring six goals and conceding one, and squares up with Tunisia in a Round of 16 match in Garoua on Sunday (today). In the past, Nigeria and Ghana have clashed in qualifying campaigns for the 1962, 1970, 1974 and 2002 World Cup finals. In the most recent, Ghana and Nigeria stalemated 0-0 in Accra and the Eagles won 3-0 in Port Harcourt to qualify for the 2002 finals in Korea/Japan. POLL All The Fixtures Ghana Vs Nigeria Egypt Vs Senegal Cameroon Vs Algeria DR Congo Vs Morocco