ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday commissioned 200 security vehicles, 1600 security protective gears, equipments and drugs worth over eight billion. The items were procured by the Nigerian Police Trust Fund (NPTF), to enhance Police operational efficiency. The commissioning and handing over of the vehicles took place at the Force Headquarters, Abuja by President Buhari who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi. UK Govt Cuts COVID Isolation Period To 5 Days Indonesian Woman Flogged 100 Times For Adultery While commissioning the items, President Buhari said, “the these Buffalo branded Trucks and other Security Equipments are procured by the Nigeria Police Trust Fund for the use of the Nigeria Police Force to enhance its operations across the Country.” This, he disclosed that, it is part of the “ongoing reformationof the Nigeria Police Force,” by prioritizing provision of modern infrastructure to aid policing in Nigeria. He Commended the Board of Trustee, Management and Staff of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund for meticulously and meritoriously completing the execution of this projects, marking commencement of commissioning of numerous interventions, through equipping,training and modernization of policing infrastructure, in line with this administrations’ mandates to deepen security and safety nationwide. The President also applauded the initiative to select this brandof Buffalo Trucks which are adjudged as rugged andcapable of withstanding varied geographical terrainsand atmospheric conditions. POLL He thanked the 36 state governors, other stakeholders and Nigerians for supporting his germane desire to revamp policing infrastructure, through the Nigeria Police Trust Fund. “My sincere gratitude also goes to the media (members of the press) for using your platformto canvas for a people centric collective security, and campaigning against activities of mindless individuals, hell bent on constituting themselves as enemies of peace and security in our society.” On his part, the Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba assured the nation and indeed the international community that, with the “launch of these critical operational assets, our operational capacity shall be enhanced.” According to him, this will be enhanced well enough to address current challenges of banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, and sundry violent crimes” that have been threatening our nation in recent times. The IGP further expressed confidence that, the NPTF is well-positioned to guarantee to the nation a well-equipped, well-trained, and well-motivated Nigeria Police Force that would be prompt and responsive to security challenges, in line with global standards and best practices and in furtherance to the internal security vision of Mr. President. Prince Andrew Returns Military Affiliations, Royal Patronages Group Urges Youths To Shun Rape, Child Sex Abuses The Trust Fund and the Nigeria Police Force, he noted have continued to maintain a cordial working relationship as both Agencies have also been collaborating in the procurement planning processes for the execution of approved budgetary appropriations. “This synergy has enabled both Agencies in conjunction with the Ministry of Police Affairs to articulate appropriate needs assessment in the preparation of the budget proposals and intervention for the operational efficiency and optimal service delivery of the Nigeria Police. Meanwhile, the Executive Secretary, NPTF, Ahmad Aliyu Sokoto earlier in his opening remarks revealed that, “The cost of these 200 vehicles and other security equipments procured for the Nigeria Police under the 2020 budget appropriation amounted to N8,790,321,497, 38 billion which is at implementation stage of about 85 percent completion. According to him, “The operational vehicles are 200 Buffalo Trucks while other security equipments include 1600 units of personnel protective gear, (Bullet Proof Vest and Helmet), lots of Covid-19 Protection Kits and Drugs and Medical equipments.” The choice of the Buffalo Trucks, he said was based on their ruggedness and ability to move fast in various geographical terrain. Other security equipments too, he added were carefully selected to ensure they are of good quality and desired standards.