The Arewa Youths Assembly, a youth group in the north has once again commended President Muhammadu Buhari for choosing a youth to head the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC. In a press statement made available to Independent at a press conference by the group, signed by the Speaker, Mohammed Salihu Danlami and the Publicity Secretary, Aliyu Sanni, the group recalled that a year ago, the Arewa Youths Assembly rallied and fought for the youths in Nigeria, airing their views and pressing home, their ultimate demands on the need for youths inclusiveness in governance at all levels. According to them, “It seems the fight gained ground and the Lord answered our prayer as we saw the nomination of Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa, a 40-year-old, as the chairman of EFCC. Our Promise To Deliver Steady Power Supply In Nigeria Is Real… Ambode To Deliver UNILAG Convocation Lecture “The confirmation came and the 40-year-old was in the history books as not only the youngest but the first career operative of the commission. This gladdened the hearts of the Arewa youths, raised their hope and indeed in that we saw a symbol of fulfilment by the President, a future and permanent space for the involvement of youths in governance which made us salute and appreciate the efforts of the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration in taking the bold steps and trusting the future of such sensitive and meaningful commission in the hands of the youths. “The Arewa youth Assembly stood by the chairman, encouraging and motivating him to deliver as a youth, fight aggressively corruption and corrupt individuals by all means legally possible so as to redeem the image of Nigeria before the world and also not betray the confidence and opportunity confided in him by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Even when threats of life and other challenges were facing Mr Bawa, the youths supported him, rallied around the country, showed their anger and disbelief and called for the arrest and prosecution of perpetrators of such act. Applauding the EFCC Chairman, the group revealed that, “In the shortest period of Mr Bawa’s watch as the chairman of the EFCC, alot has changed, looters are forced to surrender as they have no running place, the anti-corruption fight has taken a new dimension which is already bringing back the sincerity and honesty of this giant of Africa before the world, with his energy as a youth and his vast experience, Mr Bawa has continued to ensure rapid, yet careful investigations, prosecution of defaulters in economic and financial crimes offences. “Some of the outstanding achievements of the 40-year-old within 12 months include;Recovery of a huge sum N152,088,698,751.64, $386,220,202.84, £1, 182,519.75, €156,246.76, 1,723,310.00 Saudi Riyal, 1,900.00 South African Rand, and 1, 400.00 Canadian Dollars and a digital currency component with 5, 36957319 Bitcoin and 0.09012. In addition to that, there is also the convictions of 2,220 across the Commands in the same year under review being the highest, the commission has recorded within a calendar year. POLL “A breakdown of the above goes as follows;With reference to convictions, Mr Bawa’s records are above average, setting a standard that has never been achieved before now. The convictions Mr Bawa secured for the year 2021 has superseded previous records of the year 2016, 2017, 2018 & 2020 put together. Even in 2019 when the record of the conviction rose to 1280, it was still below Mr Bawa’s, displaying to the world his momentum, agility and capabilities to drive higher the EFCC. “Mr Bawa’s Convictions were not centred in one location, they were spread across states to ensure that the country as a whole benefit in this fight against corruption. The group pleaded with the president to make room for more youths in his cabinet and in such strategic positions, so as to fight and together restore the lost glory of the country for all to have the DAWN OF A NEW NIGERIA.