LAGOS  – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has reiterated its readiness for the forthcoming International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP) Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) slated for the first quarter of 2022. The agency also appealed to aviation stakeholders and the Nigerian media to join hands with it to ensure a successful audit of the industry. Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of NCAA, while speaking in Zaria, Kaduna State, said that the agency was on top of its game to ensure a successful outing for the Nigeria in the ICAO audit. Illegal Cryptocurrency Transactions Hit $14bn In 2021 – Report Why Importers Strive For Favourable Trade Policies Nuhu, explained that its proactive approach and robust regulations had led to the over eight year of zero accident in commercial flight operation in Nigeria and vowed that the regulatory agency would continue to ensure excellence performance for the country. In a bid to have a successful outing, Nuhu appealed to all stakeholders, including the media to work hand-in-hand with the agency. He expressed that henceforth, media reports would be perceived as sensitive and urged the media to eschew sensationalism capable of putting the nation in bad light. Nuhu emphasised that there had been increased confidence in the Nigerian aviation sector with new airlines are coming, while the existing operators are expanding their routes. Expectedly, he noted its coast of surveillance programme and other oversight responsibilities as the regulator of the industry had increased correspondingly and assured that the agency would not rest on its oars in ensuring total safety in the airspace. POLL The Director-General also lauded the Federal Government and Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation and the National Assembly Committees on Aviation for the firm support and strengthening of its oversight responsibilities. He added: “Therefore, I will advise anyone to endeavour to verify and confirm his/her stories before publishing, if in doubt. It is my view that your watchdog role plays a very important part in fostering stability in the industry. “These balancing, developmental and promotional stories are the hallmark of a burgeoning aviation industry like ours. Let us present our aviation industry as the most improved that it is. In actual fact, training and retraining is a capital project for us as it is critical to our operations as the country’s apex regulatory authority for civil aviation in Nigeria. Our personnel are exposed to appropriate trainings all over the world so as to maintain and enhance their competence. On the other hand, you will agree with me that the media is critical to the growth of global aviation. The press is the Fourth Estate of the Realm. In other words, the fourth arm of government. This reference was derived from both explicit capacity of advocacy and implicit ability to report issues. You have been with us in this journey and you have been worthy partners. Every success story about aviation in Nigeria cannot be written without the contributions of all of you.