ADO-EKITI – A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator Babafemi Ojudu, has said that the party needs a credible and respected arbiter to bring aggrieved stakeholders together immediately after the governorship primaries in Ekiti. Ojudu, who is the Special Adviser on Political Matters to President Muhammadu Buhari, disclosed this in a chat with newsmen in Ado-Ekiti while commenting on the forthcoming political exercise. The Presidential Aide disclosed that he was prepared to offer himself to play the great role of uniting the party and calm all frayed nerves after the primaries. Power Is Taken Not Given – Odeh Osinbajo, Tinubu Taking APC By Storm According to him, the only way the APC can be proud of itself as a ruling party and win the June 18 election with ease, is to conduct a credible primary that is devoid of violence and bloodshed. He said this informed his decision not to join the race or put his tent with any of the aspirants. The President’s aide also thanked the APC leadership for adopting the direct primaries model for the Ekiti Governorship Election stressing that such would give all party members a sense of belonging in deciding who govern them for another four years. He, therefore, admonished the security agents, party officials and the political actors to play the game according to its rules by ensuring a violent-free exercise. Ojudu said “I want to appeal to party men to be civil and peaceful. The only glory we can record in our party is to be peaceful and for our leaders from Abuja to conduct a primary we can all be proud of. Don’t let us be violent just because of the internal election. POLL “Primary of any party should be a day of celebration of democracy and not a day of bloodshed. We should be able to do this election without rancour. I am of the belief that politicians who want to use the money to hire thugs to win elections should rather use such money for the development of our unemployed youth. “Our party officials should be fair and transparent. They should also be efficient with the process. “I commend Governor Buni-led executive for allowing direct primary for this election, so that every member of the party, either rich or poor, high or low can participate. This will enable us to produce a candidate that can face the candidates of other parties. “If by any means we impose someone or throw up someone who used the money to induce the people, or relying on federal might, we will have a candidate that cannot win or that wouldn’t be acceptable to the party people. “Let me clarify that this government of President Muhammadu Buhari doesn’t believe in using federal might to win elections, you have to go through the people to get votes.” No Zone In Nigeria Has Monopoly Of Leadership – Cleric Climate Change, Threat To Food Security – Obasi Ojudu warned party members to resist vote buying temptation for APC to have a credible and formidable candidate that will be acceptable to all. “The aspirants shouldn’t bring thugs to bash and beat the people. Whoever is causing trouble should be exposed, because Ekiti must be in peace. All of us in APC  must be able to come together and work to win in June. This is one election that we can’t afford to lose.” The Presidential aide told the security agencies to maintain neutrality and owe their allegiance to the constitution of the party, rather than individuals. “The security agencies should also be neutral. They must not work for any aspirant. They should owe their allegiance to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and their code of conduct as officers of the law. Through this, whoever wins will be that democracy has won”. Ojudu appealed to the aspirants to shun vote-buying, saying leaders who emerge through the purchase of votes can’t have the expected respect and commitment to the populace. “When any leader buys votes to win the election, such leader wouldn’t care about the people, because he would have the impression that he had paid for the votes cast for him by the electorate”. On the aspirant he is backing in APC for the primary, Ojudu said: “For now, I am not in support of anybody. I want to remain neutral so that I will be able to call all aspirants together and settle their differences after the primary. “Losing an election is hurting, so we need an arbiter to be able to hold the party together and that is the role I intend to play. “President Muhammadu Buhari lost election three times. Nobody thought he would ever be  President again, but when the time God assigned to him came, he won and it was glorious for him. There is no point bringing guns to win the election”.