AHMAD TIJJANI ABDUL Little was known about Alhaji Bashir Othman Tofa, who died last Friday in the ancient city of Kano, until the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida-led military junta’s civil transition of 1988 – 1993 shot him to national political circus in 1992 where he emerged as presidential candidate of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC). Tofa, who was 45 when he pulled that huge electoral victory against all comers in his centrist right party, was known to Sule Lamido, former governor of Jigawa state as an “extremely courageous and fearless person and above all highly knowledgeable” . These envious quality perhaps endeared him to the IBB led military junta who so much desired for a ” new breed” politicians to take over civil leadership in the country. A Note On The Kwara Journey 2023: Northern Women Endorse Yahaya Bello Renowned for his principles, Tofa who would have been 75 next June, kick start his journey of life at Shahuci Junior Primary school, Kano, and then continued his studies at City Senior Primary School in Kano. Between 1962 and 1966, he attended Provincial College, Kano. After completing his studies at the Provincial school, he worked for Royal Exchange Insurance company from 1967 to 1968. From 1970 to 1973, he attended City of London College. Tofa sojourn into politics started in 1976 when he was elected councilor of Dawakin Tofa Local Government Council. In 1977, he was elected into the Constituent Assembly. In the Second Republic, Tofa was at various times the secretary of the Kano branch of NPN, he later became the party’s national financial secretary and was a national member of the Green Revolution National Committee. During the Third Republic, Tofa was part of the Liberal Movement which metamorphosed into Liberal Convention when it was not registered as a political party. POLL Tofa joined the NRC in 1990. In 1993, when the Babangida administration introduced the Option A4 system, Tofa was elected the presidential candidate representing Kano. During the party’s presidential primary, he defeated Pere Ajuwa, Joe Nwodo and Dalhatu Tafida to clinch the NRC ticket. His running mate in the ill fated election was Sylvester Ugoh, an Igbo. Both were members of the defunct National Party of Nigeria. Though, Tofa was believed to have lost the presidential election held on the June 12th, 1993 to the presumed winner, Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, however, pundits were convinced that his failure to take the right steps when results tilting in was to his disadvantage gave blank cheque to IBB regime to scuttle the pan Nigerian mandate. Subsequently, Nigeria degenerated into political turmoil in 1993 when the military led junta under the leadership of Mina born infantry General annulled the Presidential election presumable won by his elsewhile bosom friend, late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola in a competitive election adjudged by both local and international observers as the most freest and fairest in Nigeria chequered history. 2023: Ndokwa People To Address Neglect, Marginalisation –… 2023: Jonathan’s Son-In-Law Joins Cross River Guber Race The attendant hullabaloo generated by the military junta spotlighted Tofa to defend his role before a bewildered nation for the better part of his life in the early 2000. Obviously tired of discussing June 12th on the pages of newspapers declared the debacle as fiction, and suggested the need to move forward. In an interview with Reporters in Kano on February 20, 2009, Alhaji Bashir Usman Tofa, a principal actor in the June 12 debacle described the event as a “fiction”, and that ‘those still celebrating dead issue are riff raffs who have nothing to do with their time’. Tofa’s outburst was against the violations of the ground rules for the interactive session had stressed “if you have learn lesson out of it good, if you have not, keep quiet , let this country makes progress, but for one to still be talking about something that occurred 20 years ago is colossal waste of time’’. Interestingly, Tofa’s kind of politics was akin to politics without bitterness, which elder statesman, Tanko Yakasai described on his tribute as worthy of emulation as a mark of departure from “do or die politics to fast track socio-political development. Yakasai who celebrated his 97th birthday last month said “Bashir was an extremely friendly person who died at a very unforgettable time for any human being to loose his life. Though it was late Ibrahim Waziri who introduced the famous political saying “ siyasa ba da gaba ba” (politics without bitterness), Yakasai maintained that “Late Bashir was one of the politicians who gave that saying a practical meaning. Undoubtedly, there are people who did not agree with Bashir politically during his lifetime but only few people could claim not to be on speaking terms with Bashir because of political differences. Bashir Othman Tofa’s effort to resurrect his political fame suffered hiccups in 2011when he lost All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), presidential ticket to former Kano state governor, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau. At the tail end of his life, this outstanding statesman floated a pressure group known as Kano Elders Forum, in concert with like mind where he served as its chairman till his demise. Kano Elders Forum under his watch canvassed for good governance at every tiers of government and was always on the side equity, justice, fairness. In his tribute, President Muhammadu Buhari said the late Tofa was noted for his untiring commitment to public enlightenment and was unafraid to speak the truth all the time that he lived. He set up the Bureau for Islamic Propagation, BIP in the mid- 80s that helped to unite Muslim Scholars in the Northern States, narrowing the differences that characterized their relationships. The BIP also published books and newspapers. President Buhari also described the late Tofa as a true nationalist that would be difficult to replace. “He was, till the end, a patriot to the core. He envisaged a better Nigeria for all. We pray that this dream and collective aspiration and necessary commitment will not go with him. We owe it to his memory and to the nation,” said the President. President Buhari prayed to Allah to repose his soul and grant fortitude to the bereaved family and friends, the Kano Emirate Council as well as the government and people of Kano State to bear the loss. Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje also described the late Bashir Tofa as an outstanding statesman whose contributions to democracy and nation-building would be remembered for a very long time. In a condolence message issued by the state Commissioner for Information, Mohammed Garba, in Kano, Ganduje recalled the various sacrifices of the deceased, acknowledging that he started assuming leadership responsibilities at an early age, right from when he was elected councillor in Tofa in his late 20s. He said as a businessman, trader and philanthropist, Tofa had touched the lives of many people, especially the down-trodden members of the society. ‘The legacy of his political beliefs and triumphs will be important footnotes in the literature of Nigeria’s government and politics for generations yet to come,’ said the statement. ‘He was a great man, a quintessential democrat and outstanding statesman who has left very bold prints both on the politics and political history of Nigeria,’ Fondly remembered by his generosity by those who crossed path with him, Tofa, author, poet, and industrialist was indeed easygoing, kind hearted, and not difficult to deal it. He was married with children. 