“Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,” (Matthew 27:3). “Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?” (Acts 2:37). Conscience witnesses in man. It provides a sense of disparity between good and bad. As a believer, it can accuse you of sin. Your conscience will definitely be influenced by the Holy Spirit, if you are a child of God. It can stop you from going against God’s will. It can also help you to retrace your steps immediately you do something evil. “And David’s heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto the LORD, I have sinned greatly in that I have done: and now, I beseech thee, O LORD, take away the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly,” (2Samuel 24:10). In a Christian, God uses the Holy Spirit as a divine agent for His redemptive work. When the Holy Spirit takes residence in our lives, our conscience becomes transformed and renewed and our inner man is influenced. We live in a world where we hurt people, either consciously or unconsciously. Our conscience is there to judge us, so we can stop our evil act, and apologize to bring back the lost love and trust. The ability for our spirit to correct and reprimand us when we fall short of God’s will is conscience. Holiness to God justifies good and condemns evil. C&S Addressing Long Hours Of Service – Apostle Churches Should Probe Members’ Wealth – Matilukuro “And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of offence toward God, and toward men,” (Acts 24:16). Righteousness is approved and sin is reproved by the conscience of a believer. The holiness of God is expressed in conscience. Conscience is our inward monitor, we have to heed to what he tells us to walk in the spirit. Real Christians have a clean conscience which is under the control of the Holy Ghost, but those who allow the deceit of the devil in their lives, will lose their conscience. When you lose your conscience, you will not care how your attitude and decisions affect you and others. Losing your conscience makes you to lose the ability to question between right or wrong. The desires to drive flashy cars, live in a mansion, travel all over the world and many more, can destroy one’s conscience. By the time you stop listening to the voice of conscience, you are already on the path of total destruction. A times when conscience speaks, we ignore because we are keen on doing what we aren’t meant to do. As described earlier, conscience is a guide when influenced by the Holy Spirit. It can also be referred as the alert button (that alerts or give us signal when we err or about to err), those who don’t have it will be lost. Those without conscience will never bother to perpetrate evil or wickedness, because they are sons of the devil. The devil battles with man’s conscience, by dropping evil thoughts in the hearts of man. The devil tells you to steal and he will also explain to you why you need to steal. He will tell you it’s for your own good, and if you don’t cease the opportunity before you, you will remain or become wretched for the rest of your life. He will even tell you all the material things you must acquire with commit the stolen money or item. The devil also advise men to other sins such as adultery, fornication, murder and many more, telling them it is the normal way of life and for survival. Right from the moment man was created, the devil has been on a mission to destroy man. We must be closer to God and allow the Holy Spirit to reign within us, to conquer Satan our en