IBADAN – Oyo State government, on Tuesday, promised to partner Afrikan-Asian Chamber of Commerce AACC on sustainable tourism projects and other developmental strides that can expand the economy of the state. The Special Adviser to the governor on Tourism, Hon Akeem Ademola Ige, gave the assurance while hosting Erelu Funmi Rotiba, the newly appointed County Director Afrika- Asian Chamber of Commerce at the Conference Room of the Head of Service, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. Ige, who described Rotiba’s appointment as well deserving said the state government is open for discussion and partnership on projects that will enhance development, generate income and reduce unemployment in the state. Asia Africa Chamber Of Commerce Appoints Funmi Rotiba As… Oyo Seeks Stakeholders’ Collaboration To Develop Own Energy… According to him, tourism is one of the low-hanging fruits and Oyo state will not waste time in making use of any available opportunities to make Oyo State a preferred tourist destination. “We are endowed with humongous tourism potentials and its part of our plans to ensure they are properly utilized for the development. We are interested in the areas where we will be able to use your new office to make Oyo State benefit in the area of tourism development,” Ige said. Also speaking, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, explained that the state is ready to partner with lofty ideas that can make tourism become the goldmine for the state and expand its economy. According to Him, the Governor is interested in economic expansion and sees tourism as an important sector, which has the potential to impact the development of the state’s economy. He added further that the current administration has been showing positive results in the projects it embarked upon since inception, and is highly passionate about laying good examples for other states to embrace. POLL He said: “Oyo state is ready to partner and ensure that tourism becomes the goldmine for us and gives a good example to other parts of the country so that they can also key into it. This will make Nigeria become a tourism destination in the nearest future. “I want to tell you not to be tired of coming back. The ideas are lofty and we pray that God will be with you to succeed in this new assignment of yours. “Luckily enough, we have a governor, who is interested in expansion of the economy, which encompasses so many areas and tourism is a great aspect of it, so also agriculture. Basically, some countries survive on tourism but we are yet to tap into it but this is an opportunity for us to start something.” He lamented that leadership deficit has created a huge gap in the area of tourism development, saying that the state is making efforts to salvage the situation. “We have been here for over two years and we always signpost some of the things that we do. We can do more and we want to do more and we believe that with your efforts, we will achieve more success. We’ll Deploy More Security Strategies To Keep Oyo Safe,… Olubadan: Oyetola Commiserates With Makinde, Oyo people “This shows us we are missing some things in the area of leadership and we don’t have to start from the top, far away. If we keep on looking at the Federal Government to do it, maybe we will wait for another 100 years. But if we start from our location here, we can do something and be an example to the entire country if not the entire continent,” He explained. In her brief remarks, Erelu Funmi Rotiba, a travel consultant and economist, vowed that her new office will work with the government’s facilitating industries, develop tourism sites and other potentials for the state. “Prior to my appointment, I have the blueprint for developing tourism in Oyo and other states in the country. As a result of this, I will ensure proper implementation and development in this regard. “All that is required for the state to do is provide land and other interesting facilities to make things happen,” Erelu stated. Similarly, the Special Adviser to Governor Makinde on Budget Planning, Hon Gbenga Oyekola, also urged Erelu to use his new position to influence and attract developmental projects to the state.