CHIOMA UMEHA In 1986, Golden Morn, one of Nestlé’s leading brands, began its journey of creating shared value with the local farmers who supply 100 percent of the homegrown maize and soya beans to produce the nutritious, great tasting family cereal. Through this mutually beneficial relationship, Nestlé Nigeria has provided a sustainable access to market for the high-quality grains produced by the farmers for 35 years. COVID-19: U-Report Nigeria Rated Trusted Platform For Sharing… Link Between Retrograde Ejaculation And Male Infertility With available evidence showing an aging farming population in Nigeria, with an average age of 47 years, Nestlé is collaborating with other stakeholders to identify, encourage and build the capability of the next generation of farmers to meet the nutrition needs of a rapidly growing population. With the population growing by 2.5 percent annually and predicted to reach 264 million by 2030, this is imperative in view of the high youth unemployment rate, estimated at 42.5 percent by the National Bureau of statistics. To fill this important gap, Golden Morn Agripreneurship Webinar Series was inaugurated in October 2021 to promote youth participation in the agricultural sector through training and provision of grants for the most promising agriculture business proposals by the beneficiaries. Speaking at the opening session of the second series, Victoria Uwadoka, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager said, “Since its foundation, Nestlé has been a force for good. We therefore collaborate with relevant stakeholders to drive impact at scale across critical areas including ensuring nutrition and food security, building thriving communities and protecting our environment for the next generation. In line with this, our brands with purpose are invested in driving societal progress by Creating Shared Value across our value chain. The Golden Morn Agriprenuership Series is one of the ways in which we actualize the ambitions of our brands with purpose to help to build resilient communities. We are proud of how Golden Morn has consistently supported the growth of a thriving ecosystem of farmers and is now going forward to attract and equip the next generation of farmers. Through the Golden Morn Agriprenuership webinars, the brand is reaffirming Nestlé’s commitment to build a sustainable food system to improve food security. Ifeanyichukwu Orabuche, Category & Marketing Manager Dairy added, “With 10 percent of the grains used to produce Golden Morn sourced locally, the brand is committed to Creating Shared Value, by not only contributing to Nestle’s ambitions but also positively impacting on the local economy and creating job opportunities for young Nigerians. The Agripreneurship Webinar is therefore designed for young agripreneurs aged 18 to 35 years, who are already participating in or are interested in the grains value chain”. POLL Now in its second season, Golden Morn Agripreneurship Webinar Series delivered in collaboration with The Enterprise Development Centre of Pan Atlantic University, seeks to highlight the benefits and value of businesses in the agriculture value chain to youth who are already creating startups in the sector. Furthermore, beneficiaries who excel during the training, also stand a chance to get seed funding for their businesses. The two-day virtual training on different aspects of the agriculture value chain including sales and marketing, is facilitated by credible and experienced professionals in the agriculture sector. Speaking on the impact of the training, Obianuju Okafor, Project & Finance Manager of the Enterprise Development Center, Pan Atlantic University said, “Learning enhances new ideas and ways to improve entrepreneurship skills. Young Entrepreneurs, especially in the agricultural sector, have been given this excellent opportunity which we believe will positively impact on their businesses. We are excited to partner with Golden Morn on this laudable initiative.” Nestlé Golden Morn is an iconic brand from the stable of Nestlé, the good food, good life company, committed to unlocking the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone today and for generations to come. Developed in Nigeria in 1986, the homegrown brand has evolved into an iconic brand, loved and trusted by Nigerian families.