MAKURDI – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state has described the government of Governor Samuel Ortom as a misrule, with a vow to take advantage of the situation in the state and clinch power in 2023. Solomon Wombo, an aspirant on the platform of the APC for the House of Representatives (HoR) seat for Logo/Ukum/Katsina-Ala federal constituency disclosed this in a chat with Daily Independent in Makurdi. Wombo, who was the Special Adviser, Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in the administration of Senator Gabriel Suswam explained that currently the APC under the leadership of Senator George Akume was strategising and hopefully would wrest power from the PDP, come 2023. Armed Forces Remembrance Day: FG Orders Closure Of Abuja Roads 2023: Orji Uzor Kalu’s Campaign Posters Flood Bauchi According to him, “We have to bring Benue out of the present situation, where things are not working fine, as a result of poor leadership, so we are strategising; we are talking with our people. “So, we are going to take advantage of the misrule that has happened here for quite some time to launch APC into the front burner of politics in Benue again and our chances are bright; very, very bright. “The chances of APC are quite bright, as you can see the decampings that we witnessed recently are an indication that Benue people are tired with PDP.” On his visibility since losing his 2023 bid for the HoR, Wombo disagreed with claims from some quarters that he has not been visible on the political turf of Benue. He stated with emphasis that, “I’ve been visible and as you know I’m a grassroot person, I don’t believe in staying in Makurdi to do politics that I’m supposed to do in Katsina-Ala and Sankera axis. POLL “So, I’m always there; in my constituency, talking to my people and planning for the future. “And hopefully at the right time I’ll tell you what I intend to do, but expect that you will see me; very powerful too and we are getting ready for that”, he stressed. End.