ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Wednesday set up an adhoc committee to investigate the actual volume of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise called fuel or petrol consumed on daily basis to determine the level of subsidy being paid by the government. The House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila who announced the composition of the panel also set up another adhoc committee to investigate the actual state of refineries to ascertain what it will cost to bring the refineries back to life again. Speaking at the plenary, Gbajabiamila stated that the time has come for the lawmakers to intervene in the issue, saying that it is only when this investigation is painstakingly carried out that the nation can determine the actual volume of fuel that is consumed daily in the country and the amount of subsidy being paid by the government. Buhari Never Told Anyone That Subsidy Be Removed – Lawan UPDATE: Reps Adopt Direct/Indirect Primary In Electoral Bill He said membership of the Committee on fuel consumption, will be headed by Hon. Abdullahi Ningi (APC, Bauchi), with Hon. Ahmed Satomi, Hon. Prof Julius Ihonvbere, Hon. Usman Zanna, Hon. Leke Abejide, Hon. Uzoma Abonta, Hon. Chinda, Hon. Henry Nwawuba, Hon. Ibrahim Obanikoro, Hon. Akin Alabi, Hon. Dachung Bagos, Hon. Maki Yalleman, Hon. Dike Chisom and Hon. Prince Obi as a member. For the state of refineries, Hon. Hon. Ganiyu Johnson (APC, Lagos) is the head of the panel, with Hon. Yusuf Buba, Hon. Fred Obua, Hon. Akinfolarin Mayowa, Hon. Haruna Dederi, Hon. Ibrahim Ishiaka, Hon. Ezenwankwo Okwudili, Hon. Wale Raji, Hon. Zakari Mohammed, Hon. Mansur Soro, Hon. Stanley Olajide, Hon. Aniekan Umanah, Hon. Olododo Cook Abdulganiyu, Hon. Comrade Aminu Suleiman and Hon. Johnson Oguma as members respectively. The Speaker tasked members of the committees to speak to various stakeholders, and not rely on just figures being paraded around. Gbajabiamlia said: “We will be setting up two adhoc committees, to address the issue of fuel subsidy. One will look into how much fuel we consume as a nation on a daily basis. We have had figures bandied here and there without any authenticity, before we can even begin to talk subsidy like I said, we need to know how much we are consuming. The second is to look into refineries and state of repair and determine what will be needed to bring our refineries back to life again.” “The committee has 4 weeks to present its report. In doing their work they should not restrict themselves to NNPC figures, as NNPC being an interested party of course. They should go far and wide, talk to experts, talk to labour, talk to national and international experts and those who will know. Talk to the motor vehicles registration centres, we just need to determine how much petrol we consume, talk to the transport companies, deal with facts and figures,” Gbajabiamila said.