ABUJA  – In total commitment to the vision of Mr. President to po­lio eradication in Nigeria, the Minister of State for the Feder­al Capital Territory (FCT), Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has as­sured that the administration will do everything possible to strengthen the entire routine immunisation structure and primary health care landscape in the nation’s capital. Aliyu gave this assurance at the first meeting of the FCT Taskforce on Polio Eradication Initiative and Routine Immu­nisation for the year 2022 to discuss and strategise on mat­ters of routine immunisation activities. The minister, who was rep­resented by the Senior Special Assistant on Administration, Prof. Muhammad Usman, noted that through the Basic Health Care Provision Fund, the administration is already rehabilitating the Primary Health Care infrastructure, engaging additional health workers and providing es­sential medicines to further strengthen the PHC sector. Ohanaeze Commends Court Judgement In Favor Of Nnamdi Kanu Electoral Bill: Govs Laud Senate For Removing Contentious… She also noted that the efforts of the taskforce has contributed significantly to the success of polio campaigns in the territo­ry with no wild Polio Virus con­firmed in FCT for over 7 years, just as she called for regular meetings of the taskforce. The minister used the occa­sion to call on chairmen of the six area councils to strengthen commitments to the polio erad­ication and routine immunisa­tion activities in their various councils by regular release of counterpart funds and personal attendance at all meetings of the FCT Task Force on Polio Erad­ication Initiative and Routine Immunisation. Earlier in his remarks, the Mandate Secretary, Health and Human Services, Dr. Abuba­kar Tafida, revealed that the secretariat would deploy 1,639 personnel in 4 days starting from January 22 to vaccinate 1,165,981 under 5 years children in 2,837 communities across the territory. Tafida charged participants toidentifynumerouschallenges facing the immunisation land­scape at the FCT area council and community levels with a view to finding solutions to those challenges. It would be recalled that in 2015, Mr. President personal­ly signed the reviewed Abuja commitments document on be­half of the federation while the Chairman, Governors’ Forum signed on behalf of the 36 states governors and the Minister of FCT to ensure a polio free na­tion with clear responsibilities for each tier of government.