Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola has solicited the support and blessing of the traditional rulers in the state for his second-term ambition. He paid an unscheduled visit to the traditional rulers during their monthly meeting held at Finance Building where the monarchs were usually holding meetings. At the meeting which was presided by the Ooni Of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, Oyetola told the gathering by declaring his intention to run for a second term noting that the effort was part of efforts to consolidate on the good works and appreciable performance of his administration. Aregbesola, Oyetola’s Rift Normal In Politics -Remi… Olubadan: Oyetola Commiserates With Makinde, Oyo people Different issues bordering on culture, tradition, good governance and development of the State were discussed by the monarchs. The traditional rulers under the umbrella of Osun State Traditional Council of Obas lauded the modest achievements recorded by the Administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the State in the last three years. They also urged the Governor not to be distracted by political traducers and detractors whose sole interest is to destabilise his government and cause undue structural division before the forthcoming governorship election in the State. They reaffirmed their unflinching support and cooperation for his administration which they described as one of the best in the history of the State since its creation. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, applauded the tremendous achievements the Administration had made since its inception. POLL He reiterated the traditional rulers’ readiness and commitment to give necessary support to the Governor towards the actualisation of his dreams. Ooni Ogunwusi who described the Governor’s visit as first of its kind in the history of the state said the Governor’s high sense of modesty, prudence, probity and integrity necessitated their decision to continuously give him all-round support. Ooni noted that the Governor had performed creditably well to earn the royal blessings and support, saying the traditional rulers were solidly behind him and whatever he decided on. “Today, being the first meeting of traditional rulers in the new year, the Governor paid us a surprise visit and we were very elated, very happy and we prayed for him very dutifully because we were very excited for the visit. “This is the first of its kind in the history of our State. I have been on the throne for over six years. No Governor has ever come to visit us as he did today. Though they tried their best to leave us alone for us not to be partisan, this time around we are very joyous that the Governor brought around the entire governance structure to come and see the way we operate; and with all humility too, the Governor sat as one of the floor members.