Chelsea defender Thiago Silva has committed his future to Chelsea by signing a new one-year deal to stay at the club through the 2022-23 campaign. Brazil international Silva joined the Blues from Paris St Germain during the summer of 2020, and has made 56 appearances. The veteran centre-back has gone on to win the Champions League trophy and has impressed many by bringing calmness and experience to the Blues’ back line – and the 37-year-old said he was enjoying turning out for the club. Lukaku To Have Decisive Meeting With Tuchel Today Tuchel’s Tactics Would Give Liverpool Edge Against Chelsea… Chelsea defender Thiago Silva has committed his future to Chelsea by signing a new one-year deal to stay at the club through the 2022-23 campaign. Brazil international Silva joined the Blues from Paris St Germain during the summer of 2020, and has made 56 appearances. The veteran centre-back has gone on to win the Champions League trophy and has impressed many by bringing calmness and experience to the Blues’ back line – and the 37-year-old said he was enjoying turning out for the club. ‘I am going to give everything to keep playing at this level in the most important league in the world.’ Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia said: ‘Thiago Silva’s experience, leadership and performances have been and remain very important to this squad, so we are hugely pleased to extend his contract by another year. POLL ‘We look forward to his continued influence as we seek honours this season and next, and more of the qualities that have led to him having such a big impact for us on and off the pitch.’ Silva – who has racked up 102 caps for Brazil – started his professional career way back in 2002 in his home country before later joining AC Milan in 2009. He played 199 times for the Rossoneri and then linked up with PSG – becoming captain and featuring 315 times, playing under Tuchel for two and a half seasons. The German wanted Silva to stay at the Parc des Princes and was angered when he was released on a free to Chelsea at the start of the 2020-21 season.