ABUJA:  A security expert, Jackson Ojo, has said that he would like to see the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswil Akpabio become the successor to President Muhammadu Buhari when the latter’s tenure ends in 2023. Ojo described the former Akwa Ibom governor as one whose track record distinguishes him as one with the right competence to bring the needed social and economic development that Nigerians yearn for. He said, “Akpabio falls within that age bracket one, Akpabio started as a commissioner under Victor Attah, and after then, he became Governor of Akwa Ibom State, an uncommon governor of Akwa Ibom State that during his own time as governor, he had no rival, comparison, no one to compare with him in terms of his achievements as governor.” 2023 Presidency: Plateau Group Drums Support For Fayemi 2023: Osinbajo Is The Chosen Man Of The Moment – Adeyeye While noting that the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, will make a good running mate to the former Minority Leader of the Senate, Ojo who is also a security expert added that “So, today, I stand to be corrected, there is no politician in the South, either from the East, West and North, and South-south, that has got such a political profile of Akpabio. “In the area of achievements, I still stand to be corrected, southern Nigeria has not yet gotten a governor like Akpabio. And I pray that Southern Nigeria will get a governor that will so much work in the interest of his people. “I don’t think there’s anyone to compare to Akpabio and if what Babangida said is anything to go by, Akpabio represents that group. “I don’t know him, he doesn’t know me. Two, after that he went on to the Senate. The rule of the Senate does not permit a first-timer to be appointed a Principal Officer but Akpabio went to the Senate for the first time and became one of the Principal Officers as its Minority Leader. After that, he crossed to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and he is currently the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs.”