Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) on Sunday declared that Ijaw communities in Edo deserve more from the government of the State than procurement of gunboats to enhance security in the riverine areas of the State where they reside Omaghomi Olu-Derimon, Secretary, Western zone of the IYC stated this in a press statement made available to newsmen in Benin on Sunday. Olu-Derimon who commended the governor for the enhanced security across the State said that the Ijaws desire infrastructural development in their communities now more than they ever did. Ijaws Insist On Self-Determination, Resource Ownership At Summit INSECURITY: Ijaw Chief Urges FG To Avoid Second Wave Of… He particularly noted that the people would have been more pleased and elated if the funds used for the gunboats were directed to address the huge infrastructural deficits that is bedeviling the riverine communities. He said this is particularly so as the first sets of gunboats procured by the government were yet to be utilised. “It will be wrong if we say the governor is not doing his best in terms of security as it affects the State. “Even the blind can attest to the fact that security in the State has improved tremendously under the leadership of our undaunted Governor. “Thanks to all security agencies and the Edo State Vigilante Network who are on the ground in almost all communities in Edo State, including our riverine areas. POLL “Just recently the state government announced that it has acquired some gunboats for the riverine areas of Edo state which is mostly occupied by the Ijaws of Edo state. “It suffices me to say that the Edo State Government bought similar boats a while ago and we are equally aware these Boats are still very new and are yet to be fully utilised as far as we are concerned. So, why buy more? “We have cried out severally that Ijaws are marginalised in terms of infrastructural development and political appointments and elective positions. “It would excite you to know that Ijaws in Ovia Southwest cannot access the Benin City because of the deplorable state of Udo Ofunama Inikorogha road. “The people in those communities have to travel through water to Gelegele or Sapele, Delta State before they embark on a road journey to access the Edo State Capital or their local government headquarters. Ijaws Demand ‘Right Of First Refusal’ In Marginal Fields Bids Guber/Assembly Polls: I’m Not In Opposition To Anybody… “In the same vein, the Gelegele Ekewan barracks road which hitherto served as a major access route to the State Capital is now a shadow of itself. “We have been crying for a long time that Mr. Godwin Obaseki should cover up with the infrastructural underdevelopment in the riverine areas of the State since he came on board but the story is almost similar with that of previous administrations in the State. “I know if the story does not change under this present government, 100 gunboats will not be able to change the insecurity that will greet the water ways which will extend to the hinterland. Am saying this based on past experiences. “We have over time demanded three development centers for the three local government areas where Ijaws are domiciled. “We also demanded Edo State Riverine Development Agency and a Marine Academy in the areas. “All these demands are to fast track development in the communities but none of these requests were implemented other than acquisition of gunboats that will be in use only when the governor visits or any other VIP. “It’s a new year and we want to urge our amiable Inlaw to change the narrative in our area by giving us adequate development attention,” he stated.