LAGOS – The Chairman of United Nigeria Airlines, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, has expressed the willingness of the airline to construct a Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities in Enugu State. He, however, sought the cooperation of the State Government towards driving investments to the state and expending its economics potential. Speaking when he led a team of the management of the airline on a courtesy visit to the State Governor, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi at Government House Enugu on Tuesday, Okonkwo said the airline was interested in expanding its investments in Enugu with the construction of an MRO unit of the airline. Domino’s Pizza Rewards Customer With All-Expense Paid Trip To… DHL Global Forwarding Named World’s Top Employer For The Third… He expressed that an MRO would create more jobs and expand opportunities for both expatriates and indigenes of the state, adding that the company was desirous of government support towards setting up the aircraft maintenance outfit. He said that the setting up of the corporate headquarters of the airline in Enugu state had already opened up employment opportunities for people of the state. He maintained that the company has been a responsible corporate citizen, which is desirous of creating more opportunities for the people and contributing to the positive growth of the revenue base of the state. Okonkwo lauded Governor Ugwuanyi for his leadership focus and vision, which he said has seen the state rank as one of the most peaceful and better positioned to attract more investments. In his remark, the Enugu state governor lauded Okonkwo for making the state the operational hub of his airline, adding that the decision was appropriate given the states pre-eminent place in the history of the southeast region. POLL Promising to encourage every investors who are desirous of bringing more business to the state, Governor Ugwuanyi acknowledge that tax from the airline had impacted positively on the internally generate revenue of Enugu State. He said the doors of the state are opened to every investor, noting that the state government would do all that is in its powers to encourage more businesses to bring their corporate headquarters to Enugu state.