LAGOS  – A pastor once narrated how the drummer he got for the parish he was overseeing played the drum in a way that made him question if he sometimes played in a club. His suspicion, he said, was not far from the truth as the drummer revealed that he played in a club on Fridays, but went to the parish to offer drumming service on Sundays. Sometime ago, Bishop Francis Wale Oke of Sword of The Spirit Ministries and National President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), at the Holy Ghost Convention of the church in Ibadan, Oyo State, challenged gospel singers not to settle as entertainers but strive to be carriers of God’s presence. C&S Addressing Long Hours Of Service – Apostle Churches Should Probe Members’ Wealth – Matilukuro He made public that Dunsin Oyekan and Nathaniel Bassey were Nigerian gospel ministers whose songs personally minister to his soul as he listens to them regularly. Calling Oyekan and his crew to the altar for prayer after their ministration at the convention, Oke said, “…He (Dunsin Oyekan) specialises in bringing you intimately to the presence of God. He is not an entertainer.” Evangelist Bola Are, is into viral video, said God told her a popular indigenous song, ‘Ko wo bi mo se nwuwa’, was not from Him, cautioning gospel musicians to be mindful of not injecting secular slangs in their songs as well as being mindful of their lyrics. Apostle OrokoyaTelemi, President of Association of Nigerian Gospel Artistes, stressed that Churches should acknowledge the place of premium gospel music, while urging choristers, music leaders to cultivate a stable relationship with God, so that they can always be led by God and not go worldly. “I believe we are growing. The only thing is that we should be more original and get more inspiration from God by knowing the God we are serving. This is the most important thing as most people copy what they hear from others. When you say you are singing gospel music, the message must be gospel because you are ministering to souls,” Telemi pointed out. POLL A gospel artiste, Psalm Ebube, in an interview with Sunday INDEPENDENT shared that praise and worship is a supernatural experience not entertainment or even art. “Praise and worship is a supernatural experience; it’s not entertainment or even art and to assist others in that experience to create an atmosphere where the Spirit of God can move among the people and do a work in their hearts, it also requires diligence and commitment, not just ‘showing up’ each week to minister. In other words, leading worship is something you do on purpose and with purpose. “The Bible is the foundation of the Christian faith and should therefore not be neglected during worship. One great way to use the scripture is at the beginning of the praise and worship segment to bring a word of encouragement to people. In doing this, you’re directing people’s attention to God and His word. “Their minds may be burdened and full of anxiety and care, but as they begin to look at Jesus, their focus is changed, and it’s easier to lead them into the presence of God in worship. Lead the people in worship. When people come to church, they have a lot of things on their minds, paying bills, obtaining their basic needs, mending relationships, especially in this state of our nation etc,” he stated. He continued: “For many, worshipping God is the farthest thing from their mind. The job of a worship leader is to exhort and encourage people to turn their attention towards God where it needs to be to bring honour to him to whom honour is due and to prepare the way for him to move in. Soul Winning Is A Great Task (III) The Unquestionable And Compassionate God That Needs To Be Served “Choose songs that are easy to sing, loud music, guitar riffs, and creative arrangements can be great, but if the music is too loud or there’s been too much arrangement that you can no longer focus on the words, the song becomes distracting. My advice also is that worship and praise leaders maintain a steadfast walk with God personally, and understand their unique assignment as music ministers.” Pastor Chigozie Anyanwu, a gospel music minister known for his hit song ‘Ese ganekuitoju mi’ also cautioned Christians against embracing worldly dance steps and styles. “You see all this ‘Soki’, ‘Shakiti Bobo’, ‘Alanta’, etc, and many other demonic names they bear, are from the pit of hell those who dance them are the children of the devil. Moses did not dance any ‘Dab’ dance. “It is a lie from the pit of hell and should not be embraced by the church of God. Exodus 34 verse 8 says, ‘Moses bowed his head to the earth and worshiped’. Let’s return back to the cross and live our lives totally for Christ and he will defend his name in us. Let him that has ears hear,” he stated. Gospel music veteran, Pastor Joseph Adelakun, popularly known as Baba Ayewa, of the ‘Amonatetemabo’ song, lamented that Christians are relenting in correcting the societal ills going on. “As Christians, we still have a lot to do and one of our core responsibilities is to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. We should not relent in talking against it and also living an exemplary life. Christianity is a race and we should not get tired. “The challenge facing Nigeria like many other nations is that many Christians have gone to sleep. We are meant to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world. There is darkness in the world and the mind of people in every sphere of life is filled with darkness. Don’t forget that as a nation is so is the church,” the veteran stated. Mr Dahunsi Mayowa, a church minister and initiator of Praise Dimension Music band in an interview with Tribune on the notion that the reason most church leaders invite popular music ministers to crusades is to pull crowds and not to win souls, said: “You know, music itself is something that no one can explore the depths of due to the spirit that God has put into it. “That is why all kinds of music attracts its listeners and for the gospel to reach out to a wider audience. Why do you think we go to radio stations to publicise our programmes? Just to bring in more crowds. “A programme of seven days might be because of one singular person; so, they have seen music as a way to bring in people and have the conviction to come to the Lord and be saved. So, it is just a strategy.” Professor of Musicology, Anthony Mereni, a quintessential music therapist, commended Mountain of Fire and Miracles (MFM) for showing seriousness in the adaptation of classical music. He, however, went further to note the importance of classical music: “Classical music which is also called school music has a higher value and anyone who is sincere will agree with me. Classical music is the way to go in building the morality of Nigerians and addressing the moral problem of the youth. It builds up discipline in people, I do not want anyone to misunderstand me but that is the truth. “Those studying music should sit and do that with all seriousness. Our culture cannot be pop because any country that has pop culture cannot be serious. The problem of corruption in the country is because people cannot think interiorly, that is why you also hear things like gopspeltainment, edutainment. I am disgusted with all this craziness.” Dr. Albert Oikelome, an Associate Professor of Music in the University of Lagos (UNILAG), also charged gospel artistes and Churches to stick to the message of salvation while being creative and exploring both classical and pop music. Oikelome’s comment: “Present day gospel music is not bad but we could do better. What I mean is that there is a paradigm shift of the gospel music of the 90s’ and the 2000s’. Right now the young ones are actually experimenting on serious music and pop music which in a way is not a bad thing. We have so many of them who are not ‘wannabes’. “Gospel artistes should stick to the gospel, there is a consistent shift to the other side in a bid to want to be popular and sometimes we find it really difficult to decipher between gospel music and other music. I advise gospel artistes to be creative; that they should stick to the gospel does not mean they should not be creative. “But they should not get to the point where if we listen to gospel music and we ask ourselves if it is gospel music, if what is gospel music is not spreading the good news then there is a problem because gospel is good news.” Pastor LekeAdeboye, at a training for sound engineers and the inauguration of ‘One Halleluyah Records’, made known that the value of Holy Ghost filled music cannot be over emphasised. Adeboye stated: “In the world of joyful noise that goes for music and the absence of people with meaningful songs have caused the world to accept the only alternative that is available, but the Almighty God like songs, hymns that can calm nerves, send out demons and can draw the soul of men and women closer to God, but unfortunately people with such talents do not have a platform to excel and that is the purpose of RCCG setting up ‘One Hallelujah Records’ so that those that can actually sing meaningful songs and bring down the presence of God will have a platform…” He add’, seeks to nurture the body of Christ and project the abundant talented gospel music ministers. Pastor Toyin Joe-Bassey, also known as Toyin Olomo, a gospel artiste who regularly hosts healing worship concerts alongside her twin brother, Pastor Tosin Ajolore, asked Christians to know God personally and love Him. She further advised gospel artistes to sing to God’s glory only. “Don’t pursue money and fame. Do something to earn a living; don’t depend on ministry for survival. Every person brings out from the rich store of knowledge or experience. “Besides these, God can drop to your spirit songs from heaven. I would love to add that knowing our calling and God’s expectations of us go a long way in determining what we generate from within. “Quality has been compromised and it is the poor quality music that is loudest. Hopefully our awareness of the days in which we live also informs why there are more people with itchy ears,” She stated.