CHIOMA UMEHA Despite the benefits of modern contraceptives as an important public health intervention and a cost-effective strategy to reduce maternal mortality, avert unintended pregnancies and to control population explosion, especially in developing countries, its use remains low. A multilevel family planning intervention programme that primarily focuses on promoting access to safe and voluntary modern contraceptives family planning has been identified to be essential in boosting its usage. Oil Wealth And Nigeria Pseudo Unity (1) Nembe Oil Spill And The Crocodile Tears Having the right information on the types of contraceptives for family planning available for use is capable of averting unintended, unwanted pregnancies and unsafe abortion. Research shows that family planning programmes have helped in increasing the prevalence of contraceptive use and reducing the total fertility rate in developing countries from six to three births per woman. The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), declared that access to safe, voluntary family planning is a human right. Yet in developing regions, an estimated 218 million women who want to avoid pregnancy are not using safe and effective family planning methods, for reasons ranging from lack of access to information or services to lack of support from their partners or communities. Reasons for this include limited choice of methods; limited access to contraception; fear or experience of side effects; cultural or religious opposition; poor quality of available services; users and providers bias; and gender-based barriers. This is worrisome as contraceptive use has increased in many parts of the world, especially in Asia and Latin America, but continues to be low in sub-Saharan Africa. POLL In Latin America and the Caribbean, the use of modern contraception has risen and remained stable at 66.7 percent, but in Africa, the proportion of women aged 15-49 years reporting use of a modern contraceptive method has risen minimally or plateaued between 2008 and 2015 from 23.6 percent to 28.5 percent. Nigeria is the most African populous country and the seventh most populous in the world.  Despite a high fertility rate of 5.5 per woman and a high population growth rate of 3.2 percent, Nigeria’s contraceptive prevalence is one of the lowest in the world. The 2018 Nigeria demographic and health survey (NDHS) shows that overall 17 percent of currently married women in Nigeria are using a contraceptive method, an increase of only two percent since the 2013 NDHS. Indeed, the outcome of a separate study conducted in two rural communities in Ogun State to assess the rural women’s awareness and practice of family planning was also not cheering news. In the NDHS 2013, women in rural areas were less likely to use contraceptive methods than their counterparts in urban areas (nine percent vs. 27 percent) and this trend was observed across all modern methods of contraception. Obasanjo’s Ingratitude To N-Delta Is Characteristic Electoral Act Amendment Bill: Interrogating The Ogbanje/Abiku… Undoubtedly, the imperativeness of increasing access to safe and voluntary modern contraceptives family planning and the different methods that is available, amid the threat of overpopulation in the country cannot be overemphasised. Dr Amina Aminu Dorayi, Country Director, Pathfinder International, Nigeria, said, contraception and family planning information and services are always life-saving and important. By preventing unintended pregnancies, contraception helps to protect girls and women from the negative health consequences of unintended pregnancies, which can save their lives. Contraception reduces the need for abortion, meaning that women and girls are less at risk of unsafe abortion, which again can be lifesaving. Ultimately, family planning should be treated as a human capital development as it reduces maternal and child mortality. When those indices are high, then Nigeria’s country’s underdevelopment indices will be higher, from the perspective of Dorayi. Sadly, maternal health outcomes in Nigeria have continued to be of great concern. According to the 2018 NDHS, there were 512 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births, which is still high when compared to the developed countries. Family planning is one of the ways through which maternal deaths can be reduced. The interval between pregnancies can be prolonged by providing family planning services for postpartum women and this can help protect their health and that of their newborns. Efforts have been ongoing to ensure that contraceptives are available to women in Nigeria however, uptake is still low with only 12 percent of women using a modern method of family planning. There is also high unmet need for family planning in Nigeria. Shortage of trained healthcare providers is an important contributor to increased unmet need for contraception in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends task sharing as an important strategy to improve access to sexual and reproductive healthcare services by addressing shortage of healthcare providers. Governments at every level must work to support family planning by ensuring a steady and reliable supply of quality contraceptives in Nigeria. Similarly, they must collaborate with the non-government actors to strengthen national health systems; advocate for policies supportive of family planning; and gather data to support family planning. The Federal Government must wake up to its responsibility to provide leadership by increasing access to family planning, by convening partners – including governments  – to develop evidence and policies. The time for governments – Federal, States and Local Governments to live up to their duties of providing programmatic, technical, adequate, and prompt release of funding for family planning is now.