Nigerians in the diaspora have been urged to shun any form of a bad impression as created by the fake news peddlers about Nigeria and see the need to come to their father’s land and contribute their quota to the growth and development of their dear great country. Iba Gani Adams who led a delegation of Oodua Progressive Union (OPU) home and abroad on a courtesy visit to Governor Yahaya Bello at the Governor’s office Lokoja on Friday maintained that some Nigerians in the diaspora don’t want to come to their father’s land because of the wrong impression they have about Nigeria. On the 15th Are Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland stressed that people living abroad need to shun jettison all forms of a bad impression as created by fake news peddlers about Nigeria. Yahaya Bello, Obaaro, Gani Adams, Others For OPU 2022 World… Twitter: APC Charges Nigerians To Develop Homegrown Social Media… Adams in his speech said, “We are here to brief the state governor on why we are in the state, and I use this medium to thank the Excellency for this warm reception, Odua Progressive Union is different from Odua Peoples Congress, OPC is a group founded in 1994 to defend the interest of Yorubas in Nigeria, while the OPU is another social-cultural organization that was formed in 2011 in Mumbai India and has spread tentacles to 96 countries with the objective of promoting our culture and traditions. He also noted that the OPU platform is meant to network sons and daughters of the Yoruba in the whole world, stressing that the group is also a platform to discover Yoruba people who are not willing to come home because of the wrong impression and fake news some people are disseminating about Nigeria. He further said that this platform has corrected many wrong impressions some people are having about this our gear dear country, maintaining that it’s not a gainsaying that a lot is happening in the country, but affirmed that the way it was highly exaggerated create fears for the people living in the diaspora to come home. “We are here for the 8th OPU World Congress, the world Congress is a program where we have lectures, leadership training for our delegates from their various destinations, and at the same time we always hold them for dinner, in the process of having the dinner we interact, the program is also meant for networking between our people in the diaspora and our people at home. POLL “Last year we have expanded the program beyond the conference and the dinner, we have added humanitarian content to the program, and as am talking to you, a borehole is already getting to a point of completion in Kabba, and it’s going to be donated to people of the town and at the same time we have the medical team that will be taking some medical challenges of over 1500 people of Kabba, and about 15 wheelchairs and crotches are going to be distributed to the physically challenged people here. “One of the advantages of this conference is that the delegates coming from different parts of the world will know much about their culture, origin and traditions, we started this program eight years ago in Lagos, the second one was in Ile-Ife hosted by the Ooni of Ife, the third one was organized in Oyo hosted by the Alaafin of Oyo, the fourth was organized in Abeokuta hosted by the Alake of Egba, the fifth was organized in Akure hosted by the Deji of Akute, the sixth one was organized in Ekiti hosted by the Ewi of Ekiti, the seventh was organized in Kwara state in Offa town, and because of COVID-19 we have to avoid the conference program last year, the only program we held last year was a charity one, which is sinking the borehole and medical outreach, we managed to have the reception in Lagos, because by that time we are at the peak of the pandemic. “It time for Kogi state, and I must is very interesting coming here, this is a state that we have 30 to 35 Yoruba sons and daughters as part of the state executive cabinet and this are the Okun people and with the little time we’ve spent here at the palace of Obaro it was highly interesting and highly historical, and we feel at home as if we are in the southwest of Nigerian, Kabiyesi has been highly receptive to us, we are so happy within the two hours of our staying in the Palace, I have never been here before but having gone around the state and saw the development in the state I can say Alhaji Yahaya Bello is working in the state, I won’t deceive you it’s a very good experience coming to your state. Adams said. Receiving Iba Gani Adams on behalf of the state Governor, Dr. Folashade Ayoade Anike, the secretary to the state government commend Gani Adams for his doggedness and his unifying spirit. She maintained that Kogi is the safest state in the country stressing that there is a need for us to keep telling our people both home and abroad that Nigeria is safe, and the need for them not to rely on what people are saying about Kogi state and Nigeria as a whole. Nigerians Don’t Want Successor From You, Just Go! PDP Tells… God Will Not Forgive PDP If It Doesn’t Hearken To Cry Of… She said, His Excellency has received several awards, he recently received an award as the best security-conscious governor in Nigeria, United Nations has given him an award and as many that are down there thinking that Kogi is not safe, I can tell you that Kogi is very safe. “We have in the person of Alhaji Yahaya Bello who is a unifier, in the cabinet of Alhaji Yahaya Bello we have 57 non-Indigenes of Kogi State, I have the list of all the non-Indigenes serving in the government, so who else do we need to unite Nigeria, we have Ibos, we have Yorubas, we have Hausas in Yahaya Bello’s led administration. Said Arike. In his address, the Obaro of Kabba, His Royal Majesty, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi, called for the establishment of a University in Okun land. He maintained that the establishment of University in Okun land will bring the much-desired social and economic development needed for the Okun people of Kogi state, he also stressed that there is free land for individuals and cooperate bodies who is thinking of coming for the establishment of the much anticipated University for the Okun people. Iba Gani Adams’ entourage comprises the delegates of OPU across all the 96 countries of the world, the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) commandants, Olokun Festival Ambassadors, among others.