OSOGBO  – Ahead of the July 2022 gov­ernorship poll in Osun, the leadership and members of African Church in the State have expressed their readi­ness to work and mobilise for the re-election of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. The Church also declared their unalloyed support and solidarity for the Governor and his administration, saying that “on no account will Osun people allow the State to be gov­erned by charlatans.” This is even as they applaud­ed the tremendous achieve­ments recorded by the present administration in the last three years. Kogi: Angry Mob Sets Police Barrack Ablaze Over Slain Boy NAWOJ Advocates Justice For Hanifa, Others Speaking on behalf of the African Church in the State, during the Annual 2022 Prayer Summit held at the Banquet Hall, Government House, Osogbo, the Bishop of Ife Di­ocese of the African Church, Christ Cathedral, Rev. Mi­chael Olufemi Adeyemi, said the good works of Governor Oyetola would earn him a sec­ond term as he had performed creditably well in giving Osun a facelift in socio-economic de­velopment. Rev. Adeyemi, who noted that Osun was too sophisticat­ed to be governed by a novice or charlatan, said no efforts would be spared to mobilise and cam­paign vigorously for the Gov­ernor to return and serve the State for another term. He add­ed that this was the only way to reciprocate his good works. He also acknowledged the achievements the Adminis­tration has made across sec­tors particularly in the areas of education, health, security, agriculture, mining and infra­structure. According to him, the Gov­ernor’s innovative gesture to good governance will speak for him before, during and after the next governorship election as he will be massively re-elect­ed to serve the good people of the State for another four years. The cleric who quoted Prov­erbs 29:2 “when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice; but when the wick­ed beareth rule, the people mourn” said Osun people were rejoicing because they have seen in Governor Oyetola, the virtues of a righteous man. POLL “Your Excellency, I am standing here today for and on behalf of The African Church in Osun State to appreciate you sincerely, to pledge our sincere loyalty to you and to as well ex­press our absolute support for you and your government. “We are not here today as a political group, to the glory of God we are here as a responsi­ble religious organisation. We are here not to play politics but to let you know that as a church of God, we are watching you closely.”