YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Ayibaina Duba, and his Works and Infrastructure counterpart, Moses Teibowei have expressed delight that the development process of the state is on the right track under Governor Douye Diri. They spoke during separate interviews at the weekend with journalists shortly after the inspection of serval projects scheduled for inauguration as part of activities by the Diri administration to celebrate its second anniversary in office on February 14. The projects include those inherited from the past administration and completed in the last one year and others initiated by the Diri government during same period. Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC In particular, Duba described as fantastic the media complex under his ministry initiated and completed by the present government for the state-owned radio and television stations and newspaper corporation for the first time in the history of the state. He boasted that the imposing building could only be found in Bayelsa as no other state government and even the Federal Government had embarked on such an ambitious edifice for its media operations. Duba said, “The construction of the (media) complex; we are building from scratch a new television station, a new radio station and getting equipment for our printing press. So, it’s a three-in-one, it is very fantastic.” “It has never happened in Bayelsa State before. What we are doing, no state, not even the Federal Government has the kind of structure we are building.” On his part, the works and infrastructure disclosed that between 20 and 30 development projects in various sectors would be ready for inauguration during the anniversary. POLL Teibowei said the contractors had been mobilised and mandated to complete the jobs within specific time in readiness for their official opening. He said, “Between 20 and 30 projects should be ready, not only in the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure but also in education, health, agriculture and other sectors. “My target is to complete assigned projects and I strongly believe that some of the projects visited will be completed.”