Five aspirants of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) have protested the way and manner the members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party handled the Ward Congress mearnt to elect three adhoc delegates per ward . They accused the committee led by the Akwa Ibom State Governor , Emmanuel Udom,  of allegedly working for one of the party  leaders suspected to be former Governor Ayodele Fayose, to hijack the process. 2023: Only PDP Has Pedigree To Rescue Nigeria From Insecurity,… PDP, Governors, Jonathan Celebrate Tambuwal At 56 The PDP leaders  met at the Koltotel Hotel located at GRA in Ado Ekiti, where the committee members from Abuja were lodged. The aggrieved stakeholders including former governor Segun Oni and the Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Biodun Olujim alleged that the exercise was skewed in favour  of a particular PDP leader . Making veiled reference to former governor Ayo Fayose ,the aggrieved said what happened in Ekiti on Saturday where materials mearnt for the exercise were allegedly hijacked was not a good image for a party desirous of returning to power . Amgry Oni said: “What you have seen today is laughable. And this is the standard we still are as a country. It is very unfortunate. There is nothing we can do other than to complain formally. We went upstairs and also told the acting Chairman  of the ward congress panel. I believe we cannot have democracy by hijack. If anybody is a muscle man, he should apply the muscle to winning people for the party. “We would believe the party will take a look at what has happened. At least all spoke on our honour and if they want us to say more they can contact us.  Each of us is a known face to even the people in abuja. This is very unfortunate but we hope the party will find a way out of it. POLL “Before we were getting it right. We were talking across all divides and we believe we would end up together but what has happened today has shown that there is a big problem. Let me sound it that we politicians are testing the will of the people too much. ” If anybody  he is a muscle man who can wrestle the process out of the grip of the people, let him wait for them. And I believe they will wait for him at an appropriate corner. We must all join hands to rescue this country from this type of politics”. Expressing  regret, Olujimi described the  scenario  as a sordid drama and  a repeat  of what transpired during the Congress of the party last year. “This is what we have been fighting about that should not happen in PDP. Everything has been compromised. The results have been hijacked by compromise from the committee sent from Abuja. We are rejecting any purported” Olujimi said. Other aggrieved members were ,former Deputy Governor Kolapo Eleka, Mr.  Lateef Ajijola and  Wale Aribisala Nigerians Don’t Want Successor From You, Just Go! PDP Tells… Koshoedo Calls For Membership Drive Into PDP To Rescue Nigeria However, the  Secretary of the NWC congress Committee, Kola Ologbondiyan, while reacting to the allegations said the committee didn’t bend the rules to favour any of the factions, saying the accreditation and distribution of materials were done in the presence of all the aspirants. The former PDP National Publicity Secretary, said: “What we have done is in line with the directive we have been given from Abuja. We did distribution in the presence of the aspirants . “The aspirants would have to wait for the appeal committee if they have issues with the conduct of the congress. Our men are on the field, so we will act on all they give to us. PDP is a democratic party and if they have issues, we have internal mechanism to settle all our differences. “It is not our responsibility to go and monitor congress. The aspirants brought two agents each to supervise the accreditation and distribution processes . They were part of the meeting where accreditation was done. As we speak no report has been given to us. PDP is a family and we have the mechanism to settle our differences”.