ABUJA – Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, Director-General of National Information Technology Development Agency(NITDA), has said the Nigerian start-ups attracted over $1.5 billion investments in 2021. Abdullahi who stated this at the virtual NITDA Nigerian Innovation Ecosystem Engagement 2022, said theattraction of over $1.5billion by Nigerian start-ups represents 35% of total investments in Africa in 2021. Addressing the operators of Nigerian start-ups, Abdullahi said, “It is amazing that you have succeeded in building the most investment appealing ecosystem in Africa, attracting over 1.5billion USD representing 35% of total investment in Africa in 2021. No Evidence 5G Networks Would Compromise Aviation Operations… Intel Scores Major Win As Court Scraps $1.2bn EU Antitrust Fine “This is unprecedented, but for me, there is no passion playing small and settling for leading only in Africa, if we can compete globally. “We have the talent, passion and energy to be reckoned with globally. I believe we can, but how? “It is simple, to win in the global market, we must first win in building trust within the ecosystem. “Today, we have a golden opportunity to achieve that. If we fail now, I don’t know when we can.” He noted that the promotion of the indigenous content agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has remained one of the focal points of NITDA), calling for a more robust collaboration between the Agency and local start-ups in the country. POLL He said the promotion of indigenous content, which is one of the strategic pillars of the Agency’s Strategic Road Map and Action Plan 2021-2024, was designed specifically to create opportunities for the development of homegrown solutions to meet the country’s needs as well as create wealth for the nation. He pointed out that Nigeria cannot be great globally if it doesn’t build her start-ups for national development. Abdullahi described the tech ecosystems as a ‘home’, and empathetically stated that he understood the frustrations and challenges of local startups in the country because that was where he started from. “I started very early when I was in 200 level. I perfectly understand how rough the journey is. “I know how important it is to have enabling policies and infrastructure and how painful it is to fail”, he said. E-Commerce Improves Health, Safety Of Informal Retailers –… B2B E-Commerce Makes Logistics Easier For Nigeria’s Informal… He, however, disclosed that currently, he has taken it upon himself to utilise all resources and opportunities at his disposal to make the tech ecosystem a more viable and better one. While giving assurances of the present administration’s support towards the tech ecosystem, Abdullahi highlighted policies put in place to drive the sector. Such policies, according to him, include the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy in 2019, the National Broadband Plan in 2020, the draft Start-ups Bill for onward transmission to the National Assembly and the launch of the 5G Policy which was developed to create enabling environment for start-ups to thrive.