ABUJA – A Political pressure group, Anyim4Nigeria Movement has lauded the decision of Senator Anyim Pius Anyim to seek the office of President of Nigeria in 2023 saying such declaration can only come from a courageous citizen imbued with patriotic favor. Dr. Laz Ude Eze Convener of the group said it takes courage to lead the charge to fix a country that has been so badly “battered and disunited,” and where the hopes of citizens have so diminished with poverty and insecurity ravaging the land. Dr Eze said that it takes a man of rare courage, a unifier with rich experience, capacity and competence to provide the much needed leadership at this time and commended both Anyim and PDP South East for stepping out to be counted. Aftermath Of Abia APC Chairman’s Death, Ex-bank Chief Emerges… Fayemi Expresses Fresh Concern Over Assaults On Uniformed Men In… “We commend the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the South East Zone under the able leadership of Chief Ali Odefa (Odezuligbo 1) for their massive attendance and active participation during Sen. Anyim’s Briefing and Consultation Session with the party stakeholders in Enugu yesterday. “We align strongly with the resolution that the presidential ticket of PDP be zoned to the South East in the spirit of equity, fairness and justice. “We also thank many leaders of the party in the zone who attended, including Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe, Chief Eze Duruiheoma SAN, Sen. Theodore Orji, Iyom Josephine Anenih, Sen. Chukwuka Utazi, Sen. Obinna Ogba, Hon. Linus Abaa Okorie, among others. “Senator Anyim’s speech at the event was very presidential, inspired hope and left no one in doubt of his seriousness, readiness and capacity to lead PDP to victory in 2023, if given the ticket. “As a movement, we are very committed to continue to support every step being taken by Sen. Anyim to win the PDP presidential ticket and the presidential election in 2023 election so as to rescue, reunite, rebuild, reposition and restore hope in Nigeria. POLL “Our members turned out in their numbers and showed a strong physical presence at the briefing. We enjoin all Nigerians to support this noble project”, Dr Eze said in a statement.