LAGOS  – Prejudiced border closures, visa regimes and COVID-19 protocols disrupted growth in the global aviation industry, especially in Nigeria in the year 2021, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of Aviation Round Table (ART) has said. Speaking with Daily Independent over the weekend in Lagos, Olowo regretted that the Covid-19 pandemic, which interrupted global economies in 2020, further caused more havocs to aviation growth and stability in 2021 with various variants. He also lamented that several countries took biased and unscientific approaches to curb travelling into their countries, thereby further increasing the hardship on air travellers. Nigerian Customs Generates N188.6bn At Onne Port — Official CBN To Improve Access To Credit For Households, Businesses In… He said: “Aviation business was beginning to crawl between 10/30 per cent, Year-On-Year (YOY) in quarter 1 till mid quarter 2, 2021. Quarter 3 was growing steadily to almost 75 per cent 2020, YOY when different variants of Covid-19 known as Delta and now Omicron raised its ugly head. “Discriminatory border closures, visa regimes and Covid protocols disrupted growth once again. Another big disincentive to travel and travels began to nosedive once again. Sadly, performance returned to quarter 1 levels, especially this December quarter 4 and one only hopes the decline does not continue into 2022.” Olowo declared that Covid-19 pandemic has affected the development and investment in the Nigeria’s aviation industry, but hoped that the year 2022 would have some positive outlooks for the sector without any new variant. In a bid to attract more investments into the sector, Olowo advised the government to continue to address the issue of insecurity and its adverse effect on Nigeria’s risk assessment. He lamented that the country risks have negatively affected the economic index measurements like exchange rates, insurance premiums, pricing, inflation and others. POLL To grow the sector and organised it effectively Olowo opined that the government should steer clear of business, rather create the enabling environment for business to thrive through the implementation of ease-of-doing-business scheme. “Government agencies see business tasks as a disruption of their schedule, rather than a fulfillment of it. How can one explain passport renewal taking forever for instance? Aside internal trade, businesses cannot thrive without inter-economy movement. This should however, not be taken in isolation.”