Hon. Omimi Esquire, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State is the Political Adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he speaks on developments in the state, giant strides of the governor and agitations over 2023 governorship election. Excerpts: What is your impression about Governor Okowa since he came on board? Without being biased, the governor has done very well. It is not easy. For the past six years, we can see a lot of transformation in the State even in the face of very lean resources. The way the governor has been managing the little resources to do projects and payment of salaries. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… NYSC Trust Fund Bill: NGO Lauds Buhari, NASS Synergy On Youth… Honestly a lot of development has been going on, for example road construction, infrastructure as well as youth and women empowerment. Infact, government train the youths in different skill acquisition and even gives them starter packs to start their businesses. All these cost money. So, the government is doing very well. The governor has also excelled in education and there is significant improvement in the health sector including security and peace in the State. What is your comment on the zoning arrangement in the PDP family? Truly, I support the rotational system of governorship in the State. I’m also in support Senatorial zoning, because it has engendered political peace in the State for the past 21 years. Do you think the zoning system will be altered in the emergence of another political party? POLL Frankly speaking, I am only concerned about my party (PDP) in the state, so that we will continue to emphasize on equity, justice and fairness and doing what is right. Can you comment on the recent passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) by the National Assembly? Well, the recent passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), by the National Assembly and the approval of 3% of the production cost of oil companies operating in the area for the development of Host Communities, was grossly inadequate. Of a truth, the allocation of 3% to the host communities who bear the burden of environmental degradation and pollution as a result of oil exploration and production activities is unfair. I wondered why only 3% was allocated to the Host Communities while a whopping 30% was approved for the search for oil in the North. Personally, I know it is a stepping stone but they are not being fair to the oil producing communities. What is worth doing is worth doing very well. If you want to recognize the impact of oil exploration on the host communities, I don’t think 3% is adequate as compensation. If they had considered and approved the recommendation of the House of Representatives of 5% it would have been a little bit okay. Why Nigerian Women Want Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 Why Nigerian Women Wants Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 I believe people would have appreciated the National Assembly more if they had approved the 5% recommended by the House of Reps or even higher. Whether they added gas flare funds or not, it is still not comfortable for the people of the Niger Delta considering the devastation that has taken place in the oil producing communities. Let us say that it is something worth applauding but it is not good enough for us. What is your take on the NDDC recent situation on the state of the Niger Delta Development Commission, (NDDC)? The Commission has become a cash cow from which a few individuals fill their pockets without regard to the development of the Niger Delta region. For me, I look at the NDDC as a cash cow to the federal government and to some people. I don’t see any reason why the Commission is being run by a sole-administrator. At this age, when we are talking about the development of the area, the place is left for one man to manage. I don’t think it is proper. They know what they are doing. The forensic audit which they are giving as an excuse, has nothing to do with inaugurating the board of the Commission. I’m sure they are trying to grab money for their election. That is what they are doing. It is very unfortunate that the Commission set up to fast-track the development of the Niger Delta, and nothing is happening, It is very sad. What is your take on the increasing cases of insecurity across the country? Well, insecurity in the country is becoming worrisome and I take side with agitation for State Police, it is that way insecurity will be checkmated if the governors will have control over the police.