AKINWUNMI KING/ OYE­NIRAN APATA/ JOY ANIG­BOGU/ VICTORIA OJUGBA­NA/ FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO/ IGONIKO ODUMA LAGOS/BENIN/YENAGOA – President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the Federal Government is deeply concerned about lives lost in 2021 over insecu­rity. But, he noted that the govern­ment is working with interna­tional partners and neighbouring countries to “deploy multi-faceted solutions that will be targeted at addressing human security at the grassroots, before it leads to inse­curity”. Mbaka Admonishes Other Priests Condemning Kanu Insecurity: Probe Alleged Misuse Of Security Votes By Govs,… The president expressed this position in his New Year message to Nigerians on Saturday. While commiserating with families who lost their loved ones, the president said Nigeria would continue to invest in the firepower needed to fight inse­curity. He said: “I would like to take a moment to remember and hon­our the gallant military, police of­ficers, and other security agents who have lost their lives in the course of protecting the territori­al integrity of this nation against both internal and external ag­gressors, assuring their families that their sacrifices would not be in vain.” The president added: “We equally remember and commis­erate with Nigerians who have lost loved ones as a result of in­security in different parts of the country. Every life matters and every single death caused by any form of insecurity is a matter of personal concern to me both as a citizen and as the President of this great country. “The persistent insecurity in certain parts of the country may have threatened to unravel the in­cremental gains achieved in the real sectors of the economy and in the administration’s overall ob­jective to position the nation on the irreversible trajectory of sus­tainable growth and progress, but I assure you that we will remain resolute in our commitments and shall continue to press ahead with our programmes and plans.” POLL Sanwo-Olu, Others Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and his counterparts from Edo, Bayelsa and other states expressed optimism over the state of the nation as 2022 rolled in. Governor Sanwo-Olu advised Lagosians to shun all acts of di­visiveness and embrace genuine love by consolidating on the gains made by individuals and the State in the outgoing year. Sanwo-Olu gave this charge in his New Year message to Lagos residents, released by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Ako­sile, on the first day of the year 2022. The governor also congratulat­ed Lagosians and Nigerians as a whole for witnessing the New Year, saying the most important gift from God is the gift of life. PSG’s Messi, Three Others Test Positive For COVID-19 Bandits Free Two More Abducted Kaduna Baptist Students He said: “On behalf of my fam­ily and the government of Lagos State, I rejoice with Nigerians, particularly Lagosians, on the celebration of the new year – 2022. “The most important gift by God Almighty is the gift of life. I thank God for counting us among the living despite the many chal­lenges that came with the year 2021, especially the COVID-19 that is still with us. I am personally convinced that we will triumph over it and the Year 2022 will ush­er in a fresh lease of life for the world. “The last 365 days were a blend of challenges and oppor­tunities for Lagos, especially as we grappled with the dreaded coronavirus pandemic and its socio-economic impact on us, the persistent pressure on the State infrastructure, the need to im­prove on the educational sector as well as the environment among others. “Against all odds, our govern­ment delivered on most of its promises to the residents across THEMES developmental agen­da. From January to December, our administration touched ev­ery area of human endeavours, aimed at improving the standard of living of the residents.” He added: “I acknowledge the perseverance and resilience of our people in the face of the cur­rent socio-economic challenges that were brought upon the na­tion by the coronavirus pandem­ic. In the true spirit of Lagos, we will remain resolute with a renewed vigour to face the new year, more determined to succeed together as a people.” Douye Diri Also, Bayelsa State gover­nor, Douye Diri, on Saturday, expressed his administration’s readiness to work hard to im­prove the socio-economic condi­tion of residents in the state in the New Year. Diri, who stated this in his 2022 New Year address to the people in a state-wide broadcast, said he was aware that several fam­ilies and residents struggled to survive during the outgone year due to economic hardship. He said, “I acknowledge that al­though as a state we have made considerable advancement in set goals, I am not oblivious of the reality that many families and in­dividuals struggled through 2021. “I feel your pain and know your frustrations. It is my sincere prayer that 2022 will bring better tidings than the past year for you and all of us. As a government, we will continue to take the nec­essary actions to address the challenges of unemployment, poverty, hunger, inequality and poor health.” Diri said despite the sever­al challenges in 2021, particu­larly funding, the government made progress in areas such as healthcare, education, agricul­ture, youth and women empow­erment, security, sports, infra­structure and reconciliation of aggrieved communities, among others. According to him, a number of projects would be due for com­missioning during the second an­niversary of his administration in February. Godwin Obaseki On his part, Godwin Obase­ki of Edo State has felicitated with Edo people on the New Year, pledging to sustain reforms in the state’s healthcare and ed­ucation system, civil service, security architecture, agricul­tural sector, as well as other infrastructural projects, among others. These, according to him, were aimed at improving the lives of the people and achieving eco­nomic prosperity for the state. Obaseki, who stated this in his New Year message, said the gov­ernment would continue to deep­en development strides across all sectors of the state following the gains made in the last five years, reassuring that the government would, in the incoming year, place emphasis on building ca­pacity, deploying technology, promoting innovation, enhanc­ing growth of the productive sector and leveraging the state’s Diaspora population to drive sus­tainable development. Felicitating with citizens on the New Year, the governor not­ed that in spite of the challenges and uncertainties experienced in 2021, there was a lot to be grateful told God Almighty for. Meanwhile, the Olowu of Kuta, HRM Oba Adekunle Maka­ma, Tegbosun 111, has urged Ni­gerians not to allow the present circumstances overwhelm them, but should resolve to overcome the present adversity of insecu­rity. Olowu, in a message new year, released through his media of­fice on Saturday in Osogbo, said that all hands must be on deck to collectively take the country to the Eldorado, stressing that there was light at the end of the tunnel. He commended the Nigerian Armed Forces and other security agencies who had been working tirelessly, and also paying the supreme price sometimes, to rid the country of insurgents and bandits that had been on the prowl. Olowu also admonished the National Assembly to take a second look at the role of tradi­tional rulers in terms of security and wellbeing of their subjects, adding that the role of Obas and chiefs in nation building could not be over emphasised. He said, “Despite what we are passing through now, I know that with the resilience of our army and cooperation from the popu­lace, there will be light at the end of the dark tunnel.” Hon. Ganiyu Johnson As for Hon. Ganiyu Johnson, lawmaker representing Ishodi/ Isolo constituency 2 at the Green Chamber of the National Assem­bly, there would be more develop­ment in the New Year. The House of Representatives member who was very hope­ful that the new year would be a period of bliss for the people, stressing that the year would af­ford another opportunity to take steps that would lead to greater achievements. Johnson, while wishing them a happy new year, assured them that they would witness more developmental projects and em­powerment, pointing out that no part of the constituency would be left behind. “The year will be blissful for us and that is why we should be expectant and very hopeful. It is true that there are challenges but we must be hopeful and work to­gether to surmount them. “The year is going to afford us another opportunity to carry out more development. “We must also embrace peace so that we can achieve the need­ed progress in this constituency. We need peace in Oshodi/Isolo constituency 2, we need peace in Lagos State and we need peace Nigeria,” he said. The former Lagos State Com­missioner for Works and Infra­structure, who gave the charge on Saturday when he presented new year gifts to members of the constituency at his constituency office in Lagos, reminded them that as a grassroots politician his priority had been to render ser­vices to the people, hence he had remained very accessible. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa Still on the New Year, Speak­er of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, has urged residents of the state and citizens of Nigeria to enter the New Year with renewed vigour and hope for a better 2022. Obasa gave the advice in his New Year message to Nigerians while praising the resilience of the citizens of the country in the face of the various challenges that came with 2021, especially in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic that has continued to ravage the world. The New Year, the Speaker not­ed, held a lot of promises for the citizens, “but all that we need is the collective decision to unite, fight against our common ene­mies and work towards making our nation a greater place to live in.” The Speaker, who described Ni­geria as a great country peopled by hardworking and passionate men and women determined for success, urged the citizens to con­tinue to play roles that would put the country in positive light. “While I congratulate Nigeri­ans, I dare say that together, we can make a better country hap­pen just like we are making good things happen in Lagos, the eco­nomic centre of Nigeria. Today, no doubt, Lagos is one of the most peaceful states of the federation despite its population and factors that make it a mega-city,” he said. Edo PDP In addition, the Edo State chap­ter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on mem­bers of the party to get ready for the task ahead of the party this year, 2022, which it said, would be a very critical year for members as they get ready to join other states to install the party at the national level in 2023 to rescue the nation from its present pre­dicament. Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, the par­ty’s state chairman, in a new year message to members, stated that there had been obvious challeng­es in several fronts but “as we en­ter 2022, let us all try to reawaken our spirit and tradition to meet these challenges”. “As a party, we have a tradition of facing the severest tests while working together to meet and overcome any adversity. “My optimism stems from the strong belief in you the members of the PDP, who are extremely hard working, honest and you know what is right and will al­ways do what is right with the fear of God. You will always do what will be good for the majority of members.”