ABUJA – A frontline governorship aspirant in Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC), Honourable Bamidele Faparusi has on Wednesday, at Abuja obtained his nomination form to contest for governorship in the forthcoming election in Ekiti state. Faparusi, a former Member of the House of Representatives who vied for the same position in 2018, told newsmen in Abuja that, he has what it takes to win the election for APC in 2022 because of his “pedigree, political experience and closeness with the grassroots.” The immediate past Commissioner of Infrastructure and Public Utilities said, “I strongly believe that I have what it takes to win the election for APC, because of my pedigree, political experience and my closeness with the grassroots. Pepco CEO Andy Bond To Step Down Due To Health Reasons Carabao Cup: Chelsea Ease Past Lacklustre Tottenham To Put One… “Having run in the primaries before, I have become a household name in Ekiti state, and I also have lots of goodwill that the party can use to win an election.” Explaining why he chose to run for the election again, Fappy, as he is fondly called by his teeming supporters said, “Today I have the privileged to obtain the nomination from our great party, the APC to vie for the office of the governor of Ekiti state. “I have been part of the progressive family in Ekiti state since 1999 when we had AD, from AD to AC, to ACN and now, the APC. I have represented my constituency, Ekiti South Federal Constituency II at the National Assembly between 2011 to 2015. “And I also ran for this office of the governor before in the 2018 election. After the primary exercise, I joined hands with the party candidate, Dr Fayemi Kayode where I was appointed as the Deputy Director General of his campaign. When an incident happened, I was asked to lead the campaign. So, I became the DG of the campaign. “I actually led the campaign that brought Dr Kayode to office in 2018. I also had the rare privilege to be called upon by the governor to serve in his cabinet as commissioner for Infrastructure and Public Utilities. POLL “So, as part of the progressives family in Ekiti state, and now that we are having a new turn of events in Ekiti state as the time of Dr Fayemi is coming to an end by October, there’s a need for us to continue in that trajectory, the All Progressives governance in Ekiti state. “That’s why I put myself forward to the party, party members for the nomination to represent the party in the gubernatorial election. I strongly believe that I will have the mandate of the party to flag the party banner in the general election.” Aside from that, Faparusi, who is a strong advocate for the zoning of governorship seat to Ekiti South come 2022 said, he believes in the agitation for Ekiti South Senatorial District to produce the next governor in the state. According to him this “agitation is not just coming from party members, it is coming from the populace and it is important for the party to listen to the masses who constitute over 70 or 80 percent of voters in the general election. “Because of this, I strongly believe that our party members would look the way of the South to pick their candidate for the next election so that we can be in good stead to win the election. Real Madrid Vinicius Junior Named World’s Most Valuable… Copa Del Rey: Barcelona Fight Back To Beat Linares 2-1 “I am one of the strongest figures in Ekiti South and I stand in support that Ekiti South is due to produce the next governor of the state. Other Senatorial Districts have been doing it since 1999, and it is not progressive. “As a progressive party, we must imbibe justice, equity and fairness; that’s what makes us a truly progressive party. If we do not imbibe these virtues, then, we can not be called a progressive party. I want to strongly believe that our party is a progressive party that will consider candidates from the South. “And when you look at the South, I am the bridge builder within the Ekiti state Senatorial District, even across the state than any other aspirant including party members.” While highlighting his vision for the Fountain of Knowledge state, the political heavyweight in Southern Ekiti and an accomplished entrepreneur said, his vision for Ekiti state is to “Create Economic Prosperity and social transformation” in the state.He noted that Ekiti state is endowed most importantly with human capacity. He said, “We are known for intellect and that’s why it is nicknamed “The Fountain of Knowledge” And there’s a need for us to harness this knowledge and bring Ekiti to the global stage. we were tagged as one of the poorest states in Nigeria, but with my private sector experience, I will create wealth in Ekiti state and make it one of the most viable states in Nigeria. “I want to commend Dr Kayode Fayemi, since his second coming, a new foundation is being laid. And having served in that administration for three years and playing a critical role in the development agenda of the administration, I believe I am in the best position to further what Dr Kayode has been doing. “And I also believe that I have the network both national and international to bring in the needed investors to the state. We are trying to develop what we call a knowledge zone, we are also trying to develop Agric Processing Zone that will industrialize the state and provide jobs to our teaming youths. “We will move the agenda forward to ensure that Ekiti state is self-dependent and that is the vision. We believe that one day, there will be nothing to share at the centre and Ekiti must begin to prepare itself for that day. I believe that, within eight years, we will be able to achieve that and Ekiti state economy will be rated as one of the highest in the country.” Faparusi also noted that, as commissioner for three years, he was able to bring in a lot of infrastructural projects into Ekiti state. He said the first IPP that is under construction now will generate 5MW for the state. “Through my efforts, I was able to consummate that project. And in the area of power, I initiated a partnership with TCN to construct two substations in Ekiti. Thank God that effort paid off when the Federal Executive approved that project two weeks ago to construct two 132KV 120MW substations in Ilupeju and Ijesha Isu Ekiti. “Before now, we only have one substation in Ekiti. They are now having two at the same time within a span of two years, as a commissioner; It’s a legacy. And it’s an indication of what I can achieve if given the opportunity to serve the state. “Governance is a journey, Dr. Kayode started the journey, planted some seeds that are yet to germinate, and I believe I am in a better position to water those seeds so that the world will see the best of Ekiti.”