ABUJA – Ahead of the February 2023 general elections, the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly on Tuesday said that it will delay deliberations on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021. It said that the delay is to allow it to consult with colleagues at the House of Assembly on areas highlighted by the executive for legislative review. Addressing lawmakers after the Christmas and New Year break, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, disclosed that the Red Chamber will after the liaison, expeditiously attend to the Bill. According to him, “the Red Chamber postponed discussions on the consideration of the response of Mr President on the Electoral Act 2010 Amendment Bill to enable us to consult with our counterparts in the House of Representatives and also consult with our Constituents. Like we all know, the Senate and indeed the National Assembly worked so hard on the Bill. “Distinguished Colleagues, Political activities leading to 2023 general elections have already started. This Senate should continue to provide the support that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needs for successful elections across the country.” Senator Ahmad who gave a rundown of the Upper Chamber’s legislative agenda for the year also revealed efforts made by the Senate Committee on the review of the 1999 Constitution. According to him, the document which will soon be laid in Chamber will be communicated to State Assemblies at the end of the first quarter of the year. “The review of the 1999 Constitution is a major plank of our Legislature Agenda. Our Committee on Review of the 1999 Constitution has done so much work so far. Working with their counterparts in the House of Representatives the report of the Committee will be presented to the Senate for consideration soon. POLL The Senate will consider the report and the National Assembly will communicate to the State Houses of Assembly within the first quarter of this year.” He equally commended the Senate for maintaining the recently implemented one-year fiscal cycle. He said, “Before we went on the recess, we considered and passed the Appropriation Bill on 22nd of December, 2021. That was the third consecutive time to pass the annual appropriation bill before the end of the year. The Bill was signed into law on 31st of December, 2021 by Mr President, to give the desired effect of starting the implementation of the Budget from January 2022. Government for working tirelessly to maintain the instituted January to December budget cycle.” This is as he insisted that the oversight of the implementation of the Budget is a critical function of the National Assembly, noting that the legislature “must therefore strategize on effective oversight of the implementation of the 2022 Budget. This is going to be the last budget that would be fully implemented for 12 months in the life of the Ninth Senate. We, therefore, need to supervise very closely.” On the funding of the 2022 Budget, the President of the Senate lamented the country’s current debt profile. Adding that Nigeria’s fiscal policy is predicated on significant borrowing, Senator Lawan pointed out that “our country is caught between the devil and the deep blue sea. We have to construct and provide infrastructure, in all parts of our country because infrastructure is needed for our nation to develop. However, we do not generate enough revenues to fund the provision of such infrastructure. “Until more revenues are generated, the country has to borrow and also resort to other sources of funding our infrastructural development. But we cannot continue to borrow endlessly. It is imperative that we need to improve on the revenue to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio.” “At about 8% Revenue to GDP ratio, our country is basically at 50% of what is required of the revenue to GDP of 15% for it to support any significant economic development. “The Senate will develop a strategy of engagement with revenue-generating agencies on how to make them achieve their targets and generate more revenues in 2022. The Senate will ensure that we boost their revenue-generating drive with a view to reducing borrowing for the development of our much-needed infrastructure. This is a major challenge for our development and we need to treat it as such,” the Senate President insisted. The President further explained that the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) 2021 was enacted with a view to providing better investments climate for better performance by the Oil and Gas industry. “The Senate, therefore, need to seriously supervise the implementation of the PIA 2021. We must ensure that our country starts to benefit from the passage of the PIA,” he noted He called for focus and determination to work with the executive given that the country’s security situation remains dire. “We must remain focused and determined to work with the Executive arm of government, and also continue to support our armed forces and security agencies. We must continue to prioritize the Security and welfare of our citizens as enshrined in your constitution nor despair. “I urge us not to be discouraged by the situation. We should make this year the year for the final securing of our nation from the numerous security challenges.”