ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has revealed that 70% of the N612 million allocated for the Area Council Services Secretariat (ACSS) in the Capital budget for 2022 will be spent on rural infrastructure development. Honourable Ibrahim Dantshoho, Mandate Secretary Area Council Services Secretariat, revealed this during a familiarization tour to Abaji Area Council on Wednesday in Abuja. He did say, however, that the Secretariat was looking at a budget of N2 billion because of the need to increase growth. Covid-19: England To Suspend PCR Confirmation Of Positive Test… Russian-US Security Talks To Be Held On Jan. 10 In Geneva According to him, the Secretariat’s core mandate is to facilitate development efforts at the Area Council level in accordance with the FCT standard of qualitative infrastructure development, empowering rural communities for better lives, and putting in place a robust and supervisory framework to effectively reposition Area Councils to the next level. Dantshoho added that the Secretariat is working on improved synergy with Area Councils to encourage the Secretariat building on its achievements in the rural communities, adding that it has recently renovated the Chief of Yaba’s Palace, and awarded contract of construction of a double-cell box culvert along Achido- Naharati road, amongst others. He said, “I want to encourage the Council Chairmen to see the Area Councils Service Secretariat as a partner in progress by maintaining a good working relationship and you should channel all your demands on policies matters to FCT Administration through the Area Councils Services Secretariat for effective service delivery so that our records can be set straight. “Consequently, I want to assure you that my position as the new Mandate Secretary is to drive your mission to have a successful tenure and improve the standard of living in every community under your Council” The Mandate Secretary, therefore, urged the Council Chairmen to make their leadership style to be more motivational to ensure that their steps are counted as part of their achievement. POLL On his part, the Ona of Abaji, Adamu Baba Yunusa pledged to work with the ACSS towards making the people at the grassroots feel the impact of government. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Abaji Area Council, Abdulrahman Ajiya commended the two ministers, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and Dr Ramatu Tijani Aliyu for their constant support, especially in the provision of pipe-borne water as well as the end of year palliatives for the people of Abaji. To tighten security in Abaji, Abaji Chairman said the Council collaborated with DSS, Vigilante and the Police to stem the tide of criminality being perpetrated in the area. He however called for the support of FCTA in the area of Security to sustain the progress made so far in combating crime in Abaji Area Council. The Abaji Chairman also used the medium to plead for an upgrade of Abaji General Hospital, completion of Abaji University as well as provision of a good road network to the farm areas to enable farmers to convey their farm produce seamlessly to the markets. Pepco CEO Andy Bond To Step Down Due To Health Reasons FEMA Organizes Review, Evaluation Meeting On Shopping Mall… The Secretary also visited the Chairman FCT Traditional Council of Chiefs, Ona of Abaji Adamu Baba Yunus, Chief Robochi Palace and the Chief of Yaba Palace.