YENAGOA – The Senator representing Bayelsa West at the National Assembly, Seriake Dickson, has expressed delight over his choice of the pair of Douye Diri and Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo for the positions of governor and deputy governor of the state. Dickson said those who doubted him after Diri and Ewhrudjakpo emerged as the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 governorship election are now convinced that he took the right decision for Bayelsa State. The former governor spoke when he paid a yuletide visit to Ofoni, the hometown of the deputy governor in the Sagbama Local Government Area of the state, on Wednesday. A Note On The Kwara Journey Bashir Tofa: Life And Times Of An Outstanding Statesman The deputy governor’s Senior Special Assistant on Media, Doubara Atasi, conveyed this in a statement he issued in Yenagoa on Thursday. Dickson, who handed over the baton of leadership to his successor on February 14, 2020, said that he would have been battling with a heavy moral burden if he had failed in his choice of the duo. He said, “It is now clear to even those who doubted me when I said I prayerfully selected the pair of Senator Diri and Senator Ewhrudjakpo that I made the right choice. I would have been carrying a heavy moral burden, if I had decided otherwise. “I know the number of people who called, spoke, advised and fought me saying Kolokuma has no vote. And I replied them saying are they not part of this state? The local government of Major Isaac Boro and others who had served our people? “If I had taken the easy way out, though the fight would have been easier, but I would have left with some moral burden. I would have been querying myself, oh you didn’t give the governorship to this people, when will they have it? POLL “I was at the head of the whole thing but as I told people at Sampou (Diri’s hometown), we should always thank God because even the small strength, intellect and indeed everything came from God.” The senator commended Ewhrudjakpo for his loyalty to Diri and advised him to shun the activities of mischief makers and fifth columnists, whose stock in trade is to cause divisions and strife in the polity. He pointed out that Bayelsa was in safe hands under Diri and his deputy, and appreciated God for vindicating him and restoring the stolen mandate of the PDP. Ewhrudjakpo, in his remarks, expressed gratitude to God for using the governor and Dickson to bring his political career to limelight. He described them as his political godfathers, adding that he could not have attained his current position as deputy governor without the role the two leaders played and therefore would remain eternally grateful to them. 2023: PDP Youths To South-South: Declare Interest Or We Back… 2023: Ndokwa People To Address Neglect, Marginalisation –… Speaking on behalf of the Ofoni Federated Community, a chieftain of the PDP, Dr Odiyovwi Osusu, thanked Dickson and members of his entourage for the visit and pledged the community’s continued support.