…As Party Assures Him, Ohuabunwa Of Fairness A presidential aspirant, Chief Dele Momodu has said that he’s joining the race to correct many wrongs in the socio- political life of the nation. This is even as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the party onn which platform he wants to contest the race, assured him and Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, who is also joining the race, of the readiness of PDP to provide a level playing ground for all aspirants. Presidency 2023: Umahi Pledges To Fight Corruption If Elected Presidency 2023: NGOs Plead With Adewole To Contest Election Both aspirants were at the party national secretariat to disclose their intention of joining the presidential race. After receiving letter of intent from Momodu, however, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu stressed that the party’s Presidential primary election will be free, fair and credible. Ayu said: “There will be a level playing field for all candidates. We don’t have any special candidate, we don’t have a preferred candidate. It is the party members who will decide and if at the end of the day, the party members vote for you, that you are the one they want, we will queue behind you. PDP National Chairman also charged the aspirants to work hard to build the party, noting that nobody can help the other than themselves. Presenting the letter of his intention, Momodu, a jourñalist, publisher and businessman, pointed out that the nation needs redirection. POLL He said: “The time has come for full reconciliation and forgiveness and a closure of our ugly past. Nigeria urgently requires a reset and a total redirection. “I’m convinced that the time has come to seriously challenge and dislodge those politicians who have held our country to ransom by kidnapping, hijacking and destroying the future of our younger generation and generations yet unborn. “Nigeria deserves much better than where we are now, and my appeal to fellow Nigerians is that we should collectively rescue our dear country from the suffocating claws of slave masters, overlords and tyrants. vociferously and vehemently reject any suggestion that Nigeria should continue to tread this dangerous path. “The die cast, and we must regain and take back our country! fully and unequivocally commit and dedicate myself to this cause. “I’m better prepared now than at the time of my first foray into the fray in 2011, and I am fully ready and certainly capable for the onerous tasks and responsibilities ahead. 2023: Nigerian Leaders To Be Swept Out Of Office… Presidency 2023: Northern Youths Tell Orji Kalu To Jettison… “After due consultations with my family, friends and some stakeholders, I have arrived at the decision to contest the 2023 Presidential election on the platform of our great party, PDP. if selected as the Party’s candidate I hasten to add that this is my personal decision, although I have received advice, encouragement and support from diverse quarters since I started my consultations. “I therefore offer myself to the PDP as the best aspirant to turn the fortunes of our esteemed party and our well endowed country around. In this regard, and with a deep sense of humility and profound respect.” On his part, Mazi Ohuabunwa explained why he want to be the President, adding that he want “to lay the foundation for proper unity of the nation to create a level playing ground where every child born in every part of this country will have the same opportunity like the other child to achieve his potential the way it happens the United States of America.” On his age, the aspirant said: “It is the experience you need to run a country, not necessarily chronological age. So understand what one young people are, I am young, in my heart, in my spirit, in my physique and my ability to do the job. “To be able to discharge the function of office as a President or governor, you need to have a healthy body. You need to have a healthy soul. You need to have a healthy spirit, body, mind and soul must be together to be able to function in this office. “This office of president is a serious office. You must have experienced in managing many things at the same time. It’s not to take six months to forming your cabinet, take six months to plan how you’re going to work. I have the experience I’ve been trained. I may belong to the older group but my Spirit, my heart is of a young person, and I understand how to motivate people to achieve.”