***As Osun Pick Forms ABUJA – Sen. Ajibola Bashiru, the Senator representing Osun Central Senatorial district in Osun State on Tuesday led some All Progressives Congress (APC) to pick nomination forms for Osun State governor Adegboyega Oyetola, assuring that there would be no upset in Osun State with regard who flies ticket of the party and occupies the Government house. Displaying the nomination forms before journalists at the APC National Secretariat, the Senate spokesman said Governor Oyetola has done a lot in the areas of Infrastructure and social investment to deserve another shot as governor of Ekiti. Okowa Mourns Shonekan Onadeko Urges Journalists To Shun Fake News In Interest Of… Senator Bashiru said although as friends of the governor, they gathered to pick form for the governor, they are not persuading him to run pointing out that Gov Oyetola since declared his intention to seek reelection. Asked the governor would have to resign his membership of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Bashiru said the issue may not be necessary. “By training I’m a lawyer, and at the risk of sounding immodest, I’m a legal scholar, I have a PhD in law. Whether the membership of the CECPC would be an issue would be a matter of interpretation of even the nature and character of the office of membership of the APC caretaker committee and I believe the governor would avail himself of legal advice as to whether there would be any contravention of the Constitution and I said that advisedly not in terms of bias because if your logic about being bias would also mean that the governor should resign from being a governor because he’s contesting for the office of the governor of course the Constitution allows him to stay in office even while he’s still contesting and still retain the apparatus of office.” “So whether or not he would resign is not on the basis of the likelihood of bias and the best even in corporate governance, if you’re a member of the board and a decision is to be taken that affects your issue that you have interest in, you will have to recuse yourself from that one. So it could well be possible that if he doesn’t resign, when decision is about to be taken in relation to Osun he may recuse himself from that, and of course even in areas where there are conflict of interest, there’s what we call the China wall in corporate practice whereby you separate your personal interest by making declaration and not participate in that decision but whether or not he would resign is not a political decision.” “It’s a legal question and I believe the governor would be availed of the best possible legal advice as to the nature and character of the office vis-à-vis the existing provision of the Constitution of the APC.” POLL Senator Bashiru also avoided attempt to be drawn into the Crisis of party chieftains in the state especially between the governor Oyetola and his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola, saying party issues should not be reduced to personality contest. “I will not reduce the issue of our party to issue of personality. Political parties are institutions of democracy and they are run on the basis of the structure of the political parties as well as the leaders of the party. Today, in the State of Osun, the highest hierarchy of our party is constituted in what is called Egbe Igbimo agba which is headed by no less person than the founding chairman of our party Baba Bisi Akande.” “And we also have former governors, deputy governors, members of national assembly, current and seasoned politicians in that club. We also have federal constituency structures in all the nine federal constituencies. We also have ward executives, local executives and unit executives. So, it’s about structures that win elections and not personality. So we believe that the existing structures of our party is such that the party that is really in existence today is the APC and I will give you statistics.” He maintained that APC is the party to beat rubbishing reported defections into the PDP. “There’s nothing like mass defection, in fact if there’s any movement, it is movement towards APC. From what is on ground today, objectively, and you can go and conduct Vox pop in the streets of Osun, the party to beat is APC and the aspirant that will get the mandate of APC is Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, no doubt about it.”