Pierre-Emerick Aubamayeng has been seen in an Arsenal shirt for the first time since he was removed from his post as club captain by manager Mikel Arteta. The 32-year-old is currently away on international duty with Gabon as they participate in the Africa Cup of Nations but has been pictured donning the Gunners home shirt while relaxing at the team hotel. Aubameyang was demoted from his status as captain of the club following his a disciplinary breach, as confirmed by a statement from the club at the time of the controversy last month. Ugandan Writer Charged Over Tweets Against Museveni, Son Gov Bello Felicitates Senate President, Lawan At 63 “Following his latest disciplinary breach last week, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang will no longer be our club captain, and will not be considered for selection for Wednesday’s match against West Ham United,” Arsenal’s statement read. “We expect all our players, particularly our captain, to work to the rules and standards we have all set and agreed.” As expected, Aubameyang was not selected for the home clash of West Ham but has not been seen in any of the many games that have taken place since. Arteta has kept his cards close to his chest over if and when Aubameyang will ever return to Arsenal’s first team insisting that he has simply ‘not been selected’ every time the Spaniard is asked about his former talisman. It must be noted that Arsenal have not only been fine in his absence but actually fared better in front of goal. POLL The likes of Gabriel Martinelli, Emile Smith Rowe, Martin Odegaard and Bukayo Saka have all stepped up while Aubameyang’s exile continues to ensure Arsenal’s top-four tilt remains alive and kicking. The Gabon skipper had only notched four Premier League goals this term and last found the net in late-October after he converted the rebound from a saved penalty at home to Aston Villa. The 32-year-old’s form in an Arsenal shirt has drastically declined since he penned a mega-money contract extension with the club in the summer of 2020. Arteta was desperate to keep Aubameyang at the club following his heroics months earlier that secured the Gunners their 14th FA Cup crown at an empty Wembley Stadium against Chelsea. Arsenal’s last league outing saw them suffer a last-gasp defeat at home to Manchester City but the standard of performance was enough to win over the Emirates faithful who applauded the players off at full-time. NSCDC Arrests Suspected Trafficker In Benue Amotekun Launches Manhunt For Herders Who Attacked Ondo… However, morale has been slightly damaged by Sunday night’s FA Cup third round defeat by Championship Nottingham Forest in a contest that saw the Gunners seemingly bereft of any attacking ideas. There is an argument to be made that Arsenal could have done with Aubameyang’s knack of finding space in a crowded penalty area at the City Ground while fellow strikers Eddie Nketiah and Alexandre Lacazette struggled.