In the final week of 2021, the signs were there that President Muhammadu Buhari’s New Year Day speech would not gladden hearts in the “poverty capital of the world” – Nigeria. Mr. President had already served notice that that speech wouldn’t cheer Nigerians. How? Oh, what do you think the main national news did to the psyche of Nigerians on Christmas Eve? While commenting on the discovery of oil in Bauchi state, Buhari said that: “Within the next 17 months, Nigerians should be able to judge what this administration has done under my leadership when we came in terms of security, the economy, and the most difficult one which is fighting corruption”. Only one week has elapsed since he gave that unfortunate speech. Ah, please don’t kick yourself if you didn’t notice the part that I quoted. You must have been fixated on the petrol he poured on the South-North divide fire: “Now oil has almost become irrelevant, but we thank God that oil is now discovered in Bauchi and Gombe and that will help to balance the politics of oil in the country.” So Long, 2021! To Be At Your Best In 2022 Balance the politics of oil? In what way would that uplift Nigeria? Had Buhari congratulated the people of Bornu state, long traumatized by the Boko Haram terrorists, because the expected oil revenue would speed up the healing of their infrastructural wounds, the statement would not have become incendiary. His inclusion of Bauchi state in that statement gave the impression that he was enthused that oil had been found in his own section of the country; the North. And to remove any ambiguity, he added that unfortunate part about balancing the “politics of oil” in the country. What really is the politics of oil? Was he happy that the North will now contribute more appreciably to the Nigerian commonwealth? Most commentators have not read it so. That speech exemplifies why the year 2021 was a huge waste. Yes, 12 whole months passed by and Nigeria has nothing to show for them. The divergent parts were at war with other parts. The most consequential law, the Petroleum Act, enacted in 2021 worsened the disunity. While a victorious North rejoiced, the defeated South mourned as though something of it had died. That presidential appearance in Bornu, was in itself, also wasted for Buhari came to the state to commission projects executed by the Governor. It was a chance to spit in the face of the Boko Haram insurgents by showing the world that despite the terrorism that has blanketed the state for years, development strides were still on. Unfortunately, Buhari turned his mind away from the terrorists that he promised to rout as he was campaigning to be elected President. Over six and half years into his administration, and with less than one and half years to go, the terrorists are still sitting pretty. Or did Buhari acknowledge that failure? No. Instead, in the only way that he and his APC political party will ever walk, he put on his administration the halo of success. Remember that he said: “Within the next 17 months, Nigerians should be able to judge what this administration has done under my leadership when we came in terms of security, the economy, and the most difficult one which is fighting corruption”. POLL If so, was he implying that Nigerians won’t be able to deliver credible judgment on his administration achievements until the next 17 months? Does a child in school not receive a report card to trace his learning acumen after every term or semester? Or does it not occur to Buhari that he was at first sworn in for a term of four years? If the populace had to wait till the end of the second tenure to judge his effectiveness as a leader, then on what basis was he re-elected? Then, the New Year arrived and the President who had said that Nigerians would judge his administration’s effectiveness after 17 months more, when (I assume) the results would be obvious, gave himself resounding marks. Worst of all, the President did not use the T word (terrorism) in his speech. He did not mention the killer herdsmen though he mentioned “insurgents and bandits”. If so, then why did he talk about insecurity nationwide? And to the millions of Nigerians whose faith in the ability of the national Police Force to check the nefarious activities of killer herdsmen, who are everywhere in Southern forests and act with impunity, Buhari gave nothing to believe in. Buhari’s address left off the relevant and supremely consequential question in the country; the to-be-or-not-to-be of state and community police. Move up a step from there and you will arrive at National Restructuring or True Federalism proper. Buhari gave no indication that such far-reaching changes would ever see the light of day. I know that some “I like master too much” kind of persons will be waxing strong in their inane argument that some people will never find anything good in Buhari, but please look at the following parts of the New Year Day address juxtaposed against the Bornu speech of December 24, 2001. Here we go: (From the New Year speech) “Just like I stated during the investment trips and fora that I have attended recently, the legislation is expected to serve as a liberalizing force in the energy industry, and we are optimistic that this law will provide the much-needed legal, governance, regulatory and fiscal framework for the development of the energy sector, the host communities, and Nigeria as a Nation. Yet, a week earlier he had said during his Bornu visit: “Now oil has almost become irrelevant, but we thank God that oil is now discovered in Bauchi and Gombe and that will help to balance the politics of oil in the country.” So, is oil so relevant that proceeds from it will raise Nigerian development? Really, what could have changed within a week to so critically transform the global oil sector? A Christmas Without Christmas Never Out Of Mind Maryam Babangida (1948-2009) Also, would anyone expect anybody to clap on hearing Buhari say on January 1, 2022: “Our objective to increase Liquefied Natural Gas exports and expand our domestic market is still very much at the forefront of some of the policies we would be pushing in the new year”? As he was speaking, the steep increase in the price of LNG used for cooking and industrial duties was constricting the use of LNG in Nigeria. And Buhari did not announce in his speech that he would revoke the 7.5% which his own administration had stamped on it recently. As he was painting rosy pictures of the economy. (“The major wins we have recorded can be clearly seen in Nigeria’s most recent Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The 4.03% growth recorded in the third quarter of 2021”, the 5.1% (year on year) growth in real terms recorded by Nigeria in Quarter 2 of 2021. The 5.1% growth at that time was and remains the highest growth recorded by the Nigerian economy since 2014”), families were battling with a new but terrible experience; starvation during Christmas and New Year celebrations. Buhari continued: “We have so far recorded four consecutive quarters of growth after the negative growth rates recorded in Quarter 2 and Quarter 3 of 2020 due to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic”. My comment: The reality on ground is dire; a runaway inflation has made the Naira almost worthless. Or what was the Naira-USD value in 2015 when Buhari became President and now? Has purchasing power increased or crashed? What was the price of a loaf of bread, toothpaste, a given weight of a tuber of yam, a bag of garri, rice or beans, onion, bitter kola, then and now? Which ailing industry has recovered in Nigeria, textile, auto assembly, timber, paper mills? Which? Buhari didn’t say so. In other countries leaders take unemployment indices serious. But it is missing from Buhari’s speech. Why? Sometimes, our leaders shame us. They appear ignorant of how well-being is measured. If Nigeria has a population of 200 million but produces 800 million barrels of oil per year, that comes to four barrels of oil per capita, or less than $200 for each Nigerian. Saudi Arabia produces over 130 barrels of oil per person, translating to $6, 000 per person. So, a President has to steer the economy in a direction that should earn more income (in real terms). The once booming agricultural and manufacturing sectors are dead. Nigeria is self-sufficient in nothing, paying a huge import bill yearly. Nigeria still imports refined petrol and Liquified Natural Gas less than a year and six months to Buhari’s exit from office. Not a single refinery is functional. The infrastructure is in tatters. The human resource is disdained and whacked by hunger, want, ill-health and nation-wide terrorism. India educated its people and turned a population problem into an opportunity, but Nigeria is burdened by an almajiri population. Nigeria levies the poor and gives tax breaks to the rich. The “2019 Poverty and Inequality in Nigeria” report placed 40 percent of Nigerians, (83 million people) below the poverty line of 137,430 naira ($381.75) per year. In 2004 World Bank President, Jim Yong Kim, said Nigeria was third in global poverty ranking while India was number one with 33 per cent of the world’s poor”. Now, under Buhari, Nigeria ranks NUMBER ONE! So, how will Buhari’s administration change our sorry poverty indices in less than two years? It took two decades for Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Ghana, and China to half the population living in extreme poverty. So, how can Buhari’s Nigeria do the same in 17 months? That’s why I rated 2022 as already lost. Restructuring, State Police, fighting inflation and the likes are not on the cards at all. We will import petrol and LNG in 2022. Unemployment will worsen and the government will remain unconcerned. This year, Nigeria will just be stumbling … as usual, deeper into foreign debts, hellish inflation, disunity, wanton crime, incendiary terrorism and insecurity. 2022 will be a lost year in Nigeria.