LAGOS  – The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET), Human and Environment Development Agenda (HEDA) Resource Centre, and OXFAM International, have warned that if Nigeria farmers continued to ignored reliable weather/climate information and services in the agric sector, the sector’s contribution to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will be severely food induced culminating into food austerity, hunger, food shortages and others. They raised the alarm that lack of reliable weather/climate information and services in Nigeria’s agric sector is posing prevalent risk to the attainment of food security and productivity in the country. Professor Mansur Bako Matazu, NiMET’s Director-General/Chief Executive Officer and Permanent Representative of Nigeria with the World Meteorological Organisation(WMO), while speaking during a One-day workshop on developing a feedback framework for Climate Information Service Delivery in Nigeria, said that already ongoing insecurity volatility has disrupted the country’s agricultural sector in terms of food system. How To Invest In Large Scale Cashew Nut For Export Don Calls For Upgrade Of Soil Database To Avoid Degradation He said the country can no longer afford local farmers to be losing fortunes to noncompliance to reliable weather/climate information and services in Nigeria’s agric sector. He commended the leadership of Human and Environment Development Agenda (HEDA) under the supervision of Arigbabu Sulaimon and the entire HEDA family for the impacts being recorded in the Agricultural value chain through the uptake of weather and climate information and their applications in promoting food security. The NIMET’s CEO stated that the Agency undertakes Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP) annually as part of its mandate to provide timely and reliable weather/ climate information and services to all weather sensitive sectors of the economy. Arigbabu while speaking with newsmen stated that the agric workshop was to develop a feedback framework for NiMET. “The whole idea is to see how our climate information services delivery in Nigeria in order to build resilient in our food system. We have gone round a few states and we have had town hall meetings with farmers, various stakeholders in agric sector, including the ADPs in States, States’ agriculture authorities, Local Governments agriculture authorities, research institutions, farmers, private sector. POLL “The whole idea is to see what their experiences are to having access to climate information services, especially being that that service by NiMET. “We realise that the capability of NiMET and this product that they have is not being optimally adopted and adapted to the agric sector in Nigeria because the information there is not getting to the farmers as at when due even though, we know NiMET is doing a lot in time of reaching out to local farmers as parts of its mandate to communicate effectively with local farmers.” According to him, “Many of our farmers’ complaints of losses here and there suffered because they don’t have access to the right information at the right time. “There is a huge gap in the utilisation of this service and you know that our agriculture is climate independent that is why we have many farmers who are unemployed for half of the year when we are not in season.”