Kenneth Anetor is a Co-founder of ‘A New Thing International Foundation’ a Non-Governmental Organisation. His experience in drug abuse was so devastating before he finally won the battle. Anetor had to attend two secondary schools and three different universities before he finally graduated abroad because of his involvement in drug addiction. However, in this interview with JIDE OYEKUNLE in Abuja, he speaks on drug abuse prevention in the schools’ environment, insisting that drug abuse is not a criminal offence but a public health challenge. He also advises that people should not stigmatise or label them as criminals when they come out of rehabilitation centers. Excerpts; Can you take us through your profile? I am the Co-founder and President of A New Thing International Foundation. Corruption, Greed Foremost Factors Responsible For Building… Why Esan Should Produce Next Edo Governor – Ibadin It was founded about six years ago. We are a youth focus social action group and it has grown to International organisation helping people, youths to divert and channel their energy from drug abuse, gender violence and other social vices toward growth self-discovery, development and unity. We believe youths are the future of the country so we have partnered with different agencies like office of the First Lady, National Drug Laws Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Man ‘O’ War. We have been trained by United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) on multiple projects in different geopolitical zones in Nigeria. We have carried out projects in Abuja, Niger, Kebbi, Ebony, Nassarawa and Imo states. We have been sharing booklets educating youths on dangers of drug abuse and importance of abstinence because youth are the future of the country. When you safe the youth then you safe the future. You launched an awareness campaign Drug Abuse in the School Environment (DASE) in Abuja recently. Can you give us insight on the event? Yes…on the 1st October 2021 in commemoration of Nigeria Independence Day, we gathered different stakeholders in Nigeria to flag off drug abuse in the school environment. It is a programme developed by A New Thing International Foundation in collaboration with NDLEA and support from United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). The programme was a huge success with support from different organisations such as: Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre, Inspector General of Police, Senate Committee on Narcotics, House of Representatives Committee on Narcotics, NDLEA and National Association of Proprietors of Private schools Abuja Chapter. The programme is targeted at secondary schools students and the educators have more roles to play because the teachers spend more time with these students and the aim is to train the teachers and equip them with right knowledge and materials. POLL We distributed booklets, curriculums, video materials and other information to organise an evidence-based school prevention programme. Is your awareness campaign targeting a particular region or the entire country? The campaign is for the whole of Nigeria. Right now, we have different representatives in different states and different vocal persons that are organising programmes in different states. We have (Mr. Yusuf) as a vocal person in Niger State. We have Mr. Isah in Kebi State. We have in Imo State. Very soon we are going to launch a programme in Sokoto State. Whenever we go for programmes we gather youths and relevant stakeholders together in the area such education, media, governance, art and entertainment. We give them necessary information about drug abuse and after the sensitisation, we pick ambassadors that can champion these programmes in their own areas and it now become a community-driven programme. We pick these vocal persons among the youths who we notice are passionate and interested in the programme and equip them with materials, booklets and uniforms and how to organise a cost-effective campaign. Nigeria’ll Reciprocate BASA Arrangements To The Letter – DG NCAA States That Diversified Their Economies Have Doubled Their… Are the youths who are into drugs ready to change their ways with this awareness campaign? By the grace of God, we always have an aspect of empowerment programmes in every state we have gone. I believe that Nigerians are very industrious. They just need opportunity. Most of them who are into drugs are bored. I must confess there was a time I was doing drugs before I received inspiration to talk to other people. If I could get out of drugs because I was deep in it then I believe there is nobody that cannot come out. Everybody just needs an opportunity and we are part of the people in the value chain of intervention providing those opportunities. The truth is that we need more partners, we need more people that will take up the aspect of sponsoring rehabilitation. We need more government officials that are going to wake up and work on better policies that will stop the flow of drugs across the states. We need officials that will control and regulate the use of prescription pills and evidence-based policies in treating people that are convicted on gruesome related offences. These people are not criminals. These people are victims because drug abuse or drug use disorder is a chronic relapsing brain disease in which the person continues to go after drug of choice. It is beyond his will or mind. He is a slave captured by that thing. It is a disease. Other chronic and relapsing diseases and disorders are like asthma. When I say relapsing it means you can treat completely but three years later it can spring up again. We need media and community leaders for awareness so that there can be better reintegration of people that have used drugs before. So that people don’t look at them after they come out of those rehab centers as criminals. We need to drive the message that drug abuse is not a criminal offence; it is a public health challenge and we need to address it together. Can you give us the total number of those who have been rehabilitated so far? The truth of the matter is that is a long list of stakeholders. There are different levels of interventions. We have ‘The Prevention’ where someone must talk to people not to go into drugs. There must be someone who talks about rehabilitation and there must be a person that go into media because media has a role to play to let people know about the danger of drug abuse. The government has a role to play by putting policies in place that can stop drugs from coming into country and arrest drug barons. At this point we focus on prevention and that is our major intervention and we talk to people. We have sister organisations that are into rehabilitation so we do referral services on daily basis. Rehabilitation is costly and they are of different types. We have residential, rehabilitation, outpatients programme and counseling services. But we major on prevention and we refer people to our sister organisations that have facilities and professionals in rehabilitation. They don’t go around doing sensitization. They only work on patients. At this point, the number are so many. I can’t talk about people we have referred and how many people that are getting treatments or that have been treated and came out. The impact is enormous and if we are not making a good impact, we will not be here. Did you train teachers on the ways and methods in which students sneak in drugs into the school? We have different programmes that we run. There is a programme called ‘Tips’. It is meant for a mixed crowd and meant to inform them generally about the dangers of drug abuse. We have ‘DASE’ Drug Abuse in School Environment which is meant for educators, owners of schools and stakeholders. We have a chapter called ‘Loopholes ‘ through which drugs get into schools. In that programme, we sensitise them on different ways people sneak in things into schools. There are a lot of youths working in our organisation. Most of us have experience with this thing. We are able to adequately advise, correct and inform the older generation on strategies and methodologies for them to have drug free school. Can you tell us briefly about your experience when you are into drugs? Because of challenges in using drugs, I attended two secondary schools and three different universities before I finally graduated abroad. I couldn’t focus on my education because I associated with the wrong people but I thank God that I got this vision. When God told me about this, that I should go out and talk to people because people need help concerning this, it made me know that God had a plan for my life.