ABUJA – The Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led APC Reconciliation Committee has advised factional All Progressives Congress leaders in Enugu State to focus on building bridges in their effort to sustain the growth of the party in the state instead of the present blame game. The Senator gave the admonition when he made disparate leaders of the party including Senator Ken Nnamani, former governor Sullivan Chime, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, VON DG Osita Okechukwu and others while trying to resolve the crisis rocking the party in the state. Okechukwu who gave the hint explained that the committee is doing a lot to reposition APC for the 2023 electoral victory, noting that their meeting with the reconciliation Committee gave him the confidence to be hopeful. 2023 Presidency: Constitution Doesn’t Support Zoning, Says… Illegal Admissions: Adamu Talks Tough, Says Stiffer Penalties… Mr Okechukwu the decision to set up the reconciliation committee was one of the sterling achievements of the Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) led by Governor Mai Mala Buni, adding that Senator Adamu-led Reconciliation committee has been going about their responsibilities with uncommon insight, purpose and empathy. He stated: “I will not be mistaken if one calls the Reconciliation Committee the nine wise men, because they are generating germane responses and inputs that would help in strengthening our great party and turning it into a formidable national political movement on the eve of 2023 general elections. “The committee yes has some challenges, nonetheless has recorded tremendous success that would position our great party for 2023 general elections. I think with this reconciliation move, APC is becoming the party the founding fathers envisioned and it is a thing of joy that the CECPC selected such caliber of persons to perform this onerous task.” On reports about setbacks suffered by the committee in some states, Okechukwu, who is also the Director General of Voice of Nigeria (DG, VON), said: “Nobody expected the crisis dogging over 15 state chapters to be settled at once. All I know is that Senator Adamu’s Committee has so far recorded huge successes in the South East, North West, North East, South West and South-South. Yes, there are unresolved issues in states like Osun, Kwara and Adamawa, but my understanding is that reconciliation is a work in progress.” The APC chieftain disclosed that he participated in the meeting for reconciliation of the three factions or tendencies in his home state, Enugu, remarking, “One was impressed with how diligent and painstaking Senator Adamu and his team grilled us. That one can say today that we are rebuilding APC Enugu State Chapter with Senator Ken Nnamani, former Governor Sulivan Chime and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, which was mangled by the congresses.” POLL “It must be noted that the Committee rebuked us for playing blame games instead of building bridges for victory in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. Today, we are almost united, as we are harmonising at the ward, local government and state levels. We hope before the end of this week, APC Enugu State chapter will reunite as one family.” Okechukwu expressed optimism that Abia, Gombe, Akwa Ibom and other states would comply with the advisory template of the Senator Adamu’s Committee. His words: “Based on what I have witnessed, the Senator Adamu Committee will reconcile all the prolonged crisis in the state chapters, which contributed to the delays in holding the party’s national convention.”