ABUJA – Salihu Mohd Lukman former Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) has again warned leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that the party is fast drifting and exposing a damaged credential as a party of change. He reminisced in an opinion article that it was the intolerant disposition of leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that compelled the formation of the APC by the legacy parties in 2013/14, regretting that the APC has regressed to now showcase the same attribute. Lukman said the situation has degenerated so much it is difficult to associate APC with its founding vision, adding that APC leaders and elected representatives are now so intolerant of criticism while expecting members to follow them blindly. Fight For APC Redemption Has Just Started– Vows Lukman PGF DG Lauds NASS, CSOs On Electronic Transmission Of Election… Worst still, he noted that even when resolutions are reached through consultations,it is never implemented saying the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC has been a major culprit in the latter case. “Over time, this has damaged the profile of the APC to the point whereby, based on the conduct of leaders and some elected representatives of the party, it is difficult to associate the APC with its founding vision of change. “Problems of intolerance to disagreements and criticisms, with some leaders expecting members to be blindly loyal is becoming a common attribute. Views of party leaders become dominantly decisions of party organs. “Even when consultations take place and there is a clear decision, so long as the decisions are not what some few party leaders want, those decisions will not be implemented. It doesn’t matter whether President Buhari was part of the consultations and in agreement with the decision. ” Propensity to disrespect decisions and party leaders, including the President, is very high today in APC. This reality is very disturbing. APC today, wasn’t the APC of the period 2013 to 2015.” he cried. POLL According to the former PGF DG, the APC is being “held captive by some few leaders whose interest is only about imposing themselves as candidates for elections. So long as that is the case, it means what we have as APC today wasn’t the party negotiated and produced out of our legacy parties. “Rather than the envisioned party, which allows for internal debates and disagreements among party leaders and members, based on which there could be negotiations and agreements. “APC today has been diminished to only an election platform, which is what the founding leaders and members wanted to change. The commitment to change the profile of political parties beyond being election platforms was precisely part of why Nigerians supported the APC in 2015”. He has therefore urged all founding leaders and members of the APC must rise to the challenge of arresting the drift in the party saying that a few individual leaders of the party “must not be allowed to continue to impose themselves and destroy a party with the potential to provide the needed democratic platform for negotiated resolutions of all the problems of Nigeria”. Ahead of the February 26 National Convention of the party, Lukman said the next Chairman of APC must among be a founding member of the party and this boasts other things of the institutional history of the party with a firm commitment to return to its vision as a party of change. Convention: Lukman Tasks Incoming APC Leadership On Electronic… Failure Rating: Lukman Tackles Jega, Says Only PDP Failed “This means such a person would have the needed institutional memory to recognise and respect sacrifices made by party leaders and members to make the merger that produce the APC successful. “It should be a strong disadvantage when any aspiring candidate has records of defection from the party or any of the legacy parties that merged to form the APC”, he said, adding that any aspirant that has a record of defections ought not to aspire for the national Chairman. ” Any candidate with public service experience at whatever level without incontestable records of achievements, such a person cannot inspire any party member and by extension Nigerians into believing that his/her leadership can bring any good electoral fortune for the party”. Lukman stressed:“It is important to once more appeal to APC leaders to ensure that February 26, 2022, National Convention is not just about electing National Working Committee (NWC) members. There must be some reflections about the challenges facing the country, with a priority focus on problems of insecurity, rebuilding public education and health through mosilisation of massive financial investment in these sectors. “Conclusions and recommendations from the Convention should guide the review process of the party’s manifesto and bring out some of the campaign agenda of the APC for the 2023 campaigns. A major indicator for this would also include a review of the APC manifesto at the Convention. “The campaign to return APC to its founding vision must have strong expression and resonance at the February 26, 2022, National Convention. The current drift, which is systematically destroying the APC must be arrested based on all the outcomes of the National Convention. Any leader working to undermine the National Convention should be sanctioned. ” Party members need to appeal to party leaders at all levels to return APC to its founding vision, which encourages internal debates and negotiations based on which agreements are reached and respected. APC, being a party of change, encourages members to be critical. A party of change must promote internal debates. Leaders of the party should not expect ‘anticipatory obedience’ from members and Nigerians. That is the APC founded on the sacrifices of leaders and members of our old legacy parties, it is the APC that February 26, 2022, National Convention must return to.