ABUJA – The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), through its subsidiary, the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (NCAIR), and in partnership with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), is set to launch iHatch, a startup incubation programme aimed at increasing the number of innovation-driven enterprises by Nigerian youths. A statement on Thursday by Mrs. Hadiza Umar, Head, Corporate Affairs and External Relations, NITDA, explained that the incubation programme would provide an excellent opportunity for startups that have innovative business ideas along with a prototype of their products or services. Umar said iHatch is a five-month free intensive incubation programme designed to help Nigerian entrepreneurs perfect their business ideas through a series of coaching, lectures, and boot camps, to generate viable and scalable business models. Asus Unveils ZenBook 14X OLED Space Edition To Nigerian Market Apple Becomes First Company To Hit $3trn Market Value “iHatch focuses on youth, innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology. “Participating startups will receive free offline and online interactive training from experienced coaches and mentors from over the world. “Other benefits include free co-working space for the duration of the programme and investment opportunities. “iHatch seeks to establish a programme that will accelerate the process of taking ideas to impact, hence providing the much-needed jobs for our teeming youths, and also nurturing that entrepreneurial spirit in them, which will catalyse the Nigerian digital economy to the next level,” the statement quoted Malam Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, the Director-General/Chief Executive Officer of NITDA, as saying. It would be recalled that the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (NCAIR) is one of NITDA’s special purpose vehicles created to promote research and development on emerging technologies and their practical application in areas of Nigerian national interest. POLL NCAIR is also focused on creating a thriving ecosystem for innovation-driven entrepreneurship (IDE), job creation, and national development.