LAGOS  – The internal crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over the February 2022 convention is growing from bad to worse as some members have dragged the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) before a Federal High Court in Abuja. Analysts believe that the party’s future has been left in uncertainty. Almost two months after the party announced February as the date for its national convention, no concrete programme of action has been mentioned. Some members of the party have persistently mounted pressure on the Buni-led committee not to shift the February date for the convention. A group within the party, the National Progressive Hub, in a recent statement by its National Secretary, Mohammed Shehu, commended the caretaker committee, especially on the reconciliatory mechanism put in place to resolve all aggrieved issues. Shehu stressed the need to put in place an elected national working committee to set the party on the path of greater achievement. Tinubu Is Preferable To Osinbajo As Presidential Candidate –… APC Has A Lot To Learn From PDP – Adoji The group said the party’s constitution clearly stipulated the processes for putting in place the national working committee. It said: “We, as a support group, are calling on the party leadership to strictly adhere to the party constitution. We must not offend the rules and laws that govern tenure of office in the party and set examples for others to emulate. “For the sake of credibility, transparency and to remain relevant, we are in total support of our sister group, the Progressives Youth Movement, to call for the Buni-led committee to convey the convention before it is too late. We want to advise our leaders in APC to please stick to their promise.” The group said the major task before the caretaker committee is to conduct the national convention, which must be pursued with all vigour and seriousness it deserves. “We appeal to the members of Buni-led caretaker committee to resist further temptation to postpone the national convention in the interest of larger party members,” it said. POLL February Convention: To Be Or Not To Be Stakeholders in the party recently kicked against the proposal by one of the leaders of the party, Senator Orji Kalu, for the postponement of the national convention of the party. Kalu had, in a recent letter to the Chairman of the CECPC, called for the postponement of the party’s convention in order to reconcile aggrieved members in some state chapters of the party riddled with crises. He also suggested that the convention and the presidential primary should be held the same day. But the Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Dr. Salihu Lukman, in a letter dated December 16, 2020, and addressed to Buni, warned that the chairman would be strengthening political opposition if he refused to hold the convention in February. While warning that the 2019 Zamfara experience may repeat itself if the needful are not done, Lukman said postponing the convention was detrimental to the party and could jeopardise its chances ahead of the 2023 elections. According to him, “It is very difficult to excuse the CECPC from the campaign to postpone the February Convention. If the CECPC is not interested in the postponement of the Convention from the agreed February 2022 date, why is it difficult to make a formal announcement about the date and venue of the Convention? “Statutorily, by the requirement of the Electoral Act, the party is expected to serve at least 21 days’ notice of the Convention to INEC. Which basically means that if the Convention is to hold any day before February 28, 2021, the notice to INEC should be given on or before February 7, 2022. That being the case, the temptation could be to argue that there is more time. Some reminders would be necessary at this point. AFCON: Atiku Hails Super Eagles Over Sudan Defeat Tinubu Pays Condolence Visit To Makinde Over  Olubadan, Soun,… “Once that is the case, we would have succeeded in making the 2019 Zamfara electoral disaster a national phenomenon in 2023. Is that what the CECPC members under the leadership of His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni want to subject the party to?” The letter warned Governor Mai Mala Buni not to allow all his good work as CECPC be destroyed. “With the emergence of the CECPC in June 2020, His Excellency Mai Mala has done an excellent job by bringing down tension within the party. Sadly, all the good work of the CECPC under His Excellency Mai Mala is about to be destroyed once it yields to the temptation of staying longer than February 2022.” While calling on APC leaders to wake up to the responsibility of providing the needed political leadership to the country, Lukman said: “No one should imagine that agendas set in 2014 or 2019 are sufficient to respond to contemporary challenges, which post 2023 governance will be expected to respond to. If anything, it may also be important to emphasise the fact that to respond to contemporary challenges facing the country would require massive investment in human capital development in the country. “This will call for a deliberate and aggressive policy to mobilise large scale public investment to rebuild public schools at all levels. The correlation between the collapse of education since the mid-1980s, rising levels of unemployment and insecurity are very glaring. As a party, we must come up with practically convincing answers, which should form the basis of public support by Nigerians to guarantee victory in the 2023 elections. “The burden of responsibility to strengthen the capacity of the APC to put itself in a vantage position to commence internal negotiation around all these issues is on the CECPC, especially, the Chairman, His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni. “Inability to discharge this responsibility or avoid it by toying the path of a deceptive campaign for postponement of Convention can only spell doom for the APC and return Nigeria to the hands of those who laid the foundation for all the challenges facing the country. “By way of an appeal to APC leaders, as much as the question of who emerges as the candidate of the party is very important, it is not only who emerges as a candidate of the party that can win the election. But how united are party leaders behind the candidate will be a more determining factor. President Buhari, with all his mass support in the Northern part of the country, may not have won the election in 2015 without the unity of all APC leaders from every part of the country. All APC leaders must be reminded that, there is no one political leader in the country that enjoys convincing mass support of any region of the country.” Dapo Okubanjo, an aide to one of the chairmanship aspirants, Mallam Saliu Mustapha, said Kalu’s call for a postponement of the convention was unacceptable, stating that it was doubtful that anyone who meant well for APC would back such a call. While noting that postponing the convention would create more problems within the party, Okubanjo said, “What Kalu said is unacceptable and unnecessary because it could create more problems for the party. Aside from us, every other aspirant is stepping up their bid for the position based on President Buhari’s endorsement of February for the convention. “So, it is doubtful that anyone, who means well for APC will back that position. Kalu may have his personal reasons but it will be difficult to agree to that move.” Simon Shango, Campaign Coordinator for the Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume, also said there were rules and laws governing the establishment of APC as a party. Shango, who explained that there must be a period that was allowed for a tenure of a particular executive of a party, said, “I believe by February, the people are conscious that the term will end by that time. So, if we go outside that time, what you are doing is that you are offending the rules and laws that govern tenure of office in the party. “Whoever calls for the postponement, I have not read it but I don’t think it is practicable. So, I cannot talk about what will happen. I don’t think it is practicable,” he said. A group of concerned APC stakeholders equally warned that the leadership of the ruling party must do everything to hold the party’s national convention slated for February 2022. Spokesman of the group, Abdullahi Dauda, in a statement, said Kalu was not a member of the party when it was formed and had no right to say convention should not be held, and therefore called on President Muhammadu Buhari to call the Buni committee to order, saying it would resist any attempt to postpone the convention. The group insisted that the major task before the Caretaker Committee as of today was the conduct of the national convention and must be pursued with all vigour and seriousness it deserves. “We appeal to members of the Caretaker Committee to resist further temptation to postpone the national convention in the interest of larger party members. We equally appeal to Mr. President, to call the caretaker to order before it is too late. “Kalu has PDP to fall back on if the court gives judgment against the actions of Buni-led caretaker in the future while we don’t have where to go, because APC is all we have. Therefore, other caretaker members should rise and save the party before it is too late. “It is our hope and belief that the Caretaker Committee will not employ any delay tactics that will result in the need to further postpone the national convention from the February 2022 date as it has done in the past, where its six months mandate has extended to almost one and half years.” Seeking Time To Put House In Order While stakeholders within the party keep mounting pressure on the CECPC not to postpone the convention, five aggrieved chieftains have approached the Federal High Court in Abuja for an injunction to stop the party from going ahead to conduct its planned national convention. The Plaintiffs- Suleiman Dimas Usman, Muhammed Shehu, Samaila Isahaka, Idris Isah and Audu Emmanuel- told the court that they are members of the party in Zamfara state and the Federal Capital Territory. They told the court that the Buni-led CECPC was planning to hold a national convention despite the fact that some states, including Anambra and Zamfara, are without state executives. In an affidavit they attached in support of the suit, the Plaintiffs, told the court that the party had on October 16, 2020, conducted congresses in only 34 states for the purpose of electing executive committees for the states, adding that no congress was held in both Zamfara and Anambra states, thereby leaving the two states without executives. The plaintiffs contended that since both the Constitution of the party and the Electoral Act stipulated that state executives are the ones to vote during national congress, the two states without executive committee members would be disenfranchised and denied the right to participate, should the party proceed to conduct its planned national convention in February. Besides, they argued that many members of the party had gone to court to challenge the outcome of congresses held in the 34 states, on grounds of irregularity and non-compliance with the party’s constitution and the Electoral Act. Cited as Defendants in the suit dated January 4 and marked FHC/ABJ/CS/3/2022, are the APC, the Chairman, All Progressives Congress’ Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, as well as the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. The Plaintiffs, through their lawyer, Olusola Ojo, are among other things, praying the court to determine, “Whether having regard to sections 40 and 224 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, Article 20 of the Constitution of the APC, the 1st and 2nd Defendants can validly organise and conduct a national convention of the 1st Defendant pursuant to section 85(3) of the Electoral Act 2010, as amended, without first conducting state congresses of the 1st Defendant in all the 36 states of the Federation and therein want an order, restraining the 1st and 2nd Defendants from organizing and conducting the national convention of the 1st Defendant, unless state congresses of the 1st Defendant are first concluded in all the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. “An order directing the 1st and 2nd Defendants to first conduct state congresses of the 1st Defendant in Anambra state and Zamfara state before the national convention of the 1st Defendant can be scheduled and conducted”. As well as, “An order of this Honourable Court restraining the 3rd Defendant from giving approval/effect to any action of the 1st and 2nd Defendants to organize and conduct national convention of the 1st Defendant, unless state congresses of the 1st Defendant are first conducted/ concluded in ALL the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. Optimism Remains Despite Apprehension With only a few weeks to the February date, the CECPC is yet to announce the timetable for activities leading to the convention. This has led to the insinuation that the February date for the convention may be unrealistic. However, some chieftains of the party have expressed confidence that there is no cause for alarm, insisting that the February date is realistic. Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, said there was no cause for alarm, adding that the February date was realistic. “To be honest, there is no cause for alarm as far as the fixed February date for our national convention is concerned. There is a limit to shifting the date, as all of us are aware that 2022 is the eve of the 2023 general election and year of primaries. “Don’t forget that every disappointment is a blessing. In spite of the controversy over the 2010 Electoral Act Amendment Bill, electronic transmission of results is retained. For instance, the Anambra State governorship election has made it clear to any political party leadership that if you don’t put your house in order, the electorate will do it for you,” Okechukwu said. Another chieftain of the party, Donatus Okereke, strongly believes that the party has the capacity to put its house in order. According to him, APC which controls 22 states out of 36 states, apart from having solid grassroots structures nationwide, has a track record of being a responsible political party that adheres strictly to rules and regulations. “We, as the ruling party and a political party with responsible structures, do not possess the luxury of impunity like PDP that went into its convention on the back of abuse of set constitutional procedural steps. “It must be recalled that political processes that lead to a political party and its national convention are virtually fixed and the same for all political parties in the country. “The processes demand that the party, in succession, before the national convention, undertakes its Ward and LGAs congresses, States congresses, Zonal convention. “The party is expected to identify and collate the list of its delegates to the national convention from these congresses and mini conventions, before it proceeds to its substantive convention. “Our party, APC as a responsible political organisation has in the past proven that it is only guided by its rule book and would do the same again, even now, and verily in the future in perpetuity.” Charting Way Forward On Tuesday, some stakeholders of the party converged on Abuja, the nation’s capital, to chat a way forward for the party. While delivering a keynote address at the meeting, Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), kicked against zoning of party offices, saying, “I do not believe in the zoning put in place by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the years, what I will call ‘blind trust’. “Give people responsibility based on trust and that will not take us anywhere. I think it is high time we started raising issues and with due respect to people who are aspiring for the position of National Chairman, I know virtually all of them, they know what to do. “My preference would be that leaders have to sit down and look at members they have across the country. I tell you there are five critical positions from our last experience. We need to be very clear about that. The two Deputy National Chairmen, any one of them has to be ready to assume the position of National Chairman. The National Secretary is very fundamental. We need a competent Secretary, because without a competent Secretary, the bureaucracy of the party will be weak. “The Legal Adviser is very delicate. He must be competent. If you don’t take time, courts will be running affairs of the party. So, if you have a very strong Legal Adviser, the party will be protected. The National Organizing Secretary has to be great at negotiating the candidates’ selection process. “National Publicity Secretary is about communication. Now, if you ask me and I have written severally about it, what is our greatest weakness as a party and as a government, I would say it is that our communication is almost zero. What is going on today is that the PDP is having a voice because we are not communicating. They will tell us we are corrupt. These are people who took $2.1 billion and shared amongst themselves and they are now having a voice. “Throughout their tenure and the problem of insecurity, we are having to ask them how much investment they made in terms of equipment and personnel. We need a Publicity Secretary that will be very active in communicating the vision and all the initiatives the party is taking. “Therefore, we must appeal to our leaders, instead of doing this blind approach to zoning, search for very competent people. Part of the problem where it is almost impossible is because of the fundamental issue; our leaders want people who are loyal to them that can guarantee their emergence as candidates at different levels. But we need to remind our leaders that experiences from 1999 to date have indicated that such a system never guarantees political safety.” A national chairmanship aspirant of the party, Saliu Mustapha, who also spoke at the meeting, expressed optimism that the convention would be held in February. “Like you all know and I am sure you are well-informed about the meetings that are going on in the party. Definitely the convention will hold but you must allow those who have been saddled with the responsibility to come up with the most appropriate time which I believe they hinted before that it will be in February. “I believe they are putting final and finishing touches to the mode and conduct and the date that will be chosen. So, for me, it is still work in progress and we must give them that necessary support and give them that benefit of the doubt to help us to have a very successful convention. “We will be doing things differently. As one of those that is aspiring to be the National Chairman, I hope if given the opportunity, it will be the opportunity to show that there is a reward system that can be very beneficial and can be very befitting to those who labour for it”, he added. Another national chairmanship aspirant of the party, Muhammed Sani Musa, cautioned the APC against allowing a return to the PDP era. “As we approach another election, we must ensure that we do not allow our country to slide back to the era of corruption and unfocused governance we witnessed during the PDP era. We must continue to build on those APC legacies. It is for this reason that I am presenting myself as a candidate that can position our party, the APC, to achieve the electoral and political atmosphere necessary to ensure that we consolidate and accelerate our socio-economic transformation,” he stated. The failure of the party leaders to agree on a convention date may not only hurt the party’s ability to prepare for it, it may also deepen existing cracks in the wall of the party, and the implication is that it could go into 2023 in bits and pieces.