LAGOS – Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, former chairman of Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG) has said that the launch of the rice pyramid by President Muhammadu Buhari is a show and another way of wasting the government’s resources.  Ohuabunwa who is also a presidential hopeful has on African Independent Television (AIT) on Wednesday stated that the government by its action was making a show, stressing that the measurement of the availability of any commodity is its ability to be sold at a price that people are comfortable with. “The law of economics says that demand and supply will fix a price. Today prices are still high so I don’t see how this show comforts me. The show will comfort me if I go to the market and the rice that used to sell for N32,000 now sells for N20,000. “The people cannot buy rice and you went and brought padding. Do you know the cost of transporting these paddings to wherever they were brought from? The cost can buy rice for a lot of people,” he said. The entrepreneur turned politician said that the show is another way of inefficient waste of resources because the cost of transporting the paddings can set up an industry. He said, “It is a contracted cost and it is going to be inflated because anything done on contract in Nigeria is usually inflated. Can you imagine that a country that doesn’t have resources and is borrowing both locally and internationally is using the same money to do that kind of thing? “If the government is in a hurry to advertise its successes, then someone should tell them that we are not fools. They shouldn’t show us things that will make people angrier. The cost of doing that show will buy rice for the whole of Abuja community,” Ohuabunwa said. He added, “If we have done well in rice production let it reflect in the price of rice, the price of yam, garri, millet, sorghum, let it reflect in the market that is where the change will show.” Reflecting on the President’s advice to Nigerians to go back to the land, to improve agricultural production, he said, “We can go back to the land if we are guaranteed safety. If people are going to land and they are being kidnapped and killed and you sit in the comfort of your house and office and you tell others to go to the land. POLL “How will anyone listen to that preaching even if you make it from the altar of the Church or the Mosque? Only very few people will go and those who will go are those who have no choice because the first need of a human being is the safety of life and that safety must be guaranteed. The Nigerian government has consistently shown that it is failing to protect the people of Nigeria,” he said.