Hon. Dayo Ogungbenro is the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State. In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, the PDP chieftain revealed some of the achievements of Governor Seyi Makinde in the state. He also shed light on how the governor is making efforts to bring all the aggrieved members of the party under one umbrella. Excerpts: Can you assess the administration of Engr. Seyi Makinde as the governor of Oyo State in the last two years? Let me remind you that there is no historian without his or her bias. So, I will not be too biased. I am the state chairman of the PDP and whether you believe me or not, but you have to, because the issues you have raised in your question are very fundamental to the people of Oyo State. Whether anybody likes it or not, the consensus opinion is that Engr. Seyi Makinde is performing. In fact, his performances have become a benchmark through which good governance is being measured. And I want to say that is done throughout the country today. Delta Monarch Commends Okowa, Offers Scholarship To 48 Students 2023 Governorship Race: Enugu East Insists On Ticket Can you go into some specifics? Let us draw a corollary between the present government and the last administration in the state. We had eight years of an administration and we are close to three years of this administration. You can do a comparative analysis and you can see the difference for yourself. An average Oyo State indigene can see it for themselves that they have never had it so good. If you go to education, health, agriculture and infrastructures, you must have seen the difference. I was with the governor on Saturday where we flagged off the LAUTECH Faculty of Agriculture in Iseyin. I was there and he said it publicly that when he said he would fix the Iseyin-Moniya Road, people said it was just a film. But now, he has fixed it. They have commenced work on Iseyin-Oyo Road. In fact, he said it publicly that the contractor promised him that by December 25, they must have done the asphaltic tarring of at least 10 kilometers out of the 34-kilometer road. And he has even opened up Iseyin-Ogbomoso road, same with Saki. There was a time when the Governor went to Saki and people started pleading that he should please fix the road because of heavy dust. He said “what are your women doing? Let them fetch water first thing in the morning and pour it on the road so that there would not be dust.” But the road has been fixed already. Apart from that, Saki-Ogbooro-Igboho Road is being fixed. We have never had it so good in the state. Think of it: in health, in education, and the rest of it, we have never had it so good, political sentiment apart. And what do you want to say about payment of salary as at and when due when in the past, workers were being owed six to eight months of salary? Seyi Makinde has never owed a month’s salary since he came on board. In spite of all these, some sections of the party who are aggrieved are still claiming that the governor has done nothing. What do you have to say to that? It is mere politicking and a gimmick to call a dog a bad name in order to hang it. Politics is service to the people and not for personal aggrandizement. It is not how much comes to Dayo Ogungbenro’s purse; that is what they call politics. It is a service to the average Oyo State people. The average Oyo people is enjoying the government of Seyi Makinde and that is the reality on ground, whether anybody likes it or not. Part of the grouse of the aggrieved members is that they are not being treated well after they went into alliance that produced the governor. POLL Being treated well is relative. If I say, I, Dayo Ogungbenro, is not being treated well, Akeem Olatunji might be treated well. The issue is that the Governor is performing wonders in the state today. And you know in this issue of appointment, it will come one after the other. That is natural. So, the fact that somebody has not been appointed and what he wants has not been got at a particular material time, does not say the government is not performing. No, that is not the interpretation. We have spent close to three years now in this tenure, and all things being equal. If the yardstick is performance, whether any leader likes it or not, the average Oyo State indigene is yearning for another four-year term. The popular saying now is 4 plus 4, equals eight because of good performances. And you will see that the governor is not shying away from the fact that there is a problem. He has said publicly that he will still address this issue of the so-called aggrieved people, and it has to be one after the other. As a sitting governor, Seyi Makinde is not to be treated like a candidate seeking election. I even repeated it that when Dr. Bukola Saraki led the national reconciliation committee to Oyo State, both the so-called aggrieved people and those of us that are not aggrieved met him and he said: “We shall appeal to Mr. Governor.” There is a need for respect for that exalted office. You don’t lord it over a sitting governor even if you want something. It is not done anywhere and it is unconventional, too. As the 2023 general elections are approaching, don’t you think it is high time the governor mustered enough efforts to ensure those who might want to thwart his second term as you said are brought peacefully to the PDP fold? That is being done. The governor will seize any opportunity to tell the public that he is still working on them. He said it during a meeting with stakeholders that he is still meeting with aggrieved people, and that is going to be a continuous process. We have just concluded a state working committee meeting and everybody has been charged to go to our different districts and constituencies and talk to these people. They should come back on board. Our umbrella is large enough to accommodate everybody and so everybody should come in, and the governor will be magnanimous enough to accommodate everybody irrespective of what has happened before. It is all politics. What are some of the development projects that the people of Oyo State will enjoy before 2023? Everything cannot be done at the same time. Others are in the offing. But with the way the government started, you can see the handwriting on the wall that this governor will perform wonders. The issue of Circular Road is there. The issue of agric business is there. You can see how he sent people to Nasarawa State to go and understudy the state. You can see the revolution ongoing in the health sector too. And he has said that he wanted Oyo state to be the first destination for foreign investors and that is why he is doing all these. Between this term and the next term, by the grace of God, people of Oyo State will know that something has happened to them in a positive way. When we were are in Iseyin, he said that what he wanted to achieve is that at a point there won’t be any area of Oyo state that is not linked to each other. From analysis, if Iseyin is being linked to Oyo; Oyo-Iseyin Road has been abandoned for decades by the Federal Authority. If that is done now, there won’t be any travel delay again. I am from Otu and we used to spend close to three hours from Ibadan to Otu in those days. With one and a half hours now, and I am in Otu. Look at Saki-Ogbooro-Igboho Road. The moment all these are done, then to go round this state may not even take up to two hours again. And the average farmers will be happy. The average trader will be happy. I can work in Ibadan and sleep in Otu, and within one hour, I am already on my seat here. That has never happened to us in this state before. My candid advice to these so-called aggrieved people is that they should come back to the fold and iron things out with His Excellency since he is the listening type and he is ready to listen to anybody. And you know, this type of thing is a continuous process. But unfortunately, some people might have made up their mind that we just have to say this; we just have to say that and do that. But that cannot take the fact from His Excellency that he is a performing governor. And like I told you, his performances have become a benchmark through which governance is being measured in this country today. Allowing Terrorists Mount Roadblocks Amount To Having Two… Sports Minister Mourns Olubadan’s Passing In essence, are you saying that there are no parallel executives in Oyo State PDP despite the hue and cry from the aggrieved members? The fact remains that there are procedures and hurdles to pass before becoming a member of exco in any state. You have to obtain form and show interest. You will go through screening to know whether you are qualified to stand for election or you are not. Then you present yourself for election proper. These people collected forms but they didn’t come for screening. Repeatedly, they were called, then two of them came to see things for themselves. But in their own volition, they went away. So, there was no way they could present themselves for election. They are just behaving like jesters for going to another place to claim they had an election. A place was already recognised by law for the purpose of that congress. So, legally, constitutionally, and morally, there is nothing like parallel exco in Oyo PDP.