Motorists on Lagos roads have been facing harrowing experience in their attempts to renew their vehicle pa­pers, especially the roadwor­thiness certification, since January 1, 2022, when the state government came up with a new policy of ‘no test, no road­worthiness certificate’ on vehi­cle documents renewal. But Mrs. Bolanle Ogunlola, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, said that more vehicle inspection cen­tres would be unveiled before the end of second quarter of 2022, while the government also intends to partner with private investors to further enhance its capacity and make the policy less cumbersome to motorists. Recent statistics indicated that there are no fewer than six million vehicles registered and plying the Lagos roads an­nually with a bulk of them as commercial vehicles. 2023: I’ll Rather Return Home Than Join APC – Senator… NURTW Clashes: Bode George Blames Sanwo-Olu, Says Lagos Island… The Lagos State govern­ment had on January 1, 2022, commenced the compulsory physical inspection of all ve­hicles before the issuance of roadworthiness certificates in the state. Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, La­gos State’s Commissioner for Transportation, had said that motorists would have to pres­ent their vehicles for physical inspection at any of the des­ignated computerised vehicle inspection centres across the state before they would be is­sued a new roadworthiness certificate. The government had ar­gued that the move was to further strengthen the safety of the roads and reduce high accident rates by ensuring that all vehicles plying Lagos roads are road worthy. Also, the government had said that it would only take a maximum of 15 minutes for a vehicle to be inspected by the approved centres and assured that it had enough centres to seamlessly inspect vehicles. But since the inspection began, at least motorists with expired roadworthiness certif­icates lose about six hours to the process and the inadequate testing centres and equipment to carry out the testing for mo­torists makes it worse. POLL Checks by Daily Indepen­dent indicate that there are 27 inspection centres in the 57 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and Local Council De­velopment Areas (LCDAs) in the state, deployed to service the over six million vehicles registered in the state. The centres are Agbowa, Agric-Isawo, Ajah, Alausa, Anthony, Ayobo, Badagry, Bo­lade, Cele, Coker Aguda, Epe, Gbagada, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos Island and LASU. Others are Odogunyan, Ojo­ta, Ojodu, Oko Oba, Omorege, Owode Onirin, Oke Odo, PWD, Suuru Alaba, UNILAG and Yaba. While transport analysts lauded the government for the initiative, they, however, lamented the rigours motorists go through to have their vehi­cles inspected by the approved testing centres. They also pointed out that the inspection centres were in­adequate, stressing that before the state government could come up with the implemen­tation of the initiative, it ought to have created enough centres to make the testing easier for motorists. How Amadi Diverted Eunisell’s N2.9bn, Witness Narrates To… Niger Govt Recovers 500 Cattle, Others Mr. Solomon Alashe, a Nige­rian based in Sweden, said that the inspection should be with­out pain, but lamented that the reverse is the case in Lagos. Alashe for instance said that in Sweden, motorists like in La­gos, renew their vehicle papers annually and also take them for same test, but insisted it was not with the same rigours in Lagos. According to him, motorists in the European country book online, choose an inspection centre out of the tens of centres in each location and have their vehicles inspected within 10 to 15 minutes of driving in. He said: “In Sweden, you are told to book online and go at the date and time you booked. This makes it easier for everyone to be scheduled and prevent man-hours lost due to that inspection exercise. We also have an application where you can log in to choose the exact location that you want to car­ry out the inspection on your vehicle, each city for instance, has no fewer than 15 inspection centres. “For instance, between Ojodu Berger and Ogba area of Lagos, you will have at least 10 to 15 centres where this can be carried out. Gbagada for in­stance, can have about 10 cen­tres. These are concessioned to private individuals by the government for a specific pe­riod of years. As we all know, government alone cannot pro­vide all the facilities needed for inspection of vehicles. So, these companies are licensed to car­ry out the inspection on behalf of the government.” He advised the state govern­ment to collaborate with more private companies to ease the stress of motorists, while also challenging the government to put the roads in the state in good shape to prevent per­sistent damages to vehicles. He, however, agreed that the new policy would ease ac­cidents on the highways in the state. Also, Engr. Chris Adamo, a transport analyst, applauded government’s policy as good for the system, saying that it was in line with what obtains in devel­oped countries, including some countries in Africa. Adamo, however, castigat­ed the state government for ill-preparedness before coming up with the implementation of the policy. According to him, the state of the roads in the state was appalling, while the facilities on ground were equally insuf­ficient to cater for the number of vehicles that needed the roadworthiness certificate daily. He explained that for the policy to be effective, the gov­ernment needed to scrutinise the inspection officials who he alleged are beginning to com­promise the scheme through corrupt practices. He said: “Though, the poli­cy is good, but I want to say it here that the government is not prepared. What the govern­ment has done is to put the cart before the horse. How many centres do they have in Lagos? How many vehicles are regis­tered in Lagos and how many will need the roadworthiness certificate daily? These are the things they ought to have put into consideration before com­ing out with the policy. “Though, it will further bol­ster safety on the highways, but we must be seen to be proactive in whatever we do. Let them collaborate with private inves­tors and build more centres for easy access.” But Mrs. Bolanle Ogunlola, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, said the government was aware of the challenges and was making ef­forts to resolve them. Speaking with Daily In­dependent on phone over the weekend, Ogunlola explained that some of the 27 inspection centres are underutilised by motorists, stressing that mo­torists concentrated in a few locations to carry out the in­spection. According to her, the goal of the government was to es­tablish the inspection centres in the 57 Local Government Areas and Local Council De­velopment Areas (LCDAs) in the state, while plans were also ongoing to collaborate with pri­vate investors to build capacity. She said: “We have 27 cen­tres across the state and I can tell you that majority of those centres are not operating to full capacity. Somebody was at Badagry on Thursday and for the one hour the person spent there, only one vehicle came in for inspection. So, there are some of our centres that motor­ists are not taking advantage of right now. “We are trying as much as possible to sensitise the people of all the centres and where they are located. The reason we are having huge number in a particular centre is because people want to take the advan­tage of their offices to carry out the inspection. We are aware of all these challenges and we are addressing them. “We are heading to 57 LGAs and LCDAs. But, we just have to start from somewhere. Already, we are building, more and more will come on stream be­fore the end of second quarter of 2022. We are also encourag­ing private businesses. We are going to be collaborating with them in the areas we don’t have capacity.” Another motorist, who nar­rated his ordeal at Ojodu in­spection centre, said that he got to the centre as early as 6a.m, but inspection on vehicles did not start until 8:45a.m. According to him, despite being the fourth on the queue on the said day, the inspection officers finished inspecting his vehicle at 10:30a.m, while the roadworthiness certifi­cate could not be printed until 12:25p.m because of “the usual bad network.” He challenged the govern­ment to make the scheme work by reducing the man hours lost by motorists.