Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has enjoined political gladiators to eschew violence, cyberbullying as the state prepares for the gubernatorial election. Fayemi reminded political parties and officer seekers to always have at the back of their minds that ” power ultimately belongs to God who rules in the affairs of men, and it is His will that will prevail in our homeland” The governor, in his New Year Message statewide broadcast to Ekiti people entitled “2022: Our Year of Fulfilment ” promised that his administration would embark upon more developmental projects. Udom Emmanuel Warns Politicians Against Violent Grabbing Of… Oyo Partners NGO’, Sensitises Judical Officers On… According to Fayemi “this year will also witness construction and renovation of more schools, provision of learning materials for students, completion of the ongoing construction and equipping of our Intensive Care Unit at EKSUTH, as well as various ongoing projects in many of our secondary and primary health centres. ” Ekiti Kete, as you know, the year 2022 is an electoral year for us in Ekiti. Beginning from this month, political parties will be conducting primaries to determine their respective flagbearers. Later in the year on Saturday, June 18, 2022, we would be going to the polls to elect a new Governor. ” I would like to use this opportunity to implore us, one and all, to conduct ourselves as the truly honourable people that we are and avoid stoking divisions and bitterness amongst us. This election is another opportunity to reclaim our reputation as decent people and correct the negative perceptions we were once smeared with because of the ignoble actions of a few of us in previous electoral cycles. ” I also want to use this opportunity to especially appeal to the political elite in our State across party lines, to eschew the use of violence throughout the process, and avoid the use of inciting words, cyber-bullying, and all actions aimed at causing the crisis in the State. On our part, we will do everything to ensure that we hand over to a new administration in a rancor-free environment. “As you all know, we as mortals can only put in our best efforts, but power ultimately belongs to God who rules in the affairs of men, and it is His will that will prevail in our homeland.” the governor reiterated. POLL He added “this New Year, 2022, promises to be more exciting and impactful as we strive to strengthen the legacy and consolidate on our visible successes in order to finish well. The year 2022 Appropriation Bill tagged, “Budget of Legacy and Consolidation” is deliberately tailored to enhance the delivery of our promise to leave Ekiti State better than it was when we took over. “The 2022 budget has been designed to help us achieve our goal of finishing well, by consolidating the gains of the last three years and handing over an enduring legacy to the administration that will succeed us. It has been designed to ensure that we complete our capital projects, while also ensuring that the day-to-day operations of the government continue to run seamlessly. “We are determined to complete all major projects including the Ekiti Passenger-Cargo Airport, the Ado-Iworoko section of the Ado-Ifaki Road, renovation of township roads, and finally commence the construction of our farms to markets roads across the State. We will continue to focus on the environment, by completing our erosion and watershed management project, while also consolidating on our gains in agriculture by investing in more Public-Private Partnerships, to deepen commercial agriculture across the State. This year, we will also accelerate our long term transformative projects like the Ekiti Knowledge Zone and the Special Agriculture Processing Zone- two projects that will eventually deliver large scale opportunities to thousands of our young people and give them ample opportunities to develop exciting careers without having to emigrate from our homeland.Last but not least, in 2022, we would work with the Ekiti State House of Assembly on its legislative scrutiny, we will become one of the few states in Nigeria that can take pride in having a set of current laws as opposed to laws inherited from the colonial era. We Must Collectively Reposition Nigeria- Governor Fayemi, Prof.… 2022: I Am Worthy Successor To Fayemi – Ex SSG Declares “As I conclude, I would like to express my appreciation to you for the support you have so liberally given this administration. My heartfelt gratitude goes to all sons and daughters of Ekiti State at home and in the diaspora, for your love, tolerance, support, prayers, objective criticism, and suggestions. Our modest, but the visible impact was made possible because you worked with us. “I also want to appreciate the dedication and sacrifice of members of the Ekiti State Executive Council, the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Ekiti State Judiciary, and the Ekiti State Civil Service. The existing harmonious relationship among us has brought us this far. I appreciate you all and I look forward to us sustaining this momentum and finishing well. I also thank the Federal Government and its various agencies, development partners, and civil society organisations for their cooperation and support.”Fayemi said .