LAGOS – Eye witnesses have narrated how armed hoodlums invaded Iraye com­munity in Sagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State, and killed 44-year old security man, Temi­tope Ariyo, shot three po­licemen and injured many other villagers recently. The gunmen also report­edly attacked and robbed residents of their money, mobile phones, electronics and other valuables in an incident that had become a subject of investigations by the police. The grieving wife of the deceased man, Beauty Ariyo, has called on the Inspector General of the Nigeria Police Force, IGP Usman Baba Alkali, to or­der full scale investigations into the attack and ensure that the attackers do not go unpunished. Tanker Explosion: Delta Will Take Steps To Avert Reoccurrence… Cult War: Delta Community Cries Out To IGP She said, “On Wednesday, he left our house in Fakale near Sagamu. He told me he was going to Iraye. He left to meet with some of his family members and I went to work myself. “It was in the evening that they called me that some people had attacked my husband. They report­edly shot him in both legs and used broken glasses to inflict injuries in his face .” The woman added, “I was also told that the peo­ple dragged him on a mo­torcycle and took him away, when they discovered that he was gasping for breath. “People should please rise and assist me. I have five children and I cannot take care of them on my own. My husband must not die.” An eye witness, 76-year-old Owoduni Bakare, said that he was almost killed by the hoodlums and that he was rescued by a female trader, who rushed him into her house. POLL Bakare, “I am from Iraye. I was born and bred here. I went to work in Lagos and returned to the village. I have never seen any­thing like this in my life. We have a government in Ogun State. The govern­ment should step into this matter. “ He narrated further, “We were in the village on Wednesday, when many thugs started shooting. People were telling me to run. I insisted that I won’t but a woman, who sells by the roadside hurriedly pulled me and hid me in­side her house .” Another eye witness, Fausat Olatunji said, “Many of us were play­ing at the backyard, when we heard gunshots .They initially went down the road and came back to our house. “By then, we had locked the doors but they broke the window glasses before breaking into our house. They were beating every­body, including my father and my elder brother, who has an eye problem .” She also stated that the children and her elder brother were initially in­jured when they shattered the glasses but the hood­lums didn’t mind. They kept beating us. Many Injured As Hoodlums Attacks Bullion Van In Delta Four Die As Gas-laden Tankers Explode In Explode “They asked us where was Ariyo but we told them that we didn’t know. But suddenly, one of them, who was wearing dread­lock took a broken glass and went straight to where Ariyo was hiding and cut him in the face.” “They dragged him out­side and shot him on the two legs. He was struggling to die when one of them who claimed to be his (Ari­yo) in-law stood on his head and threatened to kill him.” “Ariyo was pleading with him, “But you are my in-law, why should you do this to me, but the man said, ‘I have threatened to kill you and Stylie. Now is your turn, I will also kill Stylie.” Another eyewitness, Monsurat Olayinka said, “We stood there watching them when they dragged his blood-soaked body on one of their motorcycles and took him away.” The Baale of Iraye, Chief Balogun Kalejaiye Habeeb, told newsmen that the latest attack was the second in two years and that the armed hoodlums have taken over the village. “On Wednesday, 19th of January, 2022 between, 2 and 3 p.m., these hood­lums numbering over two hundred and armed with guns and other dangerous weapons invaded the com­munity and attacked our children, elderly ones and other villagers.” “We have had rumours that they were coming since last year but only policemen from the Ad­ministration section of FCIB Abuja were coming into the town with some of these hoodlums.” The village head added, “Last Wednesday, the po­licemen from Abuja said that they were there to inspect a palace but they moved round the village and didn’t find any palace.” “On the 26th June, 2019 these same people brought policemen from the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS) Obada, Abeokuta, shot spo­radically into many homes but we insisted that we would not be scared from our ancestral homes.” Balogun added, “The po­lice from Abuja had barely left the village when these armed hoodlums who were led by a certain Otunba Danladi and Ganiu Eleda, Mukaila Actor, Shakiru Shaku Adamo, Kandu Ita Oluwo, Wasiu Epo Saheed Agali started shooting in the village. “We have all escaped from the village because the hoodlums are there .They kill cow everyday and cook on our ancestral land .The IG should save our lives from this crimi­nal. A police source at Igode Police Station, who spoke under the condition of anonymity confirmed the incident and added that a report had already been sent to the state police headquarters in Eleweran, Abeokuta. However, the police source in confirming the incident said, “We don’t know if the man has been killed or not but we are investigating the attack on the village and we are investigating a case of a missing person.” Meanwhile efforts to speak with the image mak­er in charge of the state Po­lice Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, failed as calls to his mobile phone line were not answered.