The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development FMARD on Thursday trained about 40 farmers on the production and utilisation of orange-fleshed sweet potato (OFSP) in a bid to promote healthy living in Edo. Speaking at the one-day train the trainers’ skill acquisition workshop for Women and youths in Benin, the Director, Federal Department of Agriculture, Engr Garba Abubakar said OFSP was rich in vitamin A and boost immunity hence the need to promote the crop. Represented by the Director of Agriculture, Edo FMARD Office, Mr. Wellington Omoragbon, Abubakar said the training had become necessary following the immense nutritional benefits that can be derived from OFSP FG, IOM Repatriates 167 Victims Of Trafficking From Libya BREAKING: Police Trust Fund Deductions: Rivers State Floors FG… Abubakar noted that in pursuit of food security and nutrition for the nation, OFSP was readily available to be utilized and processed into various products such as chin-chi, flour, bread, sweetener and juice among others. “It is very profitable to look in the direction of product development in order to create wealth and more jobs for the teeming youths and women. “The health and wealth benefits of OFSP is as a result of it richness in beta carotene, which is a precursor of vitamin A. ” It is an adequate food to combat vitamin A deficiency in children and boost immunity of the elderly people,” he said. According to him, the purpose of the workshop is to bring together young men and women with the aim of training them to become champions in the act of value addition and product development from OFSP. POLL ” It is to also encourage policymakers to support promotion and utilisation of the crop in the area of the school feeding programme, food for the vulnerable and the internally displaced persons,” he added. Abubakar urged participants to take advantage of the training to learn, brainstorm and offer suggestions that will change the narratives of low adoption of the crop in Nigeria. In his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security in Edo, Mr. Peter Aikhuomobhogbe thanked the federal government for the capacity building for farmers in the state Represented by the Director of planning, monitoring and Evaluation, Mr. Minister Osula, Aikhuomobhogbe said the state government was committed to building the capacity of farmers to create wealth and ensure food security in the state. The Desk Officer for the Potato value chain in the ministry, Mr. Adedamola Adegoke said Orange-Fleshed Sweet Potato was not so common in the south southern part of the country adding that, the efforts was achieved food nutrition and security in the country. FG Pays Over N90bn To Pensioners Annually – Dr. Ejikeme Group Wants FG, EFCC To Stop Uzodimma From Taking More Loans Mr. Hassan Mohammed, a farmer from Edo North thanked the federal government for the training. “This is the first time am seeing this variety of potato. The health benefits as we have be told today cannot be overemphasised,” he said. The highpoint of the training was the practical session where farmers were taught how to process OFSP into various products.