MAKURDI – Benue Amazon Prime, a women group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state has declared that the Minister for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume will give the party a new lease of life. The women made this known when over 1,000 of them took to the streets of Makurdi, the state capital, last weekend in support of the aspirations of Senator Akume, calling on the leadership of the party to make Akume the next national chairman of the party at its National Convention slated for February 26. The women marched from the state party secretariat, opposite the railway market, with a motorcade in tow; marched through the police headquarters roundabout to high-level roundabout and terminated at City Bay, where they met Chief Mrs Regina Akume and handed their demands to her. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… 2023: Bauchi People Don’t Want Me To Go For Presidential… During the march, the women who made a brief stopover at the high-level roundabout, told the people of the state that Akume has the capacity to take the party to its desired destination. The women who took turns to speak in some local dialects also noted that Senator Akume has the wherewithal to deliver Benue to the APC and also meet the desires and yearnings of the people of the country. In her remarks for onward transmission to the party leadership at City bay, Hembadoon Aulleh, President, Amazon Prime called on the APC to elect Senator Akume as its National Chairman. According to her, “Benue women are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and other stakeholders to hearken to our call and choose Akume as the national chairman of the party during its National Convention billed for February 26. “Akume is indisputably a veteran of the progressives in Nigeria, having served many years as Minority Leader in the Senate as well as Campaign Organisation Chairman of APC for the entire Northern region. POLL “He is a Benue mega political star with the largest followership”, she stated. Aulleh further observed that Akume has a very wide network of political friends who would influence many back to the fold of the APC. Responding, Mrs Regina Akume, Wife to the Minister, expressed delight with the group for their unalloyed loyalty and support for her husband’s aspiration. She called on the leadership of the APC, including President Buhari to consider the wishes of the group and other Nigerians to back Senator Akume for the position of national chairman of the party. Mrs Akume also prayed that God grant them their heart desires.