The royal palace of Ayedun, a town in Oke Ero Local Government, Kwara State, has accused a group, Iwoye Stakeholders, of mischief, alleging that their recent claims that the state govern­ment, through the office of the Attorney General, AG, and Commissioner for Jus­tice is meddling in judicial matters on chieftaincy tus­sle in the town is all false. The clarification came through High Chief Ad­eyemi Dada, Secretary, Oba-in-Council, Ayedun community, via a press re­lease made available to Dai­ly INDEPENDENT. Iwoye Stakeholders, last November had accused Salman Jawondo (SAN), Commissioner of Justice and AG, of interference in a couple of litigations it brought against the par­amount ruler of Ayedun, HRM Oba Olusegun Rotimi, and some of his subjects in separate suits in Ilorin. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference Allegedly, pleaded Iwoye Stakeholders in series of media parley, Jawondo, and office public prosecution en­tered nolli prosequi, that is a notice of discontinuation of the cases on different oc­casions. Jawondo had, last year, spoken to the newspaper on the matter, explaining that as the AG of the state, he had the power to enter such notices if such suits was never intended to achieve justice or were aimed at em­barrassing an individual. According to Jawondo, the suits by Iwoye Stake­holders fell into that cate­gory. But, reacting, the Pal­ace of Ayedun, through High Chief Adeyemi Dada, Secretary, Oba-in-Council, Ayedun community, de­scribed the claims by Iwoye Stakeholders against the state government as mis­chievous and bereft of the true positions of things. “For the sake of clarity, let me succinctly explain the situation in Ayedun prior to the rebellious activities of some enemies of progress which tend to portray our community as a crisis rid­den one. POLL “Ayedun is comprised of three wards; Odo-Ila, Ikotun and Iwoye, and 13 compounds, which are Imo­ja, Isoko, Imoba, Ebiohun, Ile-Ala, Imojo, Eregun, Odo- Ede, Odo-Iwoye, Ile Asaba, Ile Agbe, Isowu and Emu. “There are also High Chiefs (Kingmakers or Iwarefa); Obaoye, Oba-Ede, Alaaye, Olori Are, Olukotun and Oluodo with Obaoye as the Chairman of the King­makers.