Ahead of the com­mencement of the no COVID-19 vac­cination no entry staff order, staff of the Feder­al Capital Territory Adminis­tration (FCTA), on Wednesday, besieged vaccination centres at the Secretariat in large numbers to bead the deadline. Our correspondent gath­ered that as early as 8 am staff were seen queuing to take the vaccine. It would be recalled that on Monday, the Senior Special Assistant, Media to Minister of FCT, Abubakar Sani, stat­ed that all unvaccinated staff and visitors would be barred from accessing FCTA prem­ises with effect from Monday, 17th January 2022. NYSC Gets Commendation On Innovative Service Delivery Absence of Governing Council Hindering AAU Progress, ASUU… This warning was con­tained in a circular signed by the FCTA Permanent Secre­tary, Mr. Olusade Adesola, and issued on Monday 10th Janu­ary 2022. The circular was addressed to the Executive Secretary of the Federal Capital Develop­ment Authority (FCDA) , all Mandate Secretaries, Coor­dinators of AMMC, STDD as well as Heads of all Depart­ments and FCTA Agencies. Mr. Olusade said the circu­lar was in line with the one issued earlier by the Federal Government allowing staff on grade level 12 and below to resume duty. Fielding questions from newsmen on the development, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the FCT Min­ister, Comrade Ikharo Attah said there is no going back on enforcement of the directive from the FCT Permanent Sec­retary, Olusade Adesola. He warned that staff of the FCTA pictures of vaccination cards on phones would not be accepted. POLL According to him, “Yester­day when Director Human Resources, Malam Bashir issued a circular and backed by a strong press release, by SSA, Malam Abubakar Sani, we started observing a gather­ing at the vaccination centre. “This morning we are very pleased that many people are trooping in to get vaccinat­ed. Although they are telling us that the centre is close to their office, we are also very impressed. We are also elated because we are seeing a large number of persons taking their jab, some are taking their second jab and some are taking booster jabs. We are so happy about it”. Speaking on the enforce­ment, he said, “There is no going back, on Monday we are going on enforcement. We have gotten about 2 OB Vans, going round all FCTA offices mobilising staff to go and vac­cinate or go for regular testing. “On Monday morning, all FCTA and SDAs on their premises will see men heavily positioned. If you don’t have your vaccination card or your test result very recent one, you won’t be allowed into any of the FCT, SDS, premises. And we will be following up se­riously on this and we have also warned people don’t snap their card on their phone, let’s see the original card, and don’t show it to us on the phone. And we will be asking for identity cards and we would be match­ing the identity card with your COVID-19 vaccination card so that you don’t bring someone else’s card as yours.