The Nigeria Police Command and the Vehicle Inspection Office, VIO, Sango-Ota, Ogun State, has agreed to synergise for effective operation in curbing traffic infractions and other criminal tendencies associated with motoring in the area. ACP Muyideen Obe, Area Commander of Police, Sango-Ota, made the declaration during a courtesy visit to his office by Engineer Oluwatoyin Olugbenga, the new Zonal Commander, VIO, on Tuesday in Sango-Ota, Ogun. Obe noted, “No agency could do its work or duty alone, adding that collaborative efforts are already in place involving allthe sister agencies operating here and your resumption will further strengthen the synergy. Ogun Seeks Special Status For Federal Government’s Funding Of… Why Transport Operators Clamour For U-Turn At Ota Tollgate Axis “The synergy is needed among the agencies to deliver quality services to the public and ensure we have a saner society. You can imagine all the lawlessness exhibited by motorists, especially the use of branded plate numbers without the necessary licence to back it. “We must ensure that we carry out our duties effectively by enforcing the laws because, without enforcement, they become recalcitrant,” he said. In her response, the VIO Zonal Commander appreciated the open-door policy of the Area Commander and the high level of cooperation accorded her predecessors responsible for the level of success they had. She said: “I’m very happy to meet you, our organisation is split into three Zonal areas; Ogun East, Central and West, which is under my jurisdiction, and I desire to have the level of synergy that will enhance our operations and enable us to improve the level of compliance currently obtained by motorists under my Zonal Command. “It has always been my culture to form a strong alliance with the police formations within my jurisdiction, especially with the various Divisional Police officers. I always reach out to them to ensure the enforcement side of our operations against erring motorists. In the same vein, I’m reiterating this request here, for your prompt response whenever I call for it or the need arises,” she added. POLL Oluwatoyin also pointed out the current effort of her agency to improve the state of vehicles plying our roads through the enforcement of the computerised vehicle inspection tests that will soon become mandatory for all vehicles to undergo, stressing that it is not a ploy to generate revenues or sanction vehicle owners but to improve safety on our roads. CSP Idehai Godwin, DPO, Sango-Ota Police Command, also assured her of the maximum cooperation of his Command anytime the need arises. He however asked that more sensitisation exercises should be carried out regarding the vehicle inspection tests before enforcement. Speaking further, ACP Obe called for the cooperation of the VIO whose facility is used to park vehicles impounded by his Command to always alert him when the need arises for his intervention or to iron out any grey area. He urged the VIO and other sister agencies to be professional in discharging their duties as laws were made to guide the citizens. Commander Oluwatoyin Olugbenga, the Zonal Commander, VIO, Ota, on the day following also paid another courtesy visit to Commander Adekunle Ajibade, Area Commander, TRACE, to introduce herself and to give the two officers ample opportunity to discuss issues of mutual benefits to both agencies and particularly on areas of synergising to improve compliance to traffic regulations for the safety of road users. Govt, Crisis Of Articulated Vehicles In Nigeria FG Seeks More Participation In Tax Credit Scheme For Road… The visit also afforded Commander Ajibade, the opportunity to appreciate the sister agency for accommodating its Ijoko Unit Command, while expressing hope that the level of cooperation existing between the two agencies will be strengthened during her tenure. Commander Oluwatoyin reiterated that she came to familiarise with the formation and explore further areas of cooperation for the successful execution of their field operations.