Poco Lee na rip you wan rip me oh! Are you mad or something, you wanna die? Na me get zazo! These were the words of Portable as he felt aggrieved that he was cheated. The song “Zazoo Zehh” tells the story of three friends who prove that moderation is better than courage. The three of them squabbled over who was the first to notice the red star in the sky. The first to bring up the issue claimed to have noticed it before inviting the second, but before he could turn back, the second indicated he had seen it previously but had overlooked the red star. To make this case, he invited their third friend to be a judge in the case to put a stop to the disagreement. To make matters worse, the third claimed to have seen the red star long before today. So, until the three of them left pleading for an answer, the question of who was the first to glimpse the red star remained unanswered. Iweh Pascal Odinaka aka Poco Lee is reported to have discovered Habeeb Okikiola, also known as Portable. The duo collaborated with Olamide, commonly known as Baddo, to create the song Zazu. The group had no idea how far what they were trying to accomplish would go. As a result, there were few written agreements on terms. So, when the song went viral and became a global sensation, Portable claimed ownership of the song, while Poco Lee and Olamide were only featured. But on the official music video what we have there is Portable and Poco Lee featuring Olamide. If we are to go by this, it implies the song was owned by the duo—Portable and Poco Lee. The Complicated History Of The Black Joke, The Ship That Battled… Mayflower Tasks Ogun Govt  To Pull Down Distress Building,… Portable in the wee days of the release, came up to accuse Poco Lee to have stolen his song but he wasn’t given utmost attention. All that was said was that Poco Lee helped him and thus he should stop crying foul. Kogbagidi, who is the music promoter, was also featured in the whole saga as part-owner of the hit song and possessor of the artiste, Portable. To see how things were messed up and lacking in professionalism the trio fought and disagreed over money and other related materials given to Portable. I think it was viewed as a collective treasure because there was no separation of the artiste from the hit song. All these rowdiness points at one strong point—the inability to define copyright on the content, sound, and the artiste’s management. Although they might humorously call it a publicity stunt however it calls to question the professionalism of the producer, promoter, and all those involved. For this reason, let us examine the basics of copyrights and how the proper things should have been done in the question of who wrote Zazo. What is music copyright? It could be said to be the ownership of musical composition(s) or created sound(s). In other words, in music two things are germane for ownership—the composition which ought to be the lyrics, and the sound. In the case of Zazo, the composition is clearly defined because three of the artistes participated by rendering their part of the song irrespective of who come first or not. But the question for the future is: “Were Poco lee and Olamide only supporting Portable with their lyrics as an upcoming artiste or they were entitled to a claim as part-owners which implies sharing at certain percentages? Was this done? This is not clearly defined that is why Portable is accusing Poco Lee of stealing his song. Collaborative songwriting is an aspect that is to be clearly defined. Collaborative songs do have the following: delivery and form; the melody and the harmony; the rhythm and others. Then the question is: “Who is delivering what?” And “Who is bringing what into the song?” These would determine the ratio of shares in proportion to an individual’s contributions to make the song. After these rudiments, the proportion of copyright must be well-spelled to avoid accusation and harassment. — “Really Poco, you no show love oh.” So, if piza piza master, Dr Zeh, is the one that gave his collaborators lyrics because of their status that could be measured in certain terms of either financial worth or otherwise. But a clear definition of who owns a song and who is a collaborator should be well spelled. Who owns the sounds in Zazo? Who features who? But in the case of Zazo having the official video as Portable and Poco Lee feature Olamide this implies that both Portable and Poco Lee own the sound as well as the lyrics. Is this the case? This is a question for Portable. However, a future crisis that came out of this saga made it clear that the official video should read Portable feature Poco Lee and Olamide. The critical lesson is that the arrangement of names in collaboration matters a lot when it comes to the right ownership of songs and sounds as well. This is a material that will eventually return to the public space if not for the monetary reason it ought to be corrected for posterity. Some people create beats or sounds as a business and sell them to whoever needs them. And certain beats or sounds can be traced to a certain artiste. This is to prove that as negligible as these things are they are critical to the definition of ownership not only in music but also in other facets of entertainment. In the future, someone may want to use the Zazo beats, lyrics, etc. By then issues will later arise. It might not be among the collaborators but those that will take over their estate. POLL Copyright is an intellectual property that could range from symbols created by anyone. The law gives the right to those who created those things but if not well define ab initio one may lose it to the wrong person who is smarter. So, the question remains—who owns Zazo? Who has the exclusive bundle of rights to Zazo? So, if a third party wants to make use of Zazo who should they approach? —Poco Less, Portable, Olamide or Kogbagidi? AS popular as this song is there seemed not to be a good definition of rights and copyrights. The same thing applies to a lot of Nigerian small artistes whom the big ones either steal their lyrics; sometimes collect worth of millions from them and yet go ahead to violate their rights. The first owner of the copyright is the creator. But who is the creator before it becomes an issue? In the case of Zazo who gives the right to its reproduction, performance in public, translation, adaptation, broadcast in public places, or making a film out of it? We shouldn’t just have a billion-dollar music industry without architecture. Songs and books will last seventy years after the death of the singer/author before it will become public property; film fifty years from production date; sounds and beats fifty years as well. Artistic works are rich investments if the owners and their estate agent are protected to enjoy their rights. So, to avoid future problems if there is going to be collaboration there should be a written and signed agreement between the involved parties to avoid present and future conflict. The absence of this is what has led to several in-fighting among Portable and his collaborators including his manager Kogbagidi. It was obvious that professionalism on the part of the manager/promoter was not brought into the business of Zazo. Although some have argued that the disagreement on cheating Portable, Dr Zeh Croner, was just a publicity stunt. Yes, it might be but it questions the professionalism of the promoter, as well as the artistes who fail to realise that before production there should be a clear definition of ownership and shares of proceeds as well as roles. So, it was obvious that the copyright and pre-production negotiation were not properly done. Then another grey area is the laying of claims to the lyrics in Zazo. The argument is spined from the fact that the majority of the lyrics were taken from Yoruba societal corpus especially with expressions mainly used over time in Lagos. “Copyrightable” should be original and fixed in tangible form to an individual or group of people. But what about in a situation where popular words such as Pepesneer, Badosneer, Werey, Unholy, Badoli, Big Ben, Zazu, Gaza, Babeje, Runjupa, Lejupa, etc. are used? But these words are commonplace words for those who relate to the Lagos environment, especially with the hoodlums popularly known as area boys who have been promoted as leaders of their various communes. Even words such as Kala, Marerin, Kolu, Iwaika, etc. are popular words in Mushin/ Oshodi/Lagos Island/Ijora register. The area boys use these words in addressing each other according to their lifestyle. Kala is someone without sympathy; Iwaika is a wicked one. So, how do we copyright those words to Portable or Olamide in the case of Afro music? The majority of their songs, sounds, and dances were inspired by diverse facets of Yoruba culture’s eclectic and cosmopolitan culture in Lagos’ streets.  Abba Kyari: The Link Between Hushpuppi And Obi Cubana So, back to the three friends who were debating who noticed the red star first. The first individual is the one who first draws two or more people’s attention to the red star. While others were still having it as an intent, he first made it public. As a result, Portable is the owner of the copyright to Zazoo, and they should grant him the right. Oti Zeh! Oti bokadi o! Kolu! Ika! Pizapiza!