Chelsea will reportedly rival Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur in pursuit of Inter Milan utility man Ivan Perisic this month.According to a report by Daily Mirror, Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur will be facing competition from London rivals Chelsea in the race to sign Ivan Perisic. Inter Milan could sell the 32-year-old utility man in the ongoing transfer window instead of letting him leave as a free agent in the summer. Since returning from a loan spell at Bayern Munich, Ivan Perisic has resurrected his stuttering career at Inter Milan. In the first four years of his stint with the Nerazzurri, the Croatian international tended to blow hot and cold. But in the last 18 months, the veteran wide-man has been extremely consistent. The 32-year-old has been superb in the ongoing campaign, chipping in with four goals and two assists in 25 appearances across all competitions. Perisic’s exploits have been noticed by some of the biggest clubs in Europe, including Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur. Real Madrid Beat Athletic Bilbao To Win 12th Super Cup Title Rafa Benitez Breaks Silence After Everton Sacking Chelsea will need to invest in a new left wing-back in the ongoing transfer window, as Ben Chilwell is sidelined for several months due to a long-term knee injury. Chilwell’s absence has left Thomas Tuchel with Marcos Alonso as the only natural left wing-back at his disposal, although Kenedy has been recalled from his loan spell at Flamengo. Perisic is thus a viable target for Chelsea, especially after they failed to sign Lucas Digne. Much like the Blues, Tottenham might also need to sign a left wing-back, with Sergio Reguilon being inconsistent and Ryan Sessegnon struggling to impress Antonio Conte. Therefore, the former Chelsea boss is keen on signing someone for the position, with Perisic reportedly considering a reunion. Unlike Chelsea and Tottenham, Arsenal will likely find a different use for Perisic, who would slot in on the flanks and be a more attack-minded addition to the squad. The 32-year-old could compete with Gabriel Martinelli, Emile Smith Rowe and Bukayo Saka in the wide-attacking positions, with his experience likely to come in handy in their top-four chase. Perisic has thus emerged as an option for Mikel Arteta, with Arsenal set to compete with London rivals Chelsea and Tottenham in the race to sign him. Inter Milan would not be opposed to selling the 32-year-old if an attractive bid came their way, although the Croat prefers staying put at San Siro. An intriguing transfer battle could ensue in the coming weeks.