The Centre for Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) has expressed concerns over the sharp rise of inflation recently reported in the country and called on the Federal Government to address exchange rate depreciation. Dr. Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer of CPPE, Centre and Former Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in his comments on the December Inflation report, said inflationary pressures remain a significant macroeconomic risk in the Nigerian economy. According to him, after eight months of steady deceleration in headline inflation was brought to a halt, there was a marginal spike in the December 2021 headline inflation from 15.4% in November 2021 to 15.63% in December 2021. AIB-N Reaffirms Commitment With NAF For Safer Air Space LIRS Announces January 31 Deadline For Filing Of Annual Tax… “Exchange rate depreciation has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index. The liquidity challenges in the foreign exchange market are impacting adversely on manufacturing output. “The surge in demand during the December festivities must have played a role in the marginal spike and reversal of the deceleration trend in headline inflation. “It is a major concern to both businesses and the citizens. Meanwhile, food inflation, which is the biggest worry for the poor, rose from 17.21% in November to 17.37% in December. But on a month-on-month basis, there was an increase of 2.19%.” Yusuf noted that, although the economy witnessed an incremental deceleration in inflation over the past eight months before the reversal in December, high inflationary pressures remain a major concern to stakeholders in the Nigeria economy. On the how the country can tame the current inflationary pressure, CPPE boss urged the government to fix the following: Reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility; Address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures; Address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities; Address productivity issues in the real sector of the economy; Reduce fiscal deficit financing by the CBN to minimize incidence of high-powered money in the economy; Address concerns around high energy cost, among