MAKURDI – Benue State Zonal Command of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has reunited 32 victims that were rescued from human traffickers in Benue with members of their family. It would be recalled that NAPTIP had rescued about 48 victims of human trafficking from the hands of traffickers in the state in under one month. But the 32 victims who are from Ukum Local Government Area (LGA) of the state were apprehended while on their way to Osun State, while the suspected trafficker, Angbiandoo Akaasema is still in custody. NSCDC Arrest Two Suspects Parading Themselves As Herbalists To… 863 Terrorists, Families Surrender To Troops In Two Weeks… Mrs Gloria Bai, Commander, NAPTIP, Makurdi Zonal Command disclosed this while speaking with Daily Independent in Makurdi on Friday. She explained that she personally supervised the transportation of the children, who were victims that were rescued from traffickers in two buses back to their homes in company of NAPTIP officials and those of Ukum LGA of the state. The NAPTIP boss who was piqued that most of the victims were underaged, however expressed delight that the victims were finally reunited with their families last Wednesday. Bai explained that while profiling the suspect, NAPTIP learnt what the suspect embarked upon was more of a trade by the family who are residing in Osun. According to her, “The suspect said her husband owns a Non Governmental Organization (NGO) and wants to help the children to get access to education because of the crisis in their area. POLL “So when they get to Osun state, they will distribute them (victims) to people in their Church to be used as house helps and shop attendants and in return the people will send them to school. “We are yet to find out whether the organization (NGO) is genuine and if the children were being exploited, but the suspect is still in our custody for further investigation. “Three of the children are from one parent and from what we heard, they are ready to give out all their children even when they don’t know where the children are headed.” The NAPTIP Zonal Commander who noted that some of the children were taken at the age of 10 and others below 18 years pointed out that it is against the law to engage any child below the age of 18 as a house help or for any form of labour. While urging members of the public to give the agency information that would make it to detect human trafficking, Mrs Bai also called on LG Chairmen and traditional rulers in the state to assist the agency in sensitize their people. Four Reportedly Killed In Ebonyi Communal War Soldiers Dislodge ESN Operatives, Kill Many In Anambra She urged parents to plan their families and give birth to children they would be able to cater for rather than distribute their children to unknown people.