ABUJA – Salisu Mohd Lukman, Director General, Progressive Gover­nors’ Forum (PGF), has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of working on a lie that will end up foisting the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) again on Nigerians in 2023. According to the APC chieftain, the party leader­ship is working on fallacy that anybody the party imposes on Nigerians during the party’s presidential primaries will sweep the poll in 2023, a prop­osition, he said, cannot stand. He said such a lie will only pave way for PDP’s return to power, adding that ongoing plot to postpone the sched­uled February convention of the party will spell doom for the ruling party. Frustrated Heavyweight Boxer Leases Heavy Jab On Referee For… Jonathan Pays Tribute To Late Olubadan He also accused the CE­CPC of deliberately pushing for postponement of the con­vention, working in accord with those, he said, are cam­paigning to have the election of the APC National Working Committee (NWC) and the presidential primary held on the same day. In either case, he alerted that the party is only work­ing hard to launch the 2019 Zamfara State election deba­cle at the national scale ahead of the 2023 general election, noting that failure of the CE­CPC to give definite date for the convention as well name the convention subcommit­tees has sustained the doubt among party stakeholders. “It is very difficult to ex­cuse the CECPC from the campaign to postpone the February convention. If the CECPC is not interested in the postponement of the conven­tion from the agreed February 2022 date, why is it difficult to make formal announcement about the date and venue of the convention? “Statutorily, by the require­ment of the Electoral Act, the party is expected to serve at least 21 days’ notice of the convention to INEC. Which basically means that if the convention is to hold any day before February 28, 2021, the notice to INEC should be giv­en on or before February 7, 2022”, he pointed out. Lukman said the party and APC leaders appear not to have learned any lessons from the concluded Anambra State governorship election, believ­ing “that agenda set in 2014 or 2019 are sufficient to respond to contemporary challenges, which post 2023 governance will be expected to respond to”, Lukman said. POLL The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja had nullified the primary election that produced Senator Andy Uba as the candidate of the APC in the governorship election held in Anambra State on No­vember 6, 2021. The court, in the judgment delivered by Justice Inyang Ekwo, held that the primary election the APC conducted on June 26, 2021, wherein Uba emerged as its flag bearer, was done in substantial breach of both the electoral guidelines for the conduct of governor­ship primary election, as well as the party’s constitution. It held that the APC, hav­ing failed to comply with the law in the conduct of its pri­mary, was therefore bereft of any valid candidate for the gubernatorial contest. While Lukman observed that the CECPC has not deemed it necessary to re­view the said Anambra State election and take in valuable lessons, he expressed concern that the APC leadership is working to impose a candidate on the party in 2023 and with­out the buy in of stakeholders. “It will be foolhardy to ex­pect that the popularity of the APC will be sustained in 2023 without undertaking similar objective reviews. It would be such objective reviews that would assist the party to rene­gotiate and retain the support of Nigerians”, he said, point­ing to the internal unity that helped APC to ride the crest in 2015. Obiano Attaches No strings To My Governorship Election, Says… Ochi’Idoma: Gov Ortom Didn’t Victimise Anyone –CPS “The burden of respon­sibility to strengthen the ca­pacity of the APC to put itself on a vantage position to com­mence internal negotiation around all these issues is on the CECPC, especially, the Chairman, His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni. Inability to discharge this responsibility or avoid it by toeing the path of a deceptive campaign for postponement of convention can only spell doom for the APC and return Nigeria to the hands of those who laid the foundation for all the chal­lenges facing the country. “By way of an appeal to APC leaders, as much as the question of who emerges as the candidate of the party is very important, it is not only who emerges as a candidate of the party that can win the elec­tion. But how united are party leaders behind the candidate will be a more determining factor. President Buhari, with all his mass support in the Northern part of the country, may not have won the election in 2015 without the unity of all APC leaders from every part of the country. All APC leaders must be reminded that, there is no one political leader in the country that enjoys con­vincing mass support of any region of the country. “Therefore, the process of internal debates within the APC to enhance the confi­dence of party leaders from every part of the country and by extension Nigerians to support any potential can­didate of the party should be oriented around agreement on what needs to be done to address national challenges. “In fact, ability of the par­ty to manage internal party contest for the emergence of presidential candidate for in­stance, will be dependent on the kind of confidence that would have emerged among party leaders during internal debates. “Party leaders and all members should try to see the bigger picture and work for stronger internal unity within the APC. The only reason why some leaders, per­haps including the members of CECPC, are attracted to campaign for postponement for the convention is the de­ceptive belief that any candi­date who emerged, whether elected or imposed on the par­ty can win the 2023 elections. This is a big lie!”