…As Former APC Chairman, Publicity Secretary, Others Defects To PDP ASABA – Delta State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has welcomed hundreds of defectors from the All Progressive Council (APC) just as he urged all aspirants not to turn the gubernatorial race in the state into a political war. The defectors include: Former State Party Chairman, Chief Cyril Ogodo, Senatorial Chairman of Delta North, Ben Onwuka, Publicity Secretary, Slyvester Imonina, Ogbueshi Patrick Okonkwo, Elders and Leaders Council of APC amongst others. Russia Sees Record Virus Cases Second Day Running NGOs Demand Justice For 5yr-Old Pupil Murdered By Proprietor Speaking on Saturday in Asaba during the Mega Rally of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Ifeanyi Okowa declared that there would be free and fair primary for all Governorship Aspirants in the state primaries. He called on the over 15 governorship aspirants to control their followers as the political sphere opens, saying that we are one, your followers should not begin to fight. While he welcomed defectors from APC, he lauded the State Chairman for his good works in enlarging the political tentacles of the party in the state. Okowa said, “This rally has made a statement that the PDP is prepared an ld united to win the 2023 election. Hence, we must continue to work with love as one family unlike the other party where they fight with bitterness and acrimony”. He further stated that his administration would continue to build more infrastructure in the last saying that we are not going to slow down till I leave in May 2023. POLL While welcoming defectors, State Chairman of PDP, Barrister Kingsley Esiso noted that the party would eradicate its opposition in the next 6months. He noted that APC brought a negative change to the country saying that they are a failed party. “APC is a failed political party in Nigeria that has brought hardship, banditry and poverty to Nigerians. They have brought about a negative change that is why any reasonable member of APC is jumping ship” he declared. Earlier during his address, former Governor of the state, Chief James Ibori called for an open environment for all aspirants to chase their political ambitions without hindrance. De Bruyne Snubs Ronaldo In Dream 5-a-side Team 2023: PDP Will Produce Next Delta Governor – Agofure He then lauded the development strides of Okowa as he stated that his good work has brought the defectors out of their wilderness. While speaking, one of the defectors, Immediate Former Chairman of APC, Chief Cyril Ogodo said that the hands that have built APC, would destroy it.