LAGOS – The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo has stated that the African Continental Free Trade (AfCFTA) Agreement will make African economies more competitive and enable development and elevation of regional value chains with focus on Small and mid-size enterprises (SMEs) in the continent. Adebayo, who made the assertion at the lighting of the Africa Trade Torch programme, applauded the President, Dr Amany Asfour and her team at the African Business Council for their outstanding work which led to the conceptualisation of the programme a success.. According to Adebayo, “Considering the significance of the private sectors’ contribution to international trade, it would be worthwhile to recognise Paul Krugman’s contribution to international trade theory, in which he argues that even in the absence of productivity differences between two countries, trade benefits them. Appeal Court Affirms Order For The Arrest, Jail Of BPE DG Over… Britain’s DFI Beats 2020 Africa Investment Summit Pledge To… He, however, said: “The effects of the AfCFTA on economic and social transformation depends on the degree to which the private sector can seize the opportunities the agreement provides to trigger competitive African economies” Engr. Mansur Ahmed, President of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN),and the Interim Chairman of the Pan-African Manufacturers Association (PAMA), in his remarks, said the event is a testament of, “our Continent’s potential and our collective determination to promote and trigger engagement in Intra-Africa trade and cross-border value chains. “On the onset, I would like to applaud the efforts of MAN, an effort that has led to the birth of PAMA. Since the inception of PAMA. “MAN has taken the lead role in ensuring the ascent of the Association to a continental platform, a feat that has not been easy. “The association aims to encourage cooperation between African manufacturers such that there can be market transformation in order to grow SMEs and subsequently create value chains to achieve Africa’s industrialization agenda.”