IBADAN – Erelu Funmi Rotiba, Nigerian based travel consultant has been appointed as the Country Director of Tourism of the Asia Africa Chamber of Commerce. Her letter of appointment which was signed by AACC Prince Olawale Suleiman Ayinla, President, AACC Africa reads “We are delighted to welcome you onboard AACC Nigeria Board as “Director of Tourism” with effect from January 22, 2022. As Director of Tourism of AACC Nigeria, “You will be responsible for; Creating and managing a comprehensive program of tourism development and promotion that will grow tourism-related revenues in Nigeria through the effective use of strategic planning, leadership skills, community assets, industry knowledge and relationships, and evolving tourism practices. As well as lead the Tourism Committee of AACC Nigeria and execute all programs and activities adopted and approved by the Board ofExecutives of AACC Nigeria.” “This appointment is of a 5 years term, and reports directly to the President, AACC Nigeria.” We look forward to the successful execution of the AACC Trade and Investment Platform (TIP) withour local partners in Nigeria and the launch of a major project within 20 of 2022. AACC is officially approved and registered with the Registrar of Societies in Malaysia, an agency under the Ministry of Home Affairs in Malaysia on November 5, 2021, with the main goal of being a world-class reference point, and an NGO that promotes and facilitates the trade between Asia and Africa. “AACC aims to translate economic co-operation into increased in disposable income with women and youth as prioritised end beneficiaries,” Mr. Liow said, adding that Asia and Africa are the two largest continents in the world with 6 billion population, 75% of world population, and contributing 40% of the world GDP. The organization aims to be a trusted Centre of Facilitation for trade and investment opportunities between Asia and Africa, working on needs-driven from local countries/cities as a priority, with an underlying commitment to building sustainable corporate social responsibilities in the process. We earmarked Africa as this amazing market is still under-explored by Malaysian and Asian exporters mainly due to lack of a safe and secured channel. POLL The Executive Board of AACC comprises of award-winning Entrepreneurs, Former Malaysia Trade Commissioner, Presidents and Council Members of International Trade Associations, Legal Practitioners, Business Academic and Market Development Specialists. Members of the Executive Board included Chairman, Mr. RJ. Liow, Secretary General, Mr. Naunihal Singh Sangha,. Treasurer General, Mr. Gurcharan Singh Hans President (ASEAN), Prof. Dr. Kabur Ibrahim; President (Africa), Prince Olawale Suleiman Ayinla, President (Greater China), Prof. Dr. Denver Tan, and President (Women & Youth Development), and Dr. Sevaran Kaur Dhalliwal JP.