LAGOS – Business mogul, Mr. Goodie Mina­bo Ibru, has urged the ruling All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the other par­ties to close ranks on the planned fuel subsidy remov­al to save the nation’s econo­my from imminent collapse and avert national crises. Ibru, a renowned entre­preneur and chairman of Ikeja and Abuja Sheraton Hotels and Towers, main­tained that the political parties must be on the same page on fuel subsidy removal if the Federal Gov­ernment could muster the political will to implement the removal of petroleum subsidy. The entrepreneur, who was the guest speaker of the 2022 Distinguished Per­sonality Lecture Series of the Lagos State University (LASU), stressed that the Petroleum Industrial Act (PIA) had already provided for the removal of petro­leum subsidy. Rep Commends Akeredolu’s Commitment To Security In Ondo UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference He also noted that the Ni­gerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) had stipulated that subsidy had to be removed by the end of February 2022 (next month end). Ibru, however, main­tained that the challenge of the removal was that if implemented, the subsidy removal would be coming very close to the election­eering period. He stressed: “Govern­ment certainly needs to de­velop the required political will to ensure the successful removal of subsidy,” adding that without such a political will, subsidy removal might be extremely difficult to im­plement. According to Ibru, the winning strategy would be for both the ruling All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) and the opposition parties to be on the same page, add­ing that the political parties should “realise the urgent need to remove subsidy so that the Federal Govern­ment can prevent a serious national public finance cri­sis.” According to him, the cost of subsidy had been enormous and incalcula­ble as the nation had been spending trillions of naira on fuel subsidy every year to the detriment of the poor. POLL Ibru also called for re­form in the nation’s elec­tric power industry to en­courage entrepreneurship, even as he made a case for privatisation of more public owned enterprises. He expressed the need for governments to use Public-Private Partnership (PPP) to deliver infrastruc­ture and improvement of the Environment for Doing Business, among others. Also speaking, Vice Chancellor, the Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. Ibi­yemi Ibilola Olatunji-Bello, maintained that entrepre­neurship was very crucial to the nation’s overall econ­omy. She maintained that en­trepreneurship had been adding to national income, generating wealth and had been leading to creation of new markets. Prof. Olatunji-Bello stressed that due to the im­portance of entrepreneur­ship, LASU had had made it a core course for its students to make them think like entrepreneurs and enable them become competitive in the real world.