UYO – Akwa Ibom State Coordinator for Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs), Dr Aniekeme Uwah, has blamed most cases of poor academic performance by children on (NTDs). Uwah said roundworms (intestinal worms) which are responsible for one of such diseases are capable of causing mental weakness due to their adverse effect on the blood supply of its victim. Speaking during a road walk to mark the 2022 NTD day in  Uyo on Friday, Uwah who is also the National Publicity Secretary of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) advised parents to allow their school-age children to accept free drugs administered as prevention against NTDs in schools. Ukrainian President Downplays Talk Of Russian Invasion 10 Injured In Pittsburgh Bridge Collapse Referring to this year’s theme; “Achieving health equality to end the neglect of poverty-related diseases” the state coordinator thanked the Helen Keller Foundation for the supply and administration of free drugs to communities and schools in the state. In his words “Children who are affected by NTDs may find it difficult to do well in school. That is because intestinal worms suck blood from their victims and such may affect their intellectual development. “Sometimes you feed your child but without good health, even our pregnant women with NTDs may have issues with shortness of blood. “Let us join hands to fight these illnesses. Whenever drugs are distributed to communities, please accept them as they are without side effects. When your children go to school and are given a form that requires your consent for those drugs to be administered to them, please accept them. Majority of parents reject those drugs,  but they are harmless to the children. “Last year, we identified some cases of hydrocele, a condition which enlarges the scrotum, and cost of operation was about N300,000, we were able to identify and carry out free surgeries for 13 of them in partnership with Helen Keller, Ubotex and Hensek Integrated Services. For this year, we have so far identified two, we need more partners to join us to help our people,” he said. POLL He used the occasion to commend Akwa Ibom State  Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel and Commissioner for Health, Prof. Augustine Umoh for prioritising healthcare development in the state. He also thanked NTDs Ambassador, Mr Ime Bishop Umoh (aka Okon Lagos) for joining the campaign against Neglected Tropical Diseases in the state. In a press conference that preceded the Walk, the Hon. Commissioner, Ministry of Health, Prof. Augustine Umoh had identified the ongoing effort to rejuvenate the primary healthcare sector in Akwa Ibom State as one of the steps to tackle NTDs in the state. Umoh had informed newsmen that 231 Primary Healthcare Centers in Akwa Ibom were earmarked to benefit from funds made available by the Federal government to revamp the PHC sector. He blamed NTDs which he said are common in low-income populations in developing regions of Africa, Asia and the Americas on poverty and poor hygiene. Jason Momoa In Negotiations To Feature In ‘Fast &… Oil Set For 6th Straight Weekly Gain Amid Tightening Supply “According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), NTDs are prevalent in areas with a high level of poverty, poor sanitation, poor access to potable water supply, poor housing conditions, poor access to qualitative health care services and ignorance,” he said. The Health Commissioner who recalled that in 2019, the Akwa Ibom State NTDs programme achieved 75% therapeutic coverage in the five highest-burden NTDs, admitted that much work still needed to be done in the area of sensitization of the general populace on the need for proper environmental sanitation and improved personal hygiene. He also recommended discouragement of open defecation, drinking of clean and potable water, and, reporting early for diagnosis and proper treatment. Speaking further on efforts by the state government to tackle the menace, he said: ”Furthermore, to give credence to the giant strides being recorded by the state in the fight against NTDs, in the second week of February 2021, a Pre-Transmission Assessment Survey (TAS) was conducted in Uruan LGA (a Lymphatic Filariasis endemic LGA) by the Federal Ministry of Health and the state passed. It is instructive to note that was the first time such an exercise was conducted in the state. ”A similar survey has also been conducted in Eastern-Obolo, Etim-Ekpo and Ikot-Ekpene LGAs in the state about a week ago and it is our hope  that when the results are released by the Federal Ministry of Health, the state will still pass.” He acknowledged the role of the National Coordinator and the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) NTDs team in providing the needed drugs, support and supervision for the fight to control and eliminate NTDs in Akwa Ibom State. On his part, the NTDs ambassador and Nollywood Actor, Ime Bishop Umoh (Okon Lagos) encouraged Akwa Ibom people to embrace the available medical provisions. He assured the people that NTDs are not caused by supernatural powers as superstitiously propagated by the rural populace.