Barely one year since the retirement savings account transfer system was opened, over 38,518 RSA holders have switched their pension fund administrators (PFA), Daily Independent has learnt. The reason for changes has been attributed to unsatisfactory service delivery and low returns investment returns as well as keen competition the transfer system has brought to bear on the operators as they brace to outwit themselves by posting competitive returns in their respective funds categories. The Nigerian Pension industry recorded significant growth in 2021, in terms of net asset value, hitting a record high of N13 trillion in September 2021. However, the industry was only able to post an annual 6.42per cent return on investment based on the fund price analysis of the 22 licensed Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), carried out by market analysts. PTAD Uses Repatriated N19.610bn To Fund Pension Liability Great Nigeria Insurance Re-Enacts Commitment To Excellence In… Since the official opening of transfer window by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), which allows Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders to switch from one Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to another, the pension industry has not been the same. According to analysts, the industry was only able to return single-digit gains, which could be easily eroded by a significantly high headline inflationary pressure. A cursory look at where the contributors’ money was being invested shows that as of September 2021, N8.22 trillion representing about 70per cent of the total net assets was invested in FGN securities, most of which were in bonds. The report further noted that 17.6per cent of the PFA funds were invested into local money market instruments at N2.29 trillion, which includes bank placements and commercial papers with a sum of N116.84 billion invested in mutual funds within the period under review. This, accordingly, represented a 27.6per cent decline year-to-date. The industry’s investment in the local stock market bourse increased marginally by N15 billion, representing a 1.7per cent uptick compared with N858.5 billion recorded as of December 2020 to stand at N873.5 billion. POLL Pension market report also noted that the PFAs reduced their exposure in the stock market to 6.72per cent from 6.98per cent that was recorded as of the beginning of the year. On the other hand, the NGX Pension Index grew by 16.96per cent in the review year, beating the stock market single digit returns. The stock market as a whole did not perform any better, as the All- Share Index only grew by 6.2per cent in 2021, failing to capitalize on the 50per cent returns it recorded in the previous year.