Paris Saint-Germain are in talks to sign Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba and Tottenham target Franck Kessie on pre-contract agreements, according to reports. The French giants are looking to capitalise on a number of cost-effective opportunities at the end of the season for the second successive summer after previously landing Gianluigi Donnarumma, Lionel Messi, Sergio Ramos and Georginio Wijnaldum on free transfers in 2021. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. Paris Saint-Germain are in talks to sign Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba and Tottenham target Franck Kessie on pre-contract agreements, according to reports. The French giants are looking to capitalise on a number of cost-effective opportunities at the end of the season for the second successive summer after previously landing Gianluigi Donnarumma, Lionel Messi, Sergio Ramos and Georginio Wijnaldum on free transfers in 2021. Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… There is hope that those key players could help the club secure their first-ever Champions League trophy after falling short in the final against Bayern Munich in Lisbon back in 2020. Yet should PSG wish to achieve that, they will also be determined to keep star man Kylian Mbappe. The Frenchman is now understood to be considering signing a new contract in Paris with his current deal up at the end of the season. Real Madrid are patiently waiting in the wings after Mbappe refused to leave PSG mid-season this month. According to ESPN, PSG are trying to pull off two major signings as part of their plan to convince Mbappe to stay. POLL The report claims the club are now in talks with both Pogba and Kessie over potential free transfers this summer. As the pair are now in the final six months of their current contracts, they are free to negotiate with foreign clubs. United are believed to have offered Pogba a new contract but their midfielder is yet to respond. Instead, Pogba is said to be biding his time and waiting to see who United appoint as their new manager this summer. The World Cup winner started the season off in incredible form, registering seven assists in the club’s first few Premier League matches of the campaign. Mental Health: Lagos Tackling Challenges With Building Of First… Arsenal Handed Arthur Melo Transfer Boost But since then, Pogba has struggled for fitness after suffering a thigh injury while away with France. Ralf Rangnick, however, was impressed by what he saw from Pogba in his first training session back with the United squad. “What you could see from the very first day in training yesterday is that he’s present. He’s physically present, he’s mentally present,” he said. “What I saw in training yesterday was very promising for the future and I’m very much looking forward to having him available in two weeks’ time after the international break, and I think he will be a serious candidate for the first XI.” Tottenham are also keen on landing AC Milan midfielder Kessie, who is also on course to change clubs this summer. The Ivorian, who is currently away at the Africa Cup of Nations, has failed to agree a new deal at the San Siro, plunging his future into doubt.