Prophet (Dr.) Samson Ayorinde, Founder and General Overseer, World Evangelism Bible Church Incorporated (WEBIC), has asked politicians to have the fear of God and avoid bloodshed as the general elections approaches. Ayorinde, in a recent parley with journalists on his prophecy for 2022, charged Christians to be more proactive and steadfast in their relationship with God. He called on the nation’s leadership to commit more in dealing with Boko Haram, stating, “There will be some improvement in curtailing the excesses of Boko Haram, but the government should be more sincere and determined in this area. Divine Knowledge, Anti-Dote To All Human Afflictions, Says… UNILAG VC Appreciates God, Supporters For Victory Over Travail “Our borders should witness more security alertness to check the influx of foreign fighters into the country. “…I implore politicians to discard the policy of do-or-die approach by not shedding blood because doing so carries severe penalties from God on them and their families. I pray God has mercy on Nigerians.” The preacher called on the aviation authorities in Nigeria to be on the alert to avert plane crashes this year, adding that food insecurity was imminent. “The officials must be vigilant. Food scarcity will occur this year leading to inflation of food prices and starvation, but with prayers, this could be minimised. “The government of Nigeria should put in more efforts to check insurgency in the North so as to allow access to farms. God provides food for the fish in the rivers and birds in the sky, therefore, the children of God shall not lack,” he said. POLL Also speaking at the press briefing, the wife and co-founder of the ministry, Prophetess (Mrs) Mercy Ayorinde, said her contribution to her husband’s ministry was the ‘Operation Fruitfulness’ programme. On how she began the programme, Mrs Ayorinde said: “I had the vision to commence it during a 30-day marathon praying and fasting 21 years ago. “I joined my husband who was observing 40 days of dry fasting. There were four women who were praying with me then. They were looking for the fruit of the womb. God answered their prayers. “I observed another 40 days marathon; it was on the 37th day that the angel of the Lord showed me in a dream, a new bulldozer. He gave me the key, asked me to operate it, which I did. I woke up, relayed the dream to my husband, it was from then on he started calling me ‘Bareness Bulldozer’. “Also, I had another 30 days marathon; when I dreamt of seeing a baby’s bath hub placed on the altar. There were so many can openers inside it. I started giving them to women seeking babies. In the dream, I told them they should use the openers to unlock their wombs…”