LAGOS  – Expectations for a more refined electoral process were high late last year before President Muhammadu Buhari returned the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021 to the National Assembly after withholding assent to the controversial bill, insisting that the inclusion of the mandatory direct primaries in the bill might pose financial, legal and security challenges. The reasons given by the president included the fact that the direct primaries clause threw up several challenges, one of which was the cost of conducting direct primaries. According to him, direct primaries would increase the Federal Government’s financial burden because they were expensive to conduct. Aside from the cost implication, the president explained that direct primaries would stifle smaller parties and also raise security concerns since there would be a large turnout of voters during the conduct of direct primaries. Delta Monarch Commends Okowa, Offers Scholarship To 48 Students 2023 Governorship Race: Enugu East Insists On Ticket Buhari added that political parties should decide the best way to pick their candidates for elections, noting that his stance was based on careful review and consultations, just as he added that the move would also lead to more litigations by party members. But supporters of the amended bill have claimed that it has many innovations that would improve the electoral fortunes of the country and allow it to be at par with global standards. But President Buhari, who had vowed to reform the electoral process, after clinching the presidency in his fourth attempt, declined his assent over an aspect of the bill: direct primaries for parties as against indirect primaries which allowed governors more latitude to influence the electoral process. NASS Bypasses Veto Power Many had thought that the National Assembly would use its constitutional power by vetoing the president, but they were disappointed when the Senate, on Wednesday, December 22, 2021, failed to override the veto of the President. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, after an executive session, said the lawmakers had decided to take the President’s rejection of the bill to their constituencies during the Christmas and New Year holidays before deciding on the next line of action. This is as the House of Representatives led by Femi Gabajabiamila had resolved to debate the matter after they returned from recess in January. POLL Lawan, after the Senate emerged from an executive closed-door session to deliberate on the President’s decision to withhold assent to the electoral bill passed by the National Assembly, said the chamber would consult with the House of Representatives on how to respond to the President’s decision to veto the bill. He noted that the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), do not permit the chamber to exclusively take any action on overriding a Presidential veto in the absence of the House, adding that a joint position would be reached with the House after due consultation with Nigerians to determine the appropriate line of action, after both chambers reconvene from the Christmas and New Year break. Speaking on what transpired in the closed session, Lawan said, “The Senate, in a closed session, deliberated on matters relevant to the workings of the Senate in particular and the National Assembly in general. The Senate, also in the closed session, discussed how to respond to the letter from Mr. President on the electoral bill amendment. “The Senate consequently resolved to consult with the House of Representatives in January when both the Senate and House will be in session. “Presently, the House of Reps has gone on recess and, like we all know, the constitutional provision is for the Senate and House of Representatives to jointly take the appropriate action. Allowing Terrorists Mount Roadblocks Amount To Having Two… Sports Minister Mourns Olubadan’s Passing “The Senate also resolved to consult with our constituents during our recess in January. The Senate believes that our constituents have a role to play as the major stakeholders in the laws that we make in the National Assembly.” However, SUNDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that the leadership of the House was waiting on the Senate to override the President’s veto and then the Reps would follow suit, a decision said to have been communicated to the Senate President. How Govs Intervened Some governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who were said to be aware of the plan to override the President’s veto, quickly relocated to Abuja and began lobbying Lawan and some other influential lawmakers. The Senate President is, however, being accused of being clever, as there are claims that he (Lawan) had been informed that once the Senate overrides the President’s veto, the House of Representatives would concur. Many Nigerians were happy with the national assembly when the direct primary mode was approved as they hoped that the decision if assented by President Buhari, will help resolve the never-ending delegate list dilemma, as well as the disagreement over which faction should elect the candidate. Many expressed the view that the direct primary mode will also help to ensure citizens’ engagement in political party activities; the appeal of everyone casting their votes to select the party candidate will encourage more people to participate in the activities of the political parties. That mode of electing candidates will help to dispel the perception that political parties are mere tools for godfathers as members would be having a say in how the party is being run. Furthermore, power of interference by the judiciary will be lessened in electoral processes since the common dispute over who was elected by the legally recognised faction and delegates will be reduced. Petitions are filed every election cycle regarding who should represent the party after the different factional primary elections. However, with direct primary, all party members will vote, avoiding factional primaries by forcing all factions to compete for who has the majority of party members on their side. Though there have been insinuations that certain individuals within the APC are behind the move to impose direct primary on all political parties, a move believed to be targeted at governors who are perceived to have always benefitted from indirect primary. Presidency Justifies Decision The presidency, however, has continued to give reasons why the controversial bill should not see the light of the day. Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, on Tuesday claimed that signing the bill into law would have put Nigeria in a dire financial situation. According to Shehu, the President’s decision to withhold assent from the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2021, has come under scrutiny from media and political circles. “This is quite correct because it is a decision that will impact all Nigerians. The President’s Office has decided therefore to issue an official statement to make its position clear. “Nigeria’s strength as a nation and its status as one of the wealthiest economies in Africa with one of its highest standards of living owes above all to its proud democratic processes, which are enshrined in the Electoral Act of 2010. “It is this act which the new bill seeks to amend. These amendments have been presented as a means to enhance and build upon our democratic processes. After careful review, the President’s Office has found that the opposite is true. “Rather, the proposed amendments entail significant legal, financial, economic and security consequences for all Nigerians, principal among which would be a severe spike in the cost of holding primary elections by parties – integral to democracies the world over. “And who would shoulder these costs? The Nigerian taxpayer of course. And who would benefit? Only the richest of political parties. At a time when the nation is seeking to extricate itself from the economic mire of the worst global health crisis in living memory, whatever other merits the new bill may have, now is not the time for such frivolous spending of public money. “Inevitably, the usual voices are making themselves heard, with cynical claims of election rigging and so on. This is nothing new. We heard their self-serving cries of fraud in 2015 when we saw the first peaceful transfer of power in independent Nigeria’s history. Then again in 2019, when President Buhari was re-elected with a lead of over three million. We will hear from them again in 2023. “Until then, the President will do whatever he can to protect this country’s democracy, and that includes withholding assent from this Bill. It is worth noting that, as one of Nigeria’s largest political parties, the ruling APC is one of those that stand to benefit from a bill that favours wealthier parties. But it is not the job of this government to protect the APC. It is the job of this government to protect Nigeria, her people and her democracy. “To those that would rather that limited public funds be spent on politicking during this time of global crisis, we say: cease these cynical games. Tell the Nigerian people openly what you want. Put your – or rather their – money where your mouth is,” Shehu said in the statement. Malami’s Thesis On his part, Abubakar Malami, Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, insisted that the amended electoral bill would worsen insecurity and political instability if allowed to stay. Malami, who is believed to be the brain behind President Buhari’s decision to withhold assent to the bill, said in a phone-in programme on Radio Kano, that the electoral bill had “excessive cost implications, and hence would not be signed by the president.” According to Malami, the new electoral bill “has not captured the interest of all Nigerians”. He said signing it into law by the president will further create more crises in the political space. “What you should understand about leadership of the country most especially as it regards President Muhammadu Buhari on any law presented to him for signing, the president is entitled to certain rights. “When you talk about politics he has rights, if you talk about economy the business community also have rights on him, if you are talking about 60 percent of Nigerians that are not politicians, if you talk about the economy he also has rights. If you are talking about security, there is also what is expected from him. The president has to consider laws that are sustainable. “The job of the president is that of politics, economy, business, security, legislations, politicians and non-politicians. This is because the leadership of the country is not for the politicians alone, it is a leadership that affects the social life of the people, their religion, economy, security and others. This is contrary to the leadership of the legislators which is solely political. “The lawmakers are only concerned about their political inclination while the president is concerned about the entire lives of Nigerians made up of politicians and non-politicians.” The AGF said that any bill signed into law by the president must be in the interest of all Nigerians irrespective of their inclinations. “He is after satisfying the interest of the over 200 million Nigerians he is serving and not a particular sector,” he added. On the financial burden in the new electoral bill rejected by the president, he said: “Today INEC requires N305 billion for the 2022 general elections. Now if the general election, which is not the newly proposed electoral system, will cost this much, how much will it cost to do the same election in the APC? It might cost at least N200 billion because it will involve everyone. “Although the good side of the law is that INEC is required to monitor it. Therefore, if it is assumed that every political party will spend N200 billion, how much will then be spent in conducting the same primary election in 18 political parties just to produce a qualified candidate? “Let’s assume there are about 60 million politicians in the country, what about the remaining over 160 million Nigerians who have nothing to do with politics? Are you fair to them? “All the people want are good projects, a good road from Abuja to Kano, potable drinking water, good education, school feeding programme and the rest of them. “Are you fair to the 160 million Nigerians using their wealth just to conduct primary elections to produce a party candidate, despite other demands by the public? “My answer to this is that, to spend this N305 billion that will be given to the INEC and the about N200 billion to be given to the political parties is not fair to the remaining 160 million Nigerians who have no business about politics and political appointments. Their business is just a better life in Nigeria. This is the issue of cost implications.” NASS Takes Flak Analysts have continued to argue that the ninth National Assembly have consistently displayed that it is only rubberstamp legislature and a toothless bulldog. While the lawmakers were expected to use their constitutional given power on the bill, they could not but were able to hurriedly proceed to grant approval to the President for more loans and also pass the “much inflated budget” wherein constituency projects have been sufficiently padded to empower the legislators to slug it out with their governors for the 2023 campaigns. According to Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, “It has now been suggested that it was all a plot by the ruling party to hoodwink Nigerians and that the section on direct primary election was only a booby trap inserted deliberately to truncate the desire of Nigerians for electronic transmission of results. Well, whatever it is, history will not be kind to those who have the golden opportunity to advance our democratic credentials but choose to bungle it. “Now, all the reasons advanced by the President in his letter to the National Assembly for withholding his assent to the Bill relate to national security, legal matters, economic capacity and fundamental right of choice. The problem with this fencing mechanism is that these reasons will also plague the general elections in 2023, if not frontally addressed now through the passage of the Bill on electoral reforms. Whatever security challenges there are that would not allow primary elections to be held would certainly be more devastating for the general elections. Indeed, this would have been the best time to test the potency of our soldiers and law enforcement agencies,” he said in a recent article sent to media houses. “It is clear that from the point of view of the President, he has achieved his major ambition to rule Nigeria and he is thus not concerned with any enduring legacy of electoral reforms. That is his own personal choice but our elected representatives must not tow the line of those who grabbed power and lost the opportunity to transform society. The President is a product of direct primary election, but if it suits him to jettison the same system that paved way for his ambition, then history will be the judge, but as for our legislators, the day of reckoning is very near,” part of the article read. Action Foretold Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, late last month, accused the National Assembly of lacking the temerity to veto the President, over his refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. Wike, who made the assertions at the turning of the sod of the Chokocho-Igbodo Road, which was performed by Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State in the Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State, said the federal legislature lacked the courage to veto the President, because it was part of the APC scheme to deny Nigerians free, fair and transparent elections in 2023. The governor’s media aide, Kelvin Ebiri, quoted Wike as saying this in a statement he made available to journalists. The governor recalled how most people did not believe him when he raised concerns that President Buhari would not sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law to give legal impetus to electronic transmission of election results. “Three weeks ago, I told Nigerians that there is a conspiracy not to have free, fair and transparent elections in 2023 and that conspiracy was very clear and I told Nigerians that Mr President would not sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill,” he said. Wike stated that having known the modus operandi, style and strategy of the APC, it was obvious to him and all discerning minds that the clause on direct primaries was inserted into the bill as a ploy for the President to refuse assent to it. According to him, the APC members are afraid that if results are transmitted electronically, they will not survive the 2023 general elections. The governor stated, “What the APC resolved in the meeting they had was that their problem is not necessarily direct primaries, but the electronic transmission of results in 2023. “If they allow that, obviously the APC will lose the election in 2023 and they told themselves that the only way they can survive that is to include the direct primaries in the bill so that Mr President can use that as an excuse that he will not sign the bill.” He accused governors of the APC and their National Assembly members of deceiving Nigerians that they were engaged in a battle of supremacy over the issue of direct primaries, whereas they had secretly agreed to scuttle the possibility of transmitting election results electronically in 2023. Wike said the National Assembly did not have what it takes to veto the President’s refusal to assent to the bill, maintaining that the lawmakers are not interested in protecting the interest of Nigerians and ensuring that elections are free and fair with the electronic transmission of results. “Unfortunately, you don’t have a National Assembly that has what it takes, that will stand for the people, that will say look we were elected by the people and we want to give the people the best. Nobody in the National Assembly, not even the leadership, can have what it takes to say Mr. President for the interest of Nigerians, we are going to veto your refusal,” he said. The governor maintained that because the APC did not take the interest of Nigerians as a priority, its leaders were immersed in crisis while jostling for benefits that fan their personal egos. Nigerians have also been reacting to the failure of the National Assembly to use its veto power immediately but rather decided to wait till January before it decides on what to do. Democratic Angle Of Direct Primaries Jezie Ekejiuba, Human Rights lawyer and President, Voters Rights International, said, “What we are practicing here is not democracy but dictatorship. If we are practicing democracy, the National Assembly would be on the side of the people because direct primaries is all about democracy. “What members of the National Assembly have done is against the people they represent, which is why after collecting signatures, they chickened out. By January they won’t do anything again and there is nothing the people can do. “The President rejected the bill because of direct primaries when most people want it. Indirect primaries is when they pay money to some members of the party leadership to decide the candidates, which is not the practice of true democracy. No matter what it costs to practice democracy, we should do it since we have adopted the system”. Elder statesman and immediate past Secretary General of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Anthony Sani, argued that, “the rejection by President to sign the Electoral Amendment Bill has surprised many Nigerians for two reasons: It was President Buhari who insisted on direct primary by his party in 2019 and subjected himself to the direct primary while state governors under APC refused and conducted their own party primaries using indirect primary. As a result, many legislators under APC and some of us thought he was for direct primary and mobilized for its support. For the president to now turn against direct primary has stunned many Nigerians, especially his supporters. “The second surprise is the fact that the president’s rejection has created the impression that the government is at war with itself as APC, the ruling party controls both the Executive and the National Assembly. “The president’s letter to the National Assembly has also ignored the important advantages of direct primary which includes improvement of internal democracy by doing away with power and abuse of incumbency by governors and money bags who deploy their powers and hijack delegates during indirect primary. Rather, the president’s letter dwelt so much on fear. For example, the security challenges have been around for quite some time in Nigeria and have been reducing under this regime by the day, yet there have been general elections in this country. When the letter talks of high cost of direct primary, it feigns ignorance of the fact that direct primary takes place either at polling unit or ward level by only registered party members who are far fewer than registered voters. “The direct party primary could not possibly be more than the general elections. What is more, INEC has said it needs N305b for elections against the N500b being bandied about to frighten the government away from direct primary,” he added. As Nigeria enters the campaign year 2022, the electoral process would undergo another phase when the different positions already canvassed would be tested and seen more practically for future reference.