WARRI – Restoration Agenda, a group in the Delta State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has called on the National body of the party to urgently prevail on the leader of the party in the State, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege to prevent it from going into oblivion in the state. Prof. David Ejenobo, Mouthpiece of “Restoration Agenda” a pressure group within the Delta APC made the appeal while addressing newsmen at the NUJ Warri Correspondents Chapel Press Centre, he said that the group had met recently on how to save the soul of the party following the Saturday, January . 22, 2022 mass defection of APC stalwart and members to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. It could be recalled that Cyril Ogodo, former state Deputy Chairman of the party, Mr Cyril Ogodo, Sylvester Imonina, Acting State Publicity Secretary among others had on Saturday, January 22, 2022 formally joined the PDP at the party’s mega rally in Asaba. 2023 Presidency: Over 600 Women Groups Back Yahaya Bello Aregbesola, Others To Interface On Alma Mata’s Renovation… Prof. Ejenobo said that the appeal had became imperative if the party would make reasonable impact in the 2023 elections in the state. According to Prof. Ejenobo, “The National body of the APC should come in to do all it can to bring back sanity into the affairs of the party. The National body should prevail on the leader of the party in Delta, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege to shift ground by accommodating major stakeholders who felt marginalised and fenced out during the last congresses.” The erudite professor added, “by so doing, genuine reconciliation will take place and the party will be more united. If APC is to make impact in the 2023 elections in the state, this is the only part available to achieving the goal.” Prof. Ejenobo also frowned at the derogatory utterances against the new decampees saying that most of them had sacraficed their lives and means of livelihood for the party since it’s inception in 2013, adding, “majority of those referred to as traitors, stomach or disgruntled politicians were founding fathers of the APC who risk all for the enthronement of democratic practices in the party”. He spoke further, when men of such calibre decided to decamp and they are referred to as stomach politicians or traitors. That is far from the truth, they are not.” POLL Prof. Ejenobo then called on party faithfuls in the state to remain united in spite of the recent ugly development to achieve the aims and objectives of the party in the state. On the national scene, Prof. Ejenobo affirmed the group’s unflinching support to the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. He further added, “we urge him to give direction on the selection of who will take over from him as the next President because we are prepared to work with his directives. We pledge our willingness to work with whoever emerges as the candidate of the party for the presidential election.”