LAGOS  – Comrade Timi Frank, former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC) on Monday, condemned the ab­duction of a journalist from his house in Bayelsa State by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), on Sunday. It will be recalled that operatives of the DSS num­bering about 15 invaded the residence of the journalist and publisher of track news. ng, Bara Ogidi, and whisked him away in the presence of his wife and children to an unknown destination. Frank in a press statement said that the action of the DSS is believed to be in con­nection with Ogidi’s consis­tent reportage of an alleged controversial libel suit involv­ing the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content De­velopment and Monitoring Board, Simbi Wabote, and the publisher of Pointblank news, Mr. Jackson Ude, pres­ently being heard in the Unit­ed States of America (U.S.A). ICPC Graduates 246 Newly Recruited Officers From Training… Lagos Island Clash: NURTW Branch Chairman, Kunle Poly, Sego… Frank, who is the United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP), Am­bassador to East Africa and the Middle East, in a state­ment in Abuja, said it has been confirmed that Wabo­te ordered the arrest of the journalist using his office to compromise the DSS. He urged the DSS to ur­gently release Ogidi, who was merely carrying out his legitimate duty by reporting proceedings of the said case for the benefit of the reading public. The activist insisted that such Gestapo-styled abduc­tions are reminiscent of mil­itary juntas and should never be condoned in a democratic setting. While urging Nigerians to hold Wabote and the DSS responsible should any harm befall Ogidi in custody, Frank charged the Director General of DSS, Yusuf Magaji Bichi, to steer the service away from being used by political office holders to harass, intimidate and victimise innocent jour­nalists for exercising their constitutional rights. Frank noted that the wife and children of Ogidi have fallen under severe trauma over the action of the oper­atives against their husband and father respectively, and insisted that nothing short of unconditional and imme­diate release of the detained journalist would assuage their pains.