President Joe Biden tore into former President Donald Trump for watching TV while a mob stormed the Capitol on January 6, mocked his ‘bruised ego’ and called him the ‘defeated former president’ in his speech on Thursday in his most searing attack on his predecessor. Biden, with Vice President Kamala Harris by his side, addressed the Capitol attack from Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol – one of the rooms hoards of Trump supporters traipsed through as they tried to break into the House chamber as lawmakers worked to certify Biden’s election. ‘We saw with our own eyes rioters menace these halls, threatening the life of the Speaker of the House. Literally erecting gallows to hang the vice president of the United States of America,’ Biden recalled. ‘What did we not see? We didn’t see a former president, who just rallied the mob to attack, sitting in a private dining room off the Oval Office in the White House watching it all on television and doing nothing for hours.’ Three Protesters Shot Dead In Sudan Anti-Military Rallies Australia, Japan Sign Defense Pact As China Concerns Loom Biden went after the MAGA mob saying: ‘This wasn’t a group of tourists. This was an armed insurrection.’ ‘Here is the truth,’ Biden continued. ‘The former president of the United States of America created and spread a web of lies about the 2020 election.’ Trump did so ‘because he values power over principle. Because he sees his own interest as more important than his country’s interest, than America’s interest,’ Biden said. ‘And because his bruised ego matters more to him than our democracy or our Constitution,’ Biden stated. ‘He can’t accept he lost.’ Biden spoke at length about the legitimacy of the 2020 presidential election – as Trump has continued to spout the so-called ‘big lie,’ that he lost out on a second term due to widespread election fraud. POLL ‘The big lie being told by the former president and many Republicans who fear his wrath is that the insurrection in this country actually took place on election day November 3, 2020,’ Biden noted. The president said that Trump and his supporters are trying to ‘re-write history.’ ‘That the riot that took place on January 6 is a true expression of the will of the people. Can you think of a more twisted way to look at this country, to look at America?’ Biden asked. ‘I cannot.’ ‘Over 150 million Americans went to the polls and voted that day. In a pandemic. Some at great risk to their lives. They should be applauded not attacked,’ the president added. He briefly mentioned Democrats’ voting rights push, pointing out how ‘new laws are being written not to protect the vote, but to deny it.’ Pakistan Confirms Appointment Of First Female Supreme Court… Israel To Lift Travel Ban To US, UK Amid Omicron Spread Biden will travel to Georgia on Tuesday to give a broader voting rights address. ‘The former president and his supporters, the only way for them to win is to suppress your vote and subvert our elections,’ Biden said. ‘It’s wrong. It’s undemocratic, and frankly, it is un-American.’ The ‘second big lie,’ Biden continued, was Trump telling his supporters the results of the 2020 election can’t be trusted. ‘The truth is that no election, no election in American history, has been more closely scrutinized or more carefully counted,’ the president pointed out. ‘He was just looking for an excuse, a pretext to cover for the truth,’ Biden said. ‘He is not just a former president, he is a defeated former president.’ ‘Defeated by a margin of over 7 million of your votes. In a full and free and fair election,’ Biden continued. ‘There is simply zero proof the election results were inaccurate.’ A ‘third big lie,’ Biden said, came when Trump and his supporters called the MAGA mob who stormed the Capitol ‘the nation’s true patriots.’ ‘Is that what you thought when you looked at the mob ransacking the capitol, destroying property, literally defecating in the hallways?’ the president said. ‘Going through the desks of senators and representative. Hunting down members of Congress.’ ‘Patriots?’ Biden asked. ‘Not in my view.’ Biden said the true patriots were the country’s voters, the election workers and law enforcement who defended the Capitol on January 6. ‘You can’t love your country only when you win,’ he said. ‘You can’t obey the law only when it is convenient. You can’t be patriotic when you embrace and enable lies.’ Biden never used Trump’s name during the Thursday morning address, instead referring to him as ‘the former president.’ ‘I didn’t want to make it a contemporary political battle,’ Biden told reporters after he concluded his speech. In a statement after Biden’s speech, Trump again called the election ‘rigged’ and repeated ‘the Big Lie was the Election itself.’ ‘This political theater is all just a distraction for the fact Biden has completely and totally failed,’ Trump added, pointing to inflation, Afghanistan, the migrant crisis on the U.S.-Mexico border and the continued coronavirus pandemic, including school closures. In a second, post-speech statement, Trump made many of the same points. ‘Everything he touches turns to failure. That’s what you get when you have a rigged Election,’ the ex-president said. The Capitol building was quiet Thursday morning as Democrats prepared to spend the day in remembrance. There was a heavy police presence and several metal interlocking barricades surrounding the building. Snow was on the ground from the storm earlier in the week. Upon arriving at the Capitol, the president told reporters, ‘I’m praying that we never have another day like we had a year ago today. That’s what I’m praying.’ He was escorted into the building by Democratic leaders, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. Republicans have accused Democrats of playing politics with the anniversary. Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell called January 6 a ‘dark day’ in a statement but then pivoted to attacking Democrats for trying to change Senate rules in order to pass voting rights legislation. ‘It has been stunning to see some Washington Democrats try to exploit this anniversary to advance partisan policy goals that long predated this event,’ McConnell said. ‘It is especially jaw-dropping to hear some Senate Democrats invoke the mob’s attempt to disrupt our country’s norms, rules, and institutions as a justification to discard our norms, rules, and institutions themselves.’ Sen. Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican and close friend to Trump, reacted to Biden’s speech by saying, ‘What brazen politicization of January 6 by President Biden.’ ‘I wonder if the Taliban who now rule Afghanistan with al-Qaeda elements present, contrary to President Biden’s beliefs, are allowing this speech to be carried?’ Graham added. Trump was supposed to address reporters Thursday from his Mar-a-Lago resort, but called off the press conference Tuesday night. The Biden administration has been reluctant to directly discuss Trump particularly given that the former president continues the false claim that he won the 2020 presidential election. But White House press secretary Psaki did not mince words in her press briefing Wednesday about the administration’s view of Trump. The former president addressed his supporters outside the White House on January 6, 2021 before they marched on the Capitol and tried to stop the certification of Biden’s victory. House Democrats impeached Trump for his role but he was acquitted by the Senate. Biden has been ‘clear eyed about the threat the former president represents to our democracy and how the former president constantly works to constantly undermine basic American values and rule of law,’ Psaki said. She noted that Biden sees January 6th as a ‘tragic culmination of what those four years under President Trump did to our country.’ Psaki also went after members of the Republican Party who have supported Trump’s lie that he was the presidential victor. ‘What you’ll hear the president talking about tomorrow is the fact that you don’t just love your country when you win,’ she told Dailymail.com. ‘You love your country, you love democracy in any in any scenario, and what is most disappointing to him is that there has been a silence and, at times, a complacency by far too many Republicans who have sat by and defended the big lie and perpetuated misinformation to the American public.’ Democrats, meanwhile, are ramping up their probe of the January 6th insurrection ahead of Thursday’s one-year anniversary, considering ‘Watergate-style’ prime-time hearings with a bold-faced witness wish list that includes Mike Pence and Sean Hannity. Pelosi has a day-long slate of events planned for the one-year anniversary of the MAGA riot on Thursday, including a moment of silence on the House floor, testimony from lawmakers about their experience that day, and a prayer vigil on the steps of the Capitol. ‘These events are intended as an observance of reflection, remembrance and recommitment, in a spirit of unity, patriotism and prayerfulness,’ Pelosi wrote in a letter to lawmakers. Republicans, who have not revealed their plans for how they will mark the day, accused Democrats of grandstanding. ‘I think they will try to politicize the event,’ Republican Sen. John Thune said. In a bid capitalize on the anniversary, Democrats on committee are looking to crank up the pace of their probe and draw a massive audience with prime-time hearings. ‘I have favored this strategy from the beginning,’ Democratic Rep. Jamie Raskin, a member of the panel, told MSNBC’s Morning Joe on Wednesday. He said he wanted a Watergate-style approach, when the 1973 hearings into Richard Nixon’s presidency captivated America. At one point an estimated 85% of the country was tuned in to them. ‘I remember as a kid getting to watch a bit of the Watergate hearings, which were a daily spectacle that the whole country tuned into,’ Raskin said. ‘If we can do that for, you know, a break-in in a couple of offices in the Watergate hotel, certainly, we can do it for a massive break-in into the Capitol of the United States, a storming, and a seizure essentially of our government offices, an interruption of the peaceful transfer of power.’ Those prime-time hearings could occur in late March or early April, Rep. Bennie Thompson, the chairman of the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, told Bloomberg News. But no date has been set yet. ‘We’re working toward that,’ Thompson said. Those hearings would also feature high-profile witnesses, which would help them gain maximum exposure. Among those names beiing considered are former Vice President Mike Pence and Fox News host Sean Hannity. Pence was under heavy pressure from Trump to declare the 2020 election results invalid, wipe out Joe Biden’s victory and secure him a second term. The vice president has the symbolic role of presiding over the Electoral College certification of results. Pence was a target of the January 6th rioters, some of who threatened to hang him, and was evacuated from the Senate floor as the MAGA supporters stormed the Capitol. Thompson told CNN that he and the panel would like to hear from Pence. ‘I would hope that he would do the right thing and come forward and voluntarily talk to the committee,’ he said. ‘We have not formally asked. But if he offered, we’d gladly accept. Everything is under consideration,’ he added. So far, in its investigation, the committee has interviewed more than 300 witnesses, announced more than 50 subpoenas, obtained more than 35,000 pages of records and received hundreds of telephone tips through their Jan. 6 tipline, according to a tally by The Washington Post. Names are starting to be lined up for hearings. The panel on Tuesday asked longtime Trump supporter Sean Hannity to appear as a ‘fact witness’ in their investigation, noting how the Fox star was ‘expressing concerns and providing advice to the president and White House staff.’ The committee released several texts Hannity sent to then-White House chief of staff Mark Meadows. ‘I’m very worried about the next 48 hours,’ Hannity wrote on the eve of January 6th. On January 5, the eve of the Capitol attack, Hannity also texted to Meadows, ‘Pence pressure. WH counsel will leave.’ In the letter to Hannity, Thompson wrote the texts suggest ‘that you had knowledge of concerns by President Trump’s White House Counsel’s Office regarding the legality of the former President’s plans for January 6th.’ ‘These facts are directly relevant to our inquiry,’ Thompson told Hannity. Thompson also said that Hannity appeared to have ‘detailed knowledge regarding President Trump’s state of mind in the days following the January 6th attack.’ One of Hannity’s texts indicated he had a discussion with Trump on January 10 and it left the Fox News host concerned in the lead-up to President Joe Biden’s January 20 inauguration. ‘Guys, we have a clear path to land the plane in 9 days,’ Hannity informed Meadows and Republican Rep. Jim Jordan. ‘He can’t mention the election again. Ever. I did not have a good call with him today. And worse, I’m not sure what is left to do or say, and I don’t like not knowing if it’s truly understood. Ideas?’ On his Fox News show on Tuesday evening, Hannity launched into a stinging rebuke of DC officials and their ‘willing accomplices’ but didn’t mention the letter from the House committee investigating the MAGA riot. ‘I have an important message to all you elected swamp creatures in Washington, D.C., your willing accomplices, your press secretaries in the media mob,’ he began. ‘It is frankly repulsive, just repulsive that all of you sycophants, you sit idly by, you say nothing, you do nothing, as Joe Biden completely mismanages COVID-19,’ he said. Many Republican lawmakers criticized Trump in the immediate wake of January 6th – some even called him that day to encourage him to try and call off the rioters. But, many of them also have made amends with the former president in the months following particularly as Trump continues to hold a tight grip on Republican base. Many Republican senators, including McConnell, will be in Atlanta for the funeral of former Senator Johnny Isakson on Thursday. Earlier this week, members of the House panel indicated they had received testimony from inside Trump’s West Wing from January 6th that focuses on Trump’s failure to do more to stop the rioters. Republican Rep. Liz Cheney, the vice chair of the panel, revealed there was ‘firsthand’ testimony that Ivanka Trump twice asked her father to call off the rioters. ‘We know members of his family, we know his daughter – we have firsthand testimony that his daughter Ivanka went in at least twice to ask him to please stop this violence,’ Cheney said Sunday on ABC’s This Week. Ivanka reportedly referred to the insurrection as an ‘optics issue’ as it was taking place, according to Michael Wolff’s latest Trump book Landslide. She tried to stop the riot herself, tweeting: ‘American Patriots – any security breach or disrespect to our law enforcement is unacceptable. The violence must stop immediately. Please be peaceful.’ The tweet has since been deleted. Meanwhile, the House committee has been rebuffed by several former Trump aides or advisers whose testimony was sought by subpoena. That includes former Trump strategist Steve Bannon and Meadows. Bannon has been indicted for criminal contempt of Congress for refusing to testify to the panel and awaits trial in July. The House in December voted to hold Meadows in contempt, referring the case to the Justice Department.