WARRI – The Leadership of Augoye Media Team has described their Principal, Chief James Augoye as the choice of majority of Deltans for the Delta Governorship race come 2023. The Media Team made this observation when they visited Chief Augoye at his Country home at Ugbokodo Okpe on the 4th of January 2022 to celebrate the Yuletide with him. Mr Paul Abaide the Director of Augoye Media Team in his speech during the visit stated that the level of commitment and interest by pressure groups,, clergy men, top Government Officials, Community leaders across the three senatorial districts who came to demonstrate their solidarity for Chief James Augoye’s Governorship Ambition speaks volume that indeed Augoye is the choice of Majority of Deltans. Aftermath Of Abia APC Chairman’s Death, Ex-bank Chief Emerges… Fayemi Expresses Fresh Concern Over Assaults On Uniformed Men In… According to Mr Abaide , James Augoye is a tested and a trusted man of character, who has proven his mettle as a detribalised Political leader with the requisite knowledge to build on the laudable achievements of Governor Okowa’s Stronger Delta vision come 2023. Mr Newton lzoukumor, the Secretary of Augoye Media Team Who also spoke noted that Chief James Augoye is a trustworthy and reliable leader that will take Delta State to the next level, after impacting positively on so many life’s during his time as the Delta State Commissioner for Works Who was a veritable tool to the achievements of the Road Master Governor. The Augoye Media Scribe explained that during the 2019 general election, Chief Augoye as the PDP. Campaign Chairman in Okpe Local Government Area, Played a fundamental role to garner victory for the party through effective mobilizationof the elders,the women and the youths at the grass root level. Mr Efemini Ubiame the PRO of the Augoye Media Team in his speech remarked that Chief James Augoye is a grassroot Politicaian who rose through the ranks to gather experience from the lowest Political office to the level of Commissioner where he played a strategic role as a member of State Executive Council to the constellation ofall. Honorable Jackson Olokpa, the adviser of the Augoye Media Team Who also made his contribution called on all well meaning Deltans , political leaders, royal fathers and stakeholders across the Social strata of Delta State to stand and support the dream and vision of Chief James Augoye to consolidate on the laudable achievement of Governor Okowa. POLL Chief James Augoye while addressing his teaming supporters thanked the people for the rare show of their solidarity and the massive expression of support for his Gubernatorial Ambition. He Promised Deltans that he will meet up their expectations if he is given the opportunity to take over the saddle of leadership to consolidate on the giant strides of Senator Dr Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa,the Ekwueme of the Universe, the talk na do Governor of Delta State.