EMMANUEL OBETA Employee/member relations Employee relations refer to an organization’s efforts to create and maintain a positive and constructive relationship with their employee, which is aimed at keeping the employees loyal and more engaged in their work. Standard Chartered Launches Agency Banking CHI Launched Festive Season With Special Edition Packs Typically the responsibility of employee relations management like acting as a liaison or intermediary between employees and managers, creating or advising management on the creation of policies around employee issues like fair compensation, useful benefits, proper work-life balance, reasonable working hours, and others rests on the Human Resources Dept. However due to the intricate nature of these responsibilities and how vital they are to the success of the organization Public relation weighs in with its huge communication skills to assist in the realization of the goals of these objectives. The four “key pillars” of employee engagement are connection, meaning, impact and appreciation basically because employees want to feel connected to their colleagues and managers and to feel that their work has meaning and impact on the company, and also wants to be appreciated for the work they do. These pillars go beyond the core functions of their job and that of HR falling squarely within the domain of public relations and their expertise in achieving connection between people etc. through communication and other PR tools like event management. A major challenge of employee relations is conflict management, which arises in the form of disputes and disagreements between the business owner or management and employees or an employee or between employees themselves or between management and the union. POLL Conflicts arise mainly because different people have their different tolerance levels for different behaviors or things they find offensive or uncomfortable. Open communication in the workplace, clearly set standards of behavior as well as channels for employees to express their concerns anonymously, and provide constructive suggestions to improve the working environment helps minimise gossip and misunderstandings thereby helping employees bond and trust each other better as well as be open to discussion about what is bothering them. At the end of the day because the employees or members of the association are vital part of the organization’s public; the internal public, the organization through its PR dept devises a lot of strategies to manage these critical audience. The organization usually develops specialized means of reaching out to the employees like newsletters or an interaction forum with top management etc. to keep them informed about the management decisions and directions or vision or about the general happenings around the organization so as to keep them informed and engaged as well. Financial relations Safety Protocols: Unilever Rewards Transporters To Enhance… Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (11) This involves communicating not only with a company’s stockholders, but also with the wider community of financial analysts and potential investors. An effective investor relation’s plan can increase the value of a company’s stock and make it easier to raise additional capital. In some cases special meetings with financial analysts are necessary to overcome adverse publicity, negative perceptions about a company, or investor indifference. Such meetings may take the form of full-day briefings, formal presentations, or luncheon meetings. A tour of a company’s facilities may help generate interest among the financial community. Mailings and ongoing communications can help a company achieve visibility among potential investors and financial analysts. Annual reports and stockholder meetings are some of the most important public relations tools for maintaining good investor relations. Some companies hold regional or quarterly meetings in addition to the usual annual meeting. Other companies reach more stockholders by moving the location of their annual meeting from city to city. Annual reports can be complemented by quarterly reports and dividend check inserts or regular meet the shareholders forum like facts behind the figures usually held at the stock exchange building for financial investors and journalists. These can also be beefed up with newsletter or company magazine to these shareholders and the investor communities. Personal letters to new stockholders and a quick response to inquiries insure an additional measure of good will for the organization. Government affairs Public relations in the political arena covers a wide range of activities, including staging debates, holding seminars for government leaders, influencing proposed legislation, and testifying before a congressional committee, parliaments etc. Political candidates engage in public relations, as do government agencies at the federal, state, and local levels. Trade associations and other types of organizations attempt to block unfavorable legislation and support favorable legislation in a number of ways. Government relations (also known as government media relations) are a type of public relations that focuses on the communication between organizations and the government and is an essential tool for any business that depends on government regulations. The goal for government relations is usually to teach CEOs, industry leaders, and organizations what the government process is and how to communicate with the public about legislation and to build relationships between organizations and the government with the aim of creating positive interactions between the two. Government relations is very critical because legislations passed by the government has a major impact on businesses, so it’s important for organizations to understand current policies and to develop strategies to influence public policy which is the remit of government relations experts. Government relations can be used in a corporate setting to initiate lobbying efforts directed at legislators. Some of the major activities of government relations experts include development of strategies, mapping all stakeholders who influence government decisions that affect the business, researching policy and position papers, preparing businesses for governmental appearances and monitoring issues as they develop or unfold. An effective government relations strategy includes defining your issues, identifying legislative champions, building relationships with elected officials, and structuring a grassroots advocacy program, all of which are fundamental pillars in public affairs. +2348139322773