ABUJA – The Federal Government has assured the Gemstones and Jewelry trainees ensuring that their products are competitive with those imported into the country. The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Ach. Olamilekan Adegbite made this known when he visited the selected Nigerian youths being trained in various aspects of professional Gemstones and Jewelry making at the Jewelry Centre of Abuja Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Adegbite who was accompanied by the Project Coordinator, Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) Project, Engr. Sallim Salaam and the 1st Deputy President, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), Chief Emeka Obegolu, SAN said the Ministry engaged the services of experts to train selected 40 youths across the 36 States and FCT to participate in a train-the-trainer jewelry making programme in Abuja. Gov Emmanuel Wants Former Aspirants To Support Ekiti PDP… 2023: Fayemi’s Wife Denies Senatorial Ambition In a statement made available to newsmen by Etore Thomas (Mrs) Director Press&PR saidthe essence of the training according to the Minister, is to ensure that the trainees are able to impart knowledge acquired on other people. In his words, “The target is not just to train them but to set them up, we are using state selection, every State in Nigeria is represented here and by the time the programme is completed, we are going to have a revolution that will multiply and engage our teaming youth positively.” The Minister said the students are enthusiastic about the training and revealed that the second batch of training would resume in February, 2022. Minister said he relied on continuous support of ACCI to make the venue available as a center for other initiatives that would come up. Speaking earlier, the President ACCI, who was represented by the 1st Deputy President, ACCI, Chief Emeka Obegolu, in his welcome address, commended the initiatives of the Ministry and said Chamber is proud to support the Ministry’s efforts in promoting the Geological Institute of Nigeria and Mining Industry in the Country. A trainee from Edo State, Jessica Ogiuva who spoke on behalf of her classmates appreciated the opportunity given to them and promised to share the knowledge acquired with others in their respective States so as to add value to the gems and jewelry sector in Nigeria.