LAGOS – The recent tampering with some components of Arik Air aircraft at the airside of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos, may be the work of an insider who knew about the workings of aircraft, Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Au­thority (NCAA), has said. This is as Nuhu said that security agencies have taken over the investigation of the Boeing 737- 73V aircraft with registration number EI-ULN incident and expressed hope that the suspects would be exposed through the investi­gation. Speaking with Daily In­dependent in Lagos over the weekend, Nuhu said that the singular incident didn’t make Nigerian airports unsafe, in­sisting that it took someone with the knowledge of the industry to perpetuate the act. 2023: I’ll Rather Return Home Than Join APC – Senator… NURTW Clashes: Bode George Blames Sanwo-Olu, Says Lagos Island… The NCAA helmsman also said that such incidents hap­pen in other climes and not re­stricted to Nigeria alone, but assured that the regulatory body would put up measures to prevent a recurrence in the future. He said: “For all I can say, investigations are ongoing in the incident, but I won’t say it was vandalism. What hap­pens is that somebody who obviously knew where the air­craft is, somebody who knew obviously what he was doing went to the E and E2 com­partments, walked in there and removed a component professionally without dam­aging anything. So, figure out that for yourself. “As far as I am concerned, it is an ongoing investiga­tion. So, we will wait for the outcome of the investigation. It is very clear that I cannot go to the very technical part of the aircraft and remove something there. I must know something about it and I am not new to the system. Who­ever did that job knew what he was doing. The security agencies are investigating the issue. “How many aircraft have been vandalised in Nigeria in the past 10 years? Let’s not use a single issue to destroy our country. This is one in­cident, which seems to have been done by a professional, maybe an insider. Have we had any case of people going to vandalise an aircraft in the last 10 years? This is one case and we should not use it to destroy the reputation of our industry.” Recall that Arik Air air­craft was vandalised about two weeks ago by unknown persons, while its Flight Man­agement System was taken away in the process. POLL The FMS is a computer designed to provide virtual data and operational harmo­ny between closed and open elements associated with a flight from pre-engine start and take-off, to landing and engine shutdown. The aircraft was leased from Eznis Airways LLC, an airline based in Mongolia. The vandalism led to flight cancellations and postpone­ment by the airline, a source told Daily Independent.