For Nigeria’s education sector, 2021 remained an unusual period when teachers became apprehensive to teach. It marked a year the sanctity of the school environment was arrogantly eroded by dare-devil bandits as innocent school children were abducted for monetary exchange. The year 2021 marked a period when parents became apprehensive to send their wards to school in some parts of the country. It marked a period when government officials celebrated the release of abducted school children and parents wept after tortuous moments as the children regained freedom from their captors. Where teachers in the basic and secondary education recorded gains with a new salary structure approved by the president, ASUU’s struggle and revitalisation drive in the tertiary education sector remained unresolved. OYENIRAN APATA takes a look at the state of affairs. Excerpts: It marked a period when children were kept away from school and learning, not due to plague but due to activities of kidnappers that defied solutions proffered by those in authority. The Ivory Tower was not spared as lecturers go to bed and wake up at the mercy of hoodlums that invaded tertiary education campuses and staff residences with impunity. The lecturers and their families were kidnapped at will and only released after huge ransom payment. Ogun Undertaking Form: Ministry Monitors Compliance Level As… BREAKING: Kano Varsity Suspends Exams Over Tricycle… Smarting from the ravaging effects of COVID-19 lockdown, strike and other challenges, the sector was under threat. Apart from the disruption in school activities, the rising level of insecurity in the country, especially in the north, took a toll on the sector. With increased cases of kidnapping of school children, learning was disrupted, thus increasing the number of out-of-school children. Like in most parts of the world, schooling came with its fair share of challenges, putting students at the risk of losing their freedom. According to a report over 800 secondary school and university students were kidnapped in coordinated attacks by terrorists and bandits. In the northeast, at least 802 schools remained closed and 497 classrooms destroyed, with another 1,392 damaged but requiring huge sums of money to fix. For instance, on February 17, gunmen invaded a school in Niger State and kidnapped 41 persons. The gunmen raided Government Science College, Kagara, and abducted students and teachers. Less than 10 days after the bandits raided Kagara, gunmen kidnapped 317 pupils from Government Girls Science Secondary School, Jangebe, in Zamfara State. On March 11, gunmen attacked Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Igabi LGA, Kaduna State, and kidnapped 39 students, just weeks after a similar attack in Jangebe, Zamfara State. POLL On April 20, about 20 students and two staff were kidnapped in Kasarami village, Chikun LGA, Kaduna State, during an attack by armed bandits at Greenfield University, while on April 23, 2021, the kidnappers killed three of the students. On May 30, 2021, an unnamed armed gang abducted dozens of students from an Islamic school in Niger State. On June 17, heavily armed bandits struck at Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, Yauri Local Government Area of Kebbi State. In November 2021, four lecturers of the University of Abuja, and their children were abducted by bandits during the morning invasion of the institution’s staff quarters. They regained freedom after five days in the den of their abductors. The United Nations Children Education Fund (UNICEF) in a report said a total of 1,440 students were abducted while 25 attacks on schools took place in Nigeria in 2021. Nigerian children were subjected to a conflict that has ravaged their country for 12 years, suffering its consequences, the agency said in a statement on Tuesday. Provision Of Effective Internet Service: LASU, DVT… Oyo Government’s Support Has Earned Poly Ibadan… “Thousands of children in the region have been killed, maimed, abducted, displaced, and experienced multiple violations of their human rights,” the statement read. Nigerian children were direct targets and collateral victims of violence in their country. They were “caught up in the ongoing insecurity we are seeing across the country,” said Phuong T. Nguyen, UNICEF head of the Maiduguri field office in Nigeria. “This is unacceptable,” the officer said. The UNICEF report “shows the extent of the grave violations of children’s rights in Nigeria and across the West and Central Africa region,” Nguyen said. Though schools that were shut down in some violence-prone areas and states are reopening with caution, no doubt, the development has added to the over 13.5 million out-of-school children in the country. Available data showed 30 percent of pupils’ drop-out of primary school and only 54 percent transit to junior secondary schools. About 80 percent of out-of-school children today are in northern Nigeria. With security systems destabilised, schools closed due to insecurity and poverty ravaging the core north. The children became targets for terrorist recruitments. The year in retrospect was not about kidnapping and ills alone as the National Universities Commission (NUC) approved the establishment of 28 universities cutting across the states, federal and private entrepreneurs. The private university led the pack with 20 new institutions spread across the six geopolitical zones. The Federal Government sought and obtained approval for the establishment of four additional universities. These are the Federal University of Technology, Babura, Jigawa State; the Federal University of Technology, Ikot Abasi, Akwa Ibom State; the Federal University of Health Sciences, Azare, Bauchi State and the Federal University of Health Sciences, Ila Orangun, Osun State. Appeals by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) against the proliferation of universities by states for political reasons fell on deaf ears as NUC approved the establishment of three universities in Delta State and one in Ebonyi State. These are the University of Science and Technology, Ozoro; Dennis Osadebe University, Asaba, and the University of Delta, Agbor, all in Delta State and David Nweze Umahi University of Medical Sciences, Uburu, Ebonyi State. During the year, precisely to mark the 2021 World Teachers Day, President Muhammadu Buhari announced a new salary package for teachers with a caveat that its implementation would commence this January. However, as teachers earnestly look forward to the implementation of the new pay scale, the development generated controversy between the state governments that were quick to say the federal government cannot dictate to them what to pay to teachers in the state teaching service. State governments hinged the implementation of the new salary scale for teachers on the availability of funds, saying the Federal Government could not dictate to them. However, the Nigeria Union of Teachers’ General-Secretary, Dr. Mike Ike-Ene, in his response, dismissed the excuse given by the states and warned against playing politics with education. Speaking on the Federal Government achievements, the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, said the present administration has put in place the Better Education Service Delivery For All (BESDA) to address the problem of out-of-school children. Others are the Adolescent Girls Initiative for Learning and Empowerment (AGILE) programme; development of training manuals by the National Commission for Nomadic Education (NCNE); the engagement with the National Association of Proprietors and School Owners in Nigeria (NAPSON) for each school to take at least five out-of-school children off the streets; approval for the establishment of the National Senior Secondary Education Commission (NSSEC) to regulate secondary education in the country, and the establishment of additional six unity colleges, bringing the total to 110, among others. The demands by ASUU are yet to be fully met by the government. The union arm-twisted by the Federal Government suspended its planned strike but peace is yet to return to public Ivory Towers. In his assessment of the sector, Comrade Hassan Taiwo-Soweto, the Education Rights Congress (ERC) national coordinator said in a statement, “As it has been the pattern since the inception of the Buhari capitalist administration, the public education sector continued to suffer underfunding, commercialisation, infrastructural deficit, ill-motivated workforce, strikes and industrial turmoil caused by government penchant for defaulting on collective agreements and vicious attacks on workers and student activists.” Bullying Unfortunately, the year ended on a sad note for Dowen College, Lekki student, Sylvester Oromoni (Jnr), whose parents claimed was beaten and fed with a liquid chemical that eventually claimed his life. The Lagos State Government on January 5 cleared the five accused Dowen College students of complicity in the death of Sylvester Oromoni (Jnr) and also cleared five employees of the college of any blame in the case. The decision was conveyed in legal advice signed by Adetutu Osinusi, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). Oromoni died in November 2021 after efforts to save his life failed. The 12-year-old boy was alleged to have been attacked by five of his senior colleagues for refusing to join a cult. The President and Vice-Chancellor of Babcock University, Ilisan, Ogun State, Professor Tayo Ademola, attributed the rising incidences of bullying and other dangerous trends whereby students harass or beat up teachers to loss of value system. Mrs. Chinwe Obaji, the first female education minister in the country, said the homes cannot be completely absolved of the type of children they throw on the society and the school to manage. “Bullying is not a recent phenomenon within Nigerian society and academia. Education should be beyond academic learning alone. It revolves around inculcating morality, empathy, good conduct and respect in children. The first teacher for children is the mother before the school takes over.” Mrs. Folashade Ajayi, Executive Director, Life Skills Empowerment Initiative, an advocacy organisation, agreed with the former Minister of Education that parents are part of the problem because the character and attitudes children exhibit among their peers and in other public places speak volumes about the pattern of parenting they are exposed to at home. “As a parent, how do we train our children and what should we be doing in their presence?” she queried. However, issues that will affect the education sector in this New Year are the lingering ASUU crisis, kidnapping, insecurity in universities, and dwindling quality of learning occasioned by proliferation, increasing number of enlistments in the NYSC, and increasing graduate unemployment. Others are the charge to WAEC and NECO to maintain status quo, payment of new teachers’ salary by states, failing learning infrastructure, decadence among youths and children of school age, the rising cost of education generally in the country, imminent increase in fees charged in public universities and challenge of researchers to find solutions to local challenges, among others.