ONITSHA – Prominent people of Anambra State have continued to react to the recent appointment 80-man transition committee made up of technocrats by Anambra State Governor-Elect, Professor Chukwum Soludo. Reacting to the appointment in an interview, the President General of Aboji Akanano in Oba Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State, Chief Dozie Nweke, expressed impressive that Soludo governor-elect assembled such a good team of technocrats saying that his agenda is futuristic, good and exemplary. Nweke, who emphasized further on the composition of the list, said “What Soludo did is just beyond a group, as the diversity and pool of talents with hands-on experience found in the Transition Committee members apparently breaks the category paradigm. NSCDC Commandant Advocates Security Training For Pupils In Ondo Bayelsa Assembly Wants Probe Of Moribund State-Owned Motel “It is disruptive and breaks away from the usual, the common and unknown to many; it is a huge public relations win for the state which millions of public relations spend cannot achieve.” Nweke noted that the composition signals a readiness to adopt global best practices as a culture in Anambra State, adding that it is a manifestation of the Anambra Standards which Soludo glowingly says will be the anvil of the Anambra economic transformation Agenda According to him, Transaction Committee becomes imperative for an orderly and peaceful transfer of power. It is proper and in order for the new administration to move from the known to the unknown. He called on the people of Anambra State to reason with Prof Soludo ‘list of the Transition Committee which he said will work within a relatively short period to ensure that the incoming administration begins on a sound and solid footing while the outgoing one departs gloriously, as governance is a continuum, he said. The Community Leader noted that Prof. Soludo has hit the bull’s eye by selecting a committee to look into the recurring responsibilities of ministries and parastatals, current projects, tasks and projects to be completed before leaving, inauguration plans, search party, formation of government and others. POLL According to him, Soludo’s plans to make a lot of unsung heroes and champions of his generation in Igbo land part of his team. He commended the Governor-Elect for taking this bold step in picking this team who is mainly made of non-politicians,but beyond state and party divides in selecting appointees which will add value to governance. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the list has continued to generate mixed reactions from the public as most respondents believe that with the calibre and pedigree of technocrats appointed into the Anambra state transition committee, Prof Soludo has definitely given an indication of the style and quality of governance he wants to run in the state.