WARRI – A former member of the Delta State House of Assembly for Udu constituency, Hon Dr Liege-Lord Keston Okoro Mohammed Al-Amin has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party for the All Progressive Congress citing unfavorable political climate and the need to join the progressives to flush PDP from government house in 2023 as reasons. Speaking during his formal enlistment into the APC fold in his Ward 10 in Aladja, Hon Okoro Al-Amin stated categorically that he has not benefited anything from the PDP since he joined the party in 1999 till date when PDP started its reign in Delta State. He further noted that PDP denied him for his first and second attempts at contesting elective positions specifically election into the State House of Assembly and that it was when he decamped to the Democratic Peoples Party, DPP that God answered his prayers and he won his first election and became a member of Delta State House of Assembly. Presidency 2023: I Will Contest If PDP Zones Ticket To South… Bye-election: APC, PDP Adopt Indirect Primary Election In Ondo He added that after much pressure from his political families to return to PDP which he did and even consequent upon his unalloyed commitment to PDP in his quest for the second tenure, PDP also denied him the party ticket in most wicked and devilish manner by people in the helm of affairs. The National President of Urhobo People’s International Assembly said he can boldly hit his hands on his chest and say that all the years he spent in PDP are all in vain noting that he had never been accorded his pride of place in the party, and that there seem to be a devious cocoon of some cult-like tendencies in control of everything in PDP. Keston Okoro Al-Amin further disclosed that the PDP in Udu belongs to a very few set of people who the party and power that be at the state aim of affairs can use to satisfy their selfish and self-centered interest to the detriment of the Udu people and that those still in the party are deceiving themselves as only those who truly belong in that sect of power control everything in the Udu PDP. Lord Keston Okoro, who is also National President Of Nollywood Artists Association Of Nigeria said ‘’once the every few who controls the party at the State level and the government in charge see you as one they cannot use to satisfy the selfish and self-centered interests to the detriment of the general interest of the people or once you’ve been seen as one who stands to protect and advocates for the people’s legitimate rights and needs or who is very ready at any time to stand to correct or obstruct them whenever they’re trying to execute their wicked intentions against the people rights, they see you as a threat and thus they do everything possible to the cage and ensnare you in the box but little do they know that no man’s destiny is in their hands. ‘’Life is short and is dangerous wasting your time in a place where your importance is not acknowledged. I, therefore, see no reason to be subservient to elements who have not ran and won popular elections who are hell bent on boxing me around. I won a popular election under another political party to the House of Assembly before coming back to join the PDP. POLL ‘’The most ultimate thing in man’s life is the fulfillment of one’s interest and most especially the general interest of the people as such I can’t belong to a party where my interest and those of the interest of my people cannot be protected and actualize thus the best solution is to quit and go to where my people will be guaranteed a sustainable life. ‘’By the special Grace of God I am now fully in the APC to help prepare for the battle ahead and in 2023, everybody will answer his father’s name. We shall prove to all who truly own the votes in 2023. I am happy to be home in the midst of the progressives’’, he added. Hon Okoro Al-Amin added that he was sure the APC would rout the PDP in 2023 “even only if for the sake of a change of guard in Asaba. Only such a change could bring out the best of our people in actions and character”. Receiving the former House of Assembly member, Chairman of the APC in Udu LGA, Comrade David Rheriobore and his Exco members described Hon Dr Keston Okoro Al-Amin as a man of action and king of the boys, whom he said, will help build the APC in Udu and the State at large into a better winning vessel in the forthcoming elections noting that with his potentials as once National President of Niger Delta youths, Paramount President of Urhobo youths, National President of Urhobo People’s International Assembly, National President of Nollywood Artists Association Of Nigeria, and other positions too numerous to mention, he would make the APC and Delta State proud. He appealed to party members to be faithful and steadfast in their support for the party, assuring that APC was set to take over Delta State in 2023 and that when the time comes, Udu will experience better patronage in the state. APC Returns Ejidike As Chairman, Elects Other Officers 2023: PDP Accuses APC, FG Of Hiding Under Fuel Subsidy Scam To… He also appealed to his political allies who are still in PDP to have a fast rethink and retrieve their step as the progressive family is ever ready to receive them happily, emphasizing that APC is the only party with the right dignity and voltage to liberate Delta State from the grip of the PDP which, he said, had strangled good governance and democratic ethos in the land. Those with the party Chairman during the ceremony include Comrade Mike Ibada, Hon Edjoghene Onoseme, Chief C.C.I Whiliki and many others after which he was also hosted by aides to the Deputy Senate President His Excellency, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the Obarisi Of Urhobo Nation.