Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers reflected on his thoughts about the performances of the rising talents from the club’s academy. After the impending postponement of the Norwich game, the Foxes will be hoping to retain a sustainable squad that remains fit for their next fixture against Watford in the third round of the FA Cup. There remains a slight chance for Rodgers’ side to retain the FA Cup title. Hopefully, the outfit will be equally focused in all of their participating competitions, and winning either could reward them with a berth in UEFA Europa League. Biden To Talk With Ukraine’s Zelenskyy To Counter Russian… Everton In Talks To Sign Nathan Patterson From Rangers Leicester City Football Club can confirm that the fixture at home to Norwich City on New Year’s Day has been postponed due to player availability in the visitors’ squad. — Leicester City (@LCFC) December 30, 2021 With half of the squad out for contacting Covid-19 and a few remaining going out for the Africa Cup of Nations, the next few games will be a grueling test for the King Power club. The responsibility of results solely rests with the boss. Now, Rodgers needs to bring out his A-game. Tactical plays backed by resourceful talent from Leicester City’s academy graduates to grind out results with the odds stacked heavily against them. We have witnessed the flashes of old-school greatness from Kiernan Dewsbury-Hall. His style encompasses that of a dexterous midfielder from a bygone era. The reading of offensive plays had made him a cherishable favorite during his loan spell at Luton Town. “All the players’ pasts are different. Kiernan was different to Luke. He’s played just over 40 games now and each game he’s getting better. He’ll have come out of this Christmas period with huge confidence. I can see him growing and developing and maturing.” – Brendan Rodgers. Another talent who has had a similar trajectory of breaking into the first-team squad last season is the Leicester City left-back, Luke Thomas. It massively impressed the ardent Blue Army as the 20-year-old filled major loopholes in a depleted backline to contain the ever prowess nature of Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah. It was impressive how he marked the man throughout the match, keeping him at bay on the left side of the pitch. POLL “Kiernan was sensational the other night. I wanted to, along the line, give him a breather but it’s been difficult to do that. Having played on Sunday as well and done very well, to play at the level he did against Liverpool was absolutely brilliant. I’m delighted. He’s had to be patient but he’s shown that he’s going to be a very, very important player for Leicester City now and in the future.” – Brendan Rodgers Rodgers spoke in high esteem for both the youngsters at his disposal following their performances from the last outing. Shared responsibilities will be amplified by several notches in the coming weeks. The team would collectively be expected to perform with the highest intensity as the frontrunners remain unavailable for the east Midlands team.