One of Nigeria’s lead­ing civil rights advo­cacy groups, Human Rights Writers Asso­ciation of Nigeria (HURIWA) has raised the alarm that some dark forces embedded inside the Kaduna State govern­ment may have deliberately ‘poisoned’ or maybe contem­plating poisoning the Global Spokesman of the South­ern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) Comrade Luka Binniyat. HURIWA, in a statement made available to journalists, said Binniyat, is allegedly detained illegally at the max­imum-security prisons in Kaduna at the instance of the Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security, Samuel Aruwan. HURIWA, therefore, called on the Kaduna State Gover­nor, Nasir el-Rufai to call his commissioner to order to stop using the Kaduna State judi­ciary to illegally detain the Kaduna-born frontline inter­national journalist over a civil matter of alleged libel against the person of the aforemen­tioned Commissioner who incidentally hails from the same Southern Kaduna State and is also a trained journalist like Binniyat. Troops Recover Over 12m Litres Of Illegally Refined Oil In Niger… 24-Year-Old Nabbed For Stabbing Neighbor To Death “We call on the Kaduna State governor to prevent any untoward thing from being inflicted on the person of the detained journalist by some evil forces just as the detained journalist is confirmed criti­cally ill inside the prison by his wife who visited him Friday. “We call on the Kaduna State House of Assembly to ensure that the life of this il­lustrious son of the State is not endangered in any way by any reactionary elements whilst he is being illegally detained with­out bail for 63 days over a mere civil related cause of action which ordinarily shouldn’t be subjected to official manipula­tion, ” HURIWA stated. “On 3rd November 2021, a complaint was made to the Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, alleging that a news story, authored by Luka in the Epoch Times, a US-based magazine, defamed the com­plainant. ”Luka was alleged to have quoted Senator Danjuma La’ah, the Senator represent­ing Southern Kaduna in the National Assembly, but the senator surprisingly came out to deny making the com­ments he was quoted in the said publications. The police then arrested Luka, the next day, 4th November on charges of injurious falsehood and def­amation.” In the First Information Report (FIR), after Luka was arrested and before charging him to court, the complaint was changed to cyberstalking according to section 24 (b) of the cybercrime prohibition prevention act of 2015. Luka subsequently was detained in three different police facilities including the notorious CID cell where he passed through very dehumanising condi­tions. POLL Luka was taken to a Mag­istrate Court in Barnawa on the 9th and then on the 10th of November. Luka’s lawyers applied for his bail while the police prosecuting lawyers opposed it. On 10th November when his bail was denied, he was transferred to the Kaduna prison from the Police cell in Gabasawa. So, 63 days today, Luka is still in prison, waiting for his first appearance at the state High Court where the case would be starting afresh and the bail application starting afresh.