ABUJA – An Abuja based Pastor, Timothy Ademola has eulogised King Mohammed Adah, aka Ochacho, for his developmental strides in Benue state and Nigeria in general. As Chief Executive Officer of Ochacho Group of Companies, comprising Ochacho Real Homes, Ochacho Hotels, Ochacho Financial Services, Ochacho Farms, Ochacho Air, Ochacho Oil and Gas, Ochacho Bakeries, Ochacho Natural Water, Ochacho Pharmacy and Superstores, Pastor Timothy said the mega-rich entrepreneur has impacted positively in the lives of the needy. He described King Mohammed Adah as a “national patriot, an affable socialite, a car enthusiast, a football devotee, a quintessential youth role model, a private-enterprise icon, and a committed family man. 100 Shops Built On DSC Land Brought Down In Udu Alao-Akala To Be Buried On February 18 The cleric expressed happiness that Ochacho Real Homes, the flagship of the Ochacho Group, is today one of the leading international real estate brands in Nigeria, which presently has four world class mega estates in Abuja, and, is about to deploy a 33-storey highrise in Eko Atlantic City, Lagos, to accommodate seven hundred families. A statement made available to newsmen on Saturday, states that“Through King Moh’s entrepreneurial genius, Ochacho Real Homes has so far produced over 25,000 homes and has a standing staff strength of 1,200 professionals and artisans throughout Nigeria. Ochacho Real Homes has an equipment store of state-of-the-art construction and maintenance machinery estimated at nearly USD$2m. Many Nigerians he said are beneficiaries of the Ochacho Foundation, the philanthropic face of the Ochacho Empire, which has offered educational scholarship programmes that have bettered the lot of over thousands of indigent Nigerian students at all levels of education; embarked on public road infrastructure development programmes that have repaired, revamped and/or upgraded several stretches of public roads in the Otukpo Ohimini. “King Moh has also embarked on public education infrastructure development programmes that have repaired, revamped many public schools in Otukpo-Ohimini; as well as public street lighting programmes that have provided and deployed over 10,000 modern street-lamps in Otukpo-Ohimini. According to the man of God, King Moh has equally provided social amenities like free portable drinking water, boreholes, free feeding and hunger relief programmes, free medical assistance programmes etc for some indigent Nigerians, mainly in Otukpo-Ohimini, and the Federal Capital Territory. POLL He said the Ochacho empire is today driving the Ochacho Rapid Development Revival (ORDER), stressing that through King MohammedAdah’s dedication to giving back to society, uplifting thedowntrodden, helping the poor, empowering the youth and developing communities, in memory of his late mother, HajiyaOchacho Aloga. “Surprisingly, this drive has brought a lot of hostilities on King Moh from some ‘big Nigerians’ who see him as a threat to their autocratic political empires. King Moh as popularly called by admirers started the flagship of his Ochacho Group, Ochacho Real Homes Ltd, in 2008; and, his Ochacho Foundation in 2018. He is presently estimated to worth $144m in cash reserves, and $150m in estate holdings. As the Wakili Maiginan Kasan of Jiwa Kingdom, AMAC Area Council, Abuja and the Oyame of Otukpo, King Moh, outside these two titles, has not accepted other titles, awards or honours; insisting that whatever good a man does should be left to God Almighty to reward. “Over the years, he has politely turned down thousands of proposed titles, awards or honours even while appreciating the proponents for their goodwill towards him” Pastor Timothy stated. Born on 25th August 1977, in Kaduna to Elder Benson Adah and Hajiya Hauwa Ali Ochacho Aloga, the real estate mogul had his primary education at Army Day Nursery and Primary School, Makurdi, from 1981 to 1988; secondary education in Saint Francis College, Otukpo, from 1989 to 1993; and at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, from 1998 to 2002, where he graduated with B.Sc. Economics. 2023: PDP Women Vow To Mobilise 45 Million To Support Folks Murdered OAU MBA Student To Be Buried Today In Home Town He is married to the delectable Queen Ramatu Mohammed Adah and their union is blessed with five children.