AKURE – Cocoa and Plantain Farmers Association of Nigeria (CPFAN) has concluded plans to establish food processing factories in all the six geopolitical zones in the country. National President of the association, Ayodele Ojo disclosed this at the second anniversary celebration of the group in Akure, the Ondo State capital. He explained that the association was seeking assistance of the government at all levels for improvement in growing the two crops across states where they thrived. X-Raying Critical Role Rice Value Chain Plays In Economic… FG Tasked On National Quality Policy Implementation For Improved… Ayodele, who commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the support given to the group from inception, disclosed that the group demanded N2.5billion from the Anchor Borrowers Scheme to boost their farms. He said the country was able to survive during importation ban during COVID-19 pandemic outbreak because of money earlier released to rice farmers in the country. Ayodele said the money was expected to be released in May and would be shared among farmer members across 26 states in the federation. “We are currently in 26 states of the federation with over 60,000 members. When the money is released, it will be disbursed according to capacity of members,” Ayodele said. Speaking further on the establishment of cocoa and plantain processing factories, Ayodele disclosed that the Anambra State branch of the group has established flour factories. POLL Mrs. Helen Madu, who represented Anambra State at the anniversary event, disclosed that CPFAN had produced up to 500,000 seedlings of cocoa. They also have clustered cocoa and plantain plantations. She said: “Now we are constructing processing factories in Nnewi. We want to start producing cocoa beverages. During our launching in Enugu, it was our beverages that were served. Likewise during our inauguration at Awka, it was our products that were served. “The processing factories would be inaugurated in February this year. The projects were funded through contributions by members and partnership with some investors. We didn’t get any contribution from government.”