MAKURDI – The paramount ruler of the Tiv nation, HRM Professor James Ayatse, has said he had no hands in the emergence of the new Ochi’Idoma, Chief John Odogbo as being alleged in some quarters. The traditional ruler also advised youths to verify their reports as well as the truth surrounding issues before commenting on them on social media. He gave the advise in reaction to posts on the social media that he might have had a hand in the emergence of the new Ochi’Idoma when he played host to Chief Patrick Ogbu, a gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state at his residence in Gboko, Gboko Local Government Area of the state last weekend. Late Ogeh Was Intelligent Professional – Okowa Friends Celebrate Olusemire As Customs’ New Assist Comptroller… The posts on social media alleged that the Tor Tiv might have had a hand in the emergence of HRM, Chief Odogbo because he was a pastor with Deeper Life Bible Church. Prof Ayatse noted that he made contact with the new Ochi’Idoma who was at his palace to disclose his intentions, shortly after he was made a paramount ruler. The Tor Tiv who said he had no hand whatsoever in the emergence of the Ochi’Idoma, however, pledged his preparedness to work with whosoever the Idoma kingdom choose as their paramount ruler. In his response to the plea by Chief Ogbu that the state government also replicate the palace constructed in Gboko in Otukpo, the traditional headquarters of the Idoma nation, the Tor Tiv said the state governor, Samuel Ortom, has since laid the foundation stone for a befitting palace for the Ochi’Idoma in Otukpo. Ayatse commended Governor Ortom for his respect for traditional rulers as well as the Benue State Traditional Council by giving them their rightful place in the scheme of things. POLL Earlier, Chief Patrick Ogbu who had told the Tor Tiv of his intention to contest the governorship position in the state, come 2023, pledged that if he emerges governor he would give traditional rulers their rightful place in the scheme of things. He also appealed to Ayatse to prevail on the state government to build a palace for the Ochi’Idoma that was befitting of his status.