ISAAC ASABOR In the bid to exercise the power conferred on the Governing Council of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) by sections 5 and 30, and Control Act Cap NI Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004, the agency’s leadership has on more than one occasion disclosed its plan to ban sachet alcoholic drinks. Ostensibly due to the seeming dilly-dallying attitude of its leadership to walk the talk, not few Nigerians have urged the agency to expedite action on its move to ban alcoholic drinks packaged in sachets and small bottles across markets all over the country. Apprehension Over Fare Increase Heightens As Lagos Unveils N800… Appraising Irukera’s Attentiveness To Consumers’ Complaints It would be recalled that the agency, unarguably worried in September 2020, over the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in sachets and small volume glass and Poly-Ethylene Terephthalate (PET) bottles, particularly over the negative effects of irresponsible alcohol consumption on public health, and on the safety and the security of the public issued a statement on its readiness to place a ban on the products. Prof. Moji Christianah Adeyeye, NAFDAC’s Director-General, without doubt, at the time under reference, in a statement issued, also with the support of the Federal Ministry of Health, expressed its concern on the fact that alcohol is also a toxic and psychoactive substance with dependence producing properties. However, almost two years down the line since NAFDAC’s leadership made its intention known to the public, close observers of the agency have pointed out that the noxious products are still been sold in virtually every community, particularly at bus stops and other public places, and on that grounds charged the leadership of the agency to walk the talk without further delay. They reiterated charge from Nigerians who understand the damaging effect of alcohol is coming on the heel of NAFDAC’s recent announcement to ban alcohol that are above 30% ABV (30% Alcohol By Volume) as well cancels registration of containers below 200ml. The leadership of the agency, in its announcement, re-affirmed commitment to implement stringent regulations against alcohol abuse nation-wide. POLL The agency’s leadership announced that it has stopped the registration of alcohol in sachet, small volume PET and glass bottles below 200ml amidst other stringent regulatory measures in a decisive move to reduce availability and curb abuse of alcohol in the country. Adeyeye, Director-General of NAFDAC, who made the disclosure in Abuja said registration of new alcoholic drinks in Sachet and Small volume PET and Glass bottles above 30% ABV has been banned by NAFDAC following the recommendation of a high powered Committee of the Federal Ministry of Health and NAFDAC on one hand, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and Industry represented by Association of Food, Beverages and Tobacco Employers (AFBTE), Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria (DIBAN) in December 2018. Professor Adeyeye said the Agency will ensure that validity of renewal of already registered alcoholic products in the affected category will not exceed year 2024. She explained that Manufacturers of low volume alcohol beverages (200ml) with satisfactory Laboratory reports, which were already submitted to NAFDAC for registration before this decision, have been directed to reformulate their products to stipulated standards free of charge. According to her, DIBAN was also given a matching order to embark on intensive nationwide sensitisation campaigns against underage consumption of alcohol by adolescents below the age of 18 years in the bid to stem the tide of alcohol abuse in the country. 2022: Consumers Pessimistic, Say Inflation May Deepen Respite As NBS Sees Fast Recovery Post COVID-19 In Nigerian… Despite the agency’s vow to phase out the sales of alcoholic drinks packaged in sachets and in small bottles, the proliferation and influx of herbal drinks from within and outside the shores of Nigeria, has become a source of anxiety for many Nigerians. Their worries cannot be said to be misplaced as the development has led to an upsurge in various brands. Mr. Joshua Daramola, a counsellor, said: “So many youths are by each passing day wasting their lives in the consumption of sachet alcoholic drinks, and I will on that grounds urge NAFDAC to expedite action on its move to ban alcoholic drinks in sachet and small bottles. He added, “There is need for NAFDAC to ban sachet alcoholic products since it has resolved to do so for almost two years now. If I may ask, what is the delay all about?” He said the call is for the interest of the public, and in particular, food and beverage sector of the economy, and added that “NAFDAC has the constitutional power to ensure that no drink shall be manufactured, imported, exported, advertised, sold or distributed in Nigeria unless it has been registered in accordance with Provisions Of Decree 19 of 1993 as amended by Food, Drugs and Related Products (Registration) Decree No. 20 of 1999.” Besides, he explained that despite the fact that some alcoholic drinks had been duly certified by NAFDAC as registration numbers were assigned to them because they had relatively being evaluated to be safe for human consumption, there are numerous herbal drinks in the market that were not evaluated. Mr. Gregory Egerue, said “Sachet alcoholic drinks which has been a threat to the society has for long been a concern to NAFDAC but it is unfortunate that they are yet to implement the ban. This time around they should ensure that the plan is carried out without further delay.” He added, “NAFDAC should ensure that it lives up to its promise. It cannot just announce certain action which it intends pursuing only to soft pedal at the end of the day. It is very important as a regulatory agency to always keep its promises. If something drastic is not done by NAFDAC to ensure that it ban the products as promised, many consumers may end up losing their lives through kidney disease.” Mr. Michael Obajimi in his view said, “I applaud the proposal to ban sachet alcoholic drinks as they have proliferated to a dangerous level. However, NAFDAC should be decisive on how it can implement the plan that has been in the pipeline for close to two years now in the country. More effort should be directed towards sensitising consumers of the alcoholic drinks on the health risks associated with consuming sachet alcoholic drinks”. Miss Georgina Amos, in her view said: “It is a great idea and will be beneficial to the country. The harmful effects of such products in the long run are costly health-wise. There is no doubt that the increase in the sales and consumption of the products are worrisome. Hence, NAFDAC should try as much as possible to implement its plan because it has been long I have been hearing about it”. Mr. Ambrose Uweru said, “NAFDAC should please do something as indiscriminate consumption of sachet alcohol is responsible for serious health hazards among drinkers of the products. NAFDAC should do activate the plan as it is long overdue”. As to the cause of the delay in implementing the plan, DAILY INDEPENDENT deciphered from the statement where Prof. Adeyeye explained that the producers of alcohol in sachets and small volume agreed to reduce production by 50% with effect from January 31st 2020 while ensuring the products are completely phased out in the country by 31st January, 2024. She added, “Even as we grapple with the containment of COVID-19 pandemic, NAFDAC is resolutely committed to the strict implementation of the regulations and regulatory measures towards safeguarding the Health of Nigerians particularly the vulnerable youths against the dangers of reckless consumption of Alcohol.”