….As Senate Calls For Out Of Court Settlement Among Warring Agencies ABUJA – The legal tussle between the government agencies over the lottery contracts is believed to cost Nigeria a whopping sum of N3 trillion annually. The agencies are, Infrastructure Regulatory Commission, Bureau for Public Procurement and the National Lottery Regulatory Commission. Akpabio Urges Electorate To Re-elect Performing Officeholders Tanker Explosion: Soludo Commiserates With Victims To avoid further loss, the Senate Committee on Sports headed by Senator Obinna Ogba, has advised the agencies to settle their disagreement with System Numeric out of Court. Advising the agencies when the feuding parties appeared before it, the Senate Committee on Sport, while condemning the shenanigans of government agencies in the handling of the bid that led to the legal action, gave them two weeks within which they should settle out of court. The advice by the Senate is also in line with the advice of the Attorney-General of the Federation that the matter should be settled out of court to save Nigeria the loss of over N3 trillion revenue being lost annually, due to the impasse. According to the history behind the tussle, the Lottery Commission and the Bureau for Public Procurement allegedly shunned due process in the bidding process for the LPAAS contract. System Numeric is accusing the Lottery Commission and Bureau for Public Procurement of violating due process in the bidding process for the contract as contained in the Act establishing the Lottery Commission. POLL In compliance with the requirement spelt out during the bidding process in 2012, the company submitted a technical proposal in which the financial proposal was a section. The other company submitted its technical and financial bids as separate documents in violation of Section 13, Page 17 of the Lottery Commission’s request for proposal, RFP. According to the documents available, the rival bidder failed to submit the performance bond as required, whereas System Numeric provided a performance bond of N500,000,000.00 that was sourced from a bank. Explaining to journalists what happened shortly after meeting with the Senate Committee, the Chief Executive Officer of System Numeric, Chief Athan Nneji Achonu, said, “It is a very sad day for me that I should come to this hallowed place to cry about a cabal that has been trying to hijack this process since 2012 and deny Nigeria of income of over N3 trillion. “I won a contract to deploy this platform to monitor every lottery activity in this country. The first attempt they made was to bring in a fake company. This was taken to the House of Representatives and their verdict was that System Numeric was the only company that was qualified. Folarin’s Passing, Another Devastating Blow To Oyo –… BREAKING: Barty Beats Collins To Win First Australian Open Title “They now changed tactics, started moving around to Italy, to Spain; they will bring one group or the other. Management changed but the same cabal would not budge. Because of their selfish interest, they have denied this country of tremendous revenue, that was why I had to cry to the Senate to give us justice. “The infrastructure regulatory body was the only one appointed by the government to do the due diligence and they said the same. I went to court because they want to award it. Then the Federal Government intervened and called for an out-of-court settlement and that they have been losing. “While we were in court, they went to negotiate with an Italian group to show the level of disrespect these people have for the judiciary. The Attorney-General of the Federation wrote a letter to them to settle out of court as the matter can go on indefinitely. “It is obvious that a party that won this should be invited and awarded the contract, but uptill today they have not invited my company. Even with a court injunction, they went behind to discuss with an Italian company “We have the capability to deploy an effective monitoring system once a settlement is reached and this will earn good revenue for government.”