AYO BADA/ CHIBUIKE CHUKWU LAGOS – The Nigeria Football Fed­eration (NFF) has com­miserated with the Man­agement and players of Shooting Stars Sports Club of Ibadan over the death of the club’s General Manag­er, Mr. Rasheed Balogun. Balogun, a highly ex­perienced and respected club administrator, died in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Thursday night. Qatar 2022 Qualifiers: Nigeria To Know Foes Today AFCON 2021: What We’ve Learned So Far General Secretary of the NFF, Dr Mohammed Sanusi said: “It is with heavy hearts that we have learned of the passing on of Balogun, someone we have known over the years as an energetic, dedicated and charismat­ic club administrator. He was passionate about the game and was a frontline actor in the country’s do­mestic game for several decades. His death at this time is heartbreaking. “On behalf of the en­tire Nigeria Football fam­ily, we pray for the repose of his soul and that God will grant those he has left behind, including the 3SC family, the fortitude to bear the big loss.” In a related develop­ment, Chairman of the League Management Com­pany (LMC), Shehu Dikko has extended condolences to the immediate family of late football administrator and directed that on Match­Day 8, all club players are to wear black armband. To further honour the late Balogun, whose asso­ciation with professional club football dates back to the 1980’s, the LMC has directed a symbolic stoppage of all MatchDay 8 games on the 70th min­ute for observation of a minute silence to mark the age at which he died Dikko was represented at the interment of Balo­gun in Lagos on Friday by Chief Alloy Chukwueme­ka, the Executive Secre­tary of Nigeria Profession­al Football League (NPFL) Club Owners Association. POLL Dikko while also com­miserating with the man­agement and players of 3SC as well as the Govern­ment and People of Oyo State, described the late Balogun as “not only a com­mitted club football admin­istrator but also, someone who actively contributed to building a strong league football in the country”.