The Young Progressives Party (YPP) has promised to deliver Ekiti State from the alleged long years of misgovernance of the two dominant political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) if it assumes power in 2022 Governorship poll. The party, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Comrade Owoola Daramola, and the State Public Relations, Lanre Olorunsola also felicitated with  Ekiti People on the New Year celebrations. The YPP cautioned electorates against repeating what it termed, “errors of the past” by ensuring that the party emerge victorious in the poll. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… “It is only a mad person who desires a change and insists on doing the same thing over and over again. Ekiti desires a change, and YPP is that vehicle that will take the state to that change, not the two mal-functioning political vehicles that have transverse the state’s politics in the past. “2022, a landmark year, is the year Ekiti State will cease to do things as usual. Having journeyed for 25 years without a proper direction, this New Year affords the state an opportunity to change gear and move into the realm of greatness. “Our wishes and admonitions for Ekiti people as the New Year commences; May you change your direction and not dates, change your commitments and not calendars, change your attitude and not the actions, and bring about a change in your faith, your force, and your focus and not the fruit.” the statement reads in part. “Needless to say, none of the parties who have held sway as vehicles of power in the last 22 years have been able to drive the state towards this much-desired destination neither do they have the capacity to deliver this change. “In  YPP, our core focus for the New Year is to offer what has never been experienced in the states in terms of development and governance. A major shift from the directionless history to a purpose-driven quest for progress is the minimum required imperative for achieving that fast-tracked development that Ekiti indigenes desire. POLL “May Ekiti State live up to its potentials embedded in her creation and may we all create for ourselves as a people and our loved ones the happiest New Year ever,” it said.