Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta has declared that top players still want to sign for his side. The Gunners have reportedly held talks with the representatives of Leicester City midfielder Youri Tielemans about a move to the Emirates Stadium. According to website Goal, Tielemans’ entourage have spoken to Arsenal at the club’s London Colney training ground regarding a potential transfer. Mikel Arteta Hints At U-Turn With Fresh Aubameyang Statement Arteta Addresses Media After Stripping Aubameyang Of Arsenal… Tielemans is out of contract in 18 months with the player’s value starting to decrease. The Belgian international is yet to commit to a new deal with City, despite King Power Stadium boss Brendan Rodgers’s fondness for the player. Tielemans has been heavily linked with a move away from City, with Liverpool and Manchester United also credited with an interest in the 24 year-old. Arsenal, despite their recent struggles in the Premier League, remain an ambitious club who can attract the best players. At least that’s what Gunners boss Arteta, who is reportedly eyeing a move for Fiorentina sensation Dusan Vlahovic this month, thinks. POLL His comments will worry City fans, with Arteta clearly keen to return Arsenal to the top table in the Premier League. “Historically this club has always been targeting the best players in the world and the best players in the world are always interested to come here, and I can say that situation hasn’t changed,” Arteta said. “Any time I have spoken to any player, they were so willing to come. “I haven’t faced any other situation and that’s one of our biggest powers, our capacity to get the attention of people to come and join our club. It’s something that is a big advantage for us.” Tielemans has been with City since a loan move from AS Monaco in early 2019 became permanent for around £40 million later that year. Liverpool, Leicester City And Newcastle United Interested In… Mikel Arteta Set To Raise £40m From Selling Just  Unwanted Stars He has appeared 131 times for City, scoring 23 goals and registering 22 assists.