LAGOS  – The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), has said that plans have reached an advanced stage to expand the Zulu Wing of the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, the General Manager, Corporate Communications, FAAN, in a statement by said that the expansion was part of the management’s decision to improve on infrastructure and service delivery at the terminal. The statement was however, silent on exact time the expansion project would commence, but promised that it would start any moment from now. PZ Back On Profitability Growth Path, Shareholders Approve… Why NAFDAC Wants Funding Of Herbal Medicine Research Yakubu further emphasised that the project would only hamper passenger facilitation minimally at the terminal, but assured that normal passenger check-in would not be affected in any way. She clarified that the Protocol and VIP lounge at the terminal would be affected by the work, explaining that the facilities would be relocated temporarily till the end of the project, since major construction works would be carried out in that axis of the terminal. The statement added: “Meanwhile, the authority is already making arrangements for temporary spaces to be used as Protocol and VIP lounges, while the project is being executed. When the expansion project is completed, the terminal would have been enhanced in terms of capacity, aesthetics and passenger comfort, as the expected and expanded new lounges will be twice what is presently on ground. “The authority will like to appeal to passengers and other airport users to please be patient and bear with us for any inconvenience, while the project will last. We will continue to give more updates on the project, as the need arises.” The Federal Government through the Ministry of Aviation had in 2012 remodelled the terminal alongside the other airports and terminals in the country. POLL Stella Oduah, the then Minister of Aviation had said that it cost the government N648 million to remodeled the terminal building. She had said the aviation ministry was very prudent in the remodelling project to make sure that Nigerians get the best. The government had said then that the new terminal would now have capacity to handle 12 domestic arrivals at peak hours and 1, 500 departing flights. “The Federal government had in past dedicated money, for instance, the N19.5 billion, to the sector, but with nothing to show for it, at this time last year, it was an old dilapidated terminal building, we began the discussion to remodel it and that has cost us N648 million,” Oduah had said.