There was a chance for those who interviewed President Muhammadu Buhari on 5th January 2022 to draw out from him an answer that could define him, or would give a glimpse of his innermost heart, or what Nigeria actually means to him, or the nature of his working hours, or how he makes his important decisions, and other such serious subjects. But Mr. Seun Okinbaloye, asking the final question, chose to turn a grand and important affair into a tragi-comedy. His question: “Another word, another phrase is PDP, what comes to mind?” I wonder if Mr. Seun Okinbaloye would ever find the right words to explain why, of all the questions in the world, his final question was the President’s impression of the oppo­sition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). What did he have in mind? How did he think that would elicit an answer for the ages? Or was he only playing an al­ready scripted game? Only his conscience would know exactly what brought such a comic, most unserious, totally inconsequential, non-earth-shattering, question to the lips of a journalist who was face to face with a President of a nation which has, under the interviewee’s administration degenerated into the “poverty capital” of the world and with all development indices hurtling downhill. “Why Do I Write?” – Indian Writer, Tanwi Halder A Writer Should Guide The Society – Lagada-Abayomi Buhari’s answer to that non-ques­tion: “PDP”, what comes to mind is “failure”, may also have elicited nothing but laughter across the nation, but that would be tragic be­cause we would have been laughing at tragedy. May we please take a look at the President’s answer about the sluggish economy: “The economy, don’t forget, and I challenge so many people to go and check with the Central Bank, or NNPC the production from 1999 to 2014 was 2.1 million dollars a day average production, at the average cost of a hundred American dollars per barrel. When we came, somehow the militants were unleashed in the South-South, and production went down to half a million dollars a day. And I think by a fabulous co­incidence, the price again collapsed to about 37 dollars per barrel, but look at what we did, within the time frame and the resources available to us relative to the government we inherited from”. Please, fellow Nigerians, is that an answer? Did Buhari say what his presidency had achieved when com­pared with that of the PDP? Buhari asked that we should check Nige­ria’s oil revenue from 1999 to 2014. I will state the oil prices, starting from 1995 when it was $18.43, 1996- $22.12, 1997-$20.61, 1998-$14.42, 1999- $19.35, 2000-$30.38, 2001-$25.98, 2002- $26.19, 2003-$31.08. So, in the four years before Obasanjo’s democratic presidency began and throughout his first tenure, the highest oil price was $31.08. Even two years into Obasanjo’s second term, the high­est oil price was $56.64, in 2005! Did Nigeria collapse in those years as it has now? Was Nigeria’s debt burden so high? Even Buhari knows that the answer is no. Kudos must go to Mr. Okinbaloye, though, for what follows: “When you took over in 2015, our debt stock at the time was about 12 trillion, now it’s about 32 trillion. Inflation rate was about 9%, it’s now sitting at about 15%; unemployment rate was about 9.2%, it’s now at about 32.2%; exchange (rate) was about N197 to a dollar, now it’s way over 400 naira to a dollar. “Now people would look back and say before you took over some of these indicators were fair, and now the figures are not friendly at all.” Buhari’s reply: “Well, I am not sure how correct your calculations are but all I know is that we have to allow people have access to the farm. We just have to go back to the land.” So, after such neither here nor there answers, why would Buhari be presented with an opportunity to call PDP a failure when the party now on the spot is the All Progres­sives Congress (APC)? And this hap­pened after the President had failed to say how many Nigerians he had uplifted from poverty, how he had created favourable employment conditions, how he got the manu­facturing sector humming, and how he strengthened the Naira. POLL Yet, crude oil price has not been particularly punitive to Buhari’s Nigeria? In 2015 when Buhari was inaugurated President, the average price of crude oil was $48.66, $43.29 in 2016, $50.80 in 2017, $65.23 in 2018, and today it is $77.60. Yet, last year when the oil price was $68.17, Nige­ria kept borrowing as she did in 2016 when oil price was low. In fact, the NNPC has argued that Nigeria is better off with an average increase in the price of crude oil. On June 21, 2021, the newspaper published this news report titled: “Oil price above $75, Nigeria’s oil output dips at 1.48m/bpd in June”. Vanguard put it thus: “Despite the rise in crude oil prices above $75 per barrel at the International market, there are indications that Nigeria crude oil production may have recorded a decline by 7, 000 bpd of 1.48 million bpd in June against 1.55 million bpd in that of May. This is despite the positive rise in the combined oil output from the Organisation of the Petroleum Ex­porting Countries for June. The group, known as OPEC+, added 540,000 barrels per day of crude in June to a market hungry for oil as summer kicked off, accord­ing to the latest S&P Global Platts survey. According to the report, Nigeria produced 1.48 million bpd in June, its lowest level since January, com­pared to 1.55 million bpd in May, the survey found. Some of the country’s large oil fields, especially those in the Niger Delta like Bonny, Escra­vos, Brass River and Qua Iboe, were said to be pumping well below their full capacity due to either technical problems or maintenance”. Who Will Win 2021 AFCON? Oil Wealth And Nigeria Pseudo Unity (1) My comment: So. President Bu­hari, who is busy blaming low oil prices, forgot that under the govern­ment he heads, Nigeria could not even meet its OPEC quota. Worse still, the same Vanguard report con­tained this: “the increasing global price which is seen as a plus to most oil- producing countries, may likely be a major concern in Nigeria, this is just as Mallam Mele Kyari , the Group Managing Director, Nigeri­an National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has repeatedly insisted that the rising crude oil prices in the in­ternational market poses challenge. According to the NNPC GMD, the comfort zone for the country glob­ally is when the price falls around $58-$60, adding that anything above $70-$80 will create major distortions in the projection of the corpora­tion which will add more problems to the company”. Is the President unaware of the NNPC’s position? Every increase in the price of crude raises the pump price in Nigeria be­cause every drop of petrol is import­ed”. And Kyari reports to Buhari, the Oil Minister!!! Please, could anybody anywhere list one single item identifiable with good governance which the PDP did terribly but which is now being done in a better way under this APC administration? Under the PDP, national insecurity would bring only Boko Haram to mind. Then in swaggered the APC ad­ministration and bandits and killer cattle-herders joined in splattering blood all across the country. Ask how far the war against insecurity has progressed and the information minister would disclose Nigeria’s arms shopping list as part of Bu­hari’s achievements. While disclos­ing the number of bandits arrested (74 in Operation WHIRL PUNCH for instance), he failed to say how many were tried and punished. This is another achievement, ac­cording to Lai Mohammed, when he addressed the press on Decem­ber 31, 2021: “Also in an effort to improve the police/citizens ratio, 418 cadet officers of regular course 3 were successfully graduated in June 2021”. Tell me, dear minister, what is special in the passing out of members of a police regular course? If the number of the offi­cers who benefited was increased because of insecurity, that would be meaningful, or are you telling us that if insurgency was absent in the land the Police would not organize a regular recruitment and training in any given year? Dear Nigerians, in that your Information and Communication Minister failed to give us the infla­tion, poverty, and unemployment growth rates; the real rates that actually matter. I felt really ashamed when I read the Minister, while detailing the achievements “in the provision of key infrastructures” and he began with “(1) Nnewi-Uduma Road, Sec­tions 1 and 2 (26.27km) in Enugu and Ebonyi States, (II) Kano-Maidu­guri Road Section II (100.08km), (Shuwarin-Azare in Jigawa and Bauchi states, (III) Kano-Maidugu­ri Road Section III (Azare-Pontis­kum) 106.34km in Bauchi and Yobe states, (IV) Vandeikya-Obudu Cattle Ranch Road Phase 1 and 11 (24km) in Benue and Cross River State, (V) Sokoto- Tambuwal-Jega-Kontongo­ra-Makera Road (304km). That is all about what the minis­ter had as number Five of his pre­sentation as “key infrastructures, which is important to development of any economy. Apart from the pe­destrian nature of what he called achievements, (the construction of ordinary roads, some as short as 24 kms, and none involved any tunneling or such remarkable feats, I pour scorn an all the journalists at the presentation if they didn’t ask Lai Mohammed why all the roads in the core North were 100.08km, 106.34 and 304kms long, the ones in the South/Middle Belt were 26.27 and 24 respectively. And the one in the North that was only 100 kms long was just for Section II. Which means that there must be a Section I. Those whose grouse was with the opaque accountability under the PDP administrations were struck dumb when the APC administra­tion began to hand out wads of cash to individuals as palliatives a dumb-founded Nigerians do not know how the list of beneficiaries was compiled. The monies were not even paid out through the banks, yet those who handled it would tomor­row boast about transparency. What about the Tradermoni fi­asco? How were the beneficiaries chosen? And who monitored the givers of such gifts? What about the refineries? The former Minis­ter of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu groused about the dead petrol refineries and was striving to make them productive once again. He was giving updates about the state of their repairs… and then he was booted out of office. What about the economy? Pick any sector and compare it with its state of well-being under any PDP administration. Today the Nai­ra-Dollar rate is a cause for shame. So, too, the employment rate. So, too, the inflation rate. Today, hunger stalks the land like never before but nothing was said about taming it. Perhaps, we should first pause to define hypocrisy and vainglory as shame and disaster is straight­forward. Wikipedia sees hypocri­sy as “the practice of engaging in the same behavior or activity for which one criticizes another or the practice of claiming to have moral standards or beliefs to which one’s own behavior does not conform. In moral psychology, it is the failure to follow one’s own expressed moral rules and principles”. That is why many Nigerians are now ashamed that they voted APC into power. But instead of being ashamed of its track records, APC is filled with audacious but hypocrit­ical claims of stratospheric achieve­ments which its members mouth vaingloriously. Yet, the impact of the party’s administration, in the almost seven years it has been in power, is an unmitigated disaster.