r. Felix Nwosu, an Imo State-born public affairs commentator and peace promoter, who recently bagged appointment as United Nations-POLAC Messenger of Peace. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU he took a hard look at the out-going year, even as he tried to predict how the new one will be, among other issues. Excerpt: How did you see Nigeria in the out-going year? In this outgoing year the Nigerian government disappointed the people. The government failed to fulfil its promises to the people. Look at the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, which would have been a Christmas gift to Nigerians was also dashed. There is nothing t o celebrate as the citizens enter into the New Year. Nigerians had been robbed of their joy. Delta Monarch Commends Okowa, Offers Scholarship To 48 Students 2023 Governorship Race: Enugu East Insists On Ticket The outgoing year was messed up and was not favourable to the people. The price of the Dollar went up, while the Naira depreciated. The government failed in all areas, including security, health, education, infrastructure and welfare. Would you say that the New Year would be better than the out-going one? Given all available indices, including insecurity, the poor economy, the value of the naira against the dollar, the nation’s rising debt profile, etc, there are no indications that the New Year will be better. However, the coming year will be better if Nigerians will work harder. But insecurity and agitations will persist if the government fails to do the needful and secure the nation and restore peace for people to operate. So far, the government has not put anything in place to ensure that insurgency, insecurity, kidnapping, banditry and agitations stop. All these will affect agriculture, influx of foreign investment into the country and by extension affect business and commerce. As children of God, we must be hopeful and prayerful for a better year. President Muhammadu Buhari has been embarking on economic trips to Paris, South Africa, Dubai, Turkey, etc, in recent time. Do you think such trips will really bring in the needed foreign investments, considering the state of insecurity and infrastructure in Nigeria? Investors left Nigeria. There were investors before. But, they left because of insecurity and poor government policies. God begets good. When policies are attractive and add value, there will be investors. The environment is no longer conducive. Lives, businesses and investments were not safe. So, investors left for where there is peace and security. Nigeria is not safe. There are a lot of manipulations. When the investors found out that there was no safety, they departed with their investments. POLL President Muhammadu Buhari should stop all these investment trips and return home and put Nigeria in order to ensure that investors will come in. if not, Buhari tips will amount to nothing.The environment is still hostile. Very soon, elections and campaigns will start. So, his foreign trips can be seen as his retirement trips which will not bring in any investments. Very soon, he will be caught up with electioneering campaigns. They are all playing politics with Nigerians. Who will theyaccount to? Do they know how much is being spent on those investment trips? We were behind India. But now, India is ahead of us. When there is good governance and good policies, investors will surely come. How do you see the Federal Government’s COVID-19 vaccination programme? I commend the government for what they have done so far as regards the COVID-19. They have been vaccinating people, doing tests and giving updates. But, they should do more. I suggest that they adopt the method being used to eradicate polio and for administering polio vaccines. They should embark on mass vaccination by sending health workers to the people’s homes. That is how it is done in the U.S. The workers at the Primary Health Centres at the local governments should be properly trained to administer the vaccines. They should be distributed to go to the residents of people and vaccinate them at their homes. With this method, a lot of Nigerians will be vaccinated.There is hunger in the land and the protocol for vaccination is not easy for people. A lot of people are not computer literate, especially in the rural areas, the Federal Government should bring in more vaccines and begin house-to-house vaccination. After South Africa, Nigeria may be the next country where the new Omicron variant of COVID-19 will explode. Government should hasten up the vaccination before the explosion of the new variant. By the way they are going about it, half of Nigerians will not be vaccinated in the next five years.It is wrong for the government to stop people from going to offices because of vaccination. Let the health workers visit people in their homes by the weekends to vaccinate them. By doing so, a lot of people will be covered within a short space of time. What is your take on the flight restrictions recently placed on travellers from Nigeria due to the Omicron variant of COVID-19? The way Nigeria has been going about on COVID-19 policy is wrong. It has been politics. They talk more and do less. Nigeria claimed that the new variant was not in Nigeria. Yet, they discovered two people with Nigerian travelling history and we are second in Africa after South Africa. The UK and some countries attempted to place a ban on flights from Nigeria. Government should try and redeem the image of the country before more serious travel bans are imposed on Nigeria.The nation’s economy is bad. We do not need another lockdown. The government should wake up and hasten the vaccination of its citizens. The government can involve the private sector. A healthy nation is a wealthy nation. They should ensure that the cumbersome process of vaccination is removed and made easy for Nigerians. Allowing Terrorists Mount Roadblocks Amount To Having Two… Sports Minister Mourns Olubadan’s Passing How would you react to the recent White Paper released by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on the reports of the Lagos Judicial Panel on last year’s #EndSARS protest? Since the release of the report of the panel, there have been several responses for and against from the Federal Government, the state government and even the youths. It shows that we have not fully been democratised. What will make people believe in the government is real and not fake. Noble men sat and came up with a finding that there were killings. But, the Federal Government intimidated the governor. The governor just came up with a white paper, accepting only one item, rejecting six and 11 for modification and sent the rest to the Federal Government. He knows that the people would not be happy with the white paper. When they spoke of leaking the panel report, who leaked it? Why should the Federal Government be talking against and attacking the panel report that was before the government? The Federal Government has been denying what was the truth, which all of us saw. The shooting at Lekki Toll Gate shook the foundation of the state. We all saw it. People in Lagos respect their government. That is why people respect their government. That is why people respect Lagos. The way Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu handled the report was a dent on Lagos. The result of the consultations the governor made before coming out with the white paper was not in the interest of the people. The governor visited injured people in hospitals and informed them that the government would pay them compensation. We saw all these. So, his white paper does not make sense to a larger number of Lagosians. How do you see the Lagos Governor’s plan to embark on a Peace March with the #EndSARS stakeholders? Well, he said he has ‘stepped down’ the march because of the Omicron variant of COVID-19. However, partly, the governor’s decision to hold the peace march does not make sense, on the other hand, it does. Going by his utterances that no one was killed during the #EndSARS protest, he was smartly trying to calm the youths. His white paper was wrong. The peace march is to ensure that the people do not react negatively to the government’s decision. But, Lagosians and the world know that Sanwo-Olu was playing politics. There is a lack of integrity in the action of Sanwo-Olu on this matter. Any leader that wants his actions to be respected must lead with integrity. You do not play politics with the truth. Leadership is about people who can set records straight. Sanwo-Olu only displayed the features of a ruler and not a leader. We need to go back to the drawing board to properly define leadership. Leadership should lead right. Lagosians need proper leadership and not a march. People marched and were killed. Now, you are calling for another march. You want to take them to the street again. It does not make sense and is not logical. The #EndSARS protest was nationwide. It was not a Lagos thing. Its effect was hot in Lagos because Lagos is the hub of the nation as a former capital. Do you think such a Peace March would have succeeded bearing in mind the sentiments already being expressed by some of the activists against it? It would depend on how he handled it. Nigerians are docile. Whether there would have been a peace march or not, Nigerians had retreated home. They would be waiting for the next action. It is not the peace march that will bring peace. The youths have taken everything calmly. They are waiting for the government to attend to their demands. The peace march does not make sense. Good leadership naturally produces peace and not a march. the government can bring out the best from the people or make them become more bestial by the way they rule. Nigerians are peace loving people. What is your take on the recent action of the EFCC which placed Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State on its corruption watch list, considering his level of performance especially in areas of infrastructure without a loan or a bail-out? The EFCC is believed to have eagles’ eyes. Who knows what they saw, which we cannot see? But, Obiano has ruled Anambra and there are infrastructures. Obiano gave Anambra State an airport. The EFCC issue may be political. It came after the drama of commissioning the airport. The APC has not been happy that Obiano built the airport to commissioning level. So, they tried to stop Obiano from using it as a last minute campaign issue for Soludo. So, Buhari could not come to commission it. When the plan for Buhari to commission the airport failed, Obiano commissioned it. So, let us keep our fingers crossed and wait till he hands over and see what EFCC will do. Which Nigerian governors, former and present, are not on the EFCC’s watch list? What agenda would you be proffering for Prof Charles Soludo as the governor-elect of Anambra State? My advice to Soludo is to give Ndi Anambra the best, and sustain the development initiatives of his predecessors. He should continue all the projects of his predecessors. As an economist and former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, people expected the best from him. He promised to bring foreign investors. I believe he will deliver and give Anambra people his best. Obiano has done his best to sustain progress and has been able to deliver. Soludo should be able to continue from where Obiano will stop. He should provide good security, health and education as well as infrastructure. He should not disrespect the people, even the religious leaders and churches prayed for him.