ABUJA – Governors of the 36 states of the federation, under the aegis of Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), on Thursday commended the Senate for accelerating the removal of the contentious clauses in the draft electoral bill. The commendation was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting of the Governors held on 19th January 2022. In the document signed by Governor Kayode Fayemi, Chairman the forum, the governors expressed hope that the House of Representatives would also follow suit so that the revised electoral bill could be returned to President Muhammadu Buhari for accent to enable the various institutions, particularly INEC proceed with their responsibilities towards the various elections in 2022 and 2023. Ohanaeze Commends Court Judgement In Favor Of Nnamdi Kanu Kano State Govt Orders Closure Of School Abducted Girl Was… “On the electoral act, Governors commended the Senate of the Federal Republic for accelerating the removal of the contentious clauses in the draft electoral bill and hope that the second chamber, the House of Representatives, would also follow suit so that the revised electoral bill can return to Mr. President for accent so that this can then enable the various institutions particularly INEC to proceed her pace with its responsibilities towards the various elections in 2022 and 2023. “The Forum also discussed the issue around petroleum subsidy and concluded to engage the leadership of the Nigerian Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress on how best to address this issue without causing any disaffection or with the view to salvaging the Nigerian economy for the Nigerian people at the end of the day. “So, we shall be engaging the Nigerian Labour Congress as sub-national leaders with the view to ensuring that the outcome of our engagement will also be fed into the national discussion. “We also discussed the health update particularly in relation to COVID-19 infections and expressed happiness that the current Omicron variant has been declining progressively. “However, we also noted that there is the need for States led by us to ramp up the COVID-19 vaccination exercise. POLL “On Nutrition which remains a priority of the Government, Governors concluded that there is a need to increase our support in terms of budgetary provisions for nutrition,” stated the NGF Chairman.