LAGOS  – The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has kicked against the introduction of excise duty on all non-alcoholic, carbonated and sweetened beverages, adding that the policy will result to sudden decline in private households/ consumers purchasing power. SegunAjayi-Kadir, MAN Director-General, in chats with Daily Independent, also said that the new excise duty would cause a 0.43 percent contraction in output and about 40 percent drop in total industry revenues in the next five years. “There will certainly be decline private households/ consumers purchasing power as they earn income mostly by supplying labor to the industry and from owning a share in industry capital. Monetary, Fiscal Authorities Stimulus Programmes Boosted… Why FG Expands Tax Net, Introduce 6% Tax On e-Commerce Outlets “Household in turn use this earned income to purchase food, shelter and products from this manufacturing industries. “An introduction of an additional tax will cause manufacturers in a bid to offset tax and maintain profit raise prices of their products to higher rates, thus shifting tax incident to consumers,” he said. He explained that food and beverages contributed the highest at 38 percent of the total manufacturing sector quota to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP). He added that the sector comprised 22.5 percent of manufacturing jobs and generated more than 1.5 million jobs. “One is particularly worried about the ripple effect on the introduction of the excise, despite strenuous evidence-based advice to the contrary,” NAN quoted him as saying. POLL “This will have an unpleasant impact on employment, households and consumers. “As seen from previous impact analysis, excise affects production outputs, revenues and profits. “This causes companies to pursue cost-cutting measures to reduce the effect of diminishing revenue and profits by reducing employee salaries or retrenchment. “So, this excise would certainly cast a sunset to this performance.” The Director-General also argued that the revenue aspirations of the government in introducing the new tax may not be justified in the long run. More Than Half Of Low-Income Countries Are In Debt Distress… 4th Mainland Bridge: Another Conduit Pipe? He noted that the excise estimated to generate N81 billion between 2022-2025 would not be sufficient to compensate the corresponding government’s revenue losses in other taxes from the group. “For instance, the corresponding effect of reduced industry revenue on government revenues is estimated to be up to N142 billion contractions in value-added tax (VAT) raised by the sector and N54 billion corporate income tax reduction between 2022 and 2025. “This is not to mention the potential negative impact on manufacturers/supply chain. “Nigeria is the 6th highest consumer of soft drink, but per capita consumption is low. Ajayi-Kadir also said the new excise duty would “easily reduce production capacity”, causing manufacturers to struggle to meet investor commitments. According to him, this would make investors take their investments to other countries. “A decrease in production levels or ability to purchase raw materials as a result of the introduction of excise tax will result in reduced profits for the supply chain players in the non-alcoholic beverage sector,” he added.