LAGOS – It’s a new year, and sporting events are coming thick and fast. This month, sports lovers are in for a treat as some of the best sporting competitions will be aired live on DStv. Fans of the WWE can gear up for another thrilling week of action on SuperSport, with live airings of the NXT, SmackDown and Raw shows running from Wednesday, January 12 to Tuesday, January 18, 2022. The action begins on the morning of Wednesday, January 12 with WWE NXT Episode 651. LA Knight has promised to put Grayson Waller in his place on the developmental brand after their recent comings together. Saturday, January 15 brings Episode 1169 of WWE SmackDown. The Viking Raiders have been on a run of form lately and will be chomping at the bit to get a shot at the Tag Team titles on the blue brand. Tuesday, January 18 will feature Episode 1495 of WWE Raw. Bianca Belair believes she has closed the book on her rivalry with Doudrop and is now turning her attention to claiming some gold. Watch all the WWE action live on SuperSport Variety 3, SuperSport Maximo 2 and WWE Channel 128. Europa League Match-Day Three Live On GOtv, DStv 23rd GOtv Boxing Night To Broadcast Live On DStv, GOtv Gold fans on DStv can look forward to seeing all the action from the PGA Tour’s Sony Open in Hawaii at the Waialae Country Club in Honolulu from Friday, January 14 to Monday, January 17, 2022. This year’s edition of the Sony Open in Hawaii sees Kevin Na looking to defend his title. The American claimed the winner’s trophy last year thanks to -21 259, defeating runners-up Chris Kirk and Joaquin Niemann by one strike. “I was playing maybe a little bit more aggressive coming down the stretch, not worrying so much about second or third, more focused on just that – winning,” Na said. “Every year, I hope to win and I expect to win on the right golf courses.” The 2022 tournament is also the first of a four-year extension with Sony which will run up to 2026. Sony has sponsored the Sony Open in Hawaii continuously since 1999. Every year, all proceeds from this event are channeled back into the local Hawaii community through partner Friends of Hawaii Charities, supporting children, women, the elderly, and the impoverished. Catch all the PGA action live on SuperSport Grandstand and SuperSport Golf. The first tennis Grand Slam of the year, the Australian Open, will be held at Melbourne Park from Monday, January 17 to Sunday, January 30, 2022. POLL Last year’s Australian Open saw Naomi Osaka and Novak Djokovic claim the Women’s and Men’s Singles titles respectively, while the doubles titles were won by Elise Mertens and Aryna Sabalenka (Women’s), Ivan Dodig and Filip Polasek (Men’s) and Barbora Krejcikova and Rajeev Ram (Mixed). This year Djokovic has caused a storm in regards to his vaccine status (and therefore eligibility to enter Australia, which has strict travel rules in regards to the Covid-19 pandemic). The Serbian at first claimed he had secured a medical exemption, but he was denied entry into the country upon flying to Melbourne and was then held in quarantine. One of the main hopefuls looking to usurp Djokovic is long-time rival Rafael Nadal, who has returned from a lengthy spell on the sidelines with injury. The Spaniard has won the Australian Open just once – 2009 – but will nonetheless feature as one of the key draws on the Men’s side. Others gunning for the title that has been won no less than nine times by Djokovic include Alexander Zverev, Daniil Medvdev and Stefanos Tsitsipas. On the Women’s side, home favourite Ashleigh Barty will hope her dominance on the WTA rankings translates to success in Melbourne. She has two Grand Slam titles to her name, but they came at the French Open (2019) and Wimbledon (2021) – in the Australian Open, her best showing was a semifinal in 2020. No rival can compete with SuperSport’s coverage. Our viewers on DStv can see all their favourite sports stars dominating across the world. Visit www.dstv.com to subscribe or upgrade, and join in on the excitement. And while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on the DStv App. Community Shield Live On GOtv, DStv As Man City, Leicester City… MultiChoice Promises Live Olympics Coverage On DStv, GOtv Take advantage of the DStv Step-Up offer this month. DStv Compact, Confam, and Yanga customers can now enjoy packages above their current plan and have access to programs above their current package. offer is open to both active and inactive DStv Yanga, Confam and Compact customers. For more information on this limited time offer as well as other products and services, please visit: www.dstvafrica.com