Hon. Sikirulai Olawale Ogundele is the chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State. He is also the Chairman of the Chairmen, PDP Southwest and the National Treasurer, Chairmen’s Forum PDP. In this Interview with ADERONKE FAKEYE, Hon. Ogundele opens up on how PDP is planning to take over Ogun State come 2023. He also talks about the governance of Prince Dapo Abiodun and Asiwaju Tinubu who he predicts might not be given tickets to fly his presidential ambition. He also speaks on how he has been able to resolve the challenges rocking the party since he emerged the chairman of the party in 2016. As the chairman of PDP in Ogun State, how has the party been faring despite challenges over the years? First and foremost, we give glory to Almighty God for making things possible for us. PDP used to be a party to beat in Ogun State when we were united together. It was challenges that came and it was poorly managed by the leaders which led to some of the members forming and joining other parties. Some joined PPN, ADP, ADC, some Labour Party. Only 20% Of Nigerians Will Require 5G Extra Services – Bello 2024: My Pain For Esan People – AVM Okpere PDP used to win with almost 800,000 votes, when we came on board in 2003 that was our vote. The same thing in 2007 but when Amosun came in 2011, it was different, he became the Governor with 300,000 votes. In 2019, the present Governor of Ogun State won with 200.000 votes, then we all went to the drawing board to identify some of the problems that led to the losses. We got ourselves convinced of the reason why we all must come together. So when I emerged as the Party Chairman, I promised I was going to run all-inclusive party administration. We swung into action, consulted our people and got them convinced of the reason why we all must come together. Today as I speak with you, we have a very solid party. All our members who had split into different parties, almost 90% are back to PDP and that’s giving us the assurance that comes 2023, it’s going to be a walk-over election for PDP. APC has been able to campaign for PDP due to the hardship Nigerians are facing on daily basis. They deceived Nigerians and failed in four major areas which they promised: restructuring, economic improvement, tackling security issues and fighting corruption and none has ever improved. How will you describe the governance of Prince Dapo Abiodun as the Governor of the state? Honestly, I’m happy that you said how will I describe it. As you’ve put it, I can describe that governance to be a penny-wise pound-foolish government. I can describe that government as a ticky tacky government. A government that doesn’t embark on the needs of the people. Government that wakes up and just embark on things they think they can easily use to steal money. Government that has not called the stakeholders of this state to get to know their needs. It’s a government that has got no blue print. I don’t blame him because at different places he had said it that he planned to be a senator but by arrangements of Almighty God, he became the Governor, so for someone who is not prepared, that is why he is fumbling and wobbling which is good for us in PDP. It’s a constructive criticism. His government just embarks on projects that come to his mind. He cares less of the needs of the people, embarking on projects that have no significance or direct impacts on the lives of the people. A government that uses taxpayers’ money to give you what you don’t need. Where you need water they give you light, where light is needed, you get road. They have never consulted the people to know their needs. His government is a selfish one. Most of these APC governors embark on road construction because it’s financially unquantifiable. Road construction is the easiest way to siphon money. So as he claimed not to become a governor, you don’t expect much from him. Over the years, YEWA agenda of producing a Governor has failed. Is PDP preparing any candidates from there? POLL Personally, I have been one of the advocates of YEWA coming out to be Governor of the state. I’m a very just and fair person, a realist by nature. I have been clamouring for them to get there but the question is, are YEWA people ready and prepared at all? I’ve been in active politics of Ogun State since 1988. When Professor Afolabi Olabimtan was alive, he wanted to be governor but YEWA people was the one who gave Osoba votes. When Odunjo that came from YEWA wanted to be governor in NRC, it was YEWA people who voted for Bisi Onabanjo to be Governor. In 2011, late General Olurin from YEWA was given a ticket to run under PDP, the problem intensified and Gboyega Isiaka also from YEWA went to another party. One would have expected YEWA people to pick one person. If you look at the result, the two YEWA people lost in YEWA. In 2019, it was Dapo Abiodun and Hon. Akinlade from YEWA but the YEWAS lost. So to me, the YEWAs are not prepared to have a Governor. If they are prepared, they will speak with one voice irrespective of the party. Away from Ogun politics, looking at the declaration of Asiwaju Tinubu to contest for President. As the Chairman of PDP Chairmen in the southwest, does that send any signal to PDP at Southwest and National level? Personally, I love Tinubu but the association that made up APC was built on lies and deceit. It’s a marriage of incompatibility. They are not sincere to themselves. They don’t have a father figure in their party. The person that is supposed to stand as a father is not informed, not cerebral and not in shape. The father figure in APC is not capable and competent to lead. Coming to Tinubu, in my village, they used to say, in a game of lies and deceit, one losses. Everyone knows that the ticket won’t be given to Tinubu. No doubt about it. He made governors but are they all with him? His party is not sincere with him. Sanni to be précised said those Mallams who are coming to pledge allegiance with him, said if truly they want him, they should go and post his posters in their states and in their houses. In Southwest here, some governors are not with him. He has failed already. Secondly, if you are requesting for me to tell you the strategies PDP is putting up, I won’t tell you. (Laughs). We are ready to tackle him and prepared to face anybody. FG Should Use Opportunity Of COVID-19 Challenges To Strengthen… We Should Have Female President Based On Competence – Stella… How true is the fact that APC at the national level is considering former Goodluck Jonathan as its flag bearer for President or its mere rumour? That is an indication that APC is not a formidable party.