ABUJA – As part of their new year message, residents of the six area councils of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have lauded the giant strides, patriotism as well as commitment demonstrated by the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, towards ensuring the socio-economic development of the nation’s capital. The FCT residents have said that Dr Aliyu’s leadership style and qualities brought to bear an open policy for stakeholders engagement and accountability in the six area councils. One of the residents, Mr Danlami Bawa who lives in Durumi in Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, said her tirelessly efforts, by embarking on a fact-finding tour of all the six area councils of the FCT, demonstrated a yearning to find out for herself the true position of things before her assumption of office as Minister of State. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… Bawa commended her intervention in areas of abandoned projects and the inadequacy of funds to fully prosecute many projects designed to serve the people, especially at the grassroots in the council areas. He also praised Aliyu efforts towards achieving Mr President’s agenda of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty, by ensuring that the FCT Administration inaugurated an aquaculture centre valued for women and youths in Kwali Area Council of the Territory. “We are aware that the Minister of State has also made a provision for layouts identified for affordable housing provision in all the six (6) Area Councils, development plans have been prepared for the layouts, and prototype designs have been produced for housing types and 3D models have been completed for the Muhammadu Buhari Housing Estate in Karshi, for the FCTA and FCDA staff.” On his part, a resident of Bwari Area Council, Mr Andrew Philimon described Dr Aliyu’s achievement in the agriculture and tourism sector as outstanding in job creation and lifting millions out of poverty in line with the presidential deliverables. He said her bold step in the inauguration of a Ministerial Committee to determine modalities for procurement of fertilisers and agricultural inputs for the 2021 farming season was a total breakthrough for agriculture and farming in the rural areas. POLL ”We also observed her effort to deliver key health interventions and in line with Primary healthcare and ensures the establishment of a mandatory Universal Community-Based Health Insurance Scheme. According to him, “this is the first time to witness a Minister that is in touch with the grassroots and upon the outbreak of the COVID-19 Pandemic in the FCT, she quickly activated appropriate strategies to ensure equitable and prompt distribution of palliative and condiments to the heart and breathe of the territory.”. ”We witnessed a woman that embarked on training of health workers to build more capacity, procurement of large consignments of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), surgical face masks, infra-red thermometers, hand sanitizers as well as assorted drugs, ventilators and other medical consumables to all treatment/isolation centres and hospitals” Mr Bawa stressed He explained that initiating reforms and fortifying capacity-building measures are already yielding results adding that she represents a new age of politicians who are deploying their technocrat expertise in creating innovative policies and taking the responsibility for effecting change in society. Another resident from Gwagwalada Area Council, Mrs Fatima Hassan commended the state Minister for supervising, monitoring and ensuring transparency in the distribution of monthly allocation to the area councils and other stakeholders when she presided over the 156th Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC) in the territory. God Has Destined Ekiti To Move Forward In 2022 – Adesokan New Year: Support Buhari To End Banditry, Kidnappings, Oba Alabi… She attributed the launch 5,000 cubic meters water project for 10 communities, Abuja Varsity of technology as the giant stride of the leadership effort of Dr Rammatu Aliyu. “Residents of Abaji township and its environs can now heave a sigh of relief and satisfaction as they now have access to uninterrupted supply of clean water in line with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Nigerian Drinking Quality Standard and I have no doubt that this will help to improve the health and economic condition of the beneficiaries of the project,” she said. Also, Mr Simon Obioma from Kubwa said the state minister for FCT deserve more applaud for intervention and sympathies to victims of the Kubwa market fire incident, Kugbo and the recent Next Cash N Carry.