LAGOS – Hon. Kunle Okunola, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the convener of Tinubu Not Negotiable (TNN), a pro-Tinubu presidential support group, has said those members of the APC expressing interest to fly the ticket of the party in 2023, apart from Tinubu, were agents of confusion. Okunola in an interview with Daily Independent said APC has only one candidate that is qualified to succeed President Muhammadu Buhati in 2023, stressing that all the people coming out apart from Tinubu were agents of one destabilising force or confusion. He said: “These people may want some cabal to fund them but now that the eagle has landed it is going to reduce the number of people who want to contest under our party. Some of them thought that if Asiwaju didn’t contest, he could nominate them or support them including the vice president. FG Interventions Boosting Farmers Capacity- RIFAN Buhari Never Told Anyone That Subsidy Be Removed – Lawan “I read in one of the social media platforms that Osinbajo was made the campaign Director General of Asiwaju and I thought it was incorrect. What I know is that the action of Tinubu would have reduced the number of people who had intention to aspire even when they are aware that they lack the capacity to contest under our party. “It will also afford us the opportunity to identify betrayers because in the North and South, nobody is supposed to sneeze when Asiwaju roars,” he said. The former Lagos State organising secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who has been in the forefront of campaign for Tinubu’s presidential ambition for over two years said that he decamped to the APC to make Tinubu the president. “When we started there was this speculation that Asiwaju didn’t tell anybody that he wanted to be president but we can see how things have played out. When Asiwaju becomes the president we will be able to further understand some of these people and also identify capable hands that can join hands with him to rule this nation.