Nigerian youths have been urged to take advantage of their voting strength to launch themselves to reckoning in the 2023 General Elections. Comrade Tosin Adesuyi, the chairman of the Nigerian Youth Congress (NYC), Ekiti State chapter, gave this admonition in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti. He called on the youths to wake up from their slumber in the 2022 and 2023 elections, by deploying their demographic strength and launching themselves to relevance. NSCDC Averts Clash Between Hausa, Yoruba in Kwara Ugwuanyi Mourns Anthony Obi NYC boss called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to restructure the Ministry of Youth and bring in capable hands to man the post as a good strategy to develop the population, saying the youth policy of the present government has allegedly failed to provide succour for his colleagues. “Youth development means transformation and much more to us than the cosmetics and window dressing affairs we have engaged in for a long time in this state. It is beyond having only football competitions to show as the achievement in the area of youth development in the last three years. The youth leader lamented the alleged deliberate undermining of youths influence in governance, adding Nigerian youths were being incapacitated through unemployment and lack of commitment to tackling insecurity that has affected their farming businesses and education, with cases of bombings, kidnappings and killings now being perpetrated in schools. He said: “Our sincere appeal to Ekiti State government is to make the youth development a priority on its policy thrust,  by overhauling the agencies in charge of youth development to bring about youth-inclined policies in Ekiti. “The government is informed that the well-meaning youths have exhausted their patience about cases of fake promises, deceits, blackmail, lip service to citizens wellbeing. Failure to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the well-meaning youths in this state will be resisted by all means possible. POLL “We have witnessed the incapacitation of our youth so that they will be unable to take over their own affairs. Also, the high rate of unemployment  cum underfunding of our tertiary institutions has caused hunger, scarcity, lack and hike in prices of commodities, which in no doubt affecting negatively the standard of living who have little or no financial means to cope. “Different from the soured relationship between the government and the youth population, we cannot forget so quickly, how some of us, our brothers, sisters and parents lost their jobs at  EKSU and EKSUTH. Many of them are now roaming the streets. “The greatest blow is the state of insecurity confronting some of us youth farmers who have now retired from farming to menial jobs as means of survival after their lifetime investments were invaded and destroyed by herdsmen. “Whereas, the government at all levels preach diversification from an oil-based economy to agriculture, but botched the diversification policy, by not paying attention or give adequate measures to curb the insecurity, so that our colleagues can return to farming,” Adesuyi said.