President Biden was back at work trying to prevent a new war in Europe Sunday, planning a phone call with Ukrainian Prime Minister Volodymyr Zelenskyy Sunday just days after a tough hour-long talk with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The U.S. and Ukrainian leaders are seeking a diplomatic way out of a crisis that has seen a military build-up along both sides of Russia’s borders with Europe, with U.S. intelligence agencies warning the Kremlin may be preparing a second move against Kyiv after forcibly annexing the Crimean peninsula eight years ago. Mr. Zelenskyy tweeted earlier Sunday that he and Mr. Biden would use the call to “coordinate our steps for the sake of peace in Ukraine and security in Europe.” Everton In Talks To Sign Nathan Patterson From Rangers Brendan Rodgers Praises Rising Leicester City Youngsters The call came as both Washington and Moscow have been trying to shape the diplomatic ground ahead of a trio of key meetings next month. The Kremlin, accusing the West of encroaching militarily on its borders from the Baltics to the Black Sea, has been demanding a series of security “guarantees” from the U.S. and Europe, prime among them a pullback of NATO weaponry from Russia’s borders and a pledge that former Soviet republics such as Ukraine and Georgia will never be invited to join the NATO military alliance. President Biden and NATO leaders reject that last demand out of hand, and accuse Russian President Vladimir Putin of escalating the crisis with the build-up of some 100,000 Russian troops and materiel near the Ukrainian border. U.S. intelligence analysts say Moscow may be laying the groundwork to justify a military incursion into Ukraine, in support of a pro-Russian separatist movement in eastern Ukraine that has been battling the Western-backed Kyiv government since 2014. Mr. Biden repeated in a December 30 video conference with Mr. Putin that the U.S. and its allies are prepared to impose unprecedentedly harsh economic and financial sanctions on Russia if Moscow moves against Kyiv. The U.S. has helped build up Ukraine’s military forces but Mr. Biden has acknowledged he has no plans to deploy U.S. forces there in the event of war. Mr. Zelenskyy’s government has vowed to fight back strongly against any Russian invasion, while appealing to NATO and Washington for more military assistance. POLL “No army on the other side of the border frightens us,” he said in a New Year’s Eve address to the country, “because a great army on our side of the border protects us.” Bilateral U.S.-Russian arms control talks are set for Jan. 9 and 10 in Geneva, with Ukraine expected to be prominent on the agenda. Two days later, there will be a meeting of the Russia-NATO Council in Brussels to discuss the security demands the Kremlin has made.