…Decries Importation Of Metal Products Due To Low Industrial Standard ABUJA – The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, (MMSD) has decried the importation of all kinds of metal products due to low industrial standard of the local Metal products, which has adversely affected the SMEs. The Permanent Secretary, Dr Oluwatoyin Akinlade speaking on behalf of the ministry while declaring open a one-day annual Stimulation and Promotion Workshop for Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs) for the North – West geopolitical at Zoneat Nasarawa Guest Hotel, Kano State, said the workshop will help improve the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). FCMB’s FastCash Offers Up To N200,000 Support For School Fees,… Dangote Refinery To Reduce Africa’s Petroleum Importation By 36%… She, however, expressed optimism that the workshop will bridge participants’ gaps on production of quality products that would compete favourably in the global market. The Permanent Secretary who was represented at the occasion by Director Special Duties, Yisau Adepoju hinted the workshop was aimed at strengthening the strategies designed for the growth of the SMEs in the Sector. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen by the Director Press&PR, Mrs Etore Thomas on Friday in Abuja. Akinlade said the sensitization programme will stimulate and drive a significant improvement in the Sector’s contributions to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and economy. According to her, this is in demonstration of its commitment to create awareness amongst the SMEs in the Metals Sector, comprising of foundries, fabricators, welders, manufacturers of spare parts, aluminum extrusion, allied products, among many others. POLL In his welcome address, the Acting Director (Steel), Engineer Olasupo said it is the vision of the Ministry to see that SMEs operators in the Metals Sector are fully integrated with other stakeholders in the industry. He urged the participants, who were drawn from Kaduna, Kano, Katsina and Jigawa to ensure that the knowledge gained from the seminar will propel the SMEs into higher productivity leading to wealth creation, poverty reduction and increase in the GDP of the country. Highlights of the event include presentations of SMEDAN Representative, Aliyu Aminu; Bank of the North official, Alhaji Aminu Yusuf; and the G.M. (General Services), Ajaokuta Complex, Engr Suleiman Muhammad on critical subject areas to improve the performances of the SMEs in the Metals Sector. The resource persons, respectively, addressed the operators on: Operating a Small and Medium Enterprise in the Metals Sector in Nigeria; Funding options for SMEs in the Metals Sector in Nigeria; Safety and shop floor practice for improving efficiency and productivity in the Metals enterprises.