IBADAN – The Chairman of the National Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Adeolu Akande, has been warned not to play his attention-seeking politics with the death of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso I or the ongoing discussion over the emergence of a new Olubadan. A socio-political group based in Ibadan, Oyo Kajola Group (OKG), gave this warning on Thursday, noting that Akande’s advice that Governor Makinde “should return home and take charge” of the Olubadan matter amounted to crass display of ignorance over the issue. A statement by the Media Coordinator of the OKG, Comrade Adebayo Ayandele, indicated that Akande’s advice to Makinde, who is on a brief visit to his family in the United States of America, to “come home and take charge” was self-serving and misguided. NITDA, JICA Set To Launch iHatch Incubation Programme Asus Unveils ZenBook 14X OLED Space Edition To Nigerian Market The group, which stated that all processes and procedures that are meant to be followed regarding the death of the Olubadan and the emergence of a new one are being followed despite the governor’s absence, said that the Ministries of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters and Justice, rather than the governor, are meant to “take charge” at this period. According to the group, the call on Makinde to “take charge” of the Olubadan succession matter, apart from being strange, is also needless, especially coming from a former Chief of Staff to an Executive Governor of the state, adding that the processes are all unfolding well within the 21 days window for the emergence of a new monarch. It equally maintained that Akande’s attempt to blackmail the governor following the demise of Oba Adetunji is unfounded, noting that the governor had been duly represented at every point necessary since the Kabiyesi passed on. “In another round of his attention-seeking games ahead of his already ill-fated governorship ambition, NCC Chairman, Prof. Adeolu Akande went on another display of crass ignorance about governance procedures on Thursday by advising Governor Seyi Makinde to ‘return to Nigeria and take charge’ of processes regarding the emergence of a new Olubadan. “This advice and the subsequent attempt to portray the governor as lacking empathy are ill-advised, misguided, and uncalled for since the governor’s role in the emergence of a new Olubadan is well streamlined. POLL The group said that Akande’s vituperations against Makinde have sold him out as as a person lacking the basic idea about the processes and procedures that surround the emergence of an Olubadan. “For record purpose, the governor of Oyo State has no cause to “take charge” of any process regarding the emergence of the Olubadan. “The system is time-tested and trusted over the years and in an instance that there are legal issues, the system should be trusted to stand the test of law and time. “Unlike the APC style, which Adeolu Akande’s master, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, used to destabilise the age-long chieftaincy system, Makinde’s style is not dictatorial such that he would meddle in chieftaincy matters by “taking charge.” “We wonder whether Akande, who has become fond of playing the attack dog role in the Oyo APC, knows that the Ministries of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters and Justice are in charge of whatever situation regarding the Olubadan issue and not the governor.” NITDA Assures Of Achieving 95% Digital Literacy By 2030 FG Extends NIN-SIM Verification To March 31st, 2022 “The Oyo Kajola Group urged Akande to contain his desperation for attention through needless attacks on the state governor, wondering why Akande, who has failed in his role of defending Nigerians against the oppressive antics of telecommunication companies, always found his lost voice whenever he wants to attack Governor Makinde. The statement added: “Adeolu Akande’s bootlicking tendencies are indubitable. He panders to the failed government of President Muhammadu Buhari; becomes dumb when Nigerians suffer in the hands of telecommunications companies, which provide poor service and rips Nigerians off. “It is curious that the same individual who has never found a voice to call President Buhari, from whose table he eats crumbs, to ‘come home and take charge’ on any issue whenever he embarked on his needless junketing around the globe, is now attacking Makinde for spending a few days outside the country. “It is equally curious that Akande, whose party destroyed the well-loved succession system of Ibadan and created the controversy, which he alluded to in his ludicrous statement, is now meddling in a matter that he knows little or nothing about. “The question is where was Adeolu Akande when Makinde ‘took charge’ and ensured an amicable settlement of the crisis created by former Governor Ajimobi? “If any issue is rearing its head at this time, it is best addressed by the law, rather than government fiat. “Everyone knows that Akande’s APC is lawless; it neither respects court rulings nor has any regard for due process. “But he should not seek to turn Makinde to a dictator who takes charge where law, process and procedure should be applied,” the OKG warned.