LAGOS  – The ongoing recapitalisation in the pension industry is expected to bring forth more employments, training and retraining of workforce as well as heavy deployment of technology to be able to capture huge number of Nigerians into the pension net, according to Daily Independent findings. Also expected is the reduced number of the pension fund administrators (PFAs), keen competition in the marketplace and enhanced service delivery from those that would survive the exercise and remain in the business. Again, there may be an insignificant job loss but experts are of the view that with the N5billion capital base, the mandate for all PFAs to have presence across 36 states of the federation and deployment of technology, there would be high demand for highflying professionals and skilled personnel by the operators as against the few job loses that may emanate from mergers and acquisitions. STEM METS Partners A.G. Leventis To Promote Youth Education Allow BDCs Compete For $20bn FX Inflow, ABCON Tells CBN The surviving brands, it was said, would also need to scale up their service delivery, awareness creation and returns on investments otherwise stand the risk of losing subscribers to their counterpart through the transfer window system. The 22 pension funds administrators (PFAs) are currently jostling to raise their paidup capital to N5billion from the N1billion they are currently working with. As the exercise is gathering stream, those occupying top jobs at executive management levels are likely to lose their employment in the post recapitalisation era, Daily Independent findings also reveal. Statistic shows that about four PFAs, namely AIICO Pensions Limited, Apt, Investment One Pensions and IEI Anchor Pensions have already been acquired while four merger talks are ongoing making it seven. AXA Mansard Pensions has also been bought over by Verod Capital Alliance and renamed Tangerine Pensions Limited. Although there would be job loses but those likely to be affected, it was noted, would be from senior managers to the topmost except for those who are highly skilled professionals with intimidating credentials and favourable antecedents. Daily Independent observed that marginal players do not have many employees, the ongoing merger consummations and acquisition deals would certainly pave way for insignificant downsizing of workforce within the industry. POLL Usman Suleiman, pension expert notes that with consolidation keen competition would ensue. He believes that there may not be insignificant job losses at the middle and low level workforce. “There is not likely to be significant job losses at the middle and lower levels. This is because the marginal players do not have many employees in the first place, secondly with consolidation there is bound to be stiffer competition and wider scope of marketing activities, relationship management and service delivery.”