***As Investments Stakeholders, Intellectuals, Professionals, Aniomas In Diaspora Give Recommendations ASABA –  APEDETT National President, Barr. Ikeazor Akaraiwe, (Senior Advocate of Nigeria, S.A.N) at the group’s 2022 Investments Conference, stated that, “Aniomas had echoed YES WE CAN” at the yesterday’s event held at David’s Hall, Anwai Road, Asaba, Delta State capital. Barr. Akaraiwe stated this during his welcome address while addressing a mamoth crowd of sons and daughters of Anioma Professionals, Intellectuals, Academics, Management cum Business gurus, Diasporas as group proffers solutions to critical questions and issues on Investment development. NACCIMA Tasks Women On Business Development ETI Pays Dividend In US$, Won’t The Scarcity Of FX In Nigeria… Akaraiwe, a seasoned, accomplished and world distinguished legal practitioner, stated that the recommendations on identified Investment opportunities in Anioma Nation will help harness areas of comparative cost Advantage for sustainable development of Anioma land. The one day APEDETT’s 2022 Investment Conference which took place yesterday being on Saturday, 29th January was widely attended by the Executive Governor of Delta State, Senator Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa, ably represented by the Executive Assistant To His Excellency on Investment Matters, and Chairman of Delta State Investments Development Agency, DIDA, Mr Paul Nmah. Also, those who graced the occasion included among others: Anioma Traditional Rulers, Political leaders; Executive Chairman, Oshimili South LGA, seasoned resource persons, Discussants of Anoma extraction, APEDETT Leadership, and large number of Anioma Professionals, different media organizations, in within and across the state, the Conference with the theme : ” Appraising The Enablers & Drivers of Investments in Anioma”, with a major focus on attracting Investment to Anioma land. APEDETT, an independent, non-partisan alliance of Anioma Professionals was inaugurated on 29th December 2011 and registered as non-governmental organization under “Incorporated Trustees” on the 3rd of April 2014 to develop and utilize an ideas bank for engagement with stakeholders in government, private sector and Civil Society for sustainable development of Anioma land. Anioma people has echoed “YES WE CAN” to the critical questions and Issues on Investments as Anioma Intellectuals, Professionals provided ways of stimulating greater inflow of private Investments and businesses in Anioma Nation for a people of over 1.9 Million population according to 2006 Nigerian Census figure, that decisions to be widely circulated to all concerned stakeholders for implementation. POLL The group said she has provided a road map of actions for all Anioma sons and daughters in every sectors, public and private offices, within and in diaspora. APEDETT’s Conference recommendatons reads in parts: “That Delta State Government as a matter of urgent importance pay priority attention to power shortages, road networks affecting industries operating in Anioma land. Government should explore the export potentials of cash crops such as maize, plantain, oil Palm, vegetables, latex, yam, cassava; and improved processing Infrastructure, replacement of crude implement with modern technologies”. “That Anioma people should agitate for Economic restructuring or regional government, instead of succession, to harness the minerals in the region, tackle existing security challenges, appointment of responsible individuals as Community Relation Officers, and in critical Positions. The huge gas reserves in Kwale should be harnessed, building of deep sea ports in ANIOMA land to utilize the 160 nautical miles for import and export, revamping of tourists attraction centres, remodelling of Anioma Cultural Festivals to attract both local and international sponsorship”. “That Anioma people should harness the potentials if Asaba production hub; Media and entertainment, talents hunt, film production workshops to catch, build stars in ANIOMA movie Industry. Investment in off-grid, Independent power plant to connect Agbor-Itakpe rail line to solve the problem NERC”.