IBADAN – As the world celebrates a peaceful crossover into the brand new year 2022, Professor Sabit Ariyo Olagoke has congratulated Nigerians, especially the Christians in Oyo State over the new year celebration. Prof Olagoke, who is the founder and Spiritual Head of Shafaudeen-in-Islam Foundation worldwide, spoke through a statement that was issued and signed by him and made available to journalists in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Friday, joined millions of Nigerians to celebrate the cross overnight into another new Gregorian calendar year 2022 with Christians. Olagoke, a renowned Islamic scholar who doubles as the Mogaji Aare Alasa Compound of Ibadan, through a copy of the statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT said, “I join our Christians counterparts across the country in thanking the Almighty God for His mercy that made the crossover possible for us as individuals and as a nation”. Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… ASATU Projects Prosperous New Year For Ndi-Anambra He said, “The Year 2021 was challenging for people all over the world, stressing that it is praiseworthy that beyond the challenges, we can see the rays of a bright future from the new year.” He said further that for Nigerians to have the country of their dreams they need to imbibe the act of self-discipline. He said, “We all need to change our attitudes towards materialistic things, and the syndrome of getting rich at all costs. He said, “We all should think on ways we can assist the government in moving the country forward, as it is very clear that government alone cannot solve myriad of problems facing our dear nation. “For us to achieve the country of our dreams, there is a need for us to work on our individual attitudes, because corruption that is very visible and rampant in all our sectors and society today actually started from our individual homes, so we all need to go back to the drawing board and see how we can build the great country that we are dreaming of. POLL “We need to get things right, we are suffering from attitudinal problems, and it is only when we begin to see things and do things right that we can move forward as a nation,” Olagoke said. Olagoke, however, urged the government at all levels to brace up in ensuring the security of lives and properties of Nigerians in order to put an end to all forms of insecurity challenges bedevilling the country. He said, “Without a doubt, insecurity is today one of our biggest challenges battling with this country, though government at all level are trying their best to curtail the menace there is need for them to do more in putting an end to the killing of innocent Nigerians by the so called bandits and Boko Haram sect. “Kidnapping for ransom, banditry, shedding the blood of innocent Nigerians especially in the northern part of the country among other insecurity challenges will be things of the past if our government put all the measures in place to tackle the menace. Prof. Sabit said Olagoke, however, sent words of hope to all Nigerians saying Nigeria will be great again come what may.