LAGOS  – Over 125,000 MTN customers received gifts from their loved ones in MTN’s first ever digital Season of Surprises campaign. The campaign allowed MTN subscribers to nominate their desired recipient to receive any one of the available gifts which include Jumia shopping vouchers, data and mobile devices, on the new myMTN NG app or by dialing a USSD code. The campaign, which has been held twice in the past, allows MTN to celebrate the holidays with Nigerians and spread Christmas cheer through various activities in different places including markets, hospitals, schools, airports, IDP camps and bus parks across the country and excite them with gifts, experiences, refunds, donations, community development projects and freebies. The company, however, opted for a digital campaign this year to drive participation in the Season of Surprises by subscribers due to the pandemic and to empower their customers to do the giving. Speaking on the success of the campaign, the Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Adia Sowho, said, “The simple act of nominating others to receive gifts is wholesome and thoughtful. It shows that we care about the people in our lives and would like to make them happy. We are very happy to see how many Nigerians took advantage of the opportunity. We are also glad to have been able to contribute to the smiles of Nigerians during the holiday season.” Nigeria’s Socio-economic Development Rests On ICT Adoption,… Dangote Cement Plc Commences Second Tranche Of Shares Buyback… The MTN Season of Surprises is one of MTN’s many initiatives to make Christmas and the rest of the holidays more fun and enjoyable for Nigerians. The company has, through partnerships and sole interventions in other campaigns, delivered exciting experiences for Nigerians in forms of concerts, theatre productions, donations and community development projects. Almost a million people have benefited from the MTN Season of Surprises in the last four years, earning the company commendation from the public.