Christian Eriksen has revealed his desire to play for Denmark at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, calling the tournament his “goal”. Eriksen has not played since collapsing after suffering a cardiac arrest during Denmark’s game against Finland at Euro 2020. He has since been fitted with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. His contract with Inter Milan was terminated in December due to Serie A medical rules. Dortmund Tell Haaland To Make Decision On His Future –… Chelsea Confident Of Keeping Rudiger As Dream Transfer Move… Earlier that month, Danish club Odense Boldklub — wher​​e Eriksen played between 2005 to 2008 — said that the midfielder had started working out at their training ground as he continues his rehabilitation. Speaking to Danish channel DR1 about his future, Eriksen said: “My goal is to play in the World Cup in Qatar. I want to play. That’s been my mindset all along. “It’s a goal, a dream, whether I’ll be picked is another thing. But it’s my dream to come back. “I’m sure I can come back because I don’t feel any different. Physically, I’m back in top shape. “That’s been my goal, and it’s still some time away, so until then I’m just going to play football and prove that I’m back at the same level. POLL “My dream is to rejoin the national team and play at Parken again, and prove that it was a one-timer and that it won’t happen again. I want to prove that I can move on and play for the national team again. “Again, it’s up to the manager to assess my level. But my heart is not an obstacle.” Eriksen has not yet signed with a club since leaving Inter, but his agent Martin Schoots told BBC Sport on Wednesday that a return to England would “feel like coming home”. Schoots said: “Playing in England again would absolutely feel like coming home for Chris and his family. “Christian has been treated exceptionally well by the British public, not only because of his top football skills, but also because of his human values, his modesty and altruism.” Watford Release Sarr For AFCON After Row Liverpool Request Postponement Of Arsenal Carabao Cup Clash Schoots told The Athletic last month that: “It’s too early to say where Christian’s future lies. Because of special regulations in Italy, which have existed for decades, the only thing we know for sure is that it will not be in Italy. “But things are good. He is feeling good. All his physical results are positive.”