IBADAN  – As many agribusiness investors are setting out their plans for the year, Dr. Oreitan Adigun, Member, National Economic Council, has advised them on the need to shun foreign loan and embrace intervention funds instead. Speaking in Ibadan during the first edition of this year’s monthly training season for members of the Oyo State Chapter Institute of Agribusiness Management Nigeria (IAMN), Oreitan tasks agribusiness investors on several indices they need to consider while setting their plans for the year. in his lecture titled, ‘Economic Outlook and Agribusiness Direction in Year 2022’, he said economic outlook is projected to grow by three percent, based on an expected recovery from the crude oil prices and production and further depletion in foreign reserves from $35billion. Despite Neglect, Cocoa Still Nigeria’s Number One Non-Oil Forex… Lagos APPEALS To Enhance Farmers Productivity With Production Of… He suggested that farmers should be more sensitive to macroeconomic parameters, the general price level – inflation, Money Policy Rate (MPR), stressing that this is not a good time for foreign loans; instead farmers should seek for more intervention opportunities, and invest wisely in export than import. He stressed that naira’s value is worrisome, while noting that this is the time to earn foreign exchange. He said the sector remains the largest employers of labour in the country, employing more than 36 percent of the labour force. He decried the small fraction always earmarked by the government for agricultural research and development, noting that agricultural budget has been less than two percent of the total budget size in the last 10 years. He lamented that this significantly falls short of the 10 percent specified in the Maputo declaration. POLL “out of the N17trillion 2022 appropriation bill tagged “Budget of economic growth and sustainability, N291.4 billion was allocated to the agricultural sector, which represents 1.78 percent; this falls short of the Maputo benchmark as usual,” Oreitan said. He, however, advised that agribusiness opportunities are numerous ranging from food and livestock production, processing, storage, transports/logistics, marketing, commodity trading, consultancy, agro export, among others that members should tap into any of the value chain. He said the share of agriculture in Nigeria’s total export earnings remains small compared to crude oil exports, stressing that Nigeria’s major agricultural imports include wheat, sugar, fish and milk, while it’s main agricultural export are sesame seeds, cashew nuts, cocoa beans, ginger, frozen shrimps and cotton. He noted that Sesame, Cashew nuts and cocoa account for more than half of the nation’s agricultural exports, while maintaining that agricultural export has been on the decline and Nigeria’s agricultural engagement has been on the increase. In his contributions, Olukunle Samson, Chairman of Oyo State Chapter of the Institute of Agribusiness Management Nigeria said, the gathering is to sensitize and educate members on what to look out for in the year and how to do better than what they did in terms of investment and everything relating to agribusiness.